Elise Espada Martha Heiser ENC1102.069 5 April 2017 Death to the Puppy Mills The term puppy has become a catchphrase that is synonymous with abuse and deplorable living conditions which makes one conjure up images of dogs crammed in wire mesh cages, matted with feces and suffering from numerous untreated health problems (Kenny 379). There is no legal definition of a puppy mill but the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (ASPCA) defines puppy mills as a scale commercial dog breeding facility where profit is given priority over the well being of the The dogs are often housed in overcrowded and unsanitary conditions without proper veterinary care, food, water or socialization. Since these mills focus more on profit it means that the dogs are often bred with little regard for genetic quality and due to this, these puppies are prone to congenital and hereditary conditions which include heart disease, blood and respiratory disorders. This means they often arrive in pet stores with diseases or infirmities ranging from parasites to pneumonia which usually means they arrive in their new homes like this. Since they were separated from their mothers and littermates at a young age, these puppies often suffer from anxiety and fear as well as other behavioral problems. If people were to protest pet stores that sell puppies, spread information about what puppy mills are and what they do along with telling people who are looking to get a dog to adopt instead of buying one. Dogs are best friend. The relationship between man and dog is characterized by companionship, service and love. These animals provide valuable assistance to people with disabilities and help in military and police services. This makes the prevalence of dogs in American culture makes the opposition to protecting them perplexing (Burger 260). Pet store employees usually tell people that their puppies are from local breeders or in which is skirting the identification of a breeder can be a puppy mill warning signal (Towsey 159). A pet store that sells puppies usually has twenty five to forty wire cages with drip pans underneath. Many of these cages containing multiple puppies, usually covered in their own excrement and urine despite of pans underneath that is suppose to pick up waste. Seeing a pet store like this makes it hard for a dog lover to turn away and be overwhelmed to save a dog from a place like this. Though doing so that person has to come to terms that saving that puppy makes room for another dog and continues to fuel the puppy mill machine. Improving the conditions for dogs at puppy mills, which are called commercial breeders, requires a multifaceted attack from several state and federal agencies along with continued assistance from humane societies (Towsey 160). Which means that people should support their local human societies and shelters to either improve conditions in puppy mills or to make puppy mills not a thing. The federal regulatory scheme that currently governs puppy mills is ineffective to ensure that there is adequate humane treatment for dogs, making local action necessary (Kenny 381). The federal government regulates commercial breeding operations under the Animal Welfare Act (AWA). Due to a loophole in the AWA, the regulation only really applies to animal dealers which means that breeders can avoid mandatory registration by just simply selling directly to the public (Burger 263). If people support their local humane societies and active protest for a revision of the Animal Welfare Act so that these puppy mills have to be registered so they can be regulated easier. If a person has their heart set on buying a puppy but still avoid purchasing one that was bred at a puppy mill, that person should go to animal shelters, humane societies and breed rescue groups. These places are excellent places to adopt a dog or a puppy. And if they do not find what they wanted in those places, buying from a reputable breeder is another option. That person can do so by contacting breed specific dog clubs which one can do by going to the American Kennel Club (AKC) which has a club for pretty much every breed of dog someone might be interested in. It is also advised that prospective buyers visit the facility, see where the puppies have been raised and meet the mother (Stevens 9). The father are not usually around since they are only brought in for breeding purposes only. The breeder should offer to take the puppy back at any point of the life if that dog needs to be given up for some reason (Stevens 9). Puppy mills have been rapidly increasing over the last thirty years and some people are unaware of the cruelty taking place behind closed doors. If people want to at least do something against puppy mills, the least they can do is spread the word about the terrible conditions these dogs endure and encourage people to adopt a dog from an animal shelter or rescue organization rather than buying one from a pet store. Works Cited Burger, Kailey A. Solving The Problem Of Puppy Mills: Why The Animal Welfare Bark Is Stronger Than Its  University Journal Of Law & Policy 43.(2013): 259-284. to Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text (H.W. Web. 1 Feb. 2017. Kenny, Krysten. A Local Approach To A National Problem: Local Ordinances As A Means Of Curbing Puppy Mill Production And Pet  Law 75.1 (2011): 379-406. Search Alumni Web. 1 Feb. 2017. ASPCA, 17 Feb. 2017. Web. 1 Mar. 2017. Stevens, Karen Lee. What Are Puppy Mills? That in the May Have Been Come from a Large-Scale Commercial Breeding Operation. What You Need to  no. 11, 2008, p. 8. ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ed sggo&AN=edsgcl.218224704&site=eds-live. Towsey, Melissa. Something Stinks: The Need for Environmental Regulation of Puppy  Villanova Environmental Law Journal, no. 1, 2010, p. 159. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ed sgao&AN=edsgcl.221054135&site=eds-live.