Jordan Reed Mrs. Ricketts 4/9/17 Intermediate draft Whether or not teachers should be allowed to carry guns in school is a very controversial topic that has sparked interest because of all the school shootings that has happened over the years. Dozens people have died from school shooting and is becoming a main concern and needs to be addressed immediately. While several different articles tackle the issue and explore the pros and cons of this topic most of them lean towards not having guns in school and I tend to agree with this idea because all of the alternatives you can have instead of arming teachers in school such as school resource officers in school that have training of protecting people while being armed. Although teachers with guns in school may be helpful for schools, teachers armed in school may have a effect on the students learning and also a effect on teachers. Therefore, teachers should not be able to carry firearms. An article by Jennifer Fredrick published in 1999 discusses many alternatives to arming teachers and harps on the idea of teachers not having guns in school; some of the alternatives addressed in this article are putting security guards around the school for safety of the kids, installing metal detectors so no student or teacher may come into the school with any harmful weapons, and also having a search of lockers and backpacks to make sure no foul play is going on inside the school. I agree with these reasons and feel that arming teachers in school is a very risky move because of all the security alternatives a school can have and may be worse because of the amount of trust and power a teacher would have carrying a weapon around children that may irritate them at moments. Also arming teachers would also be a distraction to the children in the school and really hurt the learning process of the kids in school. An article by Danielle Weatherby published in 2015 conveys the opposite side of not arming teachers and addresses the proposed bills after the Sandy Hook elementary crisis, and if passed would authorize some school teachers to carry guns in school. Currently eleven states have showed interest in this bill and passed it in fighting the war against school violence. This counterargument does share in common the goal of the opposite side of the debate: the safety and security of students and staff while in school. However, this article fails to realize the factors that might leave students in school more at risk of being harmed. Teachers are also unpredictable people and never know when they might snap and do something they would regret in the long run. If I was a student and I knew my teacher was armed I would always be afraid of them just because of what they could possibly do with a weapon. Similarly, teachers are not formally trained to use a firearm as a police officer would be and might shoot innocent people by accident due to the inexperience of the teacher. This is why we need to figure out another way to protect student without giving teachers guns. According to Tyler article published in 2010 provides specific information on the acts passed to not arm teachers and actual increase security in schools that would better benefit the schools. Congress created a act called Gun-Free schools this act mandated that possessing a firearm on school grounds is a felony offense. Since this act senators have proposed additional legislation to decrease school violence and upgrade school safety programs. This proves my point when I say that more security will be enough to help keep schools save from people harming kids and students with guns. Also teachers and school officials do not have to worry about the liability they would have to have for the students and the weapons on there person if they arm teachers. Teachers and student will be safer if they increase security and decrease the weapons in schools and not arm teachers with guns in school. Arming teachers in school is something that I disagree with this could hurt and put at risk a lot of people in the school system from the students to the teachers and even the parents of students. I agree that this could be a effective way to make sure students are safe but also an ineffective way because of the distraction it will have on the students. I believe that if we arm teachers it would turn a school into a prison because kids are inside class rooms just like a con is inside the cell or jail house and there teacher has a gun and supervises them as if the guards were supervising criminals in jail it could basically be identical. This is the serious effect and risk we could take if we arm teachers and anything could go wrong with a weapon in school on anybody trained or not trained. Although teachers with guns in school may be helpful for schools, teachers armed in school may have a effect on the students learning and also a effect on teachers. Therefore, teachers should not be able to carry firearms. Works Cited. Frederick, Jennifer. CHALK TALK: Do As I Say, Not As I Do: Why Teachers Should Not Be Allowed To Carry Guns On School  Journal Of Law & Education 28.(1999): 139. LexisNexis Academic: Law Reviews. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. WEATHERBY, DANIELLE. Opening The Arming Teachers In The War Against School Violence And The Government-Created Risk  Connecticut Law Review 48.(2015): 119. LexisNexis Academic: Law Reviews. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Pratt, Tyler. The Fourth Shortcomings For Police During School  Valparaiso University Law Review 44.(2010): 1095. LexisNexis Academic: Law Reviews. Web. 25 Jan. 2017.