Chao Ma Ma 1 Ms. Madeline Gottlieb ENC 1102 8 April 2017 Child Abuse Parents, children, love: these are necessary components for building a family and should always be pleasant. However, childhood experience takes an important part of life, according to the research, also firmly believe that the childhood experience is an important factor that will influence the rest of an (Ma 1), child abuse issue can potentially affect their life and leave irreversible damage on their life. However, in respect of child abuse, the hidden child abuse should be putted in the spotlight. By showing child abuse propaganda, the audience can be educated to this issue, helplessness also can be used to engage more people for combating child abuse and empower audience to move even further. All of these strategies are used for telling a truth, which is that the weakest children have faced the greatest challenges: child abuse. Therefore, they need more and more educated, engaged and empowered audience to help with this issue. Although the child abuse has been a social issue in the United States for a while, general individuals treat it seriously due to lacking of education of child abuse. So there are some necessary information to educate people. First, the number of these cases is shocking, three million cases of child abuse and neglect involving almost 5.5 million children are reported each (What to Know). The majority of cases involve neglect, followed by physical and sexual abuse. Because abuser lack of relevant education and these cases are hardly to define, child neglect has become most common form of child abuse. Child neglect is ongoing failure to meet a basic (What is neglect). Parents deny essential requirements of their children in daily life. Second, this issue should be treat seriously because there are multiple ways to hurt children and the violence just only one of them. There are four major types of child abuse, according to the definition of child abuse, and Ma 2 caregivers can use physical, sexual or psychological mistreatment or (The issue of child abuse) to abuse their child in anytime so every parents and caregivers could potentially be a child abuser to their child when they realize it. Because there are many of types of child abuse, people may unintentional abuse children in many case and the neglect is the most common nonviolent child abuse. Furthermore, there is considerable overlap among children who are abused, children may suffer the combination of different types of abuse in either inside or outside of home. There is another truth when people start to wonder who abusers are, however, four out of five abusers are (National Statistics on Child Abuse). Unlike the dangerous strangers outside, children are under most threat in home by their parents. At the same time, due to lacking of enough education about child abuse, neither parents or children can take it seriously. As the result, 5 children die every day because of child (What to Know) and major suspects are their parents and caregivers. Once the people have enough education of child abuse, some parents may think they really relevant to this topic, however, the concept of cycle is necessary to be known by all individuals in terms of child abuse. As mentioned before, child abuse leaves an irreversible damage on life. The symptoms are not only short-term physical damage but also long- term emotional damage. The short-term damage includes any injury, pain and the change of behavior that raise concern about possible abuse. Children has fearful behavior, such as nightmare and depression. In addition, they may try to escape the reality and attempts to run away. For most of these children, the home is no longer a peace place to live so they rather leave it for a moment of safe. Meanwhile, the long-term damage that can affect next generation is more serious. In general, when people manage to get in touch with their own pain, they no longer want to take it out on others but somebody does it to keep this cycle going. According to the research, Ma 3 third of all individuals who were abused or neglected as children will subject their children to (Children Welfare Information Gateway) and the way they were treated will inform how they treat others, therefore, the cycle of child abuse is formed generation by generation. These people are abused during their childhood and have higher potential to abuse their own children once they have. These newborn children will suffer more serious mistreatment right after they born. to the Minnesota Longitudinal Study of study, type of emotional support that a child receives during the first three and a half years has an effect on education, social life and romantic relationships even 20 or 30 years this study shows how early childhood experience is important to develop the many aspects of an (Ma 1). The future is in these hands but the child abuse cycle makes the issue even worse than the first generation therefore someone has to stop it. Children cannot break this cycle alone and their hopelessness needs a professional and organized help. This is why UNICEF formed, the UNICEF website states, all have a responsibility to the invisible, from governments enacting and enforcing laws to prohibit violence against children, to private citizens refusing to be silent when they witness or suspect (UNICEF). UNICEF provides many kinds of help which covers education, food, drinking and gender quality. In addition, it already worked with 190 countries over 70 (UNICEF). Furthermore, it also provides different kinds of opportunities to help these children so this worldwide organization is deserved to work with. UNICEF believes every child has rights to pursue a better life and it gives them this chance to be equal. The child abuse issue is a complicate issue because it involves many kinds of laws and rights. If the parents have enough knowledge to deal with it properly, either children and parent will get hurt. Besides that, the cycle will be form to make the next generation become a Ma 4 worse child abuser. Everyone should beware of child abuse issue and engage as much as possible because these children will grow up soon and in charge of this society. Take care of children is equal to take care of future. This society needs effort against child abuse before the cycle gets worse. Ma 5 Works Cited Cycle of  Cycle of Abuse - Child Welfare Information Gateway. N.p., n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Ma Chao. Mar. 2017. 09 Apr. 2017 NSPCC.  NSPCC. N.p., n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. National Statistics on Child  National Statistics on Child Abuse National Alliance. N.p., n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. UNICEF. Take  UNICEF. N.p., n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. What is Child  Childhelp. N.p., n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. What to Know about Child  HealthyChildren.org. N.p., n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017.