Bianco 1 Richelle Bianco Professor Gottlieb ENC 1102 9 April 2017 Project 3 Intermediate Draft Spousal abuse, defined by the National Coalition Against Domestic Violence (NCADV), the willful intimidation, physical assault, battery, sexual assault, and/or other abusive behavior as part of a systematic pattern of power and control perpetrated by one intimate partner against NCADV describes spouse abuse as a variation of psychical and emotional corruption done by one whom craves dominance. This definition encompasses all types of relationships, regardless of gender, race and wealth, proving that there is no definitive reason for spouse abuse. Domestic violence is a reprehensible act that should never be considerable. Those that engage in the act should be sentenced to harsher prison sentences while those that are abused should be given free support systems, such as therapy, safe homes and personal needs. The world should become more educated about the situation and learn how to spot the symptoms of being abused. Although there are many organizations that administer safe places and support to those being abused, domestic violence is a very prominent type of abuse within America- every 15 seconds, one woman is beaten by her significant other Violence: Fast Facts on Domestic One institution that protects those being abused is Citizens Against Spouse Abuse (CASA). CASA is a non-profit organization that recognizes abuse within relationships. Their overall goal is to: our voices against violence through advocacy, empowerment and Bianco 2 social in order to do that, they provide small living spaces and a 24/7 hotline Their hope is to one day completely end domestic violence, and give those whom are abused a chance to regain their lives Without these types of organizations, the number of those being abused would amplify. There would be no call centers that specify on helping take those out of an abusive relationship and therefore, people be able to gain knowledge on how to escape their toxic relationship. Since organizations like CASA prepare beds and food for those that are homeless from abuse, if they were no longer functional, the homeless people would not have shelter and refuge to turn to. Over 75% of victims that are abused die while trying to escape the relationship, if these organizations did not exist, many more victims would die from not being able to leave safely Domestic Abuse Shelter - A New ). CASA and other institutions like it are mandatory in the survival of those being abused. To educate the public on spouse abuse, schools should mandate classes that address relationships along with the mandatory sexual education classes. Since children are the most vulnerable and easily influenced, they should learn about the dangers and signs of domestic violence while they are young. In some states and other countries, sex education is taught to children as young as four years old, while they learn about this, they should also become educated about the relationship aspect. From there, they will learn that domestic violence is not the answer and they will learn strategies on how to exit a toxic relationship if they are caught in one. Following them into middle and high school, the information will become more informative and more heavily asserted. The middle and high schoolers will be encouraged to talk to their guidance counselors about specific behavior or if they suspect abuse in a relationship. Organizations should disperse their information throughout high schools in hope someone will Bianco 3 turn to them in a time of need. As the teenagers become older and venture out into the real world to work, the education process of domestic abuse will follow them. Within the work force, there should be mandatory classes adults must take in order further in their job. Every six months, one will take a domestic abuse class that teaches facts about being abused, how to spot the signs of someone who is abused and most importantly, that abuse is not just subjected towards women. A common misconception is that only women are abused. Even many of the organizations appeal only to women who are violated, though the rate of women being abused is much higher than men, 2.6 million males are still victimized by their significant other (Campbell). Most people tend to overlook the fact that males are victims of spousal abuse. Due to the societal views of being a male, they are less likely to report being abused because they are afraid they will be looked upon as less manly. To fix this issue, organizations should promote their services to all people, not just specifically women. Currently, those who commit spousal abuse are not subjected to prison or rehabilitation programs depending on the severity of the damage (LaMance). To make sure the violator does not repeat his/ her patterns, judges should sentence all abusers to at least a year of time in jail or prison, and once out, they should be rehabilitated. Rehabilitation should focus on the reasons why the abuser feels the need to violate others. This process should not be shorter than a year. Once out of rehab, the abuser will be monitored closely by a parole officer. Though domestic abuse will never completely end, notifying the signs of one being abused and knowing the exits to an abusive relationship will help slowly diminish domestic violence. Bianco 4 Works Cited About  CASA. N.p., n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Domestic Abuse Shelter - A New  Domesic Abuse Shelter. N.p., n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Domestic Violence: Fast Facts on Domestic  Domestic Violence: Fast Facts on Domestic Violence. N.p., n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Campbell, Denis. More than 40% of Domestic Violence Victims Are Male, Report  The Observer. Guardian News and Media, 04 Sept. 2010. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. LaMance, Ken. Legal Consequences of Domestic  Legal Consequences of Domestic Abuse LegalMatch Law Library. N.p., 19 Oct. 2016. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Melker, Saskia De. The Case for Starting Sex Education in  PBS. Public Broadcasting Service, n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. What Is Domestic  What Is Domestic Violence? N.p., n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017.