Patel 1 Nishi Patel Ms. Elizabeth Ricketts ENC 1101-010 9 April 2017 Project 3 Intermediate: The Implementation of School Uniforms and its Effect on Students Across the United States King Henry VIII ruled as the King of England for 38 years, and within his time he implemented something no other place had believed to start, the implementation of uniforms within schools. King Henry VIII mandated that students in school were required to wear uniforms so that they may be denoted of their class and social status. Since then a movement began, Catholic schools has also adopted uniforms, and today many schools across the world have as well. Today, a uniform is defined as set outfit proposed by an institution that is to be worn by those affiliated with the (Wilde). There are four main aspects of life that uniforms have been known to impact, 1 st amendment rights, family life, academics, and behavior. Although previously performed studies and research does not show a full 100% that school uniforms are either good or bad, studies and research exactly state that school uniforms are or are not beneficial since every child has a different effect from them. However, school uniforms are mostly beneficial and should be mandatory across the nation due to its reports in that it reduces bullying and raises academic performance. One of the most noted benefits from the implementation of uniforms is its aid in reducing bullying. Many students worry about keeping up with certain fashion trends or brand names because they are scared that if they dress then they will be outcasts and targets of bullying. Children are sent to school to learn and receive the education they deserve, not to be a fashion model or show-off their clothes, so why should their focus be sidetracked over such an Patel 2 unnecessary thing? From the way that we dress, an outsider can easily tell what our social status, economic status, affiliations, likes and dislikes may be (Wilde). As those may be just small things, they actually can provide big opportunities for others to bully about. Through the use of uniforms, that invisible social and economic barrier is diminished, and students are unable to judge other students on their likes and dislikes. When all students are required to dress under the same uniform, then there is no room for other students to make degrading comments about the way their fellow peers dress (Wilde). All things considered, there are still claims that state uniforms reduce bullying, but that only it promotes bullying. The first claim according to Mitchell and Knechtle is that school uniforms reduce bulling rather they violate a 1 st amendment right because they wear whatever they want to express themselves (Mitchell and Knechtle 487). Mitchell and Knechtle also claimed that uniforms places on on their cultural expressions of dress (Mitchell and Knechtle 488). As these two claims brought up by Mitchell and Knechtle could be argued as not forms of bullying, they do replicate it. Examples mentioned in the previous paragraph are forms of external bullying, and those mentioned in here are examples of internal bullying. As mentioned above, we come to school for solely one reason, to become educated; and by implementing uniforms, we are only bettering our academic performance. Children spend way too much time planning and choosing out their outfits than they should. Instead all that time spent choosing an outfit could be saved aside for some more academic-related activities, and sometimes their chosen outfits as appropriate as expected for school (Brookshire 53). To enhance the outfit appropriateness for school, many schools across the nation adopted a dress Patel 3 code, which is a set of guidelines detailing what can and cannot be worn (Wilde). How short a shorts are, how much cleavage a girl may be showing, or even how offensive shirt graphics are defined as sources of distractions from high academic performance for students (Brookshire 49). With students having uniforms, they have to waste that extra time planning and choosing an outfit, and their outfit is guaranteed to be appropriate for school. Not only that, but we are only going to excel in school if we attend our classes, therefore to have a high academic performance, attendance is crucial. Gentile and Imberman actually state in their research study results that schools who implemented uniforms actually had an increase in attendance, especially in secondary schools and within the female student population due to various factors(Gentile and Imberman 2). Virginia Draa a researcher at Youngstate University conducted a study in which she reviewed 64 public high schools for attendance, graduation rates, and suspension rates (Wilde). She reviewed these schools once without uniforms, and then the same schools again, except this time with mandated uniforms. In fact, to her amusement, Draa concluded to results that she had not expected, across all those schools after uniforms were mandated, there was tremendous improvement within attendance, graduation rates, and suspension rates (Wilde). With high attendance and graduation rates, one can strongly assume that the students have a high academic performance level. Although Draa was unable to label and determine a concrete relationship between school uniforms and academic performance due to some confounding variable that may have been present (Wilde). the focus is taken off of school uniforms, the students are less distracted by what other students are wearing. This helps decrease behavior problems related to dress and puts the attention on (Brookshire 49). Patel 4 Ultimately, there are claims made that state uniforms have no affect or have any positive effect on academic performance as much as we thought. Brunsma and Rockquemore claim that school uniforms are not factors that denote the success or failure of students within school. data on effects on academic achievement simply gives no (Brunsma and Rockquemore 60). Within his study, Brunsma and Rockquemore had a group of 10 th graders that were required to wear uniform and another group that These chosen 10 th graders were evaluated on their behavior, attendance, substance use, and standardized test scores. The set hypothesis Brunsma and Rockquemore had proposed was that attendance and standardized test scores would improve through the use of school uniforms, but through his results, the hypothesis was unsupported (Brunsma and Rockquemore 57-58). He even stated that if students having high attendance rates then how would they excel in academics if they attend class. The uniform wearning10 th standardized test scores actually dropped 3%, which expected (Brunsma and Rockquemore 58). In the longitudinal studies that Yueng examined and studied, the research has shown that there is no or very little evidence that uniforms even affect academics as each child reacts and behaves differently (Yueng 849). Instead recognized that schools without uniforms did better academic wise than those with uniforms. While many researchers argue that uniforms reduce bullying and raise academic performance, many other studies have suggested otherwise. According to Mitchell and Knechtle, school uniforms fully reduce bullying, claims lead that it may only reduce the external bullying but not the internal bullying that is still present. But what Mitchell and Knechtle do not consider is aspects that Wilde mentions. Bullying does in fact reduce through the implementation of uniforms within schools. Beyond that, Brunsma and Rockquemore as well as Yueng argue Patel 5 that there is limited evidence and support that uniforms improve academic performance. However, there is much more support and claims stating the opposite, uniforms affect many other variables positively, those of which are known as the foundation of academic performance and success. The implementation of uniforms within schools across the nation is only in the favor but also an enhancement for the students in many aspects, and should be supported. (WC: 1268 words) Patel 6 Works Cited Brookshire, Attillah N. Impact of School Uniforms on School Walden Dissertations and Doctoral Studies, Apr. 2016, pp.1-68. Scholar Works, Accessed 17 Feb.2017. Brunsma, David L., and Kerry A. Rockquemore. of Student Uniforms on Attendance, Behavior Problems, Substance Abuse, and Academic The Journal of Educational Research, vol.92, no.1, 2010, pp.53-62. Gentile, Elisabetta, and Scot A. Imberman. for Success? The Effect of School Uniforms on Student Achievement and Journal of Urban Economics, vol.71, no.1, 2012, pp.1-17. Mitchell, Harold W., and John C. Knechtle. in Public Schools and the First Amendment: A Constitutional The Journal of Negro Education, vol.72, no.4, 2003, pp.487-494. Wilde, Marian. Uniforms Make Schools Greatschools.org, GreatSchools, 19 May 2016, www.greatschools.org/gk/articles/school-uniforms/. Accessed 17 Feb. 2017. Yueng, Ryan. School Uniforms a Good Results from the ECLS-K and Educational Policy, vol.23, no.6, Nov.2009, pp.847-874.