Robert Montes Professor Gottlieb ENC 1102 9 April 2017 NCAA Should allow compensation For many years there has been one issue that always seems to pop up with the NCAA, National College Athletics Association, which is whether or not they should allow student athletes to receive compensation. Student athletes are not allowed to receive any type of compensation in any sort of way; a student athlete that is caught receiving compensation can be suspended and also possibly banned from NCAA sports. The NCAA believes that if student athletes receive compensation it would ruin the idea of amateurism, amateurism requirements according to the NCAA are general, amateurism requirements do not allow: Contracts with professional teams. Salary for participating in athletics. Prize money above actual and necessary (Amateurism) . The NCAA wrongfully denies student athletes all around the country year after year from receiving compensation and that is why a group of current and former student athletes have formed CAPA, College Athlete Players Association, to help student athletes receive what they truly deserve. Many student athletes, former student athletes and organizations have taken shots at the NCAA trying to get what they believe is right for themselves and other student athletes over the past years and many have failed. This is one of the reasons CAPA has come onto the scene, this organization truly believes in what they stand and believes they have the right approach that can help solve many of the problems that student athletes have to deal with. CAPA is run by former and current student athletes who want NCAA to change many of their rules that affect student athletes in many ways, or at least revise them. The three former student athletes that founded CAPA are Ramogi Huma, Luke Bonner and Kain Colter; all three of these men went through the struggles of dealing with NCAA rules and regulations on a daily basis and that is what has inspired them to make a difference. The mission statement for CAPA is will ultimately allow players to collectively bargain for comprehensive reform such as: Improving graduation rates. Establish an educational trust fund to help former players complete their degree and reward those who graduate on time. The Consistent with evolving NCAA regulations or future legal mandates, increasing athletic scholarships and allowing players to receive compensation for commercial (CAPA). CAPA has focused a lot on trying to get the NCAA to allow student athletes to receive compensation, whether that be from their respective schools or from companies who would like to use the student athletes for advertisement. Although I might be a little bias, for I am a student athlete, I believe that there are many rules and regulations that need to be adjusted. Student athletes go through a very vigorous work schedule that includes multiple hours of practice and school that leaves them with basically no time and energy to have a job. The one thing that many people do not realize is that being a student athlete is basically like having a job, if you do not follow the standards that your program requires you will lose your scholarship. However, I am not one those people that believes that all student athletes should be paid just for being a student athlete. I think that there are many fair ways that the NCAA could allow student athletes to receive compensation. The two ideas that I have read about and feel like they could be the best solution would be allowing student athletes to be paid for advertisements and also allow them to be paid for excelling in the classroom. The main way would to let student athletes be allowed to receive compensation for advertisements; this will help student athletes financially and also increase graduation rates. Most student athletes leave to play professionally before they graduate from college because it is what would be best for them financially, but if they were receiving compensation already for being a student athlete it would make sense for them to stay one last year and get a degree that could help them in the future. Also, student athletes will only be receiving compensation for advertisements if they perform well on the field and are also model citizens, companies are not going to want to be represented by players who are performing poorly on the field or have been in trouble with the are many positives when looking at what student athletes receiving compensation would do. This fight for the student athletes to receive some of the things that they believe are rightfully deserved will not be won only with CAPA; student athletes need many people to help them. There are many ways that people in college that are not student athletes could help student athletes get some of the things that they deserve if they truly wanted to help. Some of the ways to that people could help is by signing petitions or also protesting. Many people think that petitions might be a waste of time or that none of them actually get what they want done but think if the NCAA saw that millions of people were signing petitions to help student athletes, they might reevaluate their beliefs. The NCAA relies on fans to be able to make their money so if fans are not happy with the NCAA and profits begin to go down, they will do what is necessary to get profits back to where they need to be. This is where protesting comes into play, lets say that for just a couple of games throughout the year, thousands of fans do not show up and buy tickets, NCAA would lose a boat load of profits and be sent into a panic. Protests and petitions are the main way that you could help student athletes get what they rightfully deserve. Student athletes and organizations like CAPA have fought far too long with the NCAA in trying to get student athletes to receive what they deserve, mainly receiving compensation for advertisements and excelling in the classroom. There are many ways that people could help student athletes receive what they deserve. The two main ways that you can help is by signing petitions and participating in protests that could help student athletes receive compensation. Works Cited NCAA.  NCAA. NCAA, n.d. Web. <NCAA.org/amateurism>. Huma, Ramogi. Why doing it  Collegeathletesplayersassociation. N.p., n.d. Web. <collegeathletespa.org>. Bilas, Jay. 7 common sense reasons why college athletes should be  Complex Sports. Ed. Maurice Peebles. N.p., 03 Dec. 2015. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Thelin, John R. Heres why we shouldnt pay college  Time. College Sports, 1 Mar. 2016. Web. Rose, Jalen. Paid College Athletes: A reasonable compromise  The Huffington Post. N.p., 25 May 2011. Web.