May1 Jacob May Ms. Ricketts Comp. 1 04/09/2017 Final Draft The Russian Problem When we look at current events, like the recent events in Syria or the developments occurring within the European Union, we see global powers becoming more and more involved within these important and forever changing events. Why? With the end of the Cold just a mere 30 years ago, a new generation is being raised without the threat of extermination on the level that was present during the Cold War. Yet nuclear weapons, global powers involvement in regions other than their own, and economic issues have still been a hot button issue among current news and politicians. These same issues were present in the Cold War, so if the Cold War ended why are we still having these issues? When observing many of these issues, one common factor remains the same through all scenarios, involvement and more than that. Current knowledge is hard to organize as the data continuously is flowing in, and information is constantly changing. When looking back on the event leading up too many of the current events, much of the information becomes very linear. When observing the current crisis in Korea, of which has existed since the end of World War Two, we see that their Nuclear arms advancement has always been a pivotal talking point for politicians around the world. Recently North advancement has prompted a US reaction in an increase of security around the May2 Korean peninsula. involvement with this was the main reason for the issue even existing today however, looking back in the Russia (then USSR or the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics) was the acting force with establishing the now current state of North Korea. involvement with advancing the North military capabilities allowed for North Korea to have a base to start funding towards the research and development of nuclear arms. This type of actions shows that the history of Russia shows them trying only to pursue their own objectives and not with the intention of bettering the world. When looking at the Syria conflict we can see that Russia is supporting the Assad regime, of which varies depending on what perspective you view the issue from. May3 Work Cited Beissinger, Mark R. Empire as Slavic Review. vol. 65 no. 2, 2006, 294-303. JSTOR. 19 Feb. 2017 Khodnev, Alexander S. legacies of Woodrow Wilson and the League of Nations in World Affairs. Vol. 158 Issue 1(1995) 8-18. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 Pontikes, Elizabeth. Red: A Study of Stigma by Association to Blacklisted Artists during the in Hollywood, 1945 to American Sociological Review. vol. 75, no. 3, 2010, 456-478 JSTOR. 19 Feb. 2017 Shnirelman, Victor. by History or by Historians? The Peoples of Russia in School History History and Memory: Studies in Representation of the Past. vol. 21 no. 2, 2009, 40-110. JSTOR. 29 Jan. 2017