Cramp 1 Hayden Cramp Ms. Heiser ENC 1102.069 5 April 2017 Snuffing Out the Problem of Smoking Smoking in America is a major issue that is currently effecting almost everyone. Every day, young people begin smoking cigarettes without knowing the severe side effects that can come with it. Smoking can cause serious illness, cancer, and even death. I aim to educate, engage, and empower people to take action against this huge issue. People are more than aware of this issue, however, they need to get more involved to help stop it. We need to fight against the cigarette manufacturing companies, local laws, and even universities to help this dangerous product from affecting more lives. Cigarette smoking is known to cause a multitude of issues in the human body. Smoking is the leading preventable cause of death in the United States because it is a choice that people make. Some research was conducted by Dr. Paradowski and states that: on animals and humans has demonstrated that inhaling smoke from cigarettes impairs pulmonary clearance, which can lead to coughing and increased susceptibility to colds and allergens. Smoking attenuates the functioning of the cilia and alveoli, reducing the ability to oxygenate (Paradowski). Some short-term side effects that smoking can lead to are premature wrinkles, gum and tooth loss, sudden weight change, and yellowing of the teeth (Dr. Mercola). Besides the short-term effects, the long-term ones are even worse. These are that smoking increases your risk of having a heart disease by two to four times, this is because it causes the blood vessels in your heart to thicken and grow thinner. It makes your heart beat faster, your Cramp 2 blood pressure rise, and causes your blood to clot. This can also increase the risk of a stroke. (Dr. Mercola). It is also known to cause many different forms of cancer and not just lung cancer. By reading these horrible side effects that smoking can cause, I am not sure why more people are not involved in trying to fight against this issue. A huge part of why people are unaware of all of these issues is because of the cigarette manufacturing companies. They advertise smoking products and do not tell their customers about all of the effects, they only say that it is hazardous to your health. For example, a law by congress says, Cigarette Labeling and Advertising Act of 1965 required the following health warning, prescribed by Congress, to be placed on all cigarette packages sold in the United States: CAUTION: CIGARETTE SMOKING MAY BE HAZARDOUS TO YOUR (rjrt.com). If this is the only warning on a cigarette label, people will not be turned off by this warning. Maybe if the warning label contained images of the side-effects it would work a lot better. As a nation who overall agrees that smoking is bad, we should go to congress and fight for stricter laws. These laws should require manufacturers to include more information about the health risks. This can be accomplished by making and signing a petition to congress to make a law that requires cigarette manufacturing companies to put more information on their warning labels. This is relatively easy to do and the more people that support this, the easier it will be to get what we want. In some states in America, smoking is not prohibited in public places like restaurants. This is bad because second-hand smoke can also cause the same side effects as regular smoking. Secondhand smoke is categorized as a type A carcinogen, meaning there is strong evidence of its cancer-causing effects in human beings. Cancer is not one of the only effects that secondhand smoke can have on the body (Montvilo). Even brief exposure to secondhand smoke can damage the lining of blood vessels and cause clumping of platelets, both of which can result in heart Cramp 3 disease (Montvilo). Since some bars and restaurants do allow smoking in their facilities, some people are receiving second hand smoke and are unware of its consequences. This can cause many issues and we need to make sure people are aware of this. To help stop smoking in public areas like restaurants, we need to go to places where it is not banned and make the management more aware. This would help everyone involved because less people would be exposed to secondhand smoke and the restaurants and bars would gain more customers. These laws exist but just not in every state, taking action on this would benefit everyone involved. Speaking of laws about smoking, on many universities in the United States, smoking is banned. However, even though there is a ban on tobacco use, people still continue to use it. For example, at the University of South Florida where I attend, tobacco use is technically not allowed anywhere on campus. Their statement is: is committed to providing a safe, healthy and enjoyable learning, living and working environment. On January 4, 2016, the USF Tampa Campus became entirely tobacco and smoke free. Smoking and use of tobacco products are not allowed in any indoor or outdoor area, including parking garages, grounds, sidewalks or recreational (USF). Even though this is their policy on smoking, every day I continue to witness large groups of people smoking in different areas. People always smoke cigarettes right next to the library where people should be getting their work and studying done, not killing their lungs. In this area the smokers just throw their cigarette butts all over the ground and it just looks and smells really bad. This should be a concern to everyone who pays to attend the university because we are technically paying for a tobacco free campus. As students we should fight against this issue and make the administration more aware. We can do this by telling the student government to take action, and also protesting about it. I think that every student should be concerned about this because we should not have to deal with this and it is polluting our campus. Cramp 4 If we take this issue seriously and present it to the leaders of USF I think that we would have a really good chance of seeing fast improvement on the leniency of this policy. Because of the significant risks of smoking cigarettes, more people should be getting involved to fight against it. By educating people on this issue better, the community as a whole will be able to get more involved and find ways to improve the laws and regulations on smoking. This can be done very easily with more and more people. As I mentioned, fighting for a change can be a huge help to save more health and lives. This matters so much because everyday hundreds and thousands of people are affected by these products and not many people are taking a stance. I hope that this information and call to action will encourage many people to make moves and help to stop this issue. Cramp 5 Works Cited Mercola.com,http://articles.mercola.com/smoking-side-effects.aspx, What Happens to Your Body When You Smoke, April 05, 2017 Montvilo, Robin Kamienny, PhD. Secondhand  Salem Press Encyclopedia of Health, January. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx ?direct=true&db=ers&AN=94415534&site=eds-live. Paradowski, Robert J., PhD. Effects on the  Salem Press Encyclopedia of Health, January. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx ?direct=true&db=ers&AN=94415545&site=eds-live., April 05, 2017 R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, http://www.rjrt.com/tobacco-use-health/public-health- information/,Public Health Information, April 05, 2017 USF,http://www.usf.edu/administrative-services/environmental-health-safety/tobacco-free/ Environmental Health & Safety, April 05, 2017 Cramp 6