Dylan Peterle Professor Ricketts ENC 1101 04/07/2017 Project 3 Intermediate Draft According to David DiSalvo a sports journalist, 96% of deceased NFL players that were examined had signs of Chronic Traumatic Encephalopathy (CTE). CTE has become the signature football disease, affecting players during and after their time in the NFL due to brain trauma experienced during their career. Famous retired NFL players such as Mike Webster, Terry Long, and Andre Waters have all died because of CTE. The first doctor that noticed the problem was Dr. Bennet Omalu after he examined the deceased Mike Webster in 2002. After Dr. Omalu explained his findings to the world the NFL encountered a lot of negative media attention. The NFL tried to cover up Dr. finding. After further research, Dr. findings were proven to be correct. Since 2003 the NFL has changed their attitude towards major hits to the head, trying to limit the number of concussions per season. Although many argue the NFL has been neglecting the seriousness of CTE, data will suggest that these claims are wrong. Since Dr. study, which raised more concern about the topic, scientist have recommended the NFL acts to reduce head related injuries. Because of Dr. discoveries, the NFL is now taking steps to provide safer helmets, modify outdated rules, and invest in head injury related research. The NFL is now publicly advocating for safer equipment to reduce the amount of players affected by CTE. With how wealthy the league is, not surprising that they are giving scientists funding to design a safer helmet. where pediatric neurosurgeon Sam Browd comes in. Working at the Seattle hospital, Dr. Browd was very used to kids from sports at an early age- all because of concussions. In 2013, neurosurgeons reached out to fellow colleagues Dave Marver and Per both of whom had worked at the Seattle university and were educated in medical technology and medical engineering. He wanted to find a solution to the problem of concussions among athletes. Browd, Marver and Reinhall founded VICIS. Latin for the name VICIS fit the ambition: to reimagine the football helmet and reduce concussions in the sport. The NFL has partnered with VICIS to create the safest helmet on market. In 2015, after being given nearly 10 million in funding, VICIS launched the Zero1 helmet, specifically designed to combat concussions. Because old helmets were originally designed to prevent skull fractures and brain hemorrhaging, VICIS had to completely redesign the helmet. The Zero1 has a soft outer shell that deforms on impact and a column-like inner structure intended to absorb impact and disperse its force omnidirectionally. There is also an additional rigid layer inside the helmet. A far step from traditional helmets, the Zero1 is much more similar to a car bumper than your typical helmet, deviating from the familiar hard outer shell and padding combination. By investing and partnering with VICIS in head health, the NFL has made its intentions clear: the health and safety of its players is by far the most pressing priority within the league. The NFL recently enacted rule changes to ensure the safety of its players. Like the outdated helmet, many of the rules are perpetrators of a past era, a time when head injuries as prominent. These rules allowed for dangerous hits that could cause serious damage to players heads. One of these rule changes states a player is prohibited from launching himself off the ground and using his helmet to strike a player in a defenseless posture in the head or neck. While this rule used to only apply to wide receivers, it now applies to all players. Referee Walt Anderson, also the head of officiating for the Big 12 Conference, said that in years past, defensive backs were allowed to hit a receiver as soon as he caught the ball. This rule change helps players because it allows them to defend themselves before being impacted. Two additional rule changes address helmetless players and defensive positioning on extra point and punt kicks. For the first, if a player loses his helmet the play is immediately whistled dead, whereas it continued in the past. The NFL created this rule to prevent any major hits to a defenseless player without a helmet on. The second enacts a rule where a defensive player cannot line up on the snapper, who is considered to be in a defenseless position. This helps players such as the long snapper and center because they are the ones that first get hit during the play of game. The league has implemented more stringent return-to-play guidelines for players who suffer concussions, and each team must consult with an independent neurologist whenever there is a head injury. In addition to the rule changes, NFL commissioner Roger Goodell has also made it a point that the officiating crew must be proactive about enforcing the rules. He has also made it a point for the NFL to directly invest in concussion research in order to take steps in prevention. The NFL is no stranger to criticism for its lack of activity regarding the health effects experienced by its players. A report conducted by PBS Frontline in 2015 found that there was a total of 199 concussions in the season. After 5,000 former players filed a lawsuit against the league in 2014 for not properly informing them of the concussion dangers, the league stated in court that about 1 in 3 retired players are expected to develop long-term neurological trauma. The NFL has taken further action by investing into head injury related research. Last September, the NFL announced a $100 million contribution in the fight against head injuries. 60% of the contribution was put towards improving football equipment, like helmets and shoulder pads. The remaining amount was given to medical research examining the long term effects of concussions and what can be done to treat them. In 2012, the NFL also donated $30 million to the Foundation for the National Institutes of Health for medical research, as well. With such a horrifying statistic to be accountable for, it seems right that the league starts to act now. While many argue, the NFL is trying to limit CTE, many scholars argue the NFL is not doing enough. Scholar Matt Giles wrote a study of how the NFL rules are not enough to reduce big hits, but this does not take in account how Rodger Goodell is reinforcing the rules through the referees. However both Mr.Giles arguments are invalid because of scholars from NFL.com Wire Reports suggest otherwise. Wire Press states in their research that the NFL has taken the action to adjust the rules and even train referees to limit the number of head injuries, while also maintaining the integrity. Some new rules that were added include, when a player loses his helmet, the play is immediately whistled dead. And now, during field-goal and extra-point attempts, the defense cannot position any player on the line directly across from the snapper, considered to be in a defenseless position. While scholar Matt Giles may argue, the NFL is not doing enough, he should reconsider his argument because the Wire Report states that the NFL is taking proper action to reduce the number of CTE victims. Scientist have discovered the traumatizing effect of CTE and how it has caused multiple deaths including those of Mike Webster, Terry Long, and Andre Waters. Big hits that cause players to receive concussions can cause CTE later on in life. Without the findings provided by Dr. Omalu the impact of decreasing CTE would not have been made. Although some do argue the NFL is not doing enough, further research suggests otherwise. The next step for the NFL is to continue creating safer equipment, modifying rules, and donating more time and money investing head related injuries. Since Dr. study scientist have paired with the NFL to improve the game changes have been made such as safer helmets, modifying outdated rules, and investing in head injury related research. Work Cited Abreu, Marcos A. Comarite, Fred J. Spradley, Brandon D. Traumatic Encephalopathy (CTE) and Former National Football League Player Sport Journal; 2016 pp1 12. 18 Feb 2017 Bailes, Julian. What Is  What Is CTE? Brain Injury Research Institute. BIRI, n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. http://www.protectthebrain.org/Brain-Injury-Research/What-is-CTE-.aspx DiSalvo, David. Is The NFL Doing Enough To Prevent Brain Trauma? Probes For  Forbes. Forbes Magazine, 16 Nov. 2015. Web. 18 Feb. 2017. http://www.forbes.com/sites/daviddisalvo/2015/11/16/60-minutes-probes-what-the-nfl-is doing-to-decrease-brain-trauma-from-head-injuries/#3741908a31ba Gibeaut, John. Thrown For A Loss: Retired Players Sue, Claim NFL Hid Brain Damage  ABA Journal 97.11 (2011): 29. Business Abstracts with Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 4 Feb. 2017. Weinbaum, William. Former Players Want in on CTE  ESPN. ESPN Internet Ventures, 05 Apr. 2014. Web. 26 Mar. 2017 Smith, Michael David. Ejection Rule Differs from Initial  ProFootballTalk. NBC Sports, 28 Mar. 2016. Web. 05 Apr. 2017. New NFL Rules Designed to Limit Head  NFL.com. NFL.com Wire Reportd, 6 Aug. 2010. Web. 05 Apr.