Engel 1 Daniel Engel Professor Elizabeth Ricketts Composition 1 April 06 2017 Mental Health and Resilience in the Military The United States military is one of the largest institutions in the entire world, consisting of millions of individuals with diverse backgrounds as well as their families, but studies suggest that this complex melting pot of people may face their hardest battles, not in the combat zone, but in their own minds. Research has shown a higher rate of mental illness in the military than that of their American counterparts. Although some studies have identified military families as being superior in resilience, the higher rate of mental illness proves differently. The scientific research on this topic suggests that the duties required and general lifestyle of the military could possibly cause more mental disorders and illnesses among military personnel and their families than in the general American public. Over the last several decades, the amount of deployments overseas to Iraq, Afghanistan, and the Middle East have risen greatly and the effect of this trend can be observed from many different perspectives, including mental illness rates. The effect this can have on children has been observed in a study done by Candice Alfano where both cognitive and developmental disabilities have been identified in younger children who experienced either one or two of their parents being deployed multiple times for excessive time periods (Alfano et. Al 18). There was also a visible increase in the use and prescription of anti depressants and health service utilizations during times of excessive Engel 2 deployments among military families. All of these patterns observed in research suggest that the deployment of military personnel have had tangible and negative effects on the mental health of both the military personnel themselves and their families. It is important to note that, due to the fact that the statistics of mental illness within the military are higher than normal, mental health services and support groups are available for U.S. service members, but they should be increased and more readily available than they already are now in order to tackle the rising rates of mental illness. The effect of a profession on the entire family has been studied for quite sometime now and has had very interesting results, but when the profession is in the American Armed Forces, the results become concerning. The relationship between a profession and an mental health can be observed when comparing different types of professions. For instance, adolescents whose parents are in a profession such as orthodontics, astronomy, and massage therapy have much lower rates of mental illness than those with a high stress job such as a taxi driver, a senior executive of a company, or the child of a military service member (Lucier-Greer et al. 430). Additionally, in a study completed by Mallory Lucier Greer, deployment in the military was highly associated with feelings of ambiguous loss, behavior problems and many other mental disorders among adolescents (Lucier-Greer et al. 422). Along with excessive deployments, children of those serving in the military often have to deal with moving locations every two to three years on average. Transitioning between new schools and completely changing lifestyle is another important component to consider in the ability to adapt easily and the struggles that accompany it. Large life changing Engel 3 adjustments like these can also be a large cause for stress that can affect every member within the military family unit. Yet another struggle that can potentially arise from being in military family is the outlook of marriage; research shows that divorce within the military is a very contested topic. Various stressors can arise from being married and in the military or having a spouse who is in the military, and these can contribute or lead to the erosion of a marriage. Due to the excessive dedication and physical and mental focus required while on active duty in the United States military, one study found that divorce rates among military members are notably higher than those of the general American population (Karney et al. xvii). The results of this comprehensive study were supported by the research of Benjamin Karney, who examined the effect of deployments to the Middle East on marriages. study ultimately concluded that the excessive deployments in the Middle East resulted in higher divorce rates among those in the military (Karney et al. xix). Thus, the research on this subject highly suggests that there is a correlation between working in, or having a spouse in, the military and likelihood of divorce. While the military sees higher rates of mental illness and divorce than other Americans, many researchers argue that those in the military are more resilient and therefore able to handle overall stress better. For instance, in a study done by Ebony Okafor and other notable researchers, there is a clear correlation between effective coping strategies and higher resilience in a high-stress environment, among adolescents in military families (Okafor et al. 134) Resilience is defined as the ability to recover readily from adversity, and the prevalence of resilience among military adolescents is perhaps a silver lining in this area of research, suggesting that this group is perhaps capable of Engel 4 adapting to the many changes and challenges they are required to face beginning in their childhood (Okafor et al. 134). However, even with the observed resiliency of military families, one cannot ignore that the amount of individuals negatively affected due to the military lifestyle is much higher than trends among average Americans, and resources should be made available in order to help them live healthy lives. As mentioned previously throughout the paper, the prevalence of mental illness within the military is much higher than the average American and even higher when compared to other countries militaries. For example, in a recent study conducted by James R. Riddle, the United States military had the highest rate of mental illness when compared to fourteen other countries (Riddle et al. 192). Additionally, when looking at mental illness within the United States military specifically, there is a population of highly diverse people that makes the process of identifying mental illness even more difficult (Riddle et al. 198). With all of these findings combined, it is evident that the extent of the mental health of those employed in the United States military is a very complex but incredibly important topic of discussion. Moreover, the fact that other military service people do not face similar mental illness struggles suggests that maybe there is something the U.S. could be doing to help curb these high rates, and by observing the organizations and programs these countries have in place we could find a solution to this problem. When mental health and illness is brought up in regards to the military, PTSD, also known as Post Traumatic Stress Disorder, is what is normally talked about, and for good reason. Symptoms of PTSD include nightmares, vivid flashbacks, specific triggers such as sounds and smells that cause one to experience extreme distress and discomfort Engel 5 (Vasterling et al. 41). PTSD is experienced much more by soldiers who are deployed in high-combat areas in comparison to those in the military who are not deployed (Vasterling et al. 48). Thus, the groups that risk the most in battle are the same ones who suffer the most when they finally return home. Moreover, research regarding deployment and PTSD has isolated three main deployment stages that have varying effects. The stages are pre deployment, during deployment, and post deployment, which involves the rehabilitation and recovery from constant warfare (Vasterling et al. 46). The highest rate of PTSD can be seen in the post deployment stage when soldiers are returning home from overseas combat zones; this rate is significantly higher than that of the non-military American population (Vasterling et al. 46). Therefore, when focusing on mental health within the military, PTSD is a very important aspect that continues to require more research on how to combat the intense effects of war on brains. All in all, although some studies have identified military families as being superior in resilience, the higher rates of general mental illness, PTSD, and divorce prove that they are not impervious to the stress they have to face due to the strenuous demands of military professions. The scientific research on this topic overwhelmingly suggests that the duties required and general lifestyle of the military are correlated with higher incidences of mental disorders and illnesses, causing this group to be much more affected by them than the rest of the American population. Therefore, there is a clear need for the United States government to implement and/or improve their military (and their access to important services such as therapy, psychiatric treatment, marriage counseling, etc, in order to help them overcome the various struggles they face as a result of their serving their country. Politicians often make a great show of thanking Engel 6 veterans and soldiers for their service, but they fail to provide them with tools to lead healthy lives once they walk off the battlefield. Hopefully as research continues to demonstrate the grave problem of mental illness in military families, the United States government will implement programs to reduce this issue. Engel 7 Works Cited Alfano, Candice. A., Lau, Simon, Balderas, Jessica, Bunnell, Brian E., Beidel, Deborah C. Impact of Military Deployment on Children: Placing Developmental Risk in Clinical Psychology Review, vol. 43, February 2016, pp. 17. Academic OneFile, doi: 10.1016/j.cpr.2015.11.003. Accessed 4 February 2017. Lucier-Greer, Mallory, Arnold, Amy-Laura, Neilmann-Grimsley, Rebecca, Ford, James L., Bryant, Chalandra, Mancini, Jay A. Military Service and Adolscent Well-Being: Mental Health, Social Connections and Coping Among Youth in the Child & Family Social Work, vol. 21, no. 4, 2014, pp. 421-432. Academic OneFile, doi: 10.1111/cfs.12158. Accessed 26 January 2017. Karney, Benjamin R., and John S. Crown. Families Under Stress: An Assessment of Data, Theory, and Research on Marriage and Divorce in the Military. Karney, Crown, 2007. Okafor, Ebony, Mallory Lucier-Greer, and Jay A. Mancini. Social Stressors, Coping Behaviors, and Depressive Symptoms: A Latent Profile Analysis of Adolescents in Military  Journal of Adolescence, vol. 51. August 2016, pp. 133- 43. Academic OneFile, doi: 10.1016/j.adolescence.2016.05.010. Accessed 25 January 2017. Riddle, James R., Smith, Tyler C., Smith, Besa, Corbeil, Thomas E., Engel, Charles C., Wells, Timothy S., Hoge, Charles W., Adkins, Joyce, Zamorski, Mark, Blazer, Dan. Cohort: The 2001-2003 Baseline Prevalence of Mental Disorders in the U.S. Journal of Clinical Epidemiology, 2007, pp. 192- Engel 8 201, ScienceDirect, doi: 10.1016/j.clinepi.2006.04.008. Accessed 18 February 2017. Vasterling, Jennifer J., Proctor, Susan P., Friedman, Metthew J., Hoge, Charles W., Heeren, Timothy, King, Lynda A., King, Daniel W. Symptom Increases in Iraq Deployed Soldiers: Comparison with Nondeployed Soldiers and Associations with Baseline Symptoms, Deployment Experiences, and Postdeployment Journal of Traumatic Stress, vol. 23, issue 1, 2010, pp. 41-51. Wiley, doi: 10.11002/jts.20487. Accessed 18 February 2017.