Felix Rodriguez ENC 1102 3/1/2017 Adam Carter Images and Their Effect On The Public Government intervention is something that not all of Americans appreciate. It becomes even harder to intervene when it involves the education of our students. Common Core is the latest to try and standardize testing across the United States. Common Core however, has been met with strong opposition. One of the groups leading this charge is FreedomWorks. FreedomWorks is all about having the government keep their hands off state issues as much as possible. They believe that government should not have any say with the school systems as that can be delegated by the states. To have people understand their beliefs they publish images that can evoke different kinds of reactions. They use ethos, kairos, logos, and pathos to convey a message that tells the world that they will stand up for what they believe in. Every organization starts somewhere and Freedomworks is no different. Their beginnings go all the way back to 1984 but founded under the name Sound Economy(FreedomWorks website). Later it would go through several changes due to laws in our time before it would reach the now known label of FreedomWorks. FreedomWorks has also added organizations to their group who share their beliefs to grow to a fairly large size. This organization is also a giant lobbyist for having less government and more freedom. The ones that lobby against Congress are specifically known as FreedomWorks Inc. FreedomWorks then splinters off into two other groups, FreedomWorks Foundation and FreedomWorks for America(FreedomWorks website). FreedomWorks foundation is considered a research and education organization. They tend to focus on countering the bias of universities and media by education those of the community(FreedomWorks website). FreedomWorks for America is considered a whose goal is to to assist or fight against politicians. They use their fund money to support politicians who support their views or to fight opposition. To generate support and raise awareness the group puts out flyers and social media trends to get their message heard. They use various forms of rhetoric appeal to draw in and captivate their audiences. Starting off they try and show people that they have credibility by bringing in names of people they know. This is a call to ethos. For example the image with Glenn Beck it tries to draw you in with a face you could recognize. It tries to call to your sense of ethos because you see a face you know and try and draw you in with its credibility. Credibility is a big thing when it comes to the nature of what they are doing. In fact, there was an article published by Media Matters where they explained the partnership between Freedomworks and Glenn Beck and how he would tell people to to FreedomWorks because website). By having this partnership they are able to spread their message via mass radio which can spur a movement and with the voice of a person that people consider credible. Continuing the partnership with Glenn Beck led to the 2nd image where urging people to partner with Beck. Once again the face of a powerful person pushes people to think that this group has the right moves needed to get something done. It also promotes visual aid that people can place to show support and thus drive the movement further. When it comes to pathos, the whole point is to try and use emotion so that people understand what it is you are trying to do. Because Common Core is an issue brought up during the Obama era, FreedomWorks tries to bring that in. It tries to draw in the various forms of emotions people have felt during the Obama administration. More so on the right than on the left, people have felt Obama is trying to socialize many aspects of our lives. With reforms such as ObamaCare and Common Core, Obama becomes comparable to socialist leaders like Stalin or Lenin. They use the image that is commonly known the and sickle of the Russian Communist They try and paint this image that Obama is trying to bring about communism and socialism by teaching our kids in a way that would lead down that path. So with the phrase will not they try and fight back against the government. Reverting back to the image with Glenn Beck, they also try to call to emotion but in a different manner. They try and form a sense of unity by trying to unite like minded people under one banner. They use the word to describe as sense of unity that rallies people to their call. The ad also calls to people telling them to be a part of history. That line is used to show people that there is importance in the actions they take. The ad also encourages people to share it on social media because the more people exposed to the message the more it can spread. With the second image they biggest way they try and feed of emotion is the idea of having their protest turned into results. People tend to get very passionate about the way they feel about how government does their job. A big form on emotional push is the way they say America as to say they have to fight for their nation. That sense of nationalism has always been a driving force in our nation and across history itself. The images also try and get people to understand their point of view through a more logical, also known as logos, standpoint although in a different way. In a way some people would view as Glenn support as a logical standpoint. People read this and think if Glenn Beck supports these guys, maybe time to join this movement Glenn Beck image tries to show a logical stance by having people share the image they create that says to stop common core. It gets other people thinking, this person believes this way, maybe there is some merit to this Most social media phenomenons happen because of word of mouth or what someone reads over the internet. They also will give out their own personal America Back Action as noted in the second picture. Their own visual rhetoric is used to have other people spread their own visual rhetoric that they find logical to unite like minded people. There is one thing that both images press very hard on and that is a sense of urgency. This appeal to Kairos, shows that they believe that if something is not done soon then there will be a point of no return. The Glenn Beck image shows this easily by having Common Core as something to be stopped now. They push hardcore the social media angle so that it can be seen by others as quickly as possible to rally more people to their cause. It takes a large political movement from the nation to stop something the government makes. As with the second image it pushes hard for that urgency with the sense that America is something that the people must take back. In fact,there is an article posted by the Thomas More Law Center that tells people that Common Core is a threat to personal liberty and they went out of their way to develop an opt-out form for parents. People can download a PDF legal file that protects their children from the hands of the federal government. They even go on to cite Glenn Beck in the article showing the dangers of Common Core as he says that all about when it comes to common core(Thomas More Website). Most Americans fear the idea of socialism despite the fact that many things in their lives are around socialism. Social security and medicare are socialist programs that any American holds dear. The image instead uses fear in a way to spur people into action to try and stop the movement as soon as people can. Visual rhetoric is an important method to express a feeling or a view to a large audience. Whether it be through ethos, pathos, logos, or kairos, visual rhetoric will always be around to guide people towards a particular mindset, especially in time with technology. The images used by FreedomWorks and their like minded associates helps paint a picture to those around them. Using logic, emotion, urgency and their credibility, they are able to draw viewers and audience members in and have try and show their side of a political view. Works Cited Page mutually beneficial partnership with  Matters for America . N.p., 14 June 2010. Web. 14 Mar. 2017. https://mediamatters.org/research/2010/06/14/becks-mutually-beneficial-partnership-with-free/1 66159 Common Core State Standards a Threat to Personal Liberty - Thomas More Law Center Develops Opt-Out Form for  More Law Center . N.p., 2015. Web. 10 Mar.  https://www.thomasmore.org/news/common-core-state-standards-threat-personal-liberty-thomas- law-center-develops-opt-form-parents/ FreedomWorks. About  FreedomWorks FreedomWorks . FreedomWorks, n.d. Web. 10 Mar. 2017. http://www.freedomworks.org/about/about-freedomworks FreedomWorks. Glenn Action Glenn Action Plan FreedomWorks. FreedomWorks. N.d. Web. 10 Mar.