Bauman 1 Madelyn Bauman Prof. Van Winkle ENC 1102 4 April 2017 Save our Souls from Standardized Testing third grade alone, there are over 11 whole days of the school year dedicated to state- mandated (Henderson, This daunting statistic looks the same for every grade level, particularly in the expansive school district of Clay County. Not only are 11 potential days of genuine education taken away by standardized testing, but the true learning potential for each surrounding day is lessened as well. This is because teachers are pressured to spend those days teaching students how to properly test. Clay County is primarily home to families with children, however, the community also includes a high number of working adults with children that have long since moved out County, Florida Quick Although the latter group feels that the increasing issue of unreliable standardized testing does not affect them it does. When students in their own community are solely being taught how to take a test, the ripple effect reaches all the way to the labor force. It is important that the youth gearing up to enter the real world are intelligent and capable of creative thought. High-stakes standardized testing is creating a generation of young people able to decipher the slightest difference between answer choice A and B on their Florida State Assessment (FSA) while they should be receiving an authentic education that enables them to be compassionate, creative, and out-of-the box thinkers. As members of Clay County, even without having children in the school system, it should be our top priority to make sure students are being shaped into the young people our society and labor force can utilize. Monthly, the Clay County School Board hosts meetings in which anyone from the community may attend and have the opportunity to voice their concerns, Bauman 2 opinions, and ideas for change. Students, parents, and teachers alike have already begun to see the issues with high-stakes standardized testing. Even adults without children in the school system must realize the negative effect that these examinations will bring to our community and assist in reversing their implementation. According to an article from online magazine, Ten Qualities That Make a Great the most looked-for qualities employers are searching for include those not established by an education of relentless standardized testing (Prive, Ten Qualities That Make a Great Leader). These characteristics, including creativity, inspiration, compassion, and confidence, are all developed through real-life situations. High-stakes standardized testing hinders abilities to dedicate their allotted time to genuine, real-life learning situations. Plantation Oaks Elementary English Language Arts (ELA) Teacher, Amy Olsen, commented upon the negative effects of having to spend so much time teaching students how to take tests. Mrs. Olsen expressed, colleagues and I routinely cut content across the curriculum, in order to make the time to teach test taking strategies to our (Olsen, The content she and other teachers have to consistently cut includes science hands-on experiments, social studies non-fiction, and writing workshops. Particularly, Mrs. Olsen chooses to make cuts in writing workshop time because it is not measured on standardized tests in the third grade. The high pressure from the district to have students show proficiency in reading, rather than writing, pressures teachers like Mrs. Olsen to focus completely on teaching students how to ace their reading exams. This pressure from the state and district, for high performance ratings on impractical and highly focused exams was enacted as a way for the government to measure capabilities. With these so-called measurements provided by the standardized tests, the state and district decide how much funding a school receives. This also means that how Bauman 3 well a students perform, determines their pay (The Negative Effects of High Stakes Testing). This slippery slope is exactly what causes teachers to spend the majority of their time teaching students how to test and cutting out activities and lessons that hold substantially more potential in providing students valuable education. Therefore, our upcoming generations are prevented from having the opportunity to explore and strengthen their own creativity and other unique attributes in meaningful activities such as science labs or social studies discussions. internalized the scores as somehow reflective of her value and (Spann, The Negative Effects of High Stakes Testing). This quote, displays yet another negative effect of standardized test taking on students. While this is a specialized case, it is true for so many students students in our own county. Mrs. Olsen and her coworkers all agreed that there are visible negative effects on their mindsets during and while practicing for the high- stakes examinations (Olsen, These impressionable children are aware of the need for them to perform well and therefore become caught up in memorizing the methods for improving and passing their scores. This completely defeats the purpose of education. It allows for not only teachers to reduce learning time of non-tested (yet important) subjects, but for students to be caught up in learning strategy over true material. As a society, we should be rooting for the upcoming generation to be well-learned in important subjects such as math, reading, and science, but also to have learned and built upon important qualities such as creativity, inspiration, compassion, and confidence within their time in the classroom. These skills and traits are only developed when teachers have the time to implement exercises, workshops, experiments and every other enjoyable, productive, and exploratory activity that they are having to cut due to the pressures of high-stakes standardized testing. Bauman 4 As members of the Clay County community, we are all allowed to partake in discussion where we may voice our opinions and beliefs. In the case of education, the Clay County School Board holds meetings the first Thursday of each month at the Teacher In-Service Center, on the campus of Fleming Island High School, at 6:00 County School At these meetings, any and all citizens may attend and address an issue within our schools. The five- member school board, representing each district, will always be in attendance. These meetings are also open for a public audience and are broadcasted on a local news station as well as YouTube. The potential for our voices to be heard and acted upon is tremendous with the amount of attention these meetings receive. Parents and teachers have already begun to relay the negative effects of high-stakes standardized to the Clay County School Board. An increased number of people attending these meetings and relaying this message will only help to bring awareness on this issue. This call-to-action can be furthered by holding our five school board members accountable. That is, making sure that they listen to the voice and take action. Our school board members are elected by us, every four years. We all have a say in how the education of our community will continue. Whether or not we have children currently in the school system, it is important for us to realize that we are all affected by how and what our youngest generations are being taught. High-stakes standardized tests are not. They are not fair, they are not reliable, they are not improving student achievement. High-stakes standardized tests are causing severe stress in students, they are manipulating teachers to teach to the test, and they are, in fact, effecting even those adults (without children) who would not consider themselves directly affected. As a community, we must recognize these negative effects imposed by standardized testing and stand together in putting the pressure on the School Board itself to enact change. For the sake of our Bauman 5 community, for upcoming generations, we must work to reverse every negative aspect of the high-stakes standardized testing. Bauman 6 Works Cited Henderson, Amy, Mrs. Plantation Oaks Elementary. Standardized  Telephone interview. 6 Apr. 2017. Olsen, Amy, Mrs. Plantation Oaks Elementary. Standardized  Telephone interview. 6 Apr. 2017. Population estimates, July 1, 2016,  Clay County Florida QuickFacts from the US Census Bureau. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. https://www.census.gov/quickfacts/table Prive, Tanya. Top 10 Qualities That Make a Great  Forbes. Forbes Magazine, 17 Oct. 2016. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. https://www.forbes.com/sites/tanyaprive/2012/12/19/top-10- qualities-that-make-a-great-leader School  School District of Clay County. Web. 07 Apr. 2017. http://www.oneclay.net/school-board.html Spann, Pamela. Negative Effects of High Stakes Loyola University Chicago. Web. 08 Apr. 2017. http://www.luc.edu/media/lucedu/law/centers/childlaw/childed