Carr 1 MacKenzie Carr Professor Van Winkle ENC1102 9 April 2017 Love Thy Neighbor Friday, January 27th at 4:43 P.M Trump signs executive order on immigration titled, the nation from foreign terrorist entry into the United the order bars all people from Iraq, Syria, Iran, Sudan, Libya, Yemen, and Somalia from entering the United States for 90 days. The action also orders the suspension of the US refugee program for 120 days and indefinitely blocks Syrian refugees from entering the United The Boston. A Timeline of Immigration  N.p., 1 Feb. 2017. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. ). The leader of our country made a very serious statement for our nation as a whole on this specific day. The statement is that we are no longer the melting pot of the world. We must stand together as the future generation of our beautiful country, in order to make a difference. In order to increase public awareness in the United States of America, the Love Thy Neighbor Foundation will be flying out Mass Communication majors from the University of South Florida to Acuna, Mexico to report findings in this struggling city. After the documentary is created, the movie will be shared on International Immigration Day, December 18th, 2017 at the Royal Palm Ballroom in the Marshall Student Center. I am an eighth generation Tampa Floridian. I have never understood what it is like to be considered an That was until I went on a trip with my significant Lebanese family to Las Vegas for New Years. We were getting onto our connecting flight in Minnesota. I Carr 2 could tell the entire family was on edge. I travel for work constantly, but it was always smooth sailing. I was the first in line, so I easily went through security. My significant father went through the metal detector, and nothing went off. I noticed out of the corner of my eye that the airport manager told one of the security guards to check all of his bags. We stayed an additional fifty minutes in order for the airport staff to feel comfortable with him getting into the plane. It was not until that exact moment that I understood what outsiders felt like. Security is vital in order to keep the United States of America safe. Former President Barak Obama pulled U.S troops from Iraq in 2011. The world spoke, and it was not happy. According to former Florida Governor Jeb Bush, Barack Obama became president, and he abandoned Iraq. He left, and when he left al Qaida was done for. ISIS was created because of the void that we left, and that void now exists as a caliphate the size of (Fordham, Alice. Fact Check: Did Obama Withdraw From Iraq Too Soon, Allowing ISIS To  NPR, 19 Dec. 2015. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. ). When we do not monitor the world that surrounds us, groups such as ISIS are formed against us. Security is important but blockading the outside world is not the right answer. America is known for the variety of cultures that formed what we are today. Without all of the different ethnicities, there is no America. Security is important, but an excess amount will lead to horror. Horror such as children being smuggled into America in order to be reunited with their parents. According to NBC news, advocates suggested many of these children, mostly teenage boys, are fleeing drug and gang violence in Central America. Another theory is that Central American and Mexican parents already living in the United States illegally, and who are afraid to return home and face the prospect of being caught by U.S. border officials, will often hire smugglers to bring their Carr 3 children to them, paying thousands of dollars per child. Cross Border Alone, Fleeing Drugs and  NBCUniversal News Group, 3 July 2012. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. ). The worst part of youth trying to reunite with their parents, who are most likely illegal as well, is the overarching numbers. With the vast amount of children who are successful crossing the border, their right to a fair chance in America is limited. advocates worry that the rise in children held by the government will make it difficult to properly house all of them and to find enough volunteer attorneys to represent them before immigration With the many struggles of immigration rights, and the borders that are limiting them, there is a very serious question to be asked. Why should you care about immigration rights? The answer is very simple; It is your area of study to know how the masses communicate, it is affecting the world you live in, and based on our proposal it will be easily achievable for you to make a difference. As mass communication majors, you have dedicated your life to further educate yourself on bettering our world and how it communicates. The Love Thy Neighbor foundation is giving you a once in a lifetime opportunity to do just that. This summer an organization known as Casa Por Cristo will be giving you the experience on the other side of the looking glass. por Cristo relies on the labor and resources of full time a board of over 100 pastors and community leaders from and Raimundo, and the and nearly 7,000 annual volunteers from across North America. Through these cross-cultural partnerships, volunteer teams are presented with an amazing opportunity to build a home for a family in Por Cristo. What We  Por Cristo - Mission Casas Por Cristo, n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017). You will be flown to Acuna, Mexico and report on all of your experiences. A Carr 4 documentary will be made from your findings, and shared with your school on international immigration day, December 18th, to spread awareness of how severe this issue has gotten. Before each individual walks into the Royal Palm Ballroom in the Marshall Student Center, they will be given a picture of a person who lives in Acuna, Mexico and what their everyday life looks like. You will be apart of not only a life changing opportunity, but also be apart of a movement that could change the life of others. Immigrants are not gifted the same love and acceptance into America that our ancestors were given. We cannot shut out immigrants who want for their families, what you as college students hope for yourselves, the American dream. Help our foundation spread awareness of how serious this issue has become. Join us on our trip to capture the difficult living conditions in Acuna, and what we as a nation should do; Love thy neighbor. Please visit Lovethyneighbor.org for information on how to join us on this project. Carr 5 Works Cited Acuna, Mexico Mission  Por Cristo - Mission Casas Por Cristo, n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. <http://www.casasporcristo.org/acuna-mexico-mission-trips/?gclid=Cj0KEQjwt6fHBRD tm9O8xPPHq4gBEiQAdxotvNAgSbBxNRVHlsp0TQKe6EBeg9JOMjeMVH6V2vTpBs YaAjXH8P8HAQ>. Casas Por Cristo. What We  Por Cristo - Mission Casas Por Cristo, n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. <http://www.casasporcristo.org/what-we-do/>. Fordham, Alice. Fact Check: Did Obama Withdraw From Iraq Too Soon, Allowing ISIS To  NPR, 19 Dec. 2015. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. <http://www.npr.org/2015/12/19/459850716/fact-check-did-obama-withdraw-from-iraq-t oo-soon-allowing-isis-to-grow>. Globe, The Boston. A Timeline of Immigration  N.p., 1 Feb. 2017. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. <https://apps.bostonglobe.com/news/nation/graphics/2017/01/travel-ban/>. Kids Cross Border Alone, Fleeing Drugs and  NBCUniversal News Group, 3 July 2012. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. leeing-drugs-and-gangs>. Carr 6