Collins 1 Ashlyn Collins Ms. Ricketts ENC 1102-010 April 4, 2017 Migraine Awareness and Diagnosis While almost everyone can experience migraines, not everyone is plagued with having chronic migraines. I believe many can agree though that having a migraine twice a year is much different from having five a week. In fact, many people know what a migraine truly entails, leaving many migraine sufferers unaware of the severity of their condition. One of the most prominent examples of migraine sufferers, and those around them, being unaware of the condition is a story of one of my family friends. A Friend of my son was experiencing many symptoms that were concerning his mother. The symptoms in which her son was suffering from was very confusing to his mother, family, and even his pediatric doctor. Almost every day he was experiencing an extreme amount of pain, he told his mother that he was unable to see, and when he could see his vision was weird with floating spots, he was constantly vomiting, loosing the ability to move his arms and legs, and even passing out from the intense pain. As one can imagine these would be very scary things to watch your child go though, now, imagine that your child is only four years old. His doctor is unable to help him, you are unable to help his, and it takes over a year for doctors to give you any answers. This is a reality that many migraine sufferers face, to fix this problem more awareness needs to be made about migraines along with improvements in the diagnosis process. Collins 2 One of the biggest issues when it comes to migraines is that the general public know the whole truth about what a sufferer can experience. There are two types of migraines, one with aura and one without. Aura is a variety of visual disturbances that usually come as a warning that a migraine is going to set in, aura can be experienced as many small floating white dots, a large blurry spot with white edges, black and white and even colored stripes in your field of vision, or a blurry spot that can float around in your field of vision and even take up all your vision, making you unable to see in one or both eyes. There are many other symptoms to migraines such as extreme distortion where the room feels as though it spinning, oversensitivity, not only to light where even a small amount of light will nearly blind you, but also the oversensitivity to the things around you. A very strange sensation of being able to feel everything, such as a person reaching to tap you on the shoulder, will take over. One of the scariest parts of getting migraines, besides the possibility of going blind, would be the loose of feeling, or even movement of one side of your body. These episodes can be so bad that the sufferer can easily mistake the migraine attack as a seizer. Now, on top of all of this one will experience intense pain, bad enough to cause you to pass out on occasion. The other major problem with migraines besides the public not knowing too much about them is that the diagnosis process usually takes too long, leaving the migraine sufferer in pain for an unknown amount of time. As in the example above it took almost a year of a toddler suffering daily until a proper diagnosis was made, I have even known cases to take over five years for the right diagnosis to be given. Although many people think the general public should be more aware of the effects of migraines others argue that not enough people suffer from the disease for it to Collins 3 be a public issue. This argument though is invalid because although not a very large amount of the population suffers from migraines it is known as one of the twenty disabling (Change et al 9) In summary, the general public is not educated enough about migraines, this is a dangerous situation because of the detrimental effects that migraines can have on the sufferer. Many people can suffer from migraines without knowing what is really happening with their body. Can you imagine having a condition where the sever headaches are mistaken for seizers, or where the pain causes you to pass out, and you can even go blind? Although education about the disease does not lessen the effects, knowledge about the condition can better prepare a sufferer for an attack. Collins 4 Work cited Marisa Change, MD, Alan M. Rapoport, MD, Acute Treatment of Migraine Headache, Techniques in Regional Anesthesia and Pain Management, 2009, www.sciencedirect.com.exproxy.lib.usf.edu, accessed February 18, 2017