Asiya Ahmed Ahmed 1 Professor Taylor Poston ENC 1102 29 January 2017 The Immigration Order Immigration has contributed to the settlement and founding of the United States of America in a multitude of manners. This nation was established on immigrants, and continues to grow and advance due to them. Issues regarding immigration policies, in place, have continuously raised questions and concerns throughout history. Immigration reform refers to the changing of the current immigration policies, including legal and illegal immigration. Typically, it calls for the decrease of illegal immigration and the increase of legal immigration, although, a large portion of the public has argued for the opposite of either of those approaches constituting the issue as controversial. President, Donald Trump, recently released an executive order on immigration sanctioned a ban on people within selected countries from entering the U.S. The order received some support, but battled with a lot of opposition and outrage, specifically when protests erupted. Two stakeholders involved in the controversy of the issued executive order on immigration, but have seemingly incompatible objectives, are the Council on Relations (CAIR) and the Federation for American Immigration Reform ( however if time and misconceptions are sacrificed, the opposing stakeholders could unify their efforts to better suffice for all. The Council on Relations, CAIR , is one of the most widespread civil rights and advocacy organizations, devoted to combating discrimination. Their offices receive daily calls on reports of discrimination, and the civil rights staff aims to rectify such cases through negotiation, public pressure, mediation, or legal action if need be. Although the organization tackles a multitude of hate cases, their services are not exclusive to such, for CAIR protects the civil rights of every American, regardless of their faith. In addition, the services offered are commonly delivered free of charge. The organization is Ahmed 2 composed of chapters in every state, they provide the public with support and awareness, on personal and public issues, through press conference, workshops, and protests. Ultimately, the Council on Relations supports the integral and equal rights and responsibilities for all. The Federation for American Immigration Reform, FAIR, is also a organization that believes our immigration laws in place need to be reformed to better fulfil the needs of the present and future generations. FAIR includes approximately 50 private foundations and is free of party allegiances or special interests. The mission of calling for immigration reform is delivered through education and public awareness of the harmful impacts of uncontrolled immigration on jobs, healthcare, the environment, etc. They provide advocating solutions, hold their leaders accountable for such, and guarantee voice to the public. FAIR strikes to decrease overall immigration to a more manageable level, for they believe has reached a point where perpetual growth cannot realistically continue within limited The Federation for American Immigration Reform values the respect for dignity and human rights, and believes that immigration policies should not be based upon favoritism, or discrimination against any group of people because of their nationality, race, color, etc. A multitude of stakeholders have questioned the constitutionality and legality of President executive orders. The immigration order, released early in his presidency, named, the Nation from Foreign Terrorist Entry into the United blocks Syrian refugees from entering the U.S bars entry individuals immigrant and nonimmigrant from seven nations including Iraq, Iran, Somalia, Syria, Libya, Sudan and Yemen for 90 and cuts the U.S. refugee resettlement in half while eliminating the U.S. Refugee Admissions Program (USRAP) for 120 days (HumanRightFirst). Debates, protests, and Ahmed 3 due to this order have not been uncommon, stakeholders have yet to come to one resolution. Recently, CAIR has spoken out in opposition of President recent executive order, and has filed federal lawsuits on behalf of individuals whose constitutional rights were violated. The National Executive Director of CAIR, Nihad Awad, said, ban does not make our country safer. Instead, it serves to stigmatizes Muslim refugees and the entire American Muslim community. It will hand a propaganda tool to our enemies who promote the false narrative of an American war on During a news conference, the organization announced that it had filed federal lawsuits for 20 individuals that have been challenged due to the recent order. The lawsuit declared the executive order unconstitutional due to its fundamental motive and purpose being to ban persons of the islamic faith in 7 countries, and Syrian refugees, against entering the United States. CAIR believes the order is a troubling confirmation of Islamophobic but also policies made during the presidential campaign (CAIR). A policy unconditionally excluding people of a specific religion from the country would infringe upon the First Establishment Clause by definitively rejecting one religion and holding preference over others (ACLU). Thus this ban would be explicitly unconstitutional. In addition, the ban also excludes from the several named countries from entering the United States, this would be an outright violation of the Fifth Due Process and Equal Protection, and the fundamental law that the government may not dispel its citizens nor deny entry to the country. Any bar on U,S citizens is therefore prohibited under the amendment. Ultimately, if, at least, any one of these amendments are violated, the act would decidedly be unconstitutional to stakeholders such as CAIR. However, FAIR believes but the repression on immigration movement is very much needed for the United economic and national security. FAIR does not believe the ban halts Muslim migration into America, but temporary halts immigration Ahmed 4 from the seven countries of Iraq, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Iran, Syria and Yemen. FAIR stresses that there are currently 52 Muslim countries around the world, yet 44 of them are unaffected by this order. The organization notes that are scores of additional countries with sizable Muslim minorities and immigration from those countries is also unaffected by the Executive (FAIRUS). FAIR believes this executive order progresses the country from previous failed legislative efforts and debates of immigration reform, and acknowledges the interest of the American people. spokesperson David Ray said, have been working hard to get control of illegal immigration for decades now, we believe that President executive actions are a course correction for this country in immigration Title 12 Chapter 8 of the U.S Code provides the President authorization to reject any entry or class of aliens into the country if they are deemed harmful to the United States (Legal Information Institute). Thus such acts would not be considered unconstitutional to some stakeholders such as for the best interest of America is taken. Although resolutions to this issue are continuously being discussed, the common ground between these two stakeholders is the people. Both stakeholders, CAIR and FAIR, promote reform and awareness. In order for both stakeholders to come together and unify, time and misconceptions must be sacrificed. CAIR should devote time to bring awareness to the public in the smallest but most impactful education. The discussions would derive from personal experiences and stories told by Muslim immigrants and therefore there is no translation for false misconceptions or lies being told. Although the organization is one of the largest for advocacy, not many people have heard of it. Its message is to advocate and bring awareness to discrimination and the best way for people to understand diversity awareness like this is to get to know those people take advantage of that (The Tech MIT). FAIR has already built itself upon misconceptions so the organization must Ahmed 5 dispel them to look at a different, or micro, picture. FAIR believes has reached a point where perpetual growth cannot realistically continue within limited space in the But for instance, with the refugees, the US has aided and destroyed the same country, humans are trying to flee out of survival. Instead of thinking of every detail with a political agenda, try thinking of such issues as a humanitarian effort for that is what it truly is. FAIR needs to be challenge their agendas and attempt to understand the struggle and prejudice not only those abroad have to deal with, but those as citizens in their country also facing that. By eradicating differences that make our society diverse, one could potentially be eliminating aspects of that person that are positive, not only to their character but the future of the world (The Tech MIT). If one does not at least try to recognize these humanitarian problems, the message that such prejudice behavior is acceptable resonates through generations. Such a message would be contrary to what The United States of America stands for. This nation was established on immigrants, and continues to excel due to them. Issues in regards to immigration policies have continuously constructed concerns throughout history. Immigration reform refers to the altering of the current immigration policies, including legal and illegal immigration. Recently, President Donald Trump announced an executive order on immigration, confirming a ban on people within selected countries such as Iraq, Iran, Somalia, Syria, Libya, Sudan and Yemen from entering the U.S. Two stakeholders involved in the controversy of this issued order, but distinctly have incompatible objectives, are the Council on the Federation for American Immigration Reform (FAIR) and Relations however the opposing stakeholders could unify their efforts to better suffice for all, if time and misconceptions are sacrificed. Ahmed 6 Works Cited About FAIR Federation for American Immigration  About FAIR Federation for American Immigration Reform . N.p., n.d. Web. 29 January. 2017. 8 U.S. Code 1182 Inadmissible  LII / Legal Information Institute . N.p., n.d. Web. 29 January. 2017. Luery, Mike. Immigration Orders Gain Concern, Support in  KCRA . KCRA, 23 Feb. 2017. Web. 29 January. 2017. Morgan, Ivy S. Simple Ideas to Promote Diversity  The Tech Online Edition . N.p., 3 Feb. 2004. Web. 29 January. 2017. Naeem, Nabeelah. Press  CAIR Council on Relations CAIR . N.p., n.d. Web. 29 January. 2017. Statements And Policy Proposals Of Donald Tr, and The Constitutional Analysis Of The Public. Trump on  THE TRUMP MEMOS (2017): Web. 29 January. 2017. Immigration Outline Actually Puts the Horse before the  Immigration Outline Actually Puts the Horse before the Cart . N.p., n.d. Web. 29 January. 2017.