Alondra Galvan ENC 1101 Ricketts 8 March 2017 Misdiagnosis and Intervention 1 in 68 children is diagnosed with Autism Spectrum Disorder. Dance Movement Therapy has been researched over time to be one of the therapies used for this disorder. Dance therapy is an expressive therapy that pinpoints on supporting the mind and the connectivity to muscle throughout the body. Autism Spectrum Disorder is a disorder that impairs the communication, and socialization, and motor-control skills. Although, many argue that DMT does not cure major deficits of ASD or cannot intervene with diagnosis, DMT uses rhythmic patterns, synchronization, and mirroring to increase effectiveness. Therefore, DMT should be used to fix misdiagnosis among children. One of the major deficits occurring in a child from ASD would be impairment in communication and socialization. Communication is developed at a young age while our brain is still evolving. Socialization is the form in which we communicate and express our feelings amongst a group of people or with others. As Martin stated in her academic journal, acquire and refine a whole set of new motor skills within their first eighteen months fundamentally transform their experiences with objects and 154). This concludes that children learn from the beginning of time about socializing, which can be collectively connected with the misdiagnosis of the young girl named Lisa. Psychologist Baudino researched a case study about a misdiagnosis of a child and she watched a therapist engage with Lisa and effectively use dance movement therapy. The therapist stated how Lisa had been detached socially because of her future traumatizing experiences. Lisa developed some autistic behaviours throughout her early life because she would come home to a broken home and abusive parents. She became antisocial but the exercises like mirroring allowed for a connectivity to emerge amongst Lisa and the therapist. Researchers have determined that mirroring children and allowing them to take the lead has effectively helped build relationships. All this child needed was attention and connection between adult and child. This case study goes to show that a interaction in a child can affect their state-of-mind leading to why this child showed forms of autism but never really had ASD. Baudino illustrates inability to safety during negative experiences, as well as a lack of positive experiences shared with her mother, naturally created a state of (Baudino 127). What she means to say is that Lisa engulfed these qualities under the circumstances of having absent parents. This leads me to believe that a worth is crucial at a young age because that is when the child is absorbing all their qualities and skills needed later on in life. A child should not be traumatized enough to be misdiagnosed as autistic. As noted by the therapist and Baudino, DMT gave Lisa an outlet and allowed Lisa to engage properly which led to the knowledge of her misdiagnosis. Although DMT can help evolve a communication and socialization skills, many argue that autism does not come from childhood but is developed prenatally. The thoughts on this have been staten through time and some researchers have veered off from this idea. This could be argued by psychologist Scharoun who says is understood that ASD is a neurodevelopmental disorder that originates in prenatal brain development and continues throughout the (Scharoun 211). In conclusion, Scharoun states that the child must have developed this idea in the womb but not by experiences. I believe that the child can have something so traumatizing in their life that it can permanently damage their skills but also even if a child is born with these deficits they have the same amount of chance to get positively affected by dance movement therapy. The next major deficit among children diagnosed is the lack of motor-skills. DMT goes as far as to enable motor-skill by using activities in sessions like synchronization which shows the child how to imitate and follow directions. These motor-skills are put to the test in sessions of DMT by the therapist and creates a sense between mind and body. In 2014, therapeutic instructor Martin describes rhythm as a way to facilitate interaction and communication and to help organize the thoughts and feelings. (Martin 549) Children with ASD engage in these activities and kids like Lisa are affected in their mind and body. Children like Lisa opened their protective shell and responded to these activities by tapping her hands on the wall and copying the therapist. Her testimony was brought forward in her sessions and showed how effective the sessions were allowing her to understand mind and body. Martin states that DMT provides a holistic approach that integrates the body and mind, and because it can thrive in the non-verbal realm of communication, this type of therapy is extremely appropriate for the early intervention of children on the autism Meaning, that if we intervene at a young age the effectiveness will be increased by a lot. DMT does allow for children to interact on a one to one level. Martin stated that researchers the use of reflection, attunement, synchronous movement interactions, mirroring, and rhythm as ways of connecting with and encouraging communication in children on the autism (Martin 154). I believe that the activities engaged among sessions allows for intervention at the young age and can help distinguish the misdiagnosis in children because it sets the children in different groups. The two groups end up being the ones who interact and lead and the ones who understand and follow, which are both good qualities. Many researchers may still agree that synchronization and mirroring can help some form of misdiagnosed children but it is not enough to help diagnosed children. They also argue that autism is caused environmentally. This can be emphasized because like Lisa, she was affected by her home and her childhood. Baudino explicitly explains father became more neglectful and also physically and emotionally (Baudino 115) This part in life shows her parents detachment from life. Another factor Scharoun describes had minimal exposure to other children during her development, and she appeared to refrain from interactions with others, preferring to regularly play by (Baudino 114) This shows how the people and emotions surrounding you can make a big impact in your mental health. A reason Vincent explains why children in group sessions become more aware and more social because they have other children surrounding them and other children in the same path. (Vincent et al. 52) He goes to explain that children respond better when they have children around them and also he argues your surroundings help your state in ASD. Traumatizing experiences create a troubling mental state of health for children but your environment can also help with confidence and allow a child to open up sooner. Research will do its duty over time and truth will reveal itself. Dance movement therapy is fixated on developing communication, socialization, and motor-control skills. Even though some researchers will continue to argue on behalf of prenatal development of the brain among autistic children and intervention not being a major factor affected by dance movement therapy, I know that dance movement therapy uses many activities such as rhythmic patterns, mirroring, and synchronization to allow these children to have the outlet to fix those major deficits. Dance movement therapy can be the little ray of hope that misdiagnosed children have or can become an intervention to further development of diagnosis amongst a child. Works Cited Martin, Mary. Moving On The Spectrum: Dance/Movement Therapy As A Potential Early Intervention Tool For Children With Autism Spectrum  The Arts In Psychotherapy vol. 41, no. 5, 2014, pp. 545-553. PsycINFO. http://dx.doi.org.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/10.1016/j.aip.2014.10.003. Accessed 29 January 2017. Vincent, Susan, et al. Collaborating With A Mission: The Rizzo Foundation Spreads The Gift Of Dance/Movement  American Journal Of Dance Therapy vol. 29, no. 1, 2007, pp. 51-58. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. DOI:10.1007/s10465-007-9028-5. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. Baudino, Lori M. Spectrum Disorder: A Case of American Journal of Dance Therapy 2, vol. 32, no. 2, 2010, pp. 113-129. Academic OneFile. DOI:10.1007/s10465-010-9095-x. Accessed 29 January 2017. Scharoun, Sara, et al. Dance/Movement Therapy As An Intervention For Children With Autism Spectrum  American Journal Of Dance Therapy vol. 36, no. 2, 2014, pp. 209- 228. International Bibliography of Theatre & Dance with Full Text. DOI:10.1007/s10465-014-9179-0 Accessed 19 February 2017.