Michael Hampton ENC 1101 Elizabeth Ricketts 9 Feb 2017 Intermediate Draft If a gay player has the dream of pursuing a football career, it would be advised that the player not come out to the organization or public because throughout the history of the NFL, it is known that gay players do not have a chance to make a NFL roster. Although other major league organizations may accept gay players, the NFL tends to believe in their own rights and not do the same. In the history of the NFL, there have been only 6 players who announced their sexuality after they retired. Even fewer people were known to be gay while playing because they feared being harassed by teammates and coaches, as well as being released from the team. To prove this point, stories like Michael Sam and Connor Mertens are examples of how the NFL is homophobic. Michael Sam, who attended the University of Missouri, was an All-American and SouthEastern Conference defensive player of the year by his senior year in college. According to Timesunion(2017), Michael Sam announced he was gay he was drafted into the seventh round in the NFL draft by the St. Louis Rams, but was expected to be drafted in the second or third round. Though drafted by the Rams he was cut before even playing in his first NFL game and was also waived by the Dallas Cowboys. In the article Michael Sam stated think if I never would have came out, never would have said those words out to the public, I would still be currently in the NFL. But because of me saying those words, I think it could have played a huge part in my current A player like Michael Sam has to hide his sexuality just so he can stay on a NFL roster. Connor Mertens, who was a placekicker at the University of Willamette. Earlier in the year, Mertens came out that he was bisexual and have a boyfriend to his teammates and coaches. Connor was the first active college football player to publicly come out about his sexuality. He felt as if it was best for him to have a team meeting and tell his fellow teammates and coaches that he was gay and had a boyfriend. Surprisingly, in disbelief his teammates and coaches accepted the fact that he was bisexual and they did not have a problem with that. They still treated him as one of his brothers. The fact of the matter is Connor Mertens plays college football not professional. If Connor was to announced that he was gay to his teammates and coaches in the NFL, the organization would of found a way to get rid of him. In the article it stated No mens American pro-sports league has had more former players come out publicly as gay than the In the history of the NFL, the league is known for not accepting gay players. The NFL is no home to gay players. The reason being is why former players announced they are gay after they retire. Although, Connor Mertens afraid to come out to his team as being bisexual it was he stated always been the football community that sacred me the most when thought about coming These are real life situations that actually that place whether in college or the NFL. Being a gay football player can really change life. Though Michael Sam had a great senior season in college, his announcement of him being gay and kissing his boyfriend ruined his football career. Connor Mertens may have been the first active gay college football player who was fortunate enough be accepted by his teammates and coaches. It would not have happened if he was playing in the league. The history of the NFL has proven their organization is not home or welcomed to gay players. Zeigler, Cyd. Mertens came out to his college football team. Now he comes out SB Nation, SBNation,28 Jan 2014 Accessed 1 April 2017. Gibbs, Lindsay. Sam Says Coming Out As Gay Played A In NFL Teams Not Signing ThinkProgress, 23 Sept. 2016, thinkprogress.org/michael-sam-says-coming-out-as-gay-played-a-huge-part-in-nfl-teams- not-signing-him-4cf478530e5f#.cxhgs3wsn. Accessed 12 Feb 2017. http://www.timesunion.com/sports/article/First-openly-gay-NFL-player-shares-story-10916280.p hp