Craig Watts Ms. Ricketts Comp 1 9 April 2017 Chronic Traumatic Encephalopathy (CTE) has caused the suicides of hundreds of professional athletes. CTE is described as a brain disease caused by repetitive brain trauma (McKee et al., 2009). In football, if a player gets too many concussions, it could lead to CTE in the future. This disease has ruined many lives; for example, Ken Stabler, Tyler Sash, Frank Gifford and Mike Webster were professional football players that have committed suicide from the disease CTE (Bellware, 2016). necessary to keep football safer for the mental and physical health of the players. Concussion education needs to be pushed. The NFL has caused death due to the lack of awareness of CTE and therefore, more measures need to be put in place to reduce the occurrence of CTE. Chronic Traumatic Encephalopathy (CTE) is a degenerative disease of the brain found in athletes and others with history of repetitive brain trauma to the head. Dr. discovery of CTE has shifted the research taking place in the present day. For instance, in 2010, Doctor Bennet Omalu raised awareness to the NFL about CTE after examining the brain tissue of various deceased former NFL players Mike Webster, Terry Long, and Andre Waters. Dr. Omalu found out that all three of the deceased NFL players had all had repetitive concussions in their NFL career. The symptoms include: slight mental confusion, general slowing in muscular movement, hesitancy in speech, and tremors of the hands (Hanna et al., 2010). necessary to keep football safer for the mental and physical health of the players. Currently, many retired players come out of the NFL with completely altered lives. The years of injuries affect their physical and sometimes mental health long after their careers end. One researcher wrote: handful of violent hits on what could be called black and blue sunday led the league to say it could begin fining and suspending first time offenders in helmet to helmet collisions. Which is where Crowder wonders if the league is losing its (Habib, 2010). Habib goes on to detail how the NFL is starting to crack down on unnecessary violence by fining first time players for violent hits to the head. Another researcher discussed alternate ways to keep football safer, stating at UCLA are working on an energy-absorbing microlattice material, called Architected Lattice, that would replace the foam inside football helmets and absorb some of the energy from ( Kubota, 2016). Other researchers are finding new ways to make football safer through the use of improved equipment, especially helmets. But some researchers feel like on the other hand it also should be the job to make sure that not putting their self in harms way. In addition to improving the safety of football, concussion education needs to be pushed. If children learn about concussions at an early age and learn good tackling habits, there will be fewer concussions. Reports of concussions have been on the rise in youth sports, but so has awareness of the problem. From 1997 to 2007, the amount of sports-related concussions in have doubled in children ages 8 through 13 and tripled in children from ages 14 through 19. (Mitka, 2016). All in all, it is clear that more measures need to implemented in order to reduce the incidence of chronic traumatic encephalopathy. The world of Dr. Omalu and several others clearly show irrefutable evidence that concussions directing cause CTE. Regulations must be more strict, equipment must be made safer, and education must be pushed in order to accomplish this goal. Though some believe, that it is solely the responsibility to ensure his own physical safety, this is not achievable without several changes being made. In order to protect the wellbeing of future generations of athletes, more work must be done to lessen the occurrence of chronic traumatic encephalopathy. Work Cited Alosco, Michael L., Johnny Jarnagin, Yorghos Tripodis, Michael Platt, Brett Martin, Christine E. Chaisson, Christine M. Baugh, Nathan G. Fritts, Robert C. Cantu, and Robert A. Stern. Olfactory Function and Associated Clinical Correlates in Former National Football League  Journal of Neurotrauma34.4 (2017): 772-80. Web. Conley, Quincy, and Willi Savenye. Brainbook: An Impact Study Of a Statewide Concussion Awareness Training for High School  N.p., 20 Jan. 2017. Web. 2 Feb. 2017. Habib, Hal. Is NFL too soft on hard hits? Some think the campaign to curb helmet- to-helmet hits makes the game less  Bi.galegroup.com. N.p., 20 Oct. 2010. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Kubota, Taylor. 5 Ways Science Makes Football  Livescience.com. N.p., 30 Mar. 2016. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Mike, Mitka. Reports of Concussions From Youth Sports Rise Along With Awareness of the Problem  JAMA: The Journal of the American Medical Association 304.16 (n.d.): 1775-776. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Straus, Lindsey Barton. Coaches Can Play Important Role in Encouraging Athletes To Report Concussions Symptoms, Studies  (n.d.): n. pag. Web. 2 Feb. 2017. Thomas, Chad . Concussion  Sportsconcussionbianj.org. N.p., 2017 . Web. 26 Jan. 2017.