Calderon 1 Sergio Calderon Ms. Madeline Gottlieb ENC 1102 8 April 2017 The Declawing of Cats The Paw Project is an organization Founded by Dr. Jennifer Conrad that advocates legislation for banning cat declawing in the United States. The Paw Project take donations on their website, and they also have videos of what exactly declawing is and how the procedure is conducted. They even have their own documentary whose filmmaker is Dr. Jennifer Conrad herself that talks about the negative impacts of cat declawing. This organization believes that declawing is morally wrong to do to a cat, and that it is inhumane. There are some reasons why individuals permanently remove the claws like the cat can damage a cat furniture by scratching, but is it a form of animal cruelty? With these points that will be made, one will be able to see that declawing a wild or a domestic cat is in fact morally wrong, inhumane, and a form of animal cruelty. On to the first point of how declawing is inhumane, there was an academic journal written by Nadine Dolby of Purdue University who has done countless research on animals in education. In this journal, there was a quote from Friends Animal and it says: is the amputation of each toe at the first joint. In humans, it would be equivalent to cutting off the tip of every finger at the first knuckle very painful, indeed. If performed on a human, this operation would be considered a (Dolby 8). This explains one of the reasons why this operation is inhumane because declawing is not just a manicure, it is an amputation of the first joint bones Calderon 2 in each finger of the paw, and on humans it would be similar to cutting of the tips off of each finger in the hand, and it would be just as painful. That is exactly what is going on when felines are getting their claws removed, but people still do it. Imagine another human being having their first knuckle bones in each finger removed permanently, how would that person live with that? Cat owners declaw their cats for several reasons one for example is explained by Nadine Dolby who says: the veterinary profession developed new preventative medicines that could be used to control fleas and mites, cats (and dogs) moved indoors, living with their human families. natural need and instinct to scratch drew them (and their claws) to furniture and couches, which became a nuisance for (Dolby 8). Cats do have a tendency to scratch things and end up ruining furniture which is understandable why this would be a nuisance for people, but it is not right to have the cat go through this horrible procedure because some furniture was ruined. One may say that if this is only a short operation, then how will this affect the cat long term? Cats who have been declawed not only experience the pain in which they recently had their claws removed, but they have the potential to experience pain long term as well. Dr. Conrad explains that one of these long terms effects is abnormal posture, and she elaborates on this by explaining: pad is often displaced backwards, toward the rear of the foot, allowing the weight of the body to push the end of the second toe bone (second phalanx, or p2), through the thinned tissue on the underside of the foot. These complications may occur in combination, invariably resulting in great pain for the animal to stand or (Conrad). Do to these effects, declawed cats are put through unnecessary pain and suffering, which makes the act of declawing a form of animal cruelty. She talks more about these long term effects by saying: compensate for the pain in their tender paws, cats will attempt to shift their weight farther back on their feet, in effect walking on their The stresses caused by the abnormal posture and movement, Calderon 3 may produce arthritis in the legs, which, in turn, may cripple the cat further and cause it more the Paw It does not make sense to put a cat through great pain long term just because some furniture was ruined. The result of the mutilation in the paws creates a traumatic experience for the cat and chronic pain. A better alternative if the owner is so concerned about the furniture, is to trim the claws at least once every few months so that the cat does not cause damage due to scratching. With this option, the cat will not experience the negative impacts of declawing, and it would save the owner money by not having to remove the claws permanently by paying for the surgical procedure to be done. There need to be something done about this predicament because felines both wild and domestic, are being declawed every day, and many of them are suffering because of it. A cats claws are an important part of their anatomy and if you take them out, it will hurt the cat both short term and long term. What can one do to support the Paw Project and prevent more cats from being declawed? One can go visit the Paw Project website and on their home page, there is a link that allows people to donate to the Paw Project and their endeavors to prevent declawing. Even a penny from each person can make a huge difference and greatly support this organization and its goals to stop declawing. By donating, the Paw Project will be more capable of helping felines both wild and domestic that have suffered from declawing and preventing other cats from being declawed. If a cat owner is considering removing a claws permanently, a more favorable alternative would be to trim the claws once in a while instead of declawing them. This would be better for both the cat and the owner because the owner will not have to pay money to declaw their cat and the cat can keep its claws and not experience the traumatic pain from having them removed. Calderon 4 Works Cited Conrad, Jennifer. ABOUT THE PAW  About The Paw Project. GoDaddy.com, LLC, 24 Feb. 2003. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Dolby, Nadine1. The Paw  Critical Education 6.23 (2015): 1-14. Education Source. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. Fritscher, Saethra Jade, and James Ha. Declawing Has No Effect On Biting Behavior But Does Affect Adoption Outcomes For Domestic Cats In An Animal  Applied Animal Behaviour Science 180.(2016): 107-113. ScienceDirect. Web. 12 Feb. 2017.