Kelley 1 Jen Kelley Instructor Adam Carter English Composition II 14 March 2017 Persuading People for Cochlear Implants Some children are born deaf or hard of hearing; however, a quickly advancing technology has been created for them: cochlear implants. Cochlear implants are a device that allows a person to sense sound According to the Food and Drug Administration, there is currently 70,400 people in the U.S with cochlear implants (Duncan). Although thousands of people are implanted, controversy around them remains. Therefore, in order to to sway people toward cochlear implants, Alexander Graham Bell Association of the Deaf and Hard of Hearing (AG Bell) explores the use of the rhetorical appeals pathos, logos, ethos, and kairos in their advertisements and videos. Specifically, one advertisement and video are most representative of their views. On YouTube, a mother and son narrate their experience with cochlear implants. Furthermore, AG Bell has an image online with a mother and son smiling because the son can finally hear, thus exemplifying their views. Therefore, the use of rhetorical appeals in AG advertisements and their YouTube videos help them argue that cochlear implants are in the best interest for a child to have equal opportunities in society. AG Bell is a non-profit organization founded in the with the goal of enhancing listening and spoken language in children. The association was created by Alexander Graham Bell, who is well known for patenting the first telephone Life of Alexander Graham They strive to provide as many opportunities for people with hearing loss like a wider social group and opening up the job market for them. Along with this, they highlight the Kelley 2 importance of a child getting cochlear implants as soon as possible to increase the effectiveness of them Statement: Cochlear Today, the association is still going strong persuading parents who have children born with hearing loss to invest in cochlear implants for the abundance of benefits. The rhetorical appeal pathos orients the audience to feel certain emotions, and through facial expressions, body gestures, and real life stories, AG Bell accomplishes this. In one of their advertisements, a mother and son touch noses smiling. A smile indicates a bond, and in this image, the smile reveals happiness that the son can finally hear his mother speak. Then, the touching of foreheads and noses indicate hope and joy between the two. Furthermore, over the advertisement it says, my deaf son heard me call his name. He spoke the words love Although words are arbitrary, the words love paired with the smile and the touching signifies a bond between the mother, the son, and the audience. The image overall causes the audience to feel awe and and admiration for cochlear implants. In addition, the video has the similar effect of uplifting the mood. The mother in the video talks about how much more her son accomplished after getting cochlear implants, like participating in the spelling bee. At the end of the video the child says, just feels good, when facing what seems like such a big mountain, to have AG Bell stand with you and stand behind The standing behind you could signify that when the child feels like he or she may fall, AG Bell will be there to pick him or her up. Then the mountain is a metaphor for the battle of hearing loss. This makes the audience feel hope for children with hearing loss. Ultimately, AG use of pathos inspires the audience to learn more about the benefits of cochlear implants. Adding to the pathos appeals, to create a sense of immediacy and timeliness for early intervention, AG Bell uses the rhetorical appeal kairos in their video and advertisement. Over the Kelley 3 advertisement it says, my deaf son heard me call his The word signifies a feeling of acting now. Furthermore, in the video the mother says, was of the essence with the What she means by this is that speech and language are developed early on in childhood. One example of this is the results of a study done confirming that deaf children involved in an early intervention language program did just as well on language tests as hearing children (Moeller). Therefore, it marks AG values stated in their mission statement that early intervention is in the best interest for the child Statement: Cochlear By using kairos, AG Bell ultimately displays their view that if a parent act it will put the child at risk to falling behind. Along with this sense of immediacy, an audience must trust the information he or she is receiving when viewing advertisements and videos; therefore, the rhetorical appeal ethos serves this purpose. On the image it contains their website, which ends in This internet address ending is for non-profit organizations, which gives them more credibility Domain Another use of ethos is the name of the organization, which is displayed in both the video and the image. Alexander Graham Bell is an American icon. Not only did he patent the first telephone, but he also is the father of oralism (reading lips) in deaf education Graham Knowing he created the organization sways the audience to believe the information the organization provides. Lastly, the video uses a real life story told by a mother explaining her gratefulness for AG Bell. This makes the viewer believe in the power of cochlear implants because proof of what the cochlear implants can do. By having ethos incorporated into their images and videos, the audience is more inclined to trust the information. Finally, AG Bell uses logos to persuade the viewers in logical ways. For example, their video contains facts like, the U.S., more than 12,000 babies are born each year with hearing Kelley 4 Having specific numbers impresses upon the audience that the cochlear implant controversy is worth discussing, thus constructing a logical argument. Then, at the bottom of the image a link to their website is provided. Clicking the link allows the audience to access an abundance of facts, which also builds on the logos appeal. In addition, an emblem for the organization (the logo) is in both the video and the image. This appeals to logos because they cite certain authorities on the subject. AG Bell overall uses logos to highlight the prevalence of hearing loss and the route to overcome it. AG Bell wants all parents to consider getting cochlear implants for their child born deaf of hard of hearing; therefore, hitting all of the rhetorical appeals is an effective use of persuasion. A person misses out on many things without hearing like hearing a dog bark, identifying sounds in an environment, and hearing voices. Although there are technologies that are made specifically for this like phone amplifiers, the response effort to do anything is more difficult for people who communicate with the majority society. AG Bell wants parents to choose the correct path for their deaf or hard of hearing child, so they use emotional, logical, timely, and credible advertisements as acts of persuasion. Kelley 5 Works Cited Alexander Graham Bell and the Deaf Community: A Troubled  Rooted in Rights. Web. 14 Mar. 2017. Duncan, Jill. Parental Readiness for Cochlear Implant  Cochlear Implants International 10.S1 (2009): 38-42. Web. The Life of Alexander Graham  The Life of Alexander Graham Bell AG Bell Listening and Spoken Language. Web. 28 Feb. 2017. Moeller. Early Intervention Improves Language in Deaf  Brown University Child & Adolescent Behavior Letter 16.10 (2000). Web. 28 Feb. 2017. Position Statement: Cochlear Implants in  Position Statement: Cochlear Implants in Children AG Bell Listening and Spoken Language. Web. 28 Feb. 2017.  YouTube. YouTube, 06 Oct. 2016. Web. 28 Feb. 2017. Understanding Domain  LEARN THE NET: Understanding Domain Names. Web. 28 Feb. 2017. Kelley 6 Kelley 7