Gardner 1 Ryan Gardner ENC1102 Adam Carter 26 February 2017 The Innocence Project. The most severe form of punishment a criminal can have is called capital punishment. Capital punishment is the legal killing of someone as punishment for a crime. Many people believe the death penalty is good for society by properly punishing criminals and deterring crime, but one such group thinks otherwise. The Innocence Project is a non-profit, organization who focuses of helping and exonerating falsely convicted people and the previously executed. The Innocence Project uses DNA to help save criminals, and to fix and change issues within the legal system. Using a series of ads, The Innocence Project spreads facts and warnings about the many issues and biases within our legal system. The Innocence Projects uses their ads to impact the readers with the rhetoric values logos, pathos, ethos and Kairos through the uses of different colors, pictures and facts. The Innocence Project is a non-profit organization that was founded in 1992. The purpose of The Innocence Project is to exonerate the wrongly convicted through DNA testing and also reforming the criminal justice system to prevent future mistakes (innocenceproject.org). The death penalty has been detested for a number of reasons. The death penalty has been shown to be racially biased against African Americans, meaning African Americans are more likely to see the death penalty as opposed to life in prison compared to Gardner 2 white men (The Case Against the Death Penalty). Many also question if the death penalty even deters crime. According to ACLU, the death penalty does not deter crime because it is not frequently administered, and murders generally commit their crime too quickly to think about the consequences. The Innocence Project is one of the largest organizations against the death penalty, they use DNA testing to help save innocent people convicted, and reform the errors within the criminal justice system. When somebody uses the rhetoric value logos, they are appealing to their audience using logic, or reason. The Innocence Project portrays logos through numerous facts. Their first ad uses the startling fact that percent of all prisoners in the U.S. are presumed They use this ad to enlighten the audience on how common errors are in the justice system, and how easy it is for one to be falsely convicted. The second ad uses a more straight forward fact, that innocent people are falsely incarcerated every day. This fact is brief, and may not be an impactful as the first ads is, but it is a lot shorter and easier for the audience to remember. Chances are, a reader be able to remember the full statistic on their first ad, but the second ad is short and memorable and will possibly stay with the reader longer. The Innocence Project uses logos in their ads by incorporating facts. The rhetoric appeal pathos, targets the emotions and feelings and The Innocence Project uses this appeal to create a sense of fear and anxiety in the audience. According to the color wheel, red is the color of fire and blood and is associated with war and danger (color-wheel-pro.com). Red is seen as an indication of danger, like warning sign or a Gardner 3 stoplight. The usage of red in these ads attracts the attention because of its connection to these warnings. The red in these ads can be seen as warnings about the dangers of the justice system and therefore evoke the same feelings. Both ads use the same color scheme, red and black. The bright red in combination with the threatening sentence people like you are incarcerated every is an attempt to bring out a sense of anxiousness and fear. The audience should be afraid of the possibility of being falsely incarnated because there is potential for it to happen to anyone. The second ad also uses an image of a police lineup, where four men are staring directly at the reader. Based on their posture they appear like they are looking down on the reader and seem very impatient. The audience could interpret this as if the men are waiting for them to donate and to help them out. The first ad shows an image of a bunch of figures standing in rows. Five of them are dark red and the rest are colored white. The five dark red people represent the five percent of innocent people found in jail, and the colors could represent a sense of anger or urgency that these innocent people feel. The Innocence Project uses pathos to initiate an emotional response from the audience in an attempt to convey their message. The rhetorical appeal ethos is also displayed in these ads. Ethos is used to convince the audience that the author is credible, and professional. The first ad accomplishes this by stating that they are a litigation and public policy By doing this, The Innocence Project is assuring the audience that they are a professional legal group, and they are non-profit Gardner 4 so therefore trust worthy. Because The Innocence Project is non-profit, it shows that have no personal gain in helping people and are committed to helping people for the sake of being good and helping the wrongly convicted. The second ad actually has issues with ethos in that it seems very unprofessional. The font is very basic and unprofessional, and discredits the ad. They also include three exclamation points in their main quote. This also makes the ad look very unprofessional and childish. Overall this ad resembles a high school project instead of a professional ad about saving falsely convicted people. The Innocence Project uses, and struggles with ethos. They discuss about what type of company they are in order to get trust, but ultimately struggle with professionalism in their designs losing credibility. Timeliness is used in ads as a call to action, or to tell the audience to do something. This is also called Kairos and is very common tactic in ads. Although my first ad use this tactic, my second ad has a very clear call to action. The second ad tell the audience to support them today, and has the word donate in large, red font in the middle of the ad. While my first ad is used to inform the audience of their cause, this ad is used to urge the audience to support them in order to save lives. The Innocence Project is a non-profit, organization that uses DNA to exonerate wrongly convicted, and to fix errors within the criminal justice system. With the usage of ads, the Innocence Projects spreads facts and warning about the errors within the criminal justice system. Using the four rhetoric values, logos, pathos, ethos and Kairos, the Innocence Project spreads their message and impacts readers. Work Cited: 1. Color Wheel Pro - See Color Theory in  Color Wheel Pro: Color Meaning. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Feb. 2017. 2. Us Put an End to Wrongful  Innocence Project. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. 3. The Case Against the Death  American Civil Liberties Union. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Feb. 2017.