Lastorino 1 Daniel Lastorino Adam Carter ENC1102 14 March 2017 Visual Appeals to Encourage Alternative Ideas In an era of rapid diffusion through technology, it is considerably easier to share or reproduce media than it once was. This is what copyright laws intend to monitor. While some see no issue with the current policies in effect, a nonprofit organization called QuestionCopyright.org (QC) aims to do exactly what their name states: get other people to become skeptical about current copyright laws. While there are numerous methods of persuasion one can utilize, visual appeal through photographs, symbols, or pictures is oftentimes effective. website consists of blog posts, many of which have images to go along with them. However, two specific images have been selected for discussion, as they best represent the ideologies. Through the use of ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos, the two images collectively aim to evoke negative attitudes toward current copyright policies, as well as input alternative ideas for the spread of information. QC utilizes ethos, or an appeal to credibility, in both of the selected images to establish the power of both copyright laws and the parties involved. In the first image, a very large copyright symbol is inserted. This is immediately recognizable by most individuals as a legal character, and the insertion of it may make one consider the laws which it relates to. Alternatively, the image can be seen as a subversion to authority. The copyright symbol is attributed to the rotting environment it is looming over, an unfavorable situation to most all. Lastorino 2 Therefore, the viewer is encouraged to avoid the policies, rather than abide them. In the second image, the reference to the power of copyright is also present, in that it is clearly based off of the original copyright symbol. However, it also references other significant parties in the process: and Inserting these two groups may aim to make the viewer consider what higher figures he or she can affect by sharing a given work. All in all, the two images present the copyright symbol to remind the audience of the power behind these laws, as well as reminding the audience of what groups own the rights to exercise these laws. Pathos, or the appeal to emotion within the audience, is displayed in order to establish feelings of worry toward current copyright policies. The first image paints a pond of decaying wildlife, with, as aforementioned, a copyright symbol emerging overhead. There are numerous attitudes associated with death and decay, but none of them are positive. This leads one to consider that image intends to have the audience feel poorly about copyright in general. In addition to this, the image is only shown with dull colors. This is likely intentional, as QC wants to set a more grim tone to the picture, which lackluster colors are commonly associated with. The second image, on the other hand, is displayed with no color at all, and is typed out in a clean font. This does not evoke emotion as strong as the first image does, however, one may take the content with a more serious demeanor than they would if it were done in color and a less formal font. Both images selected seek to make the audience regard copyright laws as being in poor taste, as well as make the situation something they should consider sternly. Logos is arguably the strongest device implemented in both images in that both attempt to make the viewer skeptical of current copyright policies. The first image inserts a metaphor for the viewer to follow. The decaying pond previously discussed is implied to be the result of the Lastorino 3 copyright symbol which looms overhead. This causes the audience look at copyright as a aspect of creative works. Many people currently argue in support of this metaphor, such as Eva Subotnik. In her analyses of copyright laws, she explains that while current laws are easy to enforce by large media companies, the average small content creator will stand no chance at utilizing them, and it will only cost them in the end (Subotnik 379). This adequately aligns with the metaphor pictured in the first image, that copyright will actually cause more harm than good in many instances. Furthermore, the image is drawn in a simple cartoon style, making the analogy easier to follow. The second image also poses a strong amount of logical appeal through its detail, which contrasts the usual copyright symbol. The symbol created by QC very clearly states its intentions for use by explaining support the This makes the idea behind using it more favorable than the original copyright symbol. The goal of this image is to propose to the audience an alternative to the unjust copyright laws currently in use. The ambiguity of current copyright laws is reaffirmed in an article by Joseph Fishman. According to him, one of the drawbacks to copyright constraints as they currently are is their unclear limitations (Fishman 1400). This is a further testament to the reasoning one will follow when looking at the second image. In both images, QC conveys that copyright laws are vague as well as hindrances to creative intellect. QC views copyright laws as that which need a significant overhaul, and the use of kairos is present in the first image to convey the urgency of this fix. Any display of death or loss of life generally causes immediate concern. In this image, it intends to motivate the viewer to act now rather than later, so that more creative flow is not killed by copyright. While this strategy of appeal is not as prominent as logos or pathos, it still sufficient in encouraging the audience to act Lastorino 4 in a prompt manner. The second image, however, fails to display any sense of timeliness for the audience. There are no phrases or actions which signal one to want to act at a given time, and for that reason, kairos seems to be the weakest of the rhetorical appeals within images. Copyright is a serious matter to QC, however it may be difficult to translate the imminence of this to a common viewer. QC is a nonprofit organization which was created in 2007. As stated on their website, they are dedicated to the range of acceptable public debate about copyright, and to reframing the way people -- especially artists and those who work with them -- think about QuestionCopyright.org). In other words, they seek to make consumers, but even more so content creators, rethink the laws which they feel they must abide. The organization supports the idea of freedom-based distribution, rather than monopolies which harshly control how one can reproduce or spread content. Using ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos in the selected images from their website further solidifies these ideologies. Through visual rhetoric, the organization seems hopeful that they will evoke their audience to advocate for change in one way or another. Their main priority is to maximize creative diffusion in society. viewpoint is not heavily discussed, as it is much easier for content creators and artists to simply abide to the current laws and not question them. However, the group holds a passion for an open-culture method of spreading media, as they feel it will maximize creativity. The images utilized in their blog posts further impart their message through visual rhetorical elements. QC wants their audience to consider alternatives to the current copyright policies, which they present as a detriment to artistry. Lastorino 5 Lastorino 6 Lastorino 7 Works Cited Fishman, Joseph P. Creating around  Law Review , vol. 128, no. 5, Mar. 2015, pp. 1333-1404. Subotnik, Eva E. Copyright Policy and the Problem of  Journal of Law & the Arts , vol. 38, no. 3, Jul. 2015, pp. 375-379. About  . N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Feb. 2017.