Zeinelabdin 1 Suha Zeinelabdin Mr. Carter ENC 1102 28 February 2017 Rhetorical Devices in Corporal Punishment Discipline is an essential part of a development. Children learn culturally acceptable behaviors and how to control their actions through discipline. However, physical punishment has shown to be correlated with increased aggression in children (Straus and Stewart 68). Despite a immediate compliance after being spanked, corporal punishment may have harmful effects on the child in the long run. United Nations Fund (UNICEF), a non- profit organization, strives to end all forms of violence, including corporal punishment, for all children. To persuade their audience against the use of corporal punishment, the organization uses rhetorical strategies throughout the images that they advertise. UNICEF believes that physical punishment is a of and is an ineffective way of disciplining children (UNICEF). UNICEF focuses on protecting the rights of every woman and child, which is why they campaigned for the #ENDviolence movement. They have created several pictures that contain this slogan, however there are two specific images that effectively promote their campaign. UNICEF uses the rhetorical appeals- ethos, logos, pathos, and kairos for their visual rhetoric. To help raise awareness of the possible detrimental effects of physical punishment on children, UNICEF uses rhetorical appeals in their images to advertise the #ENDviolence movement. Organizations like UNICEF often view corporal punishment as a form of child abuse, which is one of the reasons why they are against its use. UNICEF was developed in 1946 by the Zeinelabdin 2 United Nations after World War II. Since many children were suffering from disease and famine after the war, UNICEF decided to supply food, clothes, and heath care to children in need. For 70 years, the organization has continued to fight for rights, making sure they have basic necessities including shelter and education. The organization is by the Convention on the Rights of the Child and strives to establish rights as enduring ethical principles and international standards of behavior towards (UNICEF). was created with a distinct purpose in mind: to work with others to overcome the obstacles that poverty, violence, disease and discrimination place in a Using visual rhetoric allows them to convey their message to public viewers. One of the rhetorical appeals used in the images is ethos. In order to appeal to credibility, UNICEF has placed their logo on the bottom right hand corner in both of the images. This allows for the viewer to explore their website and find that they are a non-profit organization. If people trust in mission, then they are willing to donate to the organization to help them carry out public services. Another example of ethos used in the images is the hashtag symbol in front of the phrase This can be seen on the bottom left hand corner on each of the pictures. This gives the audience the opportunity to search up their campaign on social media, such as Twitter. Having a social media account increases the reputation, which allows for wide-spread of support. Furthermore, UNICEF uses celebrity endorsements to further establish trust between the viewer and the organization. UNICEF uses David Beckham, a famous soccer player, to help promote their cause. Although he is not included in the images below, he can be seen on their website and on their Twitter account. These factors give the organization a sense of trustworthiness and support towards their goal. Zeinelabdin 3 Backing up their claims with research is an important part of organization. To emphasize the importance of evidence, UNICEF incorporates logos into their pictures. The first image states out of 10 children globally are subjected to physical Also, the second image states out of 5 children aged 2 to 14 are subjected to some kind of violent discipline in their Since both pictures provide the audience with statistics, they are more likely to believe argument to stop the use of corporal punishment. The numbers are not spelled out and the words are in different font sizes, making the pictures more appealing to the eye. Therefore, using logos in both of their images strengthens argument and persuades the audience into going against physical punishment. To evoke a personal connection between the viewer and their campaign, UNICEF uses pathos in both images. In the first picture, there is a boy with marks on his skin as a result of physical punishment. This causes the audience to feel strong emotions towards the child. People may feel upset or even angry at what has happened to the young boy. Making the audience feel sympathetic towards the image may cause them to agree that physical punishment is a form of abuse, and should therefore, end. Moreover, the blue colors in both images create a saddening feel towards the children. Blue is generally for both calm and expressions (Dael et al.). The white colors used for the words may represent the absence of warmth. This shows that corporal punishment takes away the love and warmth between parent and child. Image two shows a boy alone, holding his leg. Perhaps this means that violent discipline causes a child to feel isolated and creates separation between a child and their parents. Orange-colored words may indicate mild aggression, rather than warmth. It may also encompass mild forms of discipline and categorize them as violent discipline. Furthermore, the background in the second image is not as blurry as the background of the first image. This indicates that the background is just as Zeinelabdin 4 important as the boy in the foreground. There is graffiti writing on the walls, which shows that the boy may live in an impoverished neighborhood. UNICEF maybe trying to imply that violent discipline can be just as unpleasant as the graffiti writing to a child. The graffiti can also represent the confused mind of a child that experiences physical punishment. The lack of shoes and socks on the dirty feet shows that he comes from a low-income family. Essentially, UNICEF possibly wants to show that violent discipline is prominent in places where families receive low-income. Pathos is used in a variety of ways throughout both pictures to make the audience feel negatively toward the use of corporal punishment. Physical punishment is still widely used as a form of discipline in several family households today. It is ideal that UNICEF would use kairos so that their audience acts now upon the issue. The phrase on the bottom left hand corner in both pictures suggests that UNICEF wants the viewer to start fighting against corporal punishment immediately. The word is capitalized, stressing the importance of taking immediate action on this large controversial issue. UNICEF believes that corporal punishment be prevented and it is critical to act now to create safe environments for children which allow them to grow up free from (Bissell). To sway their audience into believing in the negative effects of using physical punishment, UNICEF has created a campaign called #ENDviolence. The rhetorical appeals used in their images to persuade their audience include, ethos, logos, pathos, and kairos. All of which strengthen their argument and allow them to fulfill their mission in a fight against the use of corporal punishment. UNICEF considers the potential harmful effects of spanking, which is why they oppose its use. Countless parents believe in corporal punishment being an effective mode of discipline due to the lack of knowledge of alternate disciplinary methods. It is Zeinelabdin 5 mission to end the use of corporal punishment on children, for it is a form of violence and a violation of rights. Zeinelabdin 6 Works Cited Bissell, Susan. A Slap: Child Discipline or Child  UNICEF Connect. N.p., 13 Feb. 2015. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. But Hidden under the Eyes of All: New UNICEF Report on Child  Unicef. UNICEF, 4 Sept. 2014. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Dael, Nele, Marie-Noelle Perseguers, Cynthia Marchand, Jean-Philippe Antonietti, and Christine Mohr. Put on That Colour, It Fits Your Emotion: Colour Appropriateness as a Function of Expressed  The Quarterly Journal of Experimental Psychology 69.8 (2015): 1619-630. Web. 28 Feb. 2017. Smith, Delores E., and Gail Mosby. Jamaican Child-rearing Practices: The Role of Corporal  Adolescence 38. (2003): 369-81. Web. 28 Feb. 2017. Straus, Murray A., and Julie H. Stewart. Corporal Punishment by American Parents: National Data on Prevalence, Chronicity, Severity, and Duration, in Relation to Child and Family  Clinical Child and Family Psychology Review 2.1 (1999): 55-69. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. UNICEF  Home UNICEF. UNICEF, 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Zeinelabdin 7 Image 1: Image 2: