ENC1102 Carter Zhang Rhetoric in the images The most men and women between teens to elderly with pursue fashion life all want to have a fur clothing. But do you know the cruel truth behind the fur clothing? Every fur is a suffering life. As we all know, the most fur clothes are from Fox, rabbit, mink, etc. In order to resist the cold, the fur is a natural part of the animal body, but now it has become a lot of  fashion celebrity luxury. Because these animals have warm, soft, beautiful fur, people are willing to spend money to get a fur cloth. Then every day the countless animals are killed and skinned. A stakeholder knows as People for the Ethical Treatment of , the purpose of this organization is to reduce the killing of animals. So they did many things to appeal to everyone to stop using leather or fur clothing. They create many picture and website through the use of the rhetorical appeals, ethos, pathos, logos, and Kairos, they try to arouse natural awareness and call people to refuse leather or fur clothing. There are two images from PETA, the first image put skinned animals and a woman with fur cloth together. It also shows a large number of fur animals be killed every year. In addition, it has a text the  to told people that human already consumes too many lives. then look at the second picture, animals also have families, that means when people killed one million animals, in fact far more animals will suffer the consequences. Pathos is a very common rhetorical technique. It usually used to appeal to emotions of the audience, and to guiding their potential opinion. In the first picture, there is so many skinned animals and a woman with a fur coat. The creator put these two things together, the audience never thinks that coat is just a coat. In the life, people know that fur coat is made by animals, but most of the people may ignore that fact because of the gorgeous appearance of a fur coat. After viewing this picture, people must have a thought of the cruel scene, these skinned, small animal are the rest of fur coat. The first picture uses blood as a great shock to the audience, the second picture is used to appeal to compassion on animals. The second image shows a scene that a raccoon looks at the coat. And the text describes its inner world, its family became a part of the coat, that probably have the strong expression. Compare to first one, it has the dark color and more sadness. Creator use light make the scene looks like an open place, and there is only one raccoon in the picture. The audience may generate a feeling of loneliness, sadness. And it also called the coat blood fashion. Ethos establishes credibility among the audience. It is useful at a successful persuasion. In the first picture, it have any person or organization, so it strengthen its persuasiveness in ethos part. In the second picture, the creator put the organization name and their icon on top left corner. That means they use their credibility for this picture, although audience may know them. So that the second one is more credible than the first one. If the audience wants to know more about this picture, they could search the organization. In addition, for most people, the image looks more credible if it has organization logo or name, The presence of ethos within these images allows the viewers to trust the organization, as well as gives them the opportunity to look further into the credibility. Logos is the logic behind an argument. In the first picture, it text the and it including skinned animals and a fur cloth, that looks logic in there. When it wants to persuade people, it must follow the common logic. People know fur coat had cost many fur-bearing animals, but that was just a thought, most of the people never thought of how these animals suffering in real life. The advertisement follows thought and uses real image relate the cost. These dead animals have a strong visual impact and look very easy to understand. The second image is also logical. It provides the phrase I need my family more than you need a , that is the view of a raccoon. Everyone understand that family is far more important than a coat. The raccoon looked at the coat, that make the audience to think that the coat is made by another raccoon, after that, this raccoon lost his family. All people have family in the world, so when the audience saw this advertisement, they may relate family and coat. If one day they want to buy a coat, they probably choose a furless coat because they know fur coat is destroying other families. The image creator hopes people stop buy a fur coat, and his image guide people to refuse fur logically. Designers guide the audience to understand and appreciate the relationship between fur and human beings, try to from the treat life point of view, refused to use fur to create fashion, to convey the moral and cultural connotation. Fur clothing usually occurred in a fashion show, and many of clothing store have sold fur clothing in many years. since ancient time, human used fur as clothing. But now, there is a huge number of population in the world, and people cost more fur. For example, than half the fur in the US comes from China, where millions of dogs and cats are bludgeoned, hanged, bled to death, and often skinned alive for their Fur Animals on fur farms spend their entire lives confined to cramped, filthy wire cages. In addition, many furs are from wild animals. If people stop buying fur clothing, tens of millions of animals will not suffer from skinned. These two images or advertisements is help people to understand using fur is a cruel thing. From another article, The fur trade is one of the cruelest industries in the world and in the age of the internet there is NO excuse for wearing anticoalition). The International Anti- Fur Coalition is an animal right movement. Animals are also residents of our planet. People mass killing of other earth life. These images are persuading people by rhetorical appeals, logos, ethos, pathos, and Kairos. They all impact thought and effectively stop people wearing fur. Image 1: Image 2: Work cited: Fur n.d. PETA. Web. 2/25. available from: http://www.peta.org/issues/animals-used-for-clothing/fur/ No title, n.d. Antifurcoalition. Web. 2/25. Available from: https://www.antifurcoalition.org/ Image 1, 2014, July 12, web. 2017/2/25, Available from https://www.pinterest.com/pin/319826011013542176/ Image 2, n.d. international antifur coalition web. 2017/2/25, Available from https://www.antifurcoalition.org/