Macatol 1 Zyrylou M. Macatol Adam Carter ENC 1102 28 February 2017 The Fight Towards Loving Your Body This day of age; social media has captured a large influence on modern culture. This generation has grown up in an environment where technology only rapidly becomes more advanced. Consequently, the up-rise of the influence of technology in modern culture also comes the up-rise of the influence of social media. It is now as easy as clicking the share button in order to release your media to the entire world. Certain social media platforms that have gained a large influence allow people to be able to share whatever media they desire and in turn gain influence through this process of sharing. As more and more people gain a large following using these social media platforms, it becomes more difficult to gain this desired following, others will go through greater obstacles to attain it. People will resort to altering their images until they no longer appear as they do in person and they will utilize techniques that will allow for them to edit the image in a way that will depict them in a way that is not even realistic. Women are being influenced to believe that they must appear like the people on these social media platforms whom are depicted as desirable because they have gained fame. It plants the idea in women that if these famous people are happy and beautiful then there is no reason that they should not possess these qualities as well. The way people appear on social media is not always realistic and if one strives to appear as something that is not even real then they will never reach their goal. This is where advertisements come into play. Dove wants Macatol 2 to teach young women that is not defined by shape, size or color feeling like the best version of yourself. Authentic. Unique. Dove is trying to teach women and younger generation that they should love their bodies the way that they are without retouching or any other form of editing. Dove explicitly says that, unlike other companies that release advertisements of women that have minimal body fat and appear almost doll-like, image you features women cast from real life. A real life version of Dove has released several campaigns depicting happy women who are proud of their bodies despite not appearing perfect and stick thin as is usually depicted on popular social media profiles. I will use two images released by Dove that use rhetorical appeals to achieve their goals and their mission statement. The advertisements I included use pathos, ethos, logos, and kairos to both endorse their product and to spread their mission; to show young women that what they have is enough and they can be happy in their own skin. Both images use Pathos by evoking happiness and work towards making women feel comfortable with what they already have so that they do not need to obtain anything else in order to be happy. Both images evoke this emotion in different ways. Image 1 depicts a mother kissing her daughter on the cheek as her daughter is smiling towards the camera.The smiling daughter, vibrant colors, hearts, flowers, shiny baubles, and stickers all lend to the sense of happiness that the image evokes as well as a sense of youth. These entities are usually associated with youth and happiness. It can be gathered that the mother and the daughter have a close relationship as shown by their hugging, kissing, and close proximity to one another. The daughter gains a sense of happiness in result of this interaction and she expresses it to the camera. It is apparent that the mother loves her Macatol 3 daughter and the daughter loves her mother. This relationship also adds to the happiness that the image evokes because both they are both being kind to one another. In a study conducted by researchers at Harvard Business School and the University of British Columbia, it was found that being kind can evoke happiness and vice versa. As well as youth and happiness, the image also evokes an attachment to the young girl. The image gives you her name; Isley, and knowing ones name is a form of attachment to that person. The attachment that is evoked lends to the happiness of the image because if one is attached, then they are more likely to empathize with that person that they are attached to. Her happiness will evoke a greater sense of happiness in whoever is attached to her. Dove uses similar tactics in image 2. The women are smiling and they are all close in proximity as well. The proximity to one another as well as one of them touching derriere evokes friendship and comfort between the women as they are all comfortable with one another and their bodies. It is apparent that they are comfortable with their bodies because they are all open towards the camera and their feet are pointed directly at the camera as well. Their smiling evokes happiness because seeing another person smile can make one happy as well as shown by a study conducted at Harvard University and the University of California, San Diego. The mass of this picture is white, signifying purity. Dove teaches women that they should love their pure and real selves and the emotion that the color of the image evokes lends to their mission. Ethos is used in image 2 as the words state that this product was This gives credibility to the product because it is stated that it has been used before so that it is safe to assume that it will do its job. This use of the rhetorical appeal ethos helps endorse their cleansing products and spread their mission statement. Macatol 4 Both images use logos to reach a common goal as well. In image 1 it is clear that the mother loves her daughter and loves her naturally spiraled In advertisements; hair is usually depicted as straight and clean but this is not what is presented in the image. Many women are insecure about having characteristics that are not typically seen as beautiful; such as having spiraled It evokes logic because if one person can love something about them-self that is not typically depicted as beautiful, then everyone should feel that way about that same characteristic. In this situation, women that have spiraled hair that are not proud to have that will see the ad and love their hair because the little girl and her mother loves her hair. The girl has no reason to be insecure about her hair because she is happy and her mother is happy. Similarly in image 2, all of the women are happy and content so there is no reason for them to be insecure because they do not have the body that is always depicted on typical advertisements. Logos is also used in both images as the Dove logo appears in both images. use of logos does well to endorse their mission statement and help women feel beautiful with their real selves. Kairos is utilized in image 2 as it states that the product is When things are new, there is a rush to get them because once time passes by and more people have the product, it will no longer be deemed as The phrase evokes a sense of timeliness in oneself and prompts people to rush and get this product before it is no longer new. Typically people have a desire to have something that is because it differentiates them from others as they have something that others do not. This desire is being exploited in ad to lend to their goal of selling their product and spreading their mission statement. Macatol 5 The common goal of both images is to show women that it is ok to feel beautiful in your own skin. This aligns perfectly with their mission statement and their message is well received because of the rhetorical appeals that they used.They call upon a great amount of Pathos in order to reach their goal as their goal is one that evokes a great amount of emotion in many women in this generation. Along with Pathos, Dove also utilizes ethos, logos, and kairos to reach their desired goal. Macatol 6 Works cited Welcome to  Dove US. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Feb. 2017. Aknin, Lara B., Elizabeth W. Dunn, and Michael I. Norton. Happiness Runs in a Circular Motion: Evidence for a Positive Feedback Loop between Prosocial Spending and  SpringerLink. Springer Netherlands, 24 Apr. 2011. Web. 28 Feb. 2017. Aubrey, Allison. A Study To Smile About: Happiness Is  NPR. NPR, 05 Dec. 2008. Web. 28 Feb. Macatol 7 Dove  Dove US. N.p., n.d. Web. 14 Mar. 2017. Macatol 8 Dove  Dove US. N.p., n.d. Web. 14 Mar. 2017.