H o w a r d 1 Savanna Howard Madeline Gottlieb ENC 1102 9 March 2017 How to Combat Animal Cruelty Animal cruelty is when someone hurts an animal or does not care for an animal responsibly. An animal is abused about every 10 seconds in this country. The shocking number of animal cruelty cases reported every day is just the beginning; most cases are never even reported. The Humane Society of the United States is a main stakeholder in the fight against all forms of animal cruelty. These methods of cruelty include but are not limited to; puppy mills, animal fighting, factory farming, seal slaughter, horse cruelty, and captive hunts. What can the world as individuals and a whole do to stop these injustices? The Humane Society of the United States is the largest and most effective animal protection organization. Based in Washington, D.C., as an American nonprofit organization founded by journalist Fred Myers and Helen Jones, Larry Andrews, and Marcia Glaser in 1954,. Their mission was to resolve animal welfare problems by applying strategies beyond the resources or abilities of local organizations. They decided to create a new kind of animal organization, based in the capital, to confront national cruelties beyond the reach of local societies and state federations. The HSUS pursues its global work through an affiliate, Humane Society International, which lists staff members in approximately 17 nations. The HSUS and their affiliates provide care and services to more than 100,000 animals each year, and we professionalize the field through education and training for local (HSUS). Many representatives expressed their beliefs that animals were entitled to humane treatment and to equal and fair (HSUS). A motto was written for the Humane Society of the United States and describes the true purpose of the organization and what it can bring for animals of all kinds. HSUS is the largest animal rights non- profit organization. They fight to bring about legislative change for animals, and expose those who break animal welfare laws, as well as campaigning to raise public awareness of the issues. Meatless Monday, a campaign the HSUS is a part of, is a global initiative which has helped to raise consciousness of animal abuse in society and reduce meat consumption at the same (Greer HSUS). The Humane Society celebrates animals and confronts cruelty for all animals, not just dogs and cats. They take on some of the biggest transformational fights and to stop large-scale cruelties, such as animal fighting, puppy mills, factory farming, and the wildlife trade. They strive to pass anti-cruelty laws in every nation, extreme confinement of farm animals in cages, stop cosmetic testing on animals, halt cruelty to wildlife, and transform the landscape for pets in H o w a r d 2 poverty? (HSUS). The HSUS does not run local shelters or oversee local animal care and control agencies; it promotes best practices and supports such entities throughout the country with a range of services. The most important goal is to prevent animals from getting into situations of distress in the first place. They confront the largest national and international problems facing animals, which local shelters have the resources to take on Animal cruelty is both the unintentional and intentional infliction of suffering or harm upon any animal, regardless of whether the act is against the law. Conviction statistics lead some professionals to think that people convicted for animal cruelty are more likely to be violent to humans, leading experts to believe that decreasing animal abuse will, in turn, decrease domestic violence. In fact about of domestic violence victims report that their abuser also targeted their animal Neglect and abandonment are the most common of these forms of companion animal abuse in the United States. Sometimes these acts of abuse are simply that people do not understand that what one does to an animal is causing the animal pain. Other times, people that have been abused will be cruel to animals because some individuals think that is the only way to treat others. The worst cruelty situations however, are when people hurt animals knowing that it hurts the animal, and do it to cause the animal pain. It is hard to say why someone would do this, but often one sees the animals as objects instead of creatures with feelings. These innocent animals can also be harmed for our enjoyment without us even knowing. Today we see animal cruelty on a larger scale and a larger map. Animal cruelty has long been an issue with the uprising of filmmaking, with even some big-budget Hollywood films receiving criticism for allegedly sometimes of animals during production. Also the use of animals in the circus has been a controversial topic since animal welfare groups had documented instances of animal cruelty during the training and performing of animals. Using animals as entertainment means animals from their natural habitat, keeping them confined in cages, and engaging them in unnatural behavior, all for human (Do something). These are all acts of violence towards living beings and should not be tolerated. Every year Humane Societies care for than 23,000 companion animals in need and helps thousands more through programs for people and but still 4 to 5 million animals die in shelters every year (Animal Humane Society). The Humane Society is however an independent nonprofit organization, not a branch of any national animal welfare organization or part of any government agency. Our work is funded solely by private donations, adoption and program fees, merchandise sales, and special events. Every donation, helping hand, kind word and smile can make a big difference in the care of an animal. Everyone has to help animals in these situations whenever possible because they help themselves. If one should ever find themselves in this horrific situation there are a few steps to follow. First things first, never try to stop a person hurting an animal by yourself or try to help an animal who is hurt. Even though both situations can be upsetting, they can put you in a dangerous situation. Second, find help from someone like your mom, dad, teacher, or trusted neighbor. Tell them what you saw and together, find help. If you witness animal abuse call 911 because it is an emergency. If you notice an animal not being cared for properly one should call animal control as soon as possible. H o w a r d 3 If you see an animal being hurt, remember that you can help speak up for that animal (Animal Cruelty). Help make the world a more humane place for animals. There is an alarming rate of animal cruelty all around the world. The Humane Society of the United States is making it one of their main goals to battle these hardships and save lives. These animals are living horrible, scared lives that sometimes end way too soon. All the people of this nation can do something to help keep these animals out of way. It is necessary that these wrongs get righted today. H o w a r d 4 Works Cited Facts About Animals in Dosomething, n.d. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. <https://www.dosomething.org/us/facts/11-facts-about-animals-entertainment>. About Animal Humane  Animal Humane Society. N.p., n.d. Web. 9 Apr. 2017. <https://www.animalhumanesociety.org/about/about-animal-humane-society>. About  The Humane Society. N.p., n.d. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. Animal  PAWS <3 kids. Capitol Media, 2017. Web. 7 Apr. 2017. <https://www.paws.org/kids/learn/animal-cruelty/>. Rosenthal, Cathy M. An animal is abused every 10 seconds in this  ANIMALS MATTER. N.p., 24 Apr. 2009. Web. 5 Apr. 2017. <http://blog.mysanantonio.com/animals/2009/04/an-animal-is- abused-every-10-seconds-in-this-country/>.