Running head: BENEFITS OF GMO 1 Project 2: Benefits of GMO on health Smirnou Stanislau University of South Florida BENEFITS OF GMO 2 Outline I. Introduction Developments in biology allowed scientists to modify genomes of organisms and that made possible potential improvement of food sources, human pathogens, and other organisms to benefit human health. While genetically modified organisms (GMOs) were shown to be beneficial for human health before the year 2010, due to the advances of science, more researches showed a wider application of GMOs for the improvement of human health. II. Early research 1. the Provitamin A Biosynthetic Pathway into (Carotenoid- Free) Rice by Ye and colleagues. A. Increasing concentration of provitamine A by the genetic modification (GM) of rice prevents vitamin A deficiency (VAD) blindness. B. Authors explain their point by saying that delivery of vitamin A is problematic, mainly due to the lack of infrastructure, so alternatives are urgently required. Success might be found in supplementation of a major staple food, rice, with provitamin A. Because no rice cultivars produce this provitamin in the endosperm, recombination technologies rather than conventional breeding are 2. therapy for by Murphy and High. A. Genetic engineering of viruses can become a potential treatment of genetic disorders such as hemophilia B. B. Authors summarized the trial of research by saying: therapy for scientists described the first clinical trial of hemophilia treatment with GM viruses. To illustrate results of the trial researchers stated: most recent clinical trial for the treatment of BENEFITS OF GMO 3 haemophilia B with gene transfer showed transient achievement of efficacy in the highest dose cohort tested, but also exposed a previously hidden barrier to the future success of these Transition: Comparing articles published before and after 2010, focus of later research shifted on genetic modification of pathogens that have a negative effect on human health instead of genetic modification of plants. III. Later research 1. of therapeutically modified bacteria into gut microbiota inhibits by Zhongyi and colleagues. A. GM bacteria can be used for the treatment of obesity. B. Researchers summarized results of the study by saying: the 8-week treatment period, mice gained less body weight and accumulated less fat mass compared with control mice. Consistent with their reduced adiposity, pNAPE-EcN mice also had lower plasma leptin and insulin 2. viruses: a new class ofimmunotherapy by Kaufman and colleagues. A. Genetically modified viruses can treat highly malignant cancer. B. Authors summarized results of their study by stating: recent randomized Phase III clinical trial demonstrated an improved durable response rate for patients with advanced melanoma who were treated with a modified herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1), encoding colony-stimulating factor IV. Conclusion BENEFITS OF GMO 4 Project 2: Benefits of GMO on health With recent advancements of bioengineering techniques, methods of artificial selection can no longer compete to be the primary instrument in the hands of bioengineers. Nowadays, scientists can convert years of artificial selection into weeks or even days of biological manipulations with genomes to get a desired trait of an organism. Developments in biology allowed scientists to modify genomes of organisms and that made possible potential improvement of food sources, modification of human pathogens, and other organisms to benefit human health. While genetically modified organisms (GMOs) were shown to be beneficial for human health before the year 2010, due to the advances of science, more researches showed a wider application of GMOs for the improvement of human health. Therefore, the two time periods (2000-2010 / 2011-2017) can be compared to show the change in the research focus from modification of food sources to engineering of human pathogens. During the period from 2000 to 2010 studies focused mostly on modification of plants to improve their positive effect on humans. In the article the Provitamin A Carotene) Biosynthetic Pathway into (Carotenoid-Free) Rice scientists describe way to make genetically modified (GM) rice with increased concentration of provitamine A to prevent vitamin A deficiency blindness in populations suffering from nutritional deficiency. Ye and colleagues state that delivery of vitamin A is problematic, mainly due to the lack of infrastructure, so alternatives are urgently required. Success might be found in supplementation of a major staple food, rice, with provitamin A. Because no rice cultivars produce this provitamin in the endosperm, recombination technologies rather than conventional breeding are (Ye et al., 2000, p. 303). Authors of that paper provided the solution of the vitamin A deficiency blindnes using GM technology and discoverd a method of using GMOs to imrove human health. BENEFITS OF GMO 5 Closer to the end of the 2000-2010 period, a paper with the approach to treatment of genetic disorder was published. In the article therapy for scientists described the first clinical trial of hemophilia treatment with GM viruses. To illustrate results of the trial researchers stated: most recent clinical trial for the treatment of haemophilia B with gene transfer showed transient achievement of efficacy in the highest dose cohort tested, but also exposed a previously hidden barrier to the future success of these (Murphy & High, 2008, p. 480). That reveals potential benefits of genetic modification of human pathogens, such as viruses, for treatment of diseases. That article shows a shift of research topic from genetic modification of food sources to genetic engineering of human pathogens. Comparing articles published before and after 2010, focus of later research shifted on genetic modification of pathogens that have a negative effect on human health instead of genetic modification of plants. In the article of therapeutically modified bacteria into gut microbiota inhibits Zhongyi and colleagues described a way to use GM bacteria to change human microbiome and treat obesity. Scientist summarized results of the study by concluding that: the 8-week treatment period, mice gained less body weight and accumulated less fat mass compared with control mice. Consistent with their reduced adiposity, pNAPE-EcN mice also had lower plasma leptin and insulin (Zhongyi et al., 2014, p. 3391). Results indicated an effectiveness of GM bacteria in obesity treatment. Another potential benefit of GMOs on human health is the genetic modification of human pathogens for the treatment of oncological diseases. The article viruses: a new class of immunotherapy published in 2015 by Kaufman and colleagues, describes a new approach of using GM viruses to treat oncological disease by killing tumor cells. Authors concluded results of their research by saying: recent randomized Phase III clinical trial BENEFITS OF GMO 6 demonstrated an improved durable response rate for patients with advanced melanoma who were treated with a modified herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1), encoding colony-stimulating factor (Kaufman et al., 2015, p. 660). Results of that research indicate effectiveness of GM technologies for human health improvement and particularly for the treatment of certain types of cancer. GMO organisms can be used to improve human health in a huge variety of ways and advances in bioengineering allowed scientists to shift their research focus from making GM food to bioengineering of human pathogens. After the year 2010, scientist started proposing new ideas for genetic modification of pathogens and that field of research is growing very rapidly. People can expect a change of healthcare system which will use bioengineering techniques and GMOs to improve human health and treat diseases in future. BENEFITS OF GMO 7 References: Kaufman, H. L., Kohlhapp, F. J., & Zloza, A. (2015). Oncolytic viruses: a new class of immunotherapy drugs. Nature reviews Drug discovery, 14(9), 642-662. Murphy, S. L., & High, K. A. (2008). Gene therapy for hemophilia. British Journal of Hematology, 140(5), http://doi.org/10.1111/j.1365-2141.2007.06942.x Ye, X., Al-Babili, S., A., Zhang, J., Lucca, P., Beyer, P., & Potrykus, I. (2000). Engineering the provitamin A biosynthetic pathway into (carotenoid-free) rice endosperm. Science, 287(5451), 303-305. Zhongyi, C., Lilu, G., Yongqin, Z., Walzem, R. L., Pendergast, J. S., Printz, R. L., & ... Davies, S. S. (2014). Incorporation of therapeutically modified bacteria into gut microbiota inhibits obesity. Journal of Clinical Investigation, 124(8), 3391-3406. doi:10.1172 JCI72517