Alkazemi 1 Hasan Alkazemi Professor Mark Nusspickel ENC1101.019 March 27 th 2017 Historiography: Abortion. I. The issue of legalizing abortion is a hot topic for centuries. Before 2010, abortion has faced many obstacles throughout the year. It was seen as a source of sadness and grief in which the mother gets rid of her son who committed no mistake. Also, due to the fact that un-born babies are yet to be born they are their souls should not be terminated. In other words, the difference between the unborn and the born is size and weigh which match up to equality. Thus, abortion was seen as immoral and a shameful act towards traditions and religion. Besides, the operation caused many deaths to its patients and other medical conditions and illnesses. Abortion stepping stone has caused economical issues to many developing countries. As it requires enormous amounts of money to provide safe abortions under qualified doctors. Furthermore, an emphasis on different field to explore abortion is yet to come. Numerical evidence provides proof of economical advancement in the long-term in return to the society. Therefore, the discussion of abortion in the last twenty years has been consistently deemed as repugnant, nonetheless, recent research focus has shifted recently towards unexplored areas that reflected absolute change in perceiving the idea of abortion Alkazemi 2 II. Early Research 2000-2010 1) Ananat, Elizabeth Oltmans, et al. and 2) Grimes, David A., et al. Unsafe abortion: the preventable  III. Later Research 2011-2017 1) Erdman, Johana N. The Politics of Global Abortion  2) Millar, Erica. Choices and Grievable Lives: The Anti-Abortion Influence in Defending the Abortion Experience in Australia Since the IV. Conclusion In conclusion, emphasis on abortion has changed towards a more evolving stage to ensure accessibility to abortion for all. Guaranteeing women who makes half of the society better health care and future statistically. After a continuity of denials, the idea of abortion is widely accepted in the societies worldwide in regards to its benefits to the society as whole. Further research is being conducted to explore new fields in the issue are ongoing to guarantee the best results and to view new perspectives on the matter. Alkazemi 3 The debate over abortion rights remains a hot topic over the centuries. This sensitive topic perceives many different views and perspectives world wide consisting of supporters of the ideology of pro-choice which encourage individuals to have the freedom to act with their bodies. On the other hand, there are supporters who believe in the idea of pro-life that promotes the idea of saving the harmful souls. Opinions based on these two categories have varied for several reasons. First, medical concerns seem to be the major factor affecting the procedure. Second, the process of decision-making represents a critical stage in determining a life-changing choice whether to do the operation or not. At last, political views certainly set the direction of the governmental support in order to provide the needed both medically and financially. Before 2010, abortion was stigmatized by society and also seen as morally wrong to commit such action. Additionally, it has destroyed the economy of the developing countries as it requires a massive amounts of money to provide abortion for all. Continuous denials have been perceived on a global level refusing the idea of abortion due to the heavy grief that falls on the families afterwards. Furthermore, the shift in research presents evidence that with the technological advancement abortion helps women to have better health care. Moreover, recent evidence proves that patients who went through abortion are more likely to graduate college and less likely ending as a single parent. Therefore, the discussion of abortion in the last twenty years has been consistently deemed as repugnant, nonetheless, recent research focus has shifted recently towards unexplored areas that reflected absolute change in perceiving the idea of abortion. Alkazemi 4 Although abortion used to be seen as risky and dangerous, some people have no option but to go through the operation rather than having a child that may lack financial or medical support. In other words, abortion is considered as a right for women and a matter of privacy to determine the pregnancy. Because of these reasons, abortion stigma started to fade away given in consideration the positive outcomes on the society. However, Abortion used to put mothers lives at risk because of many reasons. For instance, many of the doctors who performed the procedure has not been certified for different reasons. According to David Grimes abortion is an agent public health and human rights imperative (Grimes, Hence, Grimes highlights the abortion as an issue due to the fact that the operation will put the mother in dangerous operation which could be fatal. Also, an assertion that abortion caused roughly seventy thousand deaths as a result of the operation along with millions facing complications of hemorrhages, infections, and poisonings (Grimes, 2006). In 2009, further research was conducted with an emphasis on the results of patients who have been through the procedure as its being more accessible in a qualified environment. As a result, the outcomes reflects a positive economical configuration in the long run based on numerical evidence. Resolving around issues such as reducing the chances of being a single parent, fewer use of welfare, and increased number of college graduations. Ananat Oltmans found in her research that the statistical significance of our findings depends on the particular outcome under consideration, it is robust to the choice of instrument, and the pattern is clear: when abortion costs are lowered, cohort outcomes (Oltmans, 2009). Henceforth, a new societal perspective took a different approach into abortion developing a better future for all. Alkazemi 5 In 2016, efforts are put in place embracing the idea of anti-abortion remarking old traditions and religious beliefs glorifying a movement in Australia in the 1960s. At that time, abortion was deemed as immoral and a source of grief and regret. According to the article by Erica Miller, is highly significant that depictions of foetocentric grief have increased the more women have been addressed as subjects of choice and capacity rather than bearers of a maternal (Millar, 2017). Remarking the foetocentric grief as a period of sadness that follows abortion as a human loss. Also, reminds the women of the responsibility of a mother who admitted to the decision of taking away a blameless soul of her own. In another aspect, the un- born differs with born with size despite determination in the age bias they are all human. However, recent research shifted to focus on rights in making their private decisions such as abortion without restrictions. According to the research by Johana Erdman this day, the European Court of Human Rights refuses to engage in the abstract review of abortion laws and has never stated whether the European Convention on Human Rights guarantees a right to (Erdman, 2016). In the meaning, that the concerned party has not yet received full support but it looks into the issue as a matter of their private life without bias to achieve ensure the best outcomes. Additionally, right variably protects a physical and mental integrity, as well as her personal autonomy and (Erdman, 2016). Modern era deems abortion as a family matter in which no political parties should be making decisions. Alkazemi 6 In conclusion, emphasis on abortion has changed towards a more evolving stage to ensure accessibility to abortion for all. Guaranteeing women who makes half of the society better health care and future statistically. After a continuity of denials, the idea of abortion is widely accepted in the societies worldwide in regards to its benefits to the society as whole. Further research is being conducted to explore new fields in the issue are ongoing to guarantee the best results and to view new perspectives on the matter. Alkazemi 7 Work Cited Ananat, Elizabeth Oltmans, et al. and The Review of Economics and Statistics, vol. 91, no. 1, 2009, pp. Erdman, Johana N. The Politics of Global Abortion  Brown Journal of World Affairs (2016): 39-57. Business Source Alumni Edition. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Grimes, David A., et al. Unsafe abortion: the preventable  The Lancet 368.9550 (2006): 1908-1919. Millar, Erica. Choices and Grievable Lives: The Anti-Abortion Influence in Defending the Abortion Experience in Australia Since the (2016). Web. 6 Feb. 2017.