Running head: DEATH PENALTY 1 Project 2: DEATH PENALTY Demetria Washington University of South Florida DEATH PENALTY 2 Outline I. Intro: The death penalty is steadily decreasing in the number of supporters yet majority of Americans still support this controversial issue. Capital punishment is an important matter that has caused questions to arise about the effectiveness it has on economy II. Early research (2000-2010) 1. Kenneth states impose moratoriums on a. Innocent deaths b. Financial burden 2. Kenneth Capital Punishment a. Expensive cost of execution Transition The research after 2010 between the dates 2011-2017 display that there been a dramatic change over time. III. Later Research (2011-2017) 1. Michelle Capital Punishment Be Abolished in a. Costs of capital punishment too high b. unconstitutional deaths of innocent and guilty inidvduals 2. Peter Its Days a. Capital punishment unconstitutional IV. Conclusion : Originally the death penalty caused many malfunctions for Americas economy and overtime the results have not changed including putting the country more in debt, not enough accessible lethal drugs and the illegal activities the death penalty bring. DEATH PENALTY 3 Project 2: DEATH PENALTY Majority of Americans still support this controversial issue although, the death penalty is steadily decreasing in the number of supporters. Capital punishment is an important matter that has caused questions to arise about the effectiveness it has on economy. The research within the early time periods and later time periods are very similar, both explaining that the death penalty is faulty because of the financial burdens placed on the country, the high demand and low supply for lethal drug use and the unconstitutional actions capital punishment endures. In short, discussion on the issue has remained consistent throughout the time frame between 2000-2010 and 2011-2017. From 2000-2010, researchers focused on the unconstitutional acts capital punishment endures on individuals such as the deaths of innocent people on death row and the financial burden on the country and states. In states impose moratoriums on the author explained that congress passed a law limiting death row inmates from challenging their sentencing or convictions because of the overwhelming amount of death row appeals. The Antiterrorism and Effective Death Penalty Act (AEDPA) allows state inmates to file for a federal habeas corpus request after all state proceedings are finished in which they are given a one year deadline. According to Barry Scheck, a DNA defense lawyer from New DNA exonerations have proven to everybody that there are far more innocent persons in our criminal justice system than anyone had (Jost, 2005). In Tennessee, a jury convicted a man of the murder of his neighbor because he was a sex offender and the blood type of his semen matched the crime scene. DNA later determined that the semen did not come from him, but the husband who confessed to his neighbors that he killed his wife. The federal court still refused to give the wrongfully convicted man a chance to claim his innocence. DEATH PENALTY 4 In the article Capital Punishment Kenneth Jost, the author, states that prosecutors are less likely to recommend the death penalty because of the costs associated with capital punishment, sentencing and post proceedings. These costs can add up quickly. The delay between sentencing and executions are also risk factors and worries that the jurors have. Most jurors fear that they will send an innocent person to be executed. Although capital punishment is favored by majority of the people, it is declining as pass. Capital murder cases cost more than non-capital murder cases, costs $90,000 more per inmate on death row than imprisonment at a maximum-security (Jost 2010). In a Kansas study performed by the California Commission, a capital trial costs $1.2 million compared to $700,000 for a non-capital murder trial. They also estimated that the death penalty adds $51 million in yearly costs for appeals and federal proceedings. The amount of money spent for additional lawyers to speed the processes of any challenges the cases come to face with is another cost to keep in mind. Housing of inmates raises the prices of capital punishment as well. The early research focused on the same issues as the later research. The previous research goes hand in hand with the new research both explaining that the death penalties flaws have remained the same including rising costs, wrongful convictions and low supply for lethal medicinal drugs causing an economic unbalance. The research after 2010 between the dates 2011-2017 displays that there been a dramatic change over time. The author discusses that the death penalty has a high demand for pharmaceutical drugs but low supply because companies refuse to let the government use their products to unconstitutionally kill innocent or guilty, as was stated in the early research. Also, the research between this period explains that capital punishment is costing the country millions of dollars that could be going toward a greater cause. In Capital Punishment Be Abolished in the author explained that there are many problems that DEATH PENALTY 5 are associated with the death penalty such as the possibility of putting innocents to death. There also must be consideration about the expensive costs of capital punishment and its effects of using non-administered drugs on death row inmates. Inmates are passing away slower than anticipated with the drugs the states have replaced from other pharmacies. Per the article, Clayton Locket, a man who originates from Oklahoma, was executed by lethal injection which should have been a quick death. Yet, the drug collapsed his vein and he died 10 minutes later. case is just one example of what could go wrong. There is a shortage of lethal drugs for all death row inmates because manufacturers are refusing to sell them for the intent of killing human beings or have stopped making the drug. Therefore, money is being spent to house inmates until further notice which could take up to a couple years. A study conducted by the National Academy of Sciences showed that of death row inmates are falsely accused of committing (Johnson 2014). 10% of homicides crimes, including mass shootings, are committed by untreated mentally ill individuals who are given sympathy as claimed by the Stanley Medical Research Institute and Nonprofit Treatment Advocacy Center. As was stated in Its Days pharmaceutical companies are refusing to allow their drugs to be used for purposes revolving around the death penalty. Lethal injection is the main execution method in the United States. For instance, Pfizer, a leading pharmaceutical company, has denied prisons access to their drugs. Therefore, some states have passed laws allowing other types of executions but the products being used on the prisoners are unidentified and not closely analyzed by the FDA. For example, a man from Missouri was put to death by an unknown drug which violated a state law. Several laws are being passed to protect company names who attribute to the death penalty. In addition, death sentencing has been declared as unconstitutional by the high court which results in jurors being required to vote 10 to DEATH PENALTY 6 2 on a death sentence. Baumgartner, a professor at UNC, conducted research that showed in the states of Louisiana, Florida, Missouri and Ohio that Americans who killed whites, specifically white women, were more often given death sentences than those that killed other African (Katel,2016). They were rarely given a death sentence. Per his data, no white person has been executed for the killing of a black person in the state of Florida. Even though the number of executions worldwide are decreasing by the decade, the U.S. is ranked 5th nationwide in the number of executions after China, Iran, Pakistan and Saudi Arabia. Originally, the death penalty caused many malfunctions for Americas economy and overtime the results have not changed including putting the country more in debt, not enough accessible lethal drugs and the illegal activities the death penalty bring. Research has been consistent in showing that capital punishment is damaging and ineffective for wealth and resources. States are excessively spending earnings for more drugs in order to get the full effectiveness of the medicine. Ultimately, the unconstitutional deaths the innocent prisoners face causes their families to want compensation and remembrance for their suffering which will also drill a deep whole in Americas pockets. Capital punishment should be thrown out of the judicial system because of the flaws and numerous errors that come with it. DEATH PENALTY 7 References Johnson, M. (2014, May 13). Death penalty. CQ Researcher. Retrieved January 31, 2017, from http://library.cqpress.com/ Jost, K. (2005, September 23). Death penalty controversies. CQ Researcher, 15, 785-808. Retrieved February 17, 2017 from http://library.cqpress.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/ Jost, K. (2010, November 19). Death penalty debates. CQ Researcher, 20, 965-988. Retrieved January 24, 2017, from Katel, P. (2016, June 14). Death penalty. CQ researcher. Retrieved January 24, 2017, from http://library.cqpress.com/