Running head: DRUG ABUSE AND ADHD 1 The Incidence of Drug Abuse and Non-Stimulant Treatment in ADHD Grace Lougheed The University of South Florida DRUG ABUSE AND ADHD 2 I. Intro: Attention Deficit Disorder, previously known as Hyperkinetic Reaction of Childhood until 1980, affects more than 3 million people in the United States each year. ADD is three times more likely in boys than girls, and is the most commonly studied and diagnosed mental disorder in children and adolescents, although some still doubt the disorder even exists considering that the exact cause is unknown. The symptoms of ADD on average begin around age six and are characterized by problems paying attention, excessive activity, or difficulty controlling inappropriate behavior. There is no known treatment for ADD, but management options include counseling, lifestyle changes, and medications. Stimulant medication is of the most commonly prescribed by physicians due to its ability to improve persistence and task performance. One of the most controversial issues of stimulant medication is whether the widespread use to treat children with Attention Deficit Disorder increases the risk of substance abuse in adulthood. Studies show that children and adolescents with ADD or ADHD are more likely to misuse alcohol, tobacco, and other illicit substances compared to children without the disorder. II. Early Research (2000-2010): 1. Nora Volkow & James Swanson/Does Childhood Treatment of ADHD With Non- Stimulant Medication Affect Substance Abuse in Adulthood? A. Claim in order to find answer, we need to develop a better understanding of the natural history of ADHD overtime. B. is evidence of impaired brain dopamine activity in individuals with ADHD which could explain why individuals with ADHD are at a greater risk of abusing drugs, since drugs of abuse acutely but temporarily raise the DRUG ABUSE AND ADHD 3 concentration of dopamine in the brain and could temporarily improve ADHD Similarly, 2. Jeffrey Wilson/ADHD and Substance Use Disorders: Developmental Aspects and the Impact of Stimulant Treatment A. is possible that attention deficit or behavioral impulsivity could interfere with an determination of the long-term consequences of drug use; hence, the long-term consequences may be ignored in favor of immediate B. ADHD is a risk factor for SUD, the relationship between ADHD and substance use disorders appears to be primarily mediated by conduct Transition: There seems to be varying opinions on whether or not stimulant medication affects the risk of substance abuse throughout time. III. Later Research (2011-2017): 1. Alison Knopf/Earlier initiation, longer duration of ADHD stimulants reduces risk of substance use in adolescence. A. initiation of stimulant ADHD medication (aged 10 to 14 years), shorter duration of treatment (2 years or less), and the use of non-stimulant ADHD medications were all associated with increased substance use using DRUG ABUSE AND ADHD 4 B. Knopf conducted a study that supports the conclusion that the early initiation of stimulant treatment for ADHD reduces the risk of substance use compared to later onset. Conversely, 2. Zheng Chang, Paul Lichtenstein, Linda Halldner, Brian Eva Serflachius, Seena Fazel, Niklas Langstrom, and Henrik Larsson/Stimulant ADHD medication and risk for substance abuse. A. Investigated the association between stimulant medication in 2006 and substance abuse during 2009 which concluded results that the ADHD stimulant medication was not associated with increased rate of substance abuse. B. reason for the persistent concern for substance abuse derives from the fact that stimulant medications increase dopamine concentration in the IV. Conclusion DRUG ABUSE AND ADHD 5 The Incidence of Drug Abuse and Non-Stimulant Treatment in ADHD Doctors and researchers have gone back and forth between shifting their change in perspective over time. Before 2010, research showed that stimulant medication did indeed negatively affect the risk of substance abuse in patients with ADHD who were taking non-stimulant medication. Researchers found that in order to find a definite answer, they need to develop a better understanding of the natural history of ADHD overtime. Throughout the years, studies show varying opinions on the later affects of non-stimulant treatment on children with ADHD. After 2010, some articles and research papers agree with early research in saying that it does give the children a higher risk of developing Substance Use Disorder (SUD) later in life. On the other hand, other articles disagree and claim that there is no correlation what-so-ever, and that what gives them a higher chance of SUD, is adding another disorder to the mix, known as conduct disorder. Over time, researchers show that the use of non-stimulant medication as treatment for children with ADHD puts them at higher risk for developing Substance Use Disorder throughout their life. According to Volkow & Swanson (2008), is evidence of impaired brain dopamine activity in individuals with ADHD which could explain why individuals with ADHD are at greater risk of abusing drugs, since drugs of abuse acutely but temporarily raise the concentration of dopamine in the brain and could temporarily improve ADHD (Volkow & Swanson, 2008, p.71). This is saying that individuals with ADHD have less dopamine activity in their brain than those without, thus causing them to need the dopamine, resulting in them seeking it through drugs or alcohol. This article also states that of the rationale DRUG ABUSE AND ADHD 6 for this concern is that stimulant medications share with drugs of abuse the ability to increase dopamine concentration in the nucleus accumbens, which is the neural mechanism considered crucial for their reinforcing (Volkow & Swanson, 2008, p.3) on the controversial issue in childhood psychiatry of whether the widespread use of stimulant medications to treat children with ADHD increases the risk of substance abuse in adulthood. Swanson adds that reason for concern is the timing of (Volkow & Swanson, 2008, p.7) referring to the fact that the time a child or adolescent is exposed to stimulant medication could increase their risk of later developing a substance use disorder. Similarly, a second article from before 2010 writes that ADHD is a major risk factor for the development of substance use disorders. According to Wilson (2007) predicts an earlier age of substance dependence onset, a more rapid transition from use to abuse and dependence, and longer duration of substance use (Wilson, 2007, p.10) This meaning that individuals with ADHD are more susceptible to developing a dependence of substance use at an earlier age, becoming addicted and dependent on substances, and having a substance use disorder for a long period of time. Substance use disorders are most often present first during adolescence and young adulthood. Wilson then states that with ADHD are more likely to engage in antisocial and drug-related activities and to be (Wilson, 2007, p.37) Researchers have done studies on the relationship between ADHD, SUD, and conduct disorder. Although ADHD alone increases the risk of developing SUD, this risk is substantially enhanced when conduct order is also present. It has been hypothesized that ADHD in childhood increases the risk of DRUG ABUSE AND ADHD 7 conduct disorder, which in turn increases the risk for SUD. The article also mentions that is possible that attention deficit or behavioral impulsivity could interfere with an determination of the long-term consequences of drug use; hence, the long-term consequences may be ignored in favor of immediate gratification. (Wilson, 2007, p.90) Meaning that young adults wont worry about the long-term consequences of substance use, they only focus on getting the instant gratification of substance use. Since 2010, researchers have had varying opinions on whether stimulant medication affects the risk of substance abuse. One research article agrees with what the earlier findings have shown. Knopf (2016) says initiation of stimulant ADHD medication (aged 10 to 14 years), shorter duration of treatment (2 years or less), and the use of non-stimulant ADHD medications were all associated with increased substance use during (Knopf, 2016, p.67) In this article, Knopf conducts a study of 3,539 individuals that were prescribed stimulant medication therapy for ADHD, and 1,332 individuals prescribed only non-stimulant medication therapy for ADHD. The results of this study support the conclusion that the early initiation of stimulant treatment for ADHD reduces the risk of substance use compared to later onset. The different factors that could alter this conclusion are things such as the type of medication used for the treatment, the age of onset, and the duration of the medication treatment used. Conversely, an additional article from after 2010 investigates the association between stimulant medication in 2006 and substance abuse during 2009, that concluded results that the ADHD stimulant medication was not at all associated with DRUG ABUSE AND ADHD 8 increased rate of substance abuse. Zheng et. al (2014) also claims that reason for the persistent concern for subsequent substance abuse derives from the fact that stimulant medications increase dopamine concentration in the nucleus (Zheng et. al, 2014, p.27) thus agreeing with the earlier articles in saying that individuals with ADHD have decreased dopamine in the brain, so they seek synthetic substances that will give them the same affect. The article also mentions that many studies seem to find no or protective effects of ADHD medication on substance use, they have limited sample sizes and data are as yet (Zheng, 2014, p.39) meaning there still is not enough evidence to support the claim that earlier initiation of stimulant medication puts children and adolescents at greater risk for later developing a substance use disorder. The doctors in this article used Swedish population-based data to test the hypothesis that stimulant ADHD medication associated with risk for long-term substance abuse. According to Zheng, have investigated almost 40,000 individuals with ADHD over 4 years, and found no indication of increased substance (Zheng et. al, 2014, p.332) meaning they have not concluded any information in their studies that support the controversial issue. In conclusion, doctors and researchers have gone back and forth between shifting their change in perspective over time from 2000 to 2016. Research shows that there still is not a definite answer for the controversial question. Over time, researchers have gone back and forth between the idea that the use of non-stimulant treatment for children with Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder increases their risk of later developing Substance Use Disorder. Some doctors say that it depends on what DRUG ABUSE AND ADHD 9 medication they take, when they start taking it, and how long they take it; while others say those factors relate at all to the risk of SUD. Overall, there is no clear answer, and there still needs to be more research and studies on this issue. References DRUG ABUSE AND ADHD 10 Knopf, A. (2016). Earlier initiation, longer duration of ADHD stimulants reduces risk of substance use in adolescence. Brown University Child & Adolescent Behavior Letter, 32(7), 3-4. doi:10.1002/cbl.30138 Nora D. Volkow, M. a., & James M. Swanson, P. a. (2008). Does Childhood Treatment of ADHD With Stimulant Medication Affect Substance Abuse in Adulthood?. American Journal Of Psychiatry: Official Journal Of The American Psychiatric Association, (5), 553. doi: 10.1176/appi.ajp.2008.08020237 Wilson, J. J. (2007). ADHD and Substance Use Disorders: Developmental Aspects and the Impact of Stimulant Treatment. American Journal On Addictions, 165-13. doi: 10.1080/10550490601082734 Zheng, C., Lichtenstein, P., Halldner, L., B., Serlachius, E., Fazel, S., & ... Larsson, H. (2014). Stimulant ADHD medication and risk for substance abuse. Journal Of Child Psychology & Psychiatry, 55(8), 878-885. doi:10.1111/jcpp.12164