EVANS:1 Colton Evans Nusspickel ENC 1101 March 27, 2017 Outline Introduction I. The beginning of research into video games in how they affect crime began towards the end of the previous millennium, with the introduction of first person shooter games. These first-person shooter video games also created a cause of concern in possibly inciting violence in children and adolescents. The first decade of this new trend in research often found political, publication, or even confirmation bias, and often lacked enough evidence to support that violent videogames causes someone to be violent. In the next decade of research showed less bias and tried to find any result, including positive from playing video games. They also tried to include factors that scientists know cause violent and criminal behavior. Although there were still some studies that still had bias in the later research, studies were becoming more scientific. II. Early Research A. Hostile And Hardened? An Experimental Study On (De-)Sensitization To Violence And Suffering Through Playing Video Games. a. interesting finding is that aggressive as well as aversive pictures were judged to be unpleasant and exciting by both groups 1. In the two experimental groups tested in this study (those who played violent video games, and those who played nonviolent video games) they showed little to no effect on emotional behavior after being exposed to violent or nonviolent video games. B. The Good, The Bad And The Ugly: A Meta-Analytic Review Of Positive And Negative Effects Of Violent Video Games a. indicated that publication bias was a problem for studies of both aggressive behavior and visuospatial cognition. Once corrected for publication bias, studies of video game violence provided no support for the hypothesis that violent video game playing is associated with higher 1. This study also studied the behavioral effects of violent video games, but took it a step further and eliminated any publication bias, and analyzed visuospatial effects (if any). III. Later Research A. Impersonal Agencies Of Communication: Comparing The Effects Of Video Games And Other Risk Factors On Violence a. propensity score matching and logistic regression models, results are estimated to show the relative effects from gaming and other social risk factors. Results indicate that propensity score matching decreases the already modest effect from gaming, often to nonsignificance. In comparison with other risk factors in the models, the effects are also relatively 1. This Research shows that there is little to no psychological effect on children when exposed to violent video games, and comparatively are significantly less influential than other factor such as socioeconomic status or being exposed to a violent family member. B. Violence, Crime, And Violent Video Games: Is There A Correlation? a. human or fantasy violence was associated with a stronger effect than violence in sport games, overall the influence on aggressiveness was weak and less significant than that of violence on television. 8 These findings informed rejection of the hypothesis that violent video games can induce aggression. Following this statement, an increasing number of scholars expressed skepticism regarding the link between violent digital games and real-life violence, and numerous studies have cast doubt on this link. Ferguson and Kilburn suggested that the effects of violent video games were overestimated as a consequence of the biases introduced by publications challenging the correlation of aggressiveness with video games. Once the publication biases were corrected, the extent of the effect (eg, the strength of the association between violent video games and aggressiveness) dropped to 0.04 10 Also, by taking other variables into account, such as intra-family violence, the correlation between video games and aggressiveness could no longer be 1. This article found that once biases contained in previous studies were redacted, the correlation between violent video games and violent behavior became even weaker. Once all other known real factors that cause an increase in violence, such as intra-family violence, the correlation became nonexistent. More Video Games More Crime The beginning of research into video games in regards to how they affect crime began towards the end of the previous millennium, with the introduction of first person shooter games. These first-person shooter video games (also called FPS) created a cause of concern in possibly inciting violence in children and adolescents. The first decade of this new trend in research often found political, publication, or even confirmation bias, and often lacked enough evidence to support that violent videogames causes someone to be violent. In the next decade of research showed less bias and tried to find any result, including positive ones from playing video games. They also tried to include factors that scientists know cause violent and criminal behavior. Although there were still some studies that still had bias in the later research, studies were becoming more scientific. Many studies from the year 2000 to 2010 followed the trend of testing whether or not violent video games caused its players to become desensitized to violence. The scientists and researchers would usually measure this by instructing children, or adolescents to play a given violent video game that the researchers choose and play it for a given amount of time. The researchers would measure their reactions to a form of gruesome or gratuitous media, like a picture or a video, before and after they play the chosen video game. playing the game, emotional responses to aversive and aggressive stimuli - pictures from Lang, Bradley, and (1999) International Affective Picture System - were assessed with self-ratings and physiological measurement (skin (Staude-Muller, 2008). The results of these experiments generally were that these test subjects reacted less to the disturbing media after they played the video game. Then whoever was running the experiment would then argue that since they are desensitized to the violence, they would therefore be more apt to behave more violently. However, many of these researchers would show to have a significant amount of publication bias, as some scientists from the same time would claim. indicated that publication bias was a problem for studies of both aggressive behavior and visuospatial (Fergusson, 2007). Many of the researchers and authors of these studies would come from organizations that support censorship of all forms of the media for the purpose of protecting the morality of children. Also many of their experiments would have the children play for a much shorter amount of time than the average gamer would play. Various experiments only exposed the children to an hour or less to violent video games. This can cause anyone to question the real amount of effects from being exposed to this form of media. Several of these studies also fail to address how videogames relate to known causes of crime. A majority of criminologists believe that the vast majority of crimes are committed to better a person or persons economically, such as selling drugs to make more money, or stealing a TV so they have to pay for one. These studies also ignore the fact that violent behavior can be genetic, or learned from a close family member or friend. In the beginning of the second decade of the current century, studies on the behavioral effects of violent video games became more reliable and unbiased. Scientists began conducting their own studies on these effects as well as compare them to other known psychological, genetic, or social factors that do cause violent behavior and criminality. These studies would also compare data from past studies with each other at the same time. Exposure to violence in video games did not always have a negative effect. human or fantasy violence was associated with a stronger effect than violence in sport games, overall the influence on aggressiveness was weak and less significant than that of violence on (Fournis, 2014). Most of these new studies would conclude that violent video games would have little to no effect on a child or behavior. taking other variables into account, such as intra- family violence, the correlation between video games and aggressiveness could no longer be (Fournis, 2014). Studies also concluded that the correlation between violent video games and aggressive or violent behavior disappears when they take the known factors that cause violent behavior. Although the topic of whether or not video games cause violence or criminality is not very old. There was a lot of flawed research in the beginning of this topic there were some that were honest, unbiased, and scientific, while others were politically driven, biased, and unscientific. As video games became exceptionally popular, and the drop in crime became more constant and predictable, research into violent video games became more credible and knowledgeable. Experiments regarding the behavioral effect from playing violent video games improved in every way. They would come from universities, not lobbying groups or bloggers. The experiments studied children, and exposed them to the video games for months not hours. The experiments would also have control groups, and separate children by race, age, and wealth, not lump them all together. The new research has also begun to study the physiological effects of playing video games not just psychologically. With all these new was of studying violent video games the public became more knowledgeable of violent video games and their effects (if any) on both a mental and physical level. Work cited DeCamp, Whitney. Impersonal Agencies of Communication: Comparing the Effects of Video Games and Other Risk Factors on  Psychology of Popular Media Culture, vol. 4, no. 4, Oct. 2015, pp. 296-304. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1037/ppm0000037. Ferguson, Christopher. The Good, the Bad and the Ugly: A Meta-Analytic Review of Positive and Negative Effects of Violent Video  Psychiatric Quarterly, vol. 78, no. 4, Dec. 2007, pp. 309-316. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1007/s11126-007-9056-9. Fournis, and Nidal Nabhan2 Abou. Violence, Crime, and Violent Video Games: Is There a  Psychiatric Times, vol. 31, no. 9, Sept. 2014, pp. 1-4. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ssf &AN=99271884&site=eds-live. Frithjof, et al. Hostile and Hardened? An Experimental Study on (De-)Sensitization to Violence and Suffering through Playing Video  Swiss Journal of Psychology / Schweizerische Zeitschrift Psychologie / Revue Suisse De Psychologie, vol. 67, no. 1, Mar. 2008, pp. 41-50. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1024/1421- 0185.67.1.41.