Zhou 1 Guangzheng Zhou Mark J Nusspickel ENC 1101 Spring 2017 March 27, 2017 Graphene is Still on the Way. As you might have heard, the graphene, a new and burgeoning material, is highly respected in academic and commerce circle now, mainly because of its super characteristics: graphene is super thin that only has one thickness, very high conductivity in both heat and electricity; which means graphene can be utilized on electric applications, and those applications do not need any auxiliary radiating device while performing excellent arithmetic processing! However, the studying of graphene in superior scale was just begun from 2004, then the first second-dimensional was obtained by human, since that, an upsurge in graphene studying was begun and still rising. However, when will the graphene application come true? The answer is confirmed by years: at least a decade. Although graphene application studying in 2000-2010 showed our understanding of graphene only remain on the superficies of it fundamental properties that limit the possibility of application, forecast made by researchers were well considered: mass produce graphene-product need the premise of formulate and appropriate design; inspiringly, reports in 2011-2017 showed that graphene studying had great advances, and the anticipate on the application of graphene have almost no change: the method of produce graphene should be designed by its function from required application. This invariant concept on graphene Zhou 2 application clearly shown the steadiness and creditability in promoting and developing of graphene applications, which also showed those fantastic applications will come soon, only after overcome the challenges, in other wards: graphene applications is still on the way. Hopefully, the rising of graphene studying and its scale is unprecedented fast! A research in 2009 provided an intuitionistic evidence: brief overview of the number of publications about graphene (Fig. a) indicates the growing number of publications in this field since its discovery. This diagram shows an increase by factor of approximately 10 in five years based on the Chemical Abstracts Service (CAS) database. The total number of citations per year, based on the data obtained from Web of Science (WoS), is shown in Fig. (Taghioskoui 35). This article shows huge amount researches were done and rising in a very high ratio. Also, an interview on Dr. Andre Geim (who was one of the Nobelist by his contribution on graphene research) in 2008 revealed that some major companies like Intel, IBM and Samsung were trying to get into graphene developing; even national institution like the US defence research agency (DARPA) was interested (Dempsey 37). Clearly, in the end of 21th century 10s, studying of graphene was very promising. Then, in 2014, an article shows the glamorous potential of graphene attracted huge amount of support Zhou 3 from lots of countries on its studying: consultancy Cambridge IP states that developers and manufacturers have filed 13,000 graphene-related patents in the past five years alone, and in late 2013 the European Commission launched a billioneuro, 10-year graphene research initiative that brings together academic institutions and industrial groups from 17 (Small Wonder 70). There is no doubt that the graphene was attracting large scope of attention from all over the world, graphene studying keeps to fascinate attention and rising very quickly. And will have more academic and mercantile achievement in future. However, although a decade had already passed from 2004, we first time obtained pure graphene in laboratory, our understanding on graphene was just through fundamental studying to application research; or in another world, graphene studying need to voyage the technological swamp into real application. In 2008, Geim said: are at a very early stage. In fact, you could even say that we less today about graphene than we did two years ago. New research has changed our perception of the material and reversed some of our original (Dempsey 35). Also, 2009, an article emphasized on the tendency argued similar statement: Despite the fact that scientific results show superb advantages of graphene for super-fast electronics, the technology is still immature. Only preliminary steps have been taken, and there is still a long way to go for possible exploitation of graphene-based commercial products (Taghioskoui 37). Clearly, they both state an objective forecast on graphene situation during that time. Encouragingly, in 2012, an article wrote by Konstantin Novoselov exhibit a general situation on graphene research (Novoselov 192-200), several scalable Zhou 4 methods for mass product graphene and physicochemical properties were listed in detail. However, he still mentioned: is unlikely that graphene will make it into high-performance integrated logic circuits as a planar channel material within the next decade because of [technological (Novoselov 194). There is no doubt that we still need patience to wait this young technology grow up, but its potential is fascinating, and achievements we have got are promising. Then, Just as an old Chinese poem goes: endless road ahead full with challenge and the sun is setting, our step and mind should be tense. Which means people should rise to the occasion and try to find the best solution for the challenge. For the developing of mass production and commercialization for graphene product, the major concept during the research from decades ago to nowadays is not find best and cheapest methods, but find the graphene demand, then develop appropriate method for produce. In short words: we need to solve the application problems first. In 2008, article stated: and structural issues there are still to be overcome for the production of those devices on an industrial (Dempsey 36). And later year, another article provided similar statement: crucial step in graphene research is the post processing of graphene sheets because it may provide a wide range of attractive (Taghioskoui 36). In 2012, article showed that there are lots of methods were crated for graphene production, and some of them even already had the ability to mass produce graphene. But the requirement of graphene application is the fundamental determinant of graphene mass production. More important, he even affirmed that the Zhou 5 development of productive methods will keep continue until next decade, unless any dramatic breakthrough on producing graphene product which meets its requirement (Novoselov 192). Clear, this well-known authority states the core concept of graphene production, which is obvious: all methods should be designed and serve for the need of products. Conclusively, far from being some exaggerated commercial propaganda or canards, real application of graphene production will not immediate come to us. However, developing of graphene technique and related researches are rising in an optimistic speed, despite of some hinder and challenges on the way, it is worthy to believe break though in application technologies would be taken in short years or even months. Therefore, the coming of graphene material is predictable. Parallel, because mass produce and process is necessary to determine the requirement of the product quality, while application is still developing; which makes graphene product will not come true in only one step; as mention above, graphene is still far from us, nevertheless, we can clearly discern its rippling whenever graphene have any technological advance. In other words, we are now witnessing the growing and rising of an entirely new era. Zhou 6 Works Cited Dempsey, Paul. Flat Out For The  Engineering & Technology (17509637) 3.19 (2008): 34-37. Applied Science & Technology Source. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Novoselov, K.S., et al. A Roadmap For  Nature 7419 (2012): 192. Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Small  Entrepreneur 42.12 (2014): 70. Business Source Alumni Edition. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Taghioskoui, Mazdak. Trends In Graphene  Materials Today 12.10 (2009): 34-37. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 5 Feb. 2017.