Running head: MEDICINAL PRICING 1 ENC 1101: Medicinal Pricing Daniel C. DeJesus The University of South Florida MEDICINAL PRICING 2 Project Outline I. Intro A. Key Points: Research and development, FDA approval, free market, it is a business, there are not many benefits to approach to the pharmaceutical industry. No real progress toward a 200-year-old issue. B. Thesis: Drug pricing has not changed very much in America; there has been no progress toward a logical solution for this epidemic in America that most other first world countries have figured out, the only thing that has changed is drug prices have gone up. II. Early Research A. 2000-2010 The reasoning for drug prices being so high. The cost of research and development, to get the drug approved by the FDA, and it is a business that needs to make more than what they put in. Europe and regulation of drug pricing. III. Transition A. IV. Later Research B. 2011-2017 The results of drug prices soaring are people underusing medication because they cannot afford their medication on a regular basis and sometimes they MEDICINAL PRICING 3 cannot even afford food. There is still zero progress made to put an end to the strife. Importing drugs from Canada can be cheaper because they regulate drug prices there. C. Conclusion C. A. Restate Thesis: Drug pricing has not changed very much in America; there has been no progress toward a logical solution for this epidemic in America that most other first world countries have figured out, the only thing that has changed is drug prices have gone up. D. Restate Key Points: Research and development, FDA approval, free market, it is a business; there are not many benefits to approach to the pharmaceutical industry. No real progress toward a 200-year-old issue. MEDICINAL PRICING 4 ENC 1101: Medicinal Pricing Over the, years medical pricing has only gotten worse, the pharmaceutical industry remains unregulated in terms of product pricing, and as a result, overpricing is rampant in the commercial drug industry within America. In all essence, the conversation has not changed one bit, the lawmakers have no desire to help the poor and middle class fight back against overpricing of medication, and they refuse to step in and regulate pricing or do anything for that matter to help the average American afford medication without it costing an arm and a leg. Prior to 2010, statistical research was done to determine why prices are so high, however, it is not the companies fault if a price is large because of how much it costs to create and get a drug FDA approved. Ultimately, one must remember it is still a business and the main goal of a business is to make more money than what you put in. After 2010, there was research done on the effects of pricing being so overwhelmingly steep, with this said, one effect that should not be happening in a first world country, let alone one of the richest countries in the world is that people are so impoverished that they have trouble affording their medication and sometimes even their food. The conversation on medicinal pricing has not changed, the pharmaceutical industry continues to reign supreme over people who are in need of medication, and there is no effort is put forth by the government to assist the American people. To be fair research from 2000-2010 displays difficulties in the pharmaceutical industry, it is quite difficult to develop drugs and have them FDA certified. It can cost millions to develop a drug over the course of years, but if the FDA does not approve it, then all that money is down the drain. The amount of money, time, and effort put into creating a drug means nothing if not FDA approved, FDA approval is very rigorous which it should be to make sure the drug works and is not dangerous, but the process is far too difficult to be justified. America and Europe have MEDICINAL PRICING 5 contrasting methods for approaching the issue of medicinal pricing, America leaves it unregulated and essential gives all the cards to the companies leaving the average person to the wolves. Europe regulates the prices to make them affordable for the people; they do not allow companies to exacerbate the people of all their money. There are reasons for American companies to charge large sums of money for their product; one is for expanding the company to further research and development (R&D), The U.S. produced more new medications and jobs, but grew about (Golec, 2010, p. 627). regulation of drug prices force pharmaceutical companies to slow down because they cannot charge outrageous prices for their product so they can speed along to creating the next drug in a never ending race to create as many drugs as possible. Though they do not make any huge leaps and bounds like the U.S. in terms of creating more new drugs and jobs, but their prices have not (Golec, 2010, p. 627) and remain affordable by the average European. Latter research from 2011-2017 shows America has a very serious issue on its hands; pharmaceutical companies are taking advantage of being in a barren wasteland in terms of competition for their respective drug(s), companies charge whatever price they so desire because who is going to stop them in a non-competitive free market. There needs to be some form of government involvement in the pharmaceutical industry that prevents such scandalous actions from taking place. bleed people dry of their hard-earned money, so much to the point where they cannot afford their medication and sometimes food. Surveyors found of the chronically ill study participants reported cost-related medication underuse and 11% reported food insecurity as (Medical Economics, 2014, p. 1), these are chronically ill they need the medication to try to lead a normal life and these companies do their best to make it hard. One way to get around the outstanding prices of medication in America, is to import the MEDICINAL PRICING 6 medicine from another country like Canada where they regulate drug prices so they are actually affordable to the people, it is the same exact drug and in most cases sold by the same exact companies selling them in the U.S. for huge amounts of money but they cannot do that in places like Canada or Europe because they regulate the prices. In conclusion, there are some components of drug pricing that are understandable because it is a business trying to make money but this does not excuse the pharmaceutical industry from being held accountable for how they run their business and how it effects their customers. There are far too many people impoverished in America to be considered one of the richest countries in the world, 1 in 4 chronically ill patients cannot afford their medication on a regular basis and 1 in 10 cannot afford food on a regular basis. American companies should not be allowed to walk all over the people, there needs to be some form of government intervention and regulation. MEDICINAL PRICING 7 References Financial hardship linked to medication underuse. (2014). Medical Economics, (8), 36. Golec, J., & Vernon, J. A. (2010). Financial Effects of Pharmaceutical Price Regulation on R&D Spending by EU versus US Firms. Pharmacoeconomics, 28(8), 615-628. Hooper, C. L., & Henderson, D. R. (2016). Want cheaper drugs? More competition, not more government coercion, would greatly benefit consumers. Regulation, (1), 20. Tinsley, H. a. (2004). Prescriptions without Borders: America Looks to Canada for Answers to Solve the Prescription Drug Pricing Predicament in the U.S., But Is Importation Really the Solution?. Hamline Journal Of Public Law & Policy, 25(2), 437-479.