Santana 1 James Santana ENC 1101 Professor Mark J Nusspickel 27 February, 2017 Outline I. Introduction A. Key Points: - Many Americans strive to be healthy. With fitness ads, commercials, and society putting pressure on both male and females to look a certain way in order to be classified as a healthy human being. However, being an overall healthy human starts with what you are putting into your body. - But even if you a gym rat and consuming or buying supplements left and right from your nearest supplement shop; at risk. As are most American citizens from the introductory of (genetically modified organisms) in a majority of our everyday foods. B. Thesis: How quite do effect the overall health and fitness levels of individuals? II. Body A. Subtopic: Shaw, John N. Should We Care About Genetically Modified  Food Safety News. Food Safety News, 01 Feb. 2010. Web. 06 Feb. 2017. Santana 2 1. Before 2010: People knew the positives of GMOs although not many scientific research was done regarding the negative health effects of them on the consumer. a. Evidence: to save money, eliminate poverty, reduce hunger and malnutrition, and promote innovative (Shaw, par.9). 2. After 2010: The unknown inserted genome into our foods causes serious health risks. a. Evidence: One concern is that the introduction of foreign genes into our foods introduces a new allergen into our genome as well as the inflammation of the lining of our intestines. This can cause and lead to intestinal obstruction and ultimately the failure of your bodies vital organs. B. Sub-Topic: Rosendal, Kristin G. GMO assessment in Norway: societal utility and sustainable  GMO assessment in Norway: societal utility and sustainable development. EMBO Reports. Anne Ingeborg Myhr, 21 Aug. 2008. Web. 20 Feb. 2017. 1. Before 2010: GMO production was allowed in Norway. a. Evidence: The Norwegian Gene Technology Act that bans all GMO products in Norway was not yet passed. 2. After 2010: Scientific studies shows health risks related to GMO foods and Norway passed an act restricting this type of farming and agricultural production. Santana 3 a. Evidence: After scientific research and the discovery of the negative bodily affects that GMO causes, Norwegian people and farmers became very opposed to this idea of farming. Farmers heavily argued against this act of GMO foods and caused The Norwegian Gene Technology Act. Which states that any food production that is GM needs to be assessed thoroughly for its health danger. C. Sub-Topic: Burke, Alana M. 7 Ways GMOs Affect Your  Newsmax. N.p., 09 Feb. 2015. Web. 06 Feb. 2017. 1. Before 2010: Not much GMO research was done and the FDA turned the other cheek on research that was. a. Evidence: This article opens our eyes to the new recent findings of 2016 on the health dangers of GMOs. 2. After 2010: Many new scary findings that are linked to health related causes due to GMO consumption was found. b. Evidence: mammals fed with commercialized GM soy and maize that are already in our food and feed chain found consistent toxic effects on the liver and (Burke, par.5) are also linked to infertility in humans as well as in animals, and studies show that GM foods are the reason for the rise of gluten sensitivity in the United States. Even so, as if this enough, GM foods are linked to birth defects (due to the herbicide put on them), cancer, and DNA transfer (through Santana 4 horizontal gene transfer from ingesting these foods that are injected with foreign DNA). D. Sub- Topic: Vaesa, Janelle. GMOs: Benefits and Negative Effects of Genetically Modified  Decoded Science. NP, 19 July 2013. 1. Before 2010: People paid little to no attention to GMOs and education on them was little to none. a. Evidence: The article states that genetically modified crops are beneficial to our industry because they enable farmers to grow more crops on less amounts of land, grow more nutrient rich crops at that, and more tasteful ones as well. On top of this, the article also points out that genetically modified crops are pesticide and disease resistant. Ultimately maximizing the overall quality of food produced, while producing it in such a way that is time, space, and economically efficient. 2. After 2010: Notices and recognition of studies done on lab animals were not going unnoticed. a. Evidence: Resent research is showing that GM foods may not be particularly in your favor and could have potentially negative effects on our bodies. III. Conclusion Santana 5 A. Key Points: GMOs should be stopped, as the health risks attributed to them are more catastrophic than the true benefits they are bringing to our country. Santana 6 The ugly truth behind GMO foods In America, the saying goes, the bigger the better. With people rushing in stores trying to find the best bang for their buck. However, as the nation started to industrialize, so did the agricultural techniques and many new advances came to rise. With farmers now a days able to farm on smaller amounts of land, for longer periods of time, and produce larger, tastier, products than ever before. This, unfortunately, is not a coincidence and the product of better global temperatures, richer soil, or just advanced farmers logic. It has to do with GMOs, or, Genetically Modified Organisms, which did not come about until the 90s and was not looked further into until the later 2000s. Before 2010, studies on GMOs only focused on the positives they bring to the economy, while after 2010 they started to focus on the possible health risks they can cause to the consumer. With this being said, the use of this method is now banned in almost every single country besides our own. Which leaves me wondering, what health risks GMOs really cause to its consumer, and what recent scientific studies have to say about them. Before 2012, GMOs were fairly overlooked. Many people were uneducated about this new method and only readily focused on both the good they brought to the farming industry and the economy. As written by John Shaw, in his web article, We Care About Genetically Modified  it reads that GMOs have the to save money, eliminate poverty, reduce hunger and malnutrition, and promote innovative (Shaw, par.9). This is because GMO foods, as Shaw also wrote, are and have resistance, herbicide tolerance, disease resistance, cold tolerance, drought (Shaw, par.5). Meaning that this method of farming nearly makes the crop indestructible. Saving farmer tons of money by eliminating the cost spent on pesticides for their crops per year and maximizing the amount of crops that grow Santana 7 full and healthy in order to reach consumer markets. Even so, with further scientific research, the glimmering positives are becoming over shadowed by the negatives. Furthermore enhancing my discussion on GMOs before 2010, Norway (among many other European Union affiliated countries) decided to make a change after recent discoveries on the health risks GMOs pose to us, the consumer. As evidence in Assessment in Norway: societal utility and sustainable written by Kristin Rosendal states that the Norwegian Gene Technology Act that bans all GMO products in Norway was not yet passed prior to 2010. But after much needed scientific research, Norwegian people and even local farmers themselves were opposing such a method of farming and vouching for a change. In response, Norway proposed and passed The Norwegian Gene Technology Act. Which calls for all food products that are genetically modified to be thoroughly assessed for its health dangers before being distributed. Ironically enough, no GM foods make it to the markets and for good reasons. Although the topic of GMOs before 2010 shinned light on all of the heaping benefits that gave GMOs such a good lasting impression on the nation, research done after 2010 shows a darker side. As seen in this article in 2015 by Alana Burke for Newsmax magazine, Ways GMOs Affect Your states specifically some of these new scary findings. For one being, mammals fed with commercialized GM soy and maize that are already in our food and feed chain found consistent toxic effects on the liver and (Burke, par.5) As if this bad enough, Burke goes on to also pointing out that GMOs are linked to the rise of gluten sensitivity in the United States, and infertility in animals as well as humans! However, like in every Oxiclean commercial ever made, GM food not only cause the health risks previously stated but are linked to birth defects, known to increase your risk of cancer (or in Santana 8 some cases give you cancer), and alter your DNA through the consumption of these foods which are injected with foreign DNA. All of this was nearly unknown to the typical consumer before this decade and hid from by the FDA (and other powers), which are only in it for economic benefits and could care less for the health precautions. With that being said, an article written by Christina Sarich, May Be To Blame For Spike In Kids Suffering From Inflammatory Bowel explores many more health issues behind GMOs. Which is their link to IBD or what most people know as Disease. An incurable, sometimes fatal disease, which affects the lining of the digestive tract. Sarich writes, has been a 65% increase in IBD hospital discharges from 2000 to 2009. The number increased from 11,928 discharges in 2000 to 19,568 discharges in (Sarich, par.2) This the only evidence however, as she writes in this article, farmers noticed the same problem in their pigs who were fed GMO feed they were affected so badly that their guts were bleeding in many cases, and they also suffered increased fertility issues. Many piglets were even born par.3) Not only showing how animals fed these foods reacted to them, but also giving evidence of the health risks previously stated in my essay and showing how the number of IBD discharges from the hospitals drastically increased the same time as the rise of GMO foods on consumer shelves did. In conclusion, GMOs have their positives and they have their negatives. Although research before 2010 focuses on the positives they bring to the agriculture and economy of the nation, studies done after 2010 focus on the health risks the pose to the consumer. Yes they drastically help farming and our economy, but they are also attributed to severe health risks such as IBD, cancer, and birth defects (among many others). In addition, the foods we eat should keep us healthy and not hurt us, but eating foods that are linked to all of these risks are gut crunching. Santana 9 Neglect the downside of GMO foods or take in all what was said. But no neglecting that GMOs, if anything, should be regulated. As the health risks attributed to them are more catastrophic than the true physical benefits they bring to this country and you. Santana 10 Work Cited Burke, Alana M. 7 Ways GMOs Affect Your  Newsmax. N.p., 09 Feb. 2015. Web. 06 Feb. 2017. Rosendal, Kristin G. GMO assessment in Norway: societal utility and sustainable  GMO assessment in Norway: societal utility and sustainable development EMBO Reports. Anne Ingeborg Myhr, 21 Aug. 2008. Web. 20 Feb. 2017. Sarich, Christina . Kids Suffering from Inflammatory Bowel Disease from  Natural Society. N.p., 25 Oct. 2014. Web. 08 Mar. 2017. Shaw, John N. Should We Care About Genetically Modified  Food Safety News. Food Safety News, 01 Feb. 2010. Web. 06 Feb. 2017.