Onwuanaibe 1 Nikki Onwuanaibe Mr. Nusspickel ENC 1101 27 March 2017 Outline I. Within the last few racism within the justice system has not changed for the better, and this has led to disparities in both the perception and treatment of the members of black and white communities. Recent social awareness such as the Black Lives Matter Movement have amplified these disparities and brought them to light. For example, Michael Brown, an unarmed teenager who stole from a convenient store was shot and killed on site. Whereas Dylann Roof, who killed nine Blacks in a South Carolina church because he like he had was giving a fair trial. Some people believe that the police have been preconditioned to associate Blacks with criminal activity rather than Whites. A. The analysis of arrests, trials, and convictions among Blacks and Whites proves the allegations to be true. Blacks, Hispanics, and even American Indians hold a higher count in jails than they do within the population. Overtime our criminal justice system has developed a bias towards minorities and endured corruption. During Martin Luther civil rights campaign in Birmingham Alabama, police used fire hoses and vicious dogs against blacks who were peacefully Onwuanaibe 2 protesting segregation. This is not a new issue it dates to the 400 years of oppression and will continue to be a problem for years to come. B. How has the justice system stereotyped minorities and allowed image to dictate social justice? II. Body A. Crutchfield analyzed different sources of information to test the conclusion that there is in fact a divide among the races. This evidence includes arrests, trials, and convictions. 1. Authorities have preconditioned biases to associate people of color with criminal activity and find them guilty of stricter charges when they are faced in court. B. Kakade, et utilized national data to test the rate of arrests between these two races. The data states that even though blacks hold a smaller population count they still account for two times the amount when it comes to arrests and convictions. 1. These studies were conducted on children ranging from 12-17 years old. As they tested higher the divide between the races continued to increase. 2. They tested 6,000 kids both black and white, and the results supported the idea that there is leniency for whites and not blacks. C. article examines the truth behind criminal justice system policies. Racial issues are not a new thing, they have been prevalent for some time now. Onwuanaibe 3 1. Racial disparities today are well known and documented with precision and accuracy. This is in hopes to limit the amount of discrimination and injustice towards people of color. 2. It elaborates on the idea that all crime is to be considered a (Mauer 1). The article expresses that racial issues are not a new thing, they have been prevalent for some time now. D. Van Cleve discusses the differences in how blacks and whites are treated within the justice system and how that has not significantly changed following the Jim Crow Laws. 1. Racial disparities have been hidden within the justice system for several years, people are conditioned to believe that the rate of white arrests to black arrests is a normal ratio when in fact it is not. 2. Over the past few years the ratio of blacks to whites imprisonments have nearly tripled from 1:2 to 1:7. This shows a relapse in the stride for equality between the two races. III. Conclusion Onwuanaibe 4 Project 2: Racial Disparities Within the last few decades racism within the justice system has not changed for the better, leading to disparities in both the perception and treatment of the members of black and white communities. Recent social awareness programs, such as, the Black Lives Matter Movement have amplified these disparities and brought them to light. For example, Michael Brown, an unarmed teenager who stole from a convenient store was shot and killed on site. Whereas Dylann Roof, who killed 9 Blacks in a South Carolina church because he like he had was given a fair trial. Some people believe that the police have been preconditioned to associate Blacks rather than Whites, with criminal activity. Between the years 2000 and 2010, studies focused on the idea that discrimination from the past paved the way for the current disparities. However later from 2011 and 2017, studies began to amplify the issue of racial disparities and develop potential ways to decrease them within the justice system. The analysis of arrests, trials, and convictions among Blacks and Whites proves these allegations to be true. Blacks, Hispanics, and even American Indians hold a higher count in jails than they do within the population. Overtime, our criminal justice system has developed a bias towards minorities and endured corruption. During Martin Luther civil rights campaign in Birmingham Alabama, police used fire hoses and vicious dogs against blacks who were peacefully protesting segregation. This is not a new issue; it dates back to the 400 years of oppression and will continue to be a problem for years to come. The shift in conversation portrays how racism towards people of color has not changed, each researcher agrees that this is an ongoing issue that will continue if no action is taken to stop it. Onwuanaibe 5 In 2010 article Racial and Ethnic Disparity and Criminal Justice: How Much is too Much? He examines the factors of why there are disparities within our justice system. He then analyzed different sources of information to test the conclusion that there is in fact a divide among the races. This evidence includes arrests, trials, and convictions. After examining this evidence, he noticed that minorities are indeed more susceptible to trouble with the justice system. Americans aged ten to seventeen comprise about 15% of their age group in the population, yet they represent about 25% of all juvenile arrests, 30% of referrals to juvenile court, 40% of all incarcerated juveniles and close to 60% of waivers to adult criminal (Crutchfield 17). Authorities have preconditioned biases to associate people of color with criminal activity and find them guilty of stricter charges when they are faced in court. Likewise, in Race, Class, And The Development Of Criminal Justice Policy, a similar study Mauer examined the truth behind why the justice system is the way it is, and how it came to be. He researched and found crime is perceived as a black  the means by which the problem is addressed and the resulting punitiveness of the approach serve to exacerbate societal (Mauer 1). Mauer discusses scenarios that have allowed for preconditioned bias towards blacks, confirming this perception. The justice system poses unfair bias against blacks not because they commit crimes, but because black have been stereotyped with criminal activity. figures are well known, but shocking nonetheless: one of every eight black males in the 25-34 age group is locked up on any given day and 32% of black males born today can expect to spend time in a state or federal prison if current trends (Mauer 2). From 2011- 2017 there has not been a positive shift in the issue of racial disparities; this has been a trending issue for many years and has swayed how society views the black community. In Onwuanaibe 6 2012 Kakade, et al, investigated the disparities of blacks and whites in the justice system. After utilizing national data to test the frequency of arrests between the two races, they found that blacks hold a smaller count within the general population but still account for two times the amount when it comes to arrests and convictions. American youths were more likely than Whites to have been arrested multiple times, with rates of 3.1% versus (Kakade, et al 9). They studied the activity of blacks and whites when dealing with drugs, conviction, and arrests. To no surprise, whites came back with a higher rate of being involved in criminal activity than blacks. But what is truly astonishing, is the fact that even though blacks are less involved when it comes to drugs they are the ones who are arrested more frequently. Kakade, et al, conducted a study on children ranging from the ages of 12-17. Testing over 6,000 blacks and whites collectively the results never once waivered; blacks always had the higher number of arrests or infractions with the law. youths, however, had higher rates of substance use than did African American youths. Reported drug-selling activity was also more common among White than among African American youths; this racial difference was statistically (Kakade et al 9). Despite this it does not match up with the data that blacks are committing less crimes; it just proves that there is corruption and inequalities among races that persists today. Similarly Van Cleve discusses the differences in how blacks are poorly treated within the justice system and how that has not significantly changed following the Jim Crow Laws. would assume that the civil rights movement would have equalized black to white prison admissions, yet to the contrary, prison admissions have become more racially disparate. They have increased from 2:1 thirty years before the civil rights movement to 7:1 thirty years after (Van Cleve 2). This shows a relapse in the stride for equality for the black community. Racial Onwuanaibe 7 disparities have been hidden within the justice system for several years. Van Cleve explained the ideology of colorblindness, a neutral ground between whites and people of color. Racial disparities have not essentially changed over the years to reflect the true intent of color blindness within the justice system. It is apparent that equality is not something that society has today and needs to continue to strive for. Many would say that the idea of racial disparities stem from the actions caused by racism. After the analysis of criminal activity between blacks and whites it is apparent there is indeed a divide. The researchers work shows that, racial disparities are a real issue within the justice system and that they have only worsened following slavery. Crutchfield recorded the percentage of African Americans in the population and how many were held behind bars. Kakade noted with substance use, drug selling, and other illegal behaviors also considered, race remained a significant predictor of both single and multiple arrests (10). Mauer examined the profound racial disparities that permeate the criminal justice system and how they are distressingly prevalent and well documented. Lastly, Van Cleve observed the alarming regression away from equality instead of a progression toward it (2). Racial disparities are an issue that will continue to undermined the black community of equal rights and must be stopped. Onwuanaibe 8 Work Cited Crutchfield, Robert D., et al. and Ethnic Disparity and Criminal Justice: How Much is too The Journal of Criminal Law and Criminology (1973-), vol. 100, no. 3, 2010, pp. www.jstor.org/stable/25766112. Kakade, Meghana, et al. Adolescent Substance Use And Other Illegal Behaviors And Racial Disparities In Criminal Justice System Involvement: Findings From A US National  American Journal Of Public Health 102.7 (2012): 1307-1310. Business Source Premier. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Mauer, Marc. Race, Class, And The Development Of Criminal Justice  Review Of Policy Research 21.1 (2004): 79-92. Social Sciences Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 20 Feb. 2017. Van Cleve, Nicole Gonzalez, and Lauren Mayes. Criminal Justice Through Lenses: A Call To Examine The Mutual Constitution Of Race And Criminal  Law & Social Inquiry 40.2 (2015): 406-432. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 20 Feb. 2017.