Mical 1 Miroslaw Mical Professor Nusspickel 27 February 2017 Outline I. Intro A. Some grabber, some vague stuff, time to get into some chronological stuff, begin identifying that European immigration on economic reason, conflict, and search for happiness. Hit the essay with some recent effects of Europe immigration then follow up with past effects. B. How has European immigration has changed and how it affects Europe in the last miro 2 decades. II. Body A. Sub-topic Economic 1. B4 2010 a) Welfare, better jobs, the types of people coming in and how they have affected Europe. b) Jason Ackleson (because of the introduction of 10 new states to the EU new jobs have surfaced. Mical 2 2. After 2010 a) Reason on why to come to Europe, not just economic, now it is because of conflict in the world. b) (should they star or should the go) Use source to show the change in attitude toward the migrants on their economic roles in Europe. B. How have the Europeans reacted to this 1. B4 2010 a) How Europeans disliked the migrants. But they took the low-end jobs the countries still lived. Not much conflict. b) (Bridges document again) The attitudes of Europeans toward migrants because of who they were. 2. After 2010 a) The rise of anti-immigration parties b) Troianovski and Meuleman documents, both documents refer to the anti-immigration parties. C. Impact politically 1. B4 2010 Mical 3 a) Rise of some anti-immigration policies. Germany pushes for more immigration, Merkel claim Germany con hold any amount of refugees. 2. After 2010 a) The fall of the EU, Brexit, Frexit, Marine Le Pen, happening ok. (Both Troianosvki and Meuleman also wrote on this) Bridges also has some input on this. III. Conclusion A. Current immigration is destroying Europe at its core. The fall of Eu is signaling for a huge change in EU rules, or the collapse of it. The euro will fall, invest in Russian currency as it is growing. Answer thesis somewhere in here or something. Mical 4 Should They Stay or Should They Go In this current day and age, terrorist attacks are part and parcels of a civilized country. The constant conflict between migrants and natives in many European countries is reaching an all-time high. Why do migrants want to travel to other countries rather than stay in their place of birth. Many would agree that striving for the best economic gain or escaping other conflict is a source of these migrants. The constant migration in Europe between the periods of 2000-2010 to 2011-2017, has changed in areas such as the political, economic, and personal implication associated with European immigrations research shows. Many immigrants look for better opportunities in other places. Such is the case of North Africans entering Europe in search of better jobs and life. With the current immigrations laws that the European Union has, many immigrants go to Turkey to legally acquire a visa and then use it to legally travel to other European countries. Before 2010, the European Union had voted to admit ten countries into the union as Jason Ackleson briefed over on the economic reasons in his short study the of Immigration in The union hoped to increase its own market, at which it was successful. After 2010, with the rise of conflict in the Middle East, there has been a great spike in the number of immigrants coming to Europe. In the article They Stay or Should They Sarah Bridges uses the European Social Survey (ESS) to determine the variables of the individuals toward immigration. With the result that both of a different race/ethnicity to the native population appear to be perceived as being more likely to make use of public funds than immigrants of the same 399) which in short Bridges points out that many natives seem to claim benefits from the host government in a negative way. Which affect the way Europeans see the coming immigrants. Mical 5 With the introduction of migrants and new culture, many Europeans answer with conflict. Anton Troianovski points out that anti-immigration parties have tripled since 2008. Before 2010, or before the Middle East conflict that forced many Syrians and Iraqis to flee their countries, much of the migrants that came were from northern Africa 29 %, the Americas 20 %, and Asia 20 % (Migration and Migrant Population Statistics.) That changed as in 2014 the numbers changed to Africa 25%, the Americas 19%, and Asia to 18 % as the other places rose from 20 % in 2008 to 27 % 2014 which is a major increase gives the percentages are based on a 3.8 million migrants, from Africa alone 1.1 million migrants have immigrated. On the reaction that Europeans had toward immigration, Bridges goes in-depth on the spectrum of different reaction in different countries. Bridges states that while Nordic countries (here Finland, Norway and Denmark)appear more prejudiced towards the arrival of different race immigrants while the United Kingdom appears to be tolerant towards immigrants regardless of their race or (page 402) due to their colonial past. Therefore, the more mainland countries have worse relations with the migrants than the more coastal countries, but not all. chancellor Angela Merkel has many times proudly stated that there is no ceiling to the amount of refuges that Germany can take. (EBL News) Immigration also shapes the politics of Europe, with the rise of anti- immigration parties being more prevalent. Anton Troianovski, in Anti-Immigration Parties See Opening to Weaken EU Bonds, briefs over Marine Le Pen, the candidate for the National Front, advocating for a French separation from the European Union, a movement named Frexit. (Matt Durnham) On the other hand Bart Meuleman states that the Europeans view minority groups can lead to stronger perceived threat, because larger minority groups dispose of more potential for political 32) With the vote, 51.9% of leaving the European Union by Great Mical 6 Britain, the entirety of Europe had been shaken, because for the first time in European history a country has tried to use Article 50 of the Treaty on European Union. Great Britain is the first to break a taboo. While many people are arguing on the result of the vote, immigration has become one of the main topics of the discussion. Since the European Union grant free movement across the European Union members, so while a sovereign country might not want to let in immigrants, because of the ties to the European Union the sovereign country cannot do so. The current immigration in Europe is destroying the peace and unity of culture, conflict is brewing as countries disagree on many issues. The political and economic decay of Europe will trigger a major conflict between Europeans and the immigrants in the coming days if action is not taken. Since immigration still has not been reformed since 2008, the number of immigrants has grown rapidly. The slow economies of the European countries cannot handle that many new mouths to feed. Mical 7 Works Cited Ackleson, Jason. of Immigration in International Studies Review, vol. 7, no. 4, 2005, pp. www.jstor.org/stable/3699689. Bridges, Sarah, and Simona Mateut. Should They Stay Or Should They Go? Attitudes Towards Immigration In  Scottish Journal Of Political Economy 61.4 (2014): 397-429. Business Source Alumni Edition. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Durnham, Matt. Marine Le Pen Promises Frexit Referendum If She Wins  TASS. N.p., n.d. Web. 06 Mar. 2017. Merkel Tells Sister Political Party: No Ceiling on Refugee  EBL News. Vallic Do, 26 Feb. 2017. Web. 06 Mar. 2017. Meuleman, Bart. Changing Attitudes toward Immigration in Europe, A Dynamic Group Conflict Theory  www.sciencedirect.com. Elsevier Inc, Sept. 2008. Migration and Migrant Population  Migration and Migrant Population Statistics - Statistics Explained. Eurostat, May 2016. Web. 06 Mar. 2017. Troianovski, Anton. Anti-Immigration Parties See Opening to Weaken EU  The Wall Street Journal. Dow Jones & Company, 17 June 2016. Web. 06 Mar. 2017.