Borges 1 Angelene Borges Professor Winkle EN 1102 9 April 2017 BSL- How it Affects You Breed specific legislation or BSL is not something that everyone knows about or knows is happening in cities around the country. It is not something that is as prevalent on TV and social media as say politics or what the Kardashians are doing. Yet, the subject is still very important for dog owners and people who disagree with killing of the innocent. BSL is regulations towards a specific breed of dog that is considered dangerous. BSL has been called BSL since the 80s, but the truth is that throughout history we have targeted specific breeds of dogs. The results of being targeted is not only being deemed dangerous, but also being kill in mass numbers. Currently, BSL is targeting pit bulls in cities around the country. To solve the issue at hand, it must first be recognized as an issue. The city will be holding an event to bring awareness and to help spread the word of the harms of BSL. With the help of you, we can stop all dog breeds from being targeted and demand responsible dog owners. Since the 1980s, breed specific legislation (BSL) has been in effect in different cities at different times. BSL is regulations towards a specific breed of dog that is considered dangerous. In the 80s, fatal dogs attacks began to receive more media attention. The media influence raised the fear of specific breeds, prompting cities to ban or regulate those breeds. While many dogs are on the dangerous breed list, most cities target pit bulls in these laws presently. BSL was not made because of pit bulls. During the 80s and the early 90s, pit bulls were considered the American dog (Rubin). What is not as widely known is that different breeds of dogs have been Borges 2 targeted through the duration of history, even before the 1980s. Throughout history, American pit bull terriers, staffordshire bull terriers, American staffordshire terriers, bull terriers, rottweilers, chow chows, german shepherds, canary island dogs, and doberman pinschers have all been banned in different cities (Walden). Not only these dog have been targeted, but also mix breeds who appear to look like the breed. Not every dog owner owns a pit bull, but every dog owner wants to protect their dog. Saturday August 16, 2017, the non profit organization Who Rescued Who? will be holding an event at Curtis Hixon Waterfront Park from 9am until 7pm. Who Rescued Who? paired with the cities pounds to provide the event. All of the pounds dogs will be at the event and will be able to be adopted seeing as a background check can be passed. The event will feature pit bulls, but many varieties of dogs will be available for adoption. The CEO of Who Rescued Who? will be speaking at 10am, 12pm, 2pm, 4pm, and 6pm. Workers from both the pound and the organization will be available for questions during the whole day. The focus of the talk will be about the steps being taken to end BSL and make sure no dogs are targeted after pit bulls. People are encouraged to bring their dogs, pit or not, with them and help to spread the word of the horrors of BSL. It is not necessary to even be a dog owner to come, the only thing necessary is the desire to stop the killing of innocent dogs. Our mission is to make our voice loud enough and demand the end to BSL nation wide. BSL has been a textbook problem since the 80s. It is time to demand an end to BSL. Who Rescued Who? invites anybody and everybody to join our event. With the help of you, we can make sure no more breeds are the target of BSL. All we ask is for you to donate a little of your time to come to our event and join the movement. We are fighting for the ones who do not Borges 3 have a voice to fight for themselves. We will not stop the fight until only unfit dog owners are blamed and all dogs are safe to live. Borges 4 Works Cited Works Cited Full Title Name: Overview of Breed Specific Legislation (BSL)  Animal Law Legal Center. 01 Jan. 1970. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Rubin, Julia Lynn. The SHOCKING History Of Dog Breed NOT Just Pit Bulls That Are  LittleThings.com. 26 Sept. 2014. Web. 09 Apr. 2017.