Safin 1 Syed Azfar Safin Student(FRESHMAN) COMPOSITION 1 Instructor: Sarah Roth 28 March 2017 Robot labor empowerment How does one define a robot in an easy tone? If asked, it ought to be said as a machine which is capable to perform a number of complex series of actions automatically being programmed by a computer. They know it as an automaton or android etc. Robots are seen to be efficient which is why human labor are soon to be replaced. Robots are perfect and there is no doubt about that. Robots are the definition of perfection and are superior. They are the best in what they do as to their programming and no human on Earth can ever do that. The conversation on the influence of robots in labor has had a huge impact on society itself. The reviews of robots in the past till now has risen; and is far more advanced than it is than it ever was. The public started pleading to this godly invention and potentiality to change the world. They started to accept the fate of dependency which once was lost due to a turn of events in the world at a different era. The reasons as to why robots are take over labor is because they are seen to be cheap in cost in the long run. The reason as to why they are cheap is because their maintenance is very low and they were off are a long time. To support my claim, there are more examples and advantages for robots. Robots can build products in high numbers. They have high service hours and be kept on running without a single break. Industrial revolution has taken its part long time back but the it has not yet ended. Its surprising but the revolution is still unfolding mysteries to a new era. Jobs are being eliminated one by one but new ones are bring made. Ford, Martin. Rise Safin 2 Of The Robots : Technology And The Threat Of A Jobless Future. New York: Basic Books, 2009. Discovery eBooks. Web. 26 Sept. 2010. The entrepreneur from silicon valley , Martin Ford adds, intelligence is already well on its way to making good (line 11). The process is actually making progress to greatness. This involves availability of white collar and highly paid jobs in the market for the skilled individuals. Education and health care centers have not been transformed by information technology but are soon to be. I would say as technology continues to accelerate and machines begin taking care of themselves, fewer people will be necessary. of the Robots is essential reading for anyone who wants to understand what accelerating technology means for their own economic to mention those of their well as for society as a (line 26-30), is what the entrepreneur adds to his research as well. Moreover, in the future it is very unsure what these machines can accomplish. I think that if they were to be tested to their limits the results would be too much for the society to handle. As time passed by more and more research were taken in consideration. The conversation changed from experimentation and field test to action Robots ready to replace human  Bangkok Post (Thailand) 03 Dec. 2012: NewsBank. Web. 7 Oct. 2016. a high probability as to why robots should replace human task forces. Its mandatory robots take over human labor is what most managers down in Bangkok are discussing at present. There are likely chances that the middle class people are to go struggle in that time period. This would also increase household costs and it be affordable. This creates crisis for the middle and the lower class to pay over debts and other costs. In addition to that, there will be economic crisis and rise in inequality. The Bangkok posts also says that there is a demand in robotic welding as it is much more cheaper and efficient than normal labor. Fewer people has the interest to work in harsh hazardous environments and so it is most likely to be favored.. Yaskawa Electric company in Thailand are taking machinery into labor forces. The reason is that over the past decade a lot of machinery farms emerged from the deep and started making artificial intelligence for cultivation and stock farming. Safin 3 Watcharapong Wongvoranet, assistant robotic-sales manager at Yaskawa Electric, said the company has increasingly penetrated the small and medium-sized enterprise (SME) market in car accessories, especially in the Northeast. The price statistics say how welding robot has increased from 900,000 baht to 2 million due to that. The company manager stated that they were to only hire welder robots in case of plan b when the company is at stake. I believe that Japan would also be purchasing more of these techno machines in order to expand their production of eco cars. The average ratio of workers in Japan to Thailand is 100-1000. This brings as to why Bangkok is more vulnerable to also do the same in order to keep up with inflation. The wage hike is only one factor, but another thing is the difficulty in finding  (line 40). Wealthy business really care about cost but when it comes to getting the job done they prefer the best hands in the business and so robots favor their interests. The order from Thailand increases on daily scale and that orders are still coming in. He has had times when there were delay in the deliver f the bots because the order lots keep on simultaneously expanding. . link:http://www.bangkokpost.com/tech/local-news/324227/robots-ready-to- replace-human-labour. View our policies at http://goo.gl/9HgTd and http://goo.gl/ou6Ip. Post Publishing PCL. All rights reserved. Some abstract discussions include the conversation of understading robots and their moral values which include humans as well. The dawn of industrialization dates to the issue of machines replacing robots. The fundamental distinction is what Karen and William examines between robots and humans which relect on politicians and engineers. On the other hand, recent research has lead to a unification not only to development of thermodynamics and info theory; but also a unitary understanding of labor value creation process. Cockshott, Paul, and Karen Renaud. Issues And Opinions: Humans, Robots And  Technology In Society 45.(2016): 19-28. Science Direct. Web . 16 Sept. 2016. Thus, general robotization include the purpose for profitability and the future of capitalism. Moreover, there are some authors who talked about the appliance of robots in dangerous working conditions which is humanly impossible. The source here is a valid reason to the following Habib, Maki H., and Y. Baudoin. Using Robots In Hazardous Environments : Landmine Detection, De-Mining And Other Applications. Cambridge, UK: Woodhead Publishing, 2011. Discovery eBooks. Web. 27 Sept. As the world ages, people look forward to apply for jobs that are not so life threatening and harsh to adapt to. They look for benefits and bonuses and especially wages. Mining is not usual taste of job and therefore the job market in mining in landmines is slowly fading away. The only solution to run the programs in the industry is to look for labor who care about even the most devastating working conditions and therefore robots are the key. The author adds, and other applications is a standard reference for all those researching the use of robots in hazardous environments as well as government and other agencies wishing to use robots for dangerous tasks such as landmine detection 12-13). This shows that the government are willing to hire robots to do the work faster and safely as they value human lives. Some drawbacks for robots would be that programming robots takes a lot of effort and time. They are not cheap in market and that if there is a single defect in the product then it would mean the robots are not to be put in working conditions and that there is a loss in resource material. In conclusion, we can add that the world advances forward with time according to the advancement in technology. In addition, robots are meant to take over certain jobs that humans able to do. Robots made significant contributions to labor productivity and aggregate growth, and also increased wages and total factor productivity. While fears that robots destroy jobs on a large scale have not materialized , we find some evidence that robots reduced low and middle-skilled employment. We should let knowledge flow as it betters the most of us by improving our daily life. Safin 5 Work cited 1) Ford, Martin. Rise Of The Robots : Technology And The Threat Of A Jobless Future. New York: Basic Books, 2009. Discovery eBooks. Web. 26 Sept. 2010. 2) Robots ready to replace human  Bangkok Post (Thailand) 03 Dec. 2012: NewsBank. Web. 7 Oct. 2016 3)Cockshott, Paul, and Karen Renaud. Issues And Opinions: Humans, Robots And  Technology In Society 45.(2016): 19-28. Science Direct. Web . 16 Sept. 2016. 4)Habib, Maki H., and Y. Baudoin. Using Robots In Hazardous Environments : Landmine Detection, De-Mining And Other Applications. Cambridge, UK: Woodhead Publishing, 2011. Discovery eBooks. Web. 27 Sept. 2016.