Adepoju1 Susan Adepoju 2/4/17 ENC 1102-033 World Wildlife Fund and Save the Elephants Animal preservation has been a major source of conflict in the past few decades due to people not taking care of the environment and animals are being hunted for money. Two organizations that deal with animal preservation include World Wildlife Fund (WWF) and Save the Elephants (STE). WWF is the leading organization for wildlife conservation and endangered species. Their mission is to conserve nature and reduce the most pressing threats to the diversity of life on Earth. Save the Elephants (STE) which works to secure a future for the elephants and to battle the current problem that has been caused by ivory poaching. Both organizations have similar goals with helping the wildlife by working together they can make their mission even bigger. World Wildlife Fund and Save the Elephants should work together because they will be able to bring awareness to both sides since they are all equally important. By coming together to organize an auction it will allow them to raise a large amount of money for the endangered species and the elephants effected by the ivory poaching. The auction gives buyers a chance to learn more about the organizations and decide which ones they want to donate to. For the past 50 years, World Wildlife Fund has been known for protecting both endangered species and nature. WWF is placed in over 100 countries with one million members in the U.S. but five million globally. Their main goal is to not to only do projects locally but try to spread the work out worldwide. The six areas that they focus on are forests, marines, freshwater, wildlife, food, and climate. These areas have helped work from saving species and landscapes to addressing the larger global threats and forces that impact Adepoju2 (World Wildlife Fund) To ensure that nature can provide for every living thing all of the hard work is done by the people at WWF. Working globally, they can help educate and influence people so that they can learn to make better choices about the environment. Darryl Fears, notes in his article titled, about everything you buy came at the expense of an endangered mentions that all the products that consumers buy every day and the goods that are in stores all come from areas where monkeys, toads, and wild cats live. (Fears 1) This shows how we are destroying the environment day by day. Doing an auction to raise money is important because it will allow people to become more aware with what is going on with the animals and nature itself. On the other hand, ivory poaching has become a concerning problem for the elephants in Africa, the reason for that is because that they are being hunted just for money. In David article Poaching Rears its he states that poachers locals looking for a windfall. They are international criminal cartels, well-armed and ready to (Frey 2) Most poachers are from other countries coming to Africa to look for elephants. Save the Elephants is an organization trying to stop the poaching from happening. mission is secure a future for elephants and to sustain the beauty and ecological integrity of the places they live; to promote delight in their intelligence and the diversity of their world, and to develop a tolerant relationship between the two (STE) Their organization is primarily based in Samburu National Reserve, Kenya but most of their projects run across Africa. If ivory poaching stopped, then elephants could be completely gone within a single generation. World Wildlife Fund (WWF) and Save the Elephants (STE) are both very dedicated to saving wildlife and nature but they worked together as one. Since their mission statements are very similar there seem to be any conflict between the two organizations. The only difference between the two is that one is more focused on elephants, while the other is Adepoju3 geared more towards endangered species. The common ground between the two is that they want to make the environment a better place while protecting the animals around the world. Since they are not opposing each other, the best thing for them to do would be to hold an auction. Holding an auction will allow both organizations to gain the same amount of money so that way they have to fight over who gets what. Most importantly, a project that I believe WWF and STE can do is to merge their interests and start a charity to raise money for both organizations. They can raise monetary donations for their charity by collaborating once a year and holding an auction that will allow large organizations to provide contributions for the endangered species, elephants and nature. Doing an auction would probably be best the choice because the buyers who are setting the price get to decide which organization they want their money to go to. Prior to the auction, there can be a short presentation on the history of both groups, so they can raise awareness while also increasing their funds. Each presentation from WWF and STE can include descriptions on their past projects, their goals, and what accomplished at the end of them. Overall, WWF and STE both are suitable companies for saving wildlife, despite their slightly different intentions. WWF mainly desires to protect nature and decrease the amount of destructive threats that the life on Earth faces, while STE chooses to target saving the lives of elephants that are being murdered for the profit that ivory poaching provides. I believe it would be a useful idea for them to join forces and create a new charity that will help both these causes at the same time. They can increase their donations by having an annual auction that will give people the chance to choose which organization they want to provide aid to, after they have direct exposure to what both of them represent in a presentation. The presentation can include Adepoju4 projects that these groups have been engaged in before, what things they want to achieve, how they will achieve these missions, and the results that they have obtained so far. Adepoju5 Works Cited 1. Darryl Fears about everything you buy came at the expense of an endangered Washingtonpost.com N.d. Web 5, February 2017 2. Frey, David. Ivory Poaching Rears Its  E: The Environmental Magazine 24.3 (2013): 12-13. CINAHL. Web. 20 Feb. 2017. 3. Save the  Save the Elephants. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. 4. WWF - Endangered Species  WWF. World Wildlife Fund, n.d. Web. 05 Feb. 2017