Blashinsky 1 Samantha Blashinsky Composition I Professor Smith April 1, 2017 How Social Media Affects Athletes In society sports are a huge part of all culture. What helps make it so popular is the numerous amount of social media that everyone has now a day. Media is able to send out news and information in matters of seconds. For some media can be used for their benefits, but for athletes it seems to mostly be targeted against them and can be toxic to their mental health. Social media has an incredible impact on freedom of speech because of how they will be perceived in the public eye and also leads to the cause of mental health issue. Since athletes are in the public eye so much, it is easy for things to get misinterpreted and lead people to believing un true statements. In the past few years, social media has grown tremendously within society, many people depending on it for daily use. One of the biggest problems that college athletes are facing when it comes to social media is they are breaking the National Collegiate Athletic rules, and in the professional league they are breaking their code of conduct. Society has set the tone to speak freely about how you feel and since now there is social media people feel the need to put it out online for the whole world to see. This is not good for athletes because they have to be extra cautious with what they say and how they represent themselves. They have to do this in order to keep a good representation for themselves, their team, and their school or organization. Athletes have come to the conclusion that this intense scrutiny on their Blashinsky 2 social media presence is resulting in the denouncement of their freedom of speech and thus not being able to express themselves like other regular people can. According to Bordman, speech and expression in sports have gone hand in hand since the inception of sports itself. Rooting for a team and its players as well as showing a disdain for the opposing side are elements of competition that make a sporting event more enjoyable than staying at home. Unfortunately, this freedom is frequently taken to levels that go beyond what fans, coaches, the sports media, athletes, and, in particular, sports governing bodies feel are In article, he is discussing a professional baseball player who made a comment through the media, stating his opinions on sensitive topics that the media did not approve of. His argument was how he has the right to say what he wanted and since he was getting in trouble from it, he was arguing for his freedom of speech rights to be protected. The first amendment rights are one of the biggest arguments with athletes who use social media. Although being in the public eye as an athlete has its perks, it comes with a lot of disadvantages and consequences that normal people would not have to deal with. One of the disadvantages is there are a lot of people, especially the media, that try and target athletes by twisting their words or making up lies about them in order to give them a bad reputation. As an athlete, this is taxing on the mind because it gets in head as a result from being targeted and having false rumors made up. The most struggling part about this is that the athletes have no control over what the media puts out about them. I do think social media and sports is very important and inevitable, I think it can really drive athletes crazy and turn their focus away from what is really important if they get caught up in the politics of it (Behan). It is stated Blashinsky 3 that the usage of social media has grown 15% from 2012 and in 2018 it is projected to ride 24%. Those numbers are a huge increase in the role of social media within society, as it has grown tremendously in such a short period of time. As more and more people turn towards social media to keep up on current events, additional people are focusing their attention to their favorite athletes and looking towards them to see what they do. There are many mental problems that affect an athlete that immediately result from the stress put onto their social media presence. The biggest mental problem is depression. McKelvey stated social media, interfere with their success in athletics, in the classroom and beyond, and can even lead to If a pronoun athlete, one that many people talk about or look up, slips up on social media, his or her entire athletic career could end in a seconds notice, all because of what he or she decided to post on social media. According to McCarthy, seeing more and more students coming to college with pre-existing mental health The worst part about social media is that once it is posted, it can never be erased. Because social media is so popular nowadays, a pronoun athlete can have over millions of followers, ranging from young children, to grown adults, to various news sites, and the second that the athlete posts something he or she should not have, thousands of people have already seen it, taken a picture of it, and shared it on many different forms of social media. This can blow up across the media, resulting in the demise of an athlete and his or her athlete career. Thus, an athlete can immediately go into depress, as their entire life starts falling down, as a direct result from their ignorance found on social media. Many argue that all these affects are not just caused on athletes. This is also a problem in everyone life. Many people go through mental health problems caused by social media, Blashinsky 4 not just athletes. With the first amendment right people also argue that it has nothing to do with breaking the rights. According to Med Penrose, commentators decry any regulations on a speech because they fail to appreciate that the goal of athletics is successful athletic The argument that other people have is that athletes blow things out of proportion and many others go through the same type of difficulties. In conclusion, media seems to be a problem in all aspects. Ever since social media started it has become an issue and has seem to escalate every year. It is very important that athletes watch everything that they put out there for the media because it is easy for things to get twisted and come back on the individual when those were not the intentions. Social media has an incredible impact on freedom of speech because of how they will be perceived in the public eye and also leads to the cause of mental health issues. As the years go on hopefully social media improves and can be used towards more of bettering the society and have more of a positive impact. Blashinsky 5 Work Cited Stubblefeild, Patrick. Journal of Law & Education, Jul02012, Vol. 41 Issue 3, p593-601,9p, Date base: Education Full Text (H.W. Wilson) McKelvey, Steve. This Tweet Sponsored By ... The Application of The New FTC Guides To The Social Media World Of Professional  Virginia Sports & Entertainment Law Journal 11.(2010): 222. LexisNexis Academic: Law Reviews. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Penrose, Meg. Tinkering With Success: College Athletes, Social Media And The First  Pace Law Review 35.(2014): 30. LexisNexis Academic: Law Reviews. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Bentley, Eric D. Unnecessary roughness: why athletic departments need to rethink whether to aggressively respond to the use of social media by  The Computer & Internet Lawyer 2013: 19. Academic OneFile. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Lewis, Melvin1, and Carla2 Hugg. Review Implications, Best Practices For Social-Media  College Athletics & The Law 12.9 (2015): 1-3. Education Source. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Stubblefield, Patrick. CHALK TALKS--: Evading The Tweet Bomb: Utilizing Financial Aid Agreements To Avoid First Amendment Litigation And NCAA  Journal Of Law & Education 41.(2012): 593. LexisNexis Academic: Law Reviews. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Boardman, Ethan Yale, of ACES.N.p.,n.d.Web Impact of Social Media on Timothy Behan.N.P.,n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017.