El Akhal 1 Mohamad Prof. Roth ENC 1101 4/7/17 The Risks of Human Genetic Engineering Genetic engineering was first introduced in 1972, when a group scientists implanted a strand of DNA into lab rats and observed the results. Genetic engineering has been under the spotlight for as long as it was introduced because it had great potential but at the same time posed a lot of threats. Over the past couple of years, genetic engineering has branched out into human genetic modification. In the field of human genetic modification, scientists are working nonstop to try and clone body parts and eventually fully functional humans. There are a lot of issues that could arise from reaching these feats of science. Genetically modifying humans will affect our biodiversity greatly, which will have a lot of negative effects on our community. The use of genetic engineering on humans should be prohibited. The advancement in genetic engineering has opened up the possibility of having in the very near future. Parents can choose any traits they would like their children to have from a catalogue, and then the scientist would implement the chosen genes and traits into a fetus and he grows up to be a After a while, people will choose only the best and healthiest traits they want their child to have, and some children will look identical. Imagine not being able to distinguish your son from another son. Another major issue with human genetic engineering is the loss of biodiversity and natural variation. The loss of biodiversity will limit the variation of personalities, appearances, and it might stop the formation of new genes, thus decreasing the human gene pool. Genetic variation is very important for adapting to changes in an unfamiliar environment, and if it is limited and the organism have the ability to adapt it might be responsible for the death or suffering of that organism. Also, altering or removing a specific strand of genes may have other negative effects which can be fatal. A certain gene that the scientists want to remove might have other vital functions which if not present can be fatal. Similarly, inserted genes might be considered hostile or unknown and will be rejected from the body. In another case, the inserted gene will be accepted into the body, doing the required function. Few months or years later the same gene might have other unknown functions that are causing a risk to whomever received it. A situation like this might cause a disaster because the organism might reproduce and pass down this dangerous gene, hence, it will be too late for the scientists to stop it. Another very important risk is using genetic engineering for biological warfare. The potential of creating diseases that are resistant to our current medication is very scary. These weapons can be bred in cattle or crops and then distributed to people nationwide. Scientists be able to determine the certain gene that is causing the disease because it already spread out. The possibility of having an epidemic that will cause suffering to a big part of the population has increased greatly with the discovery of genetic engineering. What is even more scary is that the altered genes that cause the disease can stay dormant for years to ensure the spreading of the gene and then activate, causing a catastrophe. Some Chinese scientists modified human embryos, which is the first time this experiment has been heard of. They wanted to change a gene responsible for a potentially fatal blood disorder, beta-thalassemia. The scientists used a method called CRISPR/Cas9 which basically means they altered a series of genes responsible for the disease. The team modified 86 embryos in an attempt of curing the blood disease. Of the 86 embryos 71 survived meaning that 15 lives have been wasted, and 28 of these remaining 71 embryos had the alternate genetically modified DNA. The embryos that succeeded had a lot of unanticipated mutations which proves that this experiment is not yet reliable. This experiment raised a lot of controversy, about it being worth the losses and the success rate. Although genetic engineering has a lot of risks, it was also proven that using it to save lives is possible. Using genetic engineering to modify DNA to suit human immunology will help in using the DNA to create organs that function in a similar way to human organs. So, if someone needs an organ which is not available scientists can craft organs from the pigs modified DNA and use it as a temporary organ until they find a suitable organ donor. But this procedure foolproof, the human body might recognize the organ as foreign or harmful and will try to destroy, harming the receivers body. In conclusion, I believe that genetic engineering should be banned to relieve us of worrying about epidemics. While genetic engineering might have the benefit of granting us organs, it has too many flaws because it is still in its initial stages, and the risks outweigh the benefits. Word count: 927 Works cited: Hazards of Human Developmental Gene Stuart A. Newman, 16 May 2016 www.councilforresponsiblegenetics.org/ViewPage.aspx?pageId=108 Modified Humans? No Richard Hayes, 15 April 2008 www.washingtonpost.com/wpdyn/content/article/2008/04/15/AR2008041501620.html ResearchSEA. first genetic modification of human embryos reported: Experts consider  ScienceDaily. ScienceDaily, 24 April 2015. <www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2015/04/150424122312.htm>. Cooper, David K.C., et al. Genetically Engineered Pigs as a Source for Clinical Red Blood Cell  Clinics in Laboratory Medicine, vol. 30, no. Blood Transfusion: Emerging Developments, 01 Jan. 2010, pp. 365-380. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.cll.2010.02.001.