Prasse 1 Logan Prasse Professor Roth ENC 1101.018 9 April 2017 Dinosaurs: Are They Truly Extinct? What do people think of when they hear the word For the most part, the answer would be referring to the popular movie franchise Jurassic Park or the ancient bones on display at the natural history museum. Often, people are aware of the entertainment role dinosaurs play in popular culture, but that is only a small fraction compared to the linguistic and scientific contributions of dinosaurs throughout the years. The everlasting effect of dinosaurs has been far greater than people realize, with them seeping into almost every aspect of society and slipping past most consciences. These contributions have played a major role in shaping societies and defining how people understand and interact. A lot of what dinosaurs contribute to modern society is often overlooked as being part of the common vernacular or the language used to communicate on a daily basis. This can be in a form as clearly identifiable as a simile or more complex as a metaphor. It is clear to see, for instance, that dinosaurs can be used to define or lend attributes to things. For example, when discussing an old computer that runs particularly slow, it is not uncommon to hear that computer be referred to as a This simple case allows the conversation regarding the impact of dinosaurs to be opened up and broadened. It is with this many instances like shows how dinosaurs are used to understand and give meaning to concepts. These concepts can be as straightforward as the computer example above, or as complicated as the role gender plays in society. In his book Framing Monsters: Fantasy Film and Social Alienation, Joshua Bellin Prasse 2 tackles the relationship that has been portrayed between dinosaurs and the roles gender plays in society. Park represents the patriarchal family as threatened and besieged by monstrous women, while at the same time seeking to resolve the threat and absolve the father by collapsing ideology into remarks Bellin (126). In other words, this complicated metaphor of dinosaurs shows just how important they have become to those who are trying to convey or even understand complex issues. In this particular instance, dinosaurs are used to provide some light or some representation of the social climate of the early 90s, as patriarchal families were in decline and Women were rising to a more substantial role in society (Bellin, 126). Apart from having been used as a means of mass social understanding, dinosaurs are also especially useful for advertising. From birth, dinosaurs are incessantly being offered to children. From blanket designs to action figures to television shows, movies and even food, children are inundated subsequently obsessed representations of dinosaurs. In article second Jurassic dinosaur rush and the dawn of Paul Brinkman discusses the idea of which he characterizes as the general infatuation the public has in dinosaurs. The rise in popularity of dinosaurs in the public sphere has become a godsend to advertisers everywhere. Entire campaigns are released that focus on dinosaurs so much so that an extinct group of species has itself become an entire market, as if they are traded like stocks and bonds on Wall Street. Henry Fairfield Osborn is quoted in 1931 as saying of science are often carried away by personal ambition and by a fierce spirit of competition with their rivals, as well as by a sense of scientific power, to employ methods which are wholly unworthy of the true spirit of American Scientific (Brinkman, 104). quote in context shows how paleontology has had elements of personal gain and fortune as scientists unearth new fossils. Prasse 3 So what is the point of all of this? Is this all just looking too in depth into something that as important as is being argued? Not at all. It has been shown how important dinosaurs currently are to society. It has been explained how dinosaurs have become essential to the very fabric of society. This importance can be proven by the further implications dinosaurs have and will come to have. It is important to realize the use of the dinosaur on a captive and honed-in audience of every demographic as a tool for educating the public and propagating certain ideas to the forefront of public scrutiny. All in all, dinosaurs just piles of bones in museums anymore. The use of dinosaurs in interdisciplinary work as a means of understanding and conceptualizing broad ideas is a major aspect in nearly every facet of society. The interdisciplinary nature of the dinosaur extends from metaphor in literature and fine art, to awe and wonder in entertainment, to record and environmentalism in science. With the environment being a topic of grave concern for many as the global warming threat continues, for example, there has been a rise in the practice of researching dinosaurs and giving them accurate representations in their time frame. In fact, through or earth and scientific-based tourism, environmentalists and paleontologists alike are attempting to garner public support and understanding for their respective fields. In places such as the Lufeng National Dinosaur Geopark in China, popular culture and education mix in a combination of entertainment and science and with the popularity of sites such as this growing, the reality of a public concerned with and engaged in the scientific conversation is becoming a reality Regardless the case or type of portrayal used, dinosaurs have grown overtime in importance to society as captured our imaginations and as we desire to learn more about them. As Raymond Gozzi states, metaphorical portrayal of the dinosaur in the early 21 st Prasse 4 century is much more violent and less secure than were the real dinosaurs of the Mesozoic (Gozzi, 355). The portrayals of these dinosaurs are often overlooked but are nevertheless of the utmost importance to the framework of everyday life. The way we speak and understand things, what we buy and how we entertain ourselves, are all due to creatures that roamed hundreds of millions of years ago. Prasse 5 Works Cited Bellin, Joshua D. Framing Monsters: Fantasy Film and Social Alienation. Carbondale: Southern Illinois University, 2008. Print. Brinkman, Paul D. The Second Jurassic Dinosaur Rush And The Dawn Of  Endeavour 34 (2010): 104-111. ScienceDirect. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 < http://dx.doi.org.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/10.1016/j.endeavour.2010.06.004>. and Petrl Skupien. Geotourism Aspects Of The Lufeng Dinosaur National Geopark In Yunnan Province,  Geoscience Engineering 62.1 (2016): 51-57. Applied Science & Technology Source. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.< http://ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true& db=aci&AN=117419175&site=eds-live>. Dworsky, Alexis. Alexis Dworsky: In Between  Interdisciplinary Science Reviews 41.1 (2016): 37-43. Academic Search Premier. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. < http://ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true& db=aph&AN=118064400&site=eds-live>. Gozzi, Raymond.  ETC: A Review Of General Semantics 58.3 (2001): 351-355. Humanities Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 19 Feb. 2017. <http://ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true &db=hft&AN=510075974&site=eds-live>. Miracky, James J. Replicating A Dinosaur: Authenticity Run Amok In The Of Michael Jurassic Park And Julian England,  CRITIQUE: Studies In Contemporary Fiction 2 (2004): 163. Literature Resource Center. Web. 5 Feb. 2017.< Prasse 6 http://ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true& db=edsglr&AN=edsgcl.113681350&site=eds-live>.