Conaty 1 Jacob Conaty ENC 1101 Emil Smith April 8 th , 2017 Genetically Modified Crops on the Environment Genetically modified crops have become much more relevant in the last decade than ever before. Modified crops, being so new, have raised many concerns for the fertility of the environment and microorganisms that reside in the soil. In recent companies that manufacture these seeds and a few scientists that run studies on these modified crops have deemed them to be safe and efficient with no real evidence to back them up, but numerous studies with plenty of evidence and proof show that modified crops is ruining the worlds topsoil, fertility, and is contributing to the birth of new superbugs and weeds. The creation of genetically modified crops in America is effecting the soil at an unnatural rate. Although, many companies supporting these crops and the few scientist running tests on them say that there is not enough information to conclude if any damage is being done, there is almost double the research saying the genetically modified crops are causing our soil to become unusable in the future. In the article, Crops and Unsustainable Agricultural Practices Destroying our Soil and Food written by Dr. Mercola, he is against the genetically modified crops because he has run studies since the early and has discovered that are running out of topsoil, the layer that allows plants to (Mercola, 1) Dr. Mercola, throughout his career has concluded that we have only about sixty remaining years of topsoil in the world. Forty percent of our worlds soil is classified as degraded or seriously degraded, this is a serious issue considering that in early years the percent of degraded soil was Conaty 2 just below twenty-five percent. Many people generally think that the fertility of soil can be regained, and true but the genetically modified crops is making this difficult because soil is being lost at ten to forty times the rate it can be replenished, and our food production systems are to blame, which epitomized the term (Mercola, 3) Genetically modified crops, although beneficial in food sustainability, is creating many problems for the topsoil which is responsible for growing over seventy percent of the worlds fresh agricultural food. Not only can the genetically modified crops create serious problems to the topsoil but they can also create infertility throughout every layer of soil. In the articles, Crops and Unsustainable Agricultural Practices Destroying our Soil and Food written by Dr. Mercola and another article also written by Dr. Mercola Chemical Shown to Cause Infertility and Super they discuss how the layers of soil are being affected by these modified crops. The latest research suggests that genetically engineered plant cultivation may seriously disrupt soil ecology by reducing microbial diversity, which decreases soil fertility over time, possibly this could be irreversible. There has been arguments floating around this topic saying that the modified crops are helping the soil condition because when they die the soil soaks in the nutrients from the dead on to fertilize its self. Although, that statement may have some truth new research suggests that this is causing an increase in soil infertility at all layers. The way that dying plants being stripped naturally of its nutrients can create infertility goes like this: genetic elements (vector DNA) are present in all GE plants. This vector DNA enables unrelated microorganism species to mate, but can also be transferred to soil microorganisms. Soil Conaty 3 fertility depends on the presence of a diverse blend of microorganisms, all serving different roles in balancing and optimizing the soil. But when unrelated species mate, the soil ecosystem losses diversity, which is proven to damage (Mercola, 7) Until recent the method described above, called the Horizontal Gene Transfer, was only theoretical but we now have the ability to prove its happening. Scientist have ran test after test observing in the field and in labs what happens when the soil and microorganisms absorb the plants nutrients, and what they discovered is that through Horizontal Gene Transfer the genetically engineered crops DNA enables other non-related organisms to mate causing a less diverse blend of nutrients in the soil which causes the soil to lose fertility instead of gaining. In the articles of Genetically Modified Organisms on written by Maria Orton, and the article Effects of Plants Genetically Modified for Insect Resistance on Nontarget  Written by M. both discuss how genetically modified crops can create a type of super weed or superbug. In recent years modified crops have been engineered to resist pests and weeds with no use of pesticides or herbicides leading many to think that there is no possible way a superbug or weed can ever exist, but it can and will. According to Maria Orton, superbugs and weeds will become more widely spread because the modified crops are popping up everywhere which show to be resistant to pests and weeds, but this change in biodiversity will lead the pests and weeds to adapt and the engineered crops be enough to stop them. A superbug is a very real threat coming to many crops, superbug occurs when bacteria or viruses have developed a resistance to the chemicals available to treat Conaty 4 (Orton, 4), because of this, farmers, will have no choice but to start using stronger and more hazardous pesticides and herbicides to keep their crop alive. In the article, review of pesticide effects on Microorganisms and Microbial Processes Related to Soil written by T.B. Moorman, it discusses how the use of stronger and more effective pesticides and herbicides can kill the good nutrients in the soil as well. This method of distinguishing bugs and weeds from the fields would then create even more problems for them because their crop soil will be unusable for many years. Even though many people believe that these modified crops ill reduce the use of pesticides and herbicides because the seeds are engineered to resist pests, its proven that these pests will adapt and be even more destructive to crops than ever been. In conclusion, plenty of articles and studies show evidence of the effects that genetically modified crops have on the environment, we can see that they are playing a huge role in the infertility of the soil, the destruction of the top soil (first layer used to grow crops), and contributing to a worldwide epidemic of new superbugs and weeds able to resist the crops. Although, few scientists have stated that modified crops are safe they do not have sufficient evidence to back their claims up. Research is always taking place and changing what we know, as of now the topic of genetically modified crops is still being argued about whether they are safe and sufficient for soil and microorganisms or harmful and degrading, and in recent years the evidence is pointing towards harmful and degrading. Conaty 5 Citations: Marcola, Dr. GE Crops Destroy Our Soil and Food  Mercola.com. N.p., 12 Jan. 2013. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. M., T. R. Glare, E. P. Burgess, and L. A. Malone. Effects of Plants Genetically Modified for Insect Resistance on Nontarget  Annual Review of Entomology. U.S. National Library of Medicine, n.d. Web. 02 Apr. 2017. Benbrook, Charles M. Impacts of Genetically Engineered Crops on Pesticide Use in the U.S. -- the First Sixteen  Environmental Sciences Europe. Springer Berlin Heidelberg, 28 Sept. 2012. Web. 02 Apr. 2017 Mercola, Dr. Monsanto Chemical Shown to Cause Infertility and Super  Mercola.com. N.p., 2011 Apr. 29. Web. 09 Apr. 2017 Moorman, T. B. 1989. A Review of Pesticide Effects on Microorganisms and Microbial Processes Related to Soil Fertility1. J. Prod. Agric. 2:14-23. doi:10.2134/jpa1989.0014