Aviles1 Saul Aviles Ms. Smith 04/02/17 Composition I Pros vs. Cons of Stem Cells In the Treatment of Diabetes Twenty-nine million individuals in the United States (9.3%) have been diagnosed with diabetes. Diabetes is a disease which affects the insulin producing B cells within the body, thus causing an increase in glucose levels. Even with the rapid advancements in technology, as well as medicine, a successful and dependable treatment procedure has yet to be created for the 2,000- year-old devastating disease. However, the discovery and understanding of stem cells may provide a definite cure for diabetes. Stem cells are unspecialized cells with the ability to manifest into different cells within the human body, when put in the ideal conditions. In short, stem cells can be placed into the pancreas of a diabetic individual, and the stem cells will develop into B cells, which in turn produce insulin, thus curing diabetes. Easier said than done, there is a lot to understand about stem cells and still much to learn before such a goal can be achieved. The use of stem cells to treat diabetes could provide a reliable, safe, and efficient treatment plan, however, the chance of stem becoming cancerous must also be considered. The current worldwide treatment for diabetes is pancreas/islet transplantation. However, a deceased donor is required and a few concerns include: Immune rejection, cumbersome technique, and shortage of donors (Vanikar, 1077). Stem cells provide a solution since the stem cells come from the body, there is little to no chance of immune rejection of cells, the procedure will be safer and easier to perform in comparison pancreas transplantation, and lastly, Aviles2 the rapid division of stem cells provide an unlimited number of cells for transplantation. Although Embryonic Stem cells (ESC) are the best fit for the job, ethical barriers have halted their progress, thus other alternatives had to be found. Adult Stem Cells avoids the ethical restriction placed on ESC, and they can easily be transdifferentiated into insulin producing cells which can safely be transplanted inside of patients. In an experiment performed by El Hossary, the results of using stem cells in treating diabetes on diabetic mice can be seen. El Hossary used mesenchymal stem cells (MSC) derived from an umbilical cord which were there differentiated into induced pluripotent cells (IPC) through a sequence of steps. The mice were then injected either intravenous (tail vain) or intraperitoneal (through the peritoneum) and analyzed over a time span of 90 days. The mice injected intravenous reached an impressive low of FBG level at D.7 with 172.4mg/DI which stayed consistent throughout 56 days. The group injected intraperitoneal reached its lowest FBG level at D35 with 389.46mg/DI, which was lower than the control group, which reached its lowest FBG at 468.7mg/DI on D7 (El Hossary, 102-111). The intravenous group also showed an increase in body weight throughout the 56 days, which concludes that stem cells could prevent pancreatic islet damage to a certain extent in diabetic rats (El hoassary, 102-111). two individual studies of Wang et al., despite different administration methods, similar results were (El Hossary). It can be concluded that El results are credible, and that stem cells can help treat diabetes in diabetic rats. It can also be concluded that stem cells have great potential in being used to treat human patients diagnosed with diabetes. Although the use of stem cells for treating diabetes give a strong case, there are always risks to take into account. The retrieval of Embryonic stem cells involves the destruction of the blastocyst (fertilized egg) (Master, 52). This has led to an outcry, because many see any fertilized Aviles3 egg as a human life, so in essence, the retrieval of ESC involves taking a life. The destruction of a blastocyst can also have detrimental effects on the women. These include but not limited to: Strokes, renal failure, ovarian or uterine cancer, infection, and ovarian hyper stimulation syndrome (Master, 52). Due to the ethical protest and physical effects created by Embryonic stem cell retrieval, its progress had been halted until safer ways of retrieval are created. Although the use of Adult stem cells overcomes the ethical barrier, there is still risks involved, including the possibility of the cell/s becoming cancerous. Both stem cells and cancerous cells share many identical qualities, such as: ability to divide quickly, ability to give rise to multiple cell lineages, expression of telomerase, and similar signaling pathways (Dey, 34). Due to their similar properties, there is the possibility that when injected inside of a patient, a stem cell can grow into a tumor. The mere word of cancer can scare just about anyone away, however risks are involved in just about everything. Furthermore, the use of stem cells for treating diabetic patients includes many pros and cons, and much information is still needed to be discovered about stem cells before such can become a reality. However, Diabetes is a disease that affects more and more individuals every year, and a cure must be found. Stem cells may provide such a cure, if given the opportunity. Aviles4 Works Cited Dey, Devaveena1, ddey@mrdg.iisc.ernet.in, and Annapoorni2, anu@mrdg.iisc.ernet.in Rangarajan. Stem Cells: A Dormant Volcano Within Our  Resonance: Journal Of Science Education 12.3 (2007): 27-34. Education Source. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Master, Zubin1, zubin@zubsplace.com, and G.2, g.crozier@gmail.com Crozier. The Ethics Of Moral Compromise For Stem Cell Research  Health Care Analysis 20.1 (2012): 50-65. OmniFile Full Text Mega (H.W. Wilson). Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Vanikar, Aruna V., Hargovind L. Trivedi, and Umang G. Thakkar. Stem Cell Therapy Emerging As The Key Player In Treating Type 1 Diabetes  Cytotherapy 18.(2016): 1077-1086. ScienceDirect. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. El-Hossary, Nancy, et al. Intravenous Vs Intraperitoneal Transplantation Of Umbilical Cord Mesenchymal Stem Cells From Jelly In The Treatment Of Streptozotocin-Induced Diabetic  Diabetes Research & Clinical Practice 121.(2016): 102-111. CINAHL. Web. 5 Feb. 2017.