Steuer 1 Abi Steuer Mr. Carter ENC 1102 14 March 2017 Persuasive Elements of Barnes and Advertising Barnes and Noble is a company that began in 1873 and has been in business ever since. Their mission from the very beginning has been to the best specialty retail business in America, regardless of the product being (www.barnesandnobleinc.com). As the years have gone by, their main item of sale and focal point of their shop has been books, however, they still strive to keep their stores stocked with other modern and vintage items to please every customer. To keep these guests coming in and shopping at their locations, Barnes and Noble puts out advertisements to intrigue and reel in customers. Two of the most popular types broadcasted are ones that show a scene of adventure that compels the viewer to dive into a book and seek out excitement; the others bluntly states a concept on the cover of a white book with a white background, making the text stick out and cause the viewer to read it and think. While both of these advertisements exemplify Barnes and Noble and seek to drive the reader to shop at their store, they each have their own method of doing so. These posters contain pathos, ethos, logos, and kairos by the use or lack of certain colors, the employment of certain words, the placement of the text, and many other tiny elements that make up the whole picture which aid in convincing the reader to go to Barnes and Noble. Pathos appeals to the emotions and makes the viewer feel a certain way. No company Steuer 2 wants to inflict a feeling of sadness or anger upon their customers (www.louisville.edu). Instead, they look to spark some kind of intrigue. Barnes and Noble does just that with their pictures. The first advertisement seems exciting and adventurous. The vine that is sketched on the page appears a bit jagged because the pencil strokes are small and dotted. This creates the illusion that the vine is moving quickly. One part of the plant is growing upwards and seems to be reaching toward the viewer. This element makes the advertisement more thrilling by adding an engaging aspect to the picture. In the case of the second flyer, there are only small hints of emotional manipulation, the main one residing in the use of The entire image is white aside from the big orange letters in the middle of the page. They are stating a fact that should be known, or at least, that is how the message comes across. Essentially, the advertisement wants the reader to believe the text is correct and that everything written on it is relevant and profound. This makes the viewer feel a bit lost and in need of guidance. They then can look to the bottom of the picture and see the Barnes and Noble logo and decide to visit the store to educate themselves further. With that said, it is immensely important that this company appears credible and makes people feel safe to buy their products. Barnes and Noble does this through their involvement with schools. In the first add with the array of vines, it talks about the summer program, showing that they support student learning and want them to continue reading through the summer break. Research shows that if people keep their mind active during their long breaks it will make transitioning to the next school year much easier. Many individuals know that fact and when they see Barnes and Noble actively supporting and aiding students in this, it makes the company appear moral. This, therefore, creates credibility for the business. The second image demonstrates this same concept by having the iconic Barnes and Noble logo at the bottom of the page. It is small and simple but it speaks loud. The company Steuer 3 makes sure to brand all their advertisement and products so their name is known and trusted. While appealing to emotions and being believable are two very important traits to have as a business, having a logical disposition is of high magnitude as well. Customers want to understand and be understood and that is exactly what Barnes and Noble is reaching out and doing in their billboards. The first publication is obviously a chaotic piece but it logically tells the viewer to join in on the action. Then, right under that, it tells them to get involved and help with the summer program. It seems the theme of the advertisement is participation because the picture and text are asking the individual to handle the situation in front of them and the smaller phrase below explains that aiding in the summer program would help many people. Volunteering and assisting others are obviously wonderful actions to take part in and a majority of the customers will understand that. The second quote is reasonable and provokes logical thinking without the use of fancy pictures or multicolored elements. When the viewer thinks about meeting a person for a date, they would not commit to them and say they will spend all their time with them without meeting them first. Reading a book is very much the same way- it is a commitment. One spends a lot of time involved in a book and if the individual goes out and buys their books online without reading some of it and flipping through the pages, they will not know if they like the book (www.makingafortune.biz). This concept is easily understandable and most people that view the poster should find its content reasonable. Every advertisement has a sense of timeliness to it for the company wants the individual to buy their products as soon as possible. The phrase in the first picture is quite demanding and pushes the reader to join the program and go to their nearest Barnes and Noble. The into also commands people to respond. The advertisement in it of itself is fun and lighthearted, but the fact that giant vines are bursting out of the book and appear to be on Steuer 4 the verge of engulfing the page inflict a feeling of urgency. Since the plant seems to be growing out of control and the text tells the viewer what they should do, it seems that if they complete the action, it will stop the overarching distress articulated. In the second advertisement, the entire tone creates a sense of urgency. The picture tells the viewer that they should not settle with buying a book online and that they need to go buy a physical copy. Immediately after that message, the Barnes and Noble logo is boldly posted, which is a blatant declaration that the reader should hurry and get down to that store. Some people do not see the picture in that way and do not undergo such feelings. In that case, directly under the picture the advertisement tells the viewer to get involved by joining a summer reading program. This text is matter of fact and causes the emotions to rise. It sounds like time is running out and they need to join the program at that moment. Either way, the advertisement instigates kairos within the mind, whether that be through the picture of the vines, the immediacy of the text, or both. Although customers may not take an excessive amount of time to view these advertisements, their brains automatically detect certain hints the pictures are dropping. Therefore, even if the individual is in a hurry and they simply glance at the poster in passing, their subconscious will still feel the pathos, ethos, logos, and kairos of the pictures. The bolded words, chaotic picture schemes, and demanding tone of the advertisements push people to experience their message. Steuer 5 Works Cited Works Cited Barnes & Noble History B&N  Barnes & Noble Inc. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <http://www.barnesandnobleinc.com/about-bn/heritage/>. Barnes &  Barnes & Noble. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Mar. 2017. <http://www.makingafortune.biz/list-of-companies-b/barnes-&-noble.htm>. Logos, Ethos, Pathos,  Www.louisville.edu. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <https://louisville.edu/writingcenter/for-students-1/handouts-and-resources/handouts- 1/logos- ethos-pathos-kairos>. Swing Into Action. Digital image. Barnesandnoble.com. N.p., n.d. Web. 9 Mar. 2017. You Commit. Digital image. Www.barnesandnoble.com. N.p., n.d. Web. 8 Mar. 2017. Steuer 6 Steuer 7