Atkinson 1 RaeAnn Atkinson Aranda ENC 1102 February 3, 2017 Standardized Testing for College Admissions A big debate in education today is about standardized testing and if it is useful for college admissions. Seniors prep for college by taking the SAT. Some students take this test multiple times and even pay to get private tutoring before sitting down to take the four-hour test. The purpose of this test is to prepare students for college and to see how they score for college admissions. The SAT developer, College Board, wants students to succeed by preparing and taking the exam sometime during their junior or senior year. College Board believes that by preparing for the exam, the students will also be preparing for college. Cornell University is a college that requires all SAT scores be submitted. Although Cornell will where the highest grades in each subject are combined to make a new score, they still require all results to be sent. Most colleges allow you to only send the scores that you choose. Both of these stakeholders want success for students, but have slightly different ideas of how. If Collegeboard could come up with lessons and for middle and high school students to prepare more during class time, then students would not spend as much time and money out of the classroom preparing for this test. Also, Cornell University could have a test optional policy so that students can focus more on grades and extracurricular activities rather than studying all for this one test. The College Board is an organization that want to success for students who will be entering college. They create the SAT, which is the test most institutions use when considering a Atkinson 2 student for admission. The College Board mission statement states that they are, mission- driven not-for-profit organization that connects students to college success and (Collegeboard.org). Although the College Board is a non-profit organization, many students pay other people or tutoring businesses to have tutoring for this test. Private tutoring runs about $115 an hour (Pittsburgh Post-Gazette). The College Board says that the purpose of the SAT is to monitor progress, which is a good way for college admissions boards to see how students preform since all students take the same test. After the test is taken, the students will receive a report of how they did in each subject which include math, reading and writing. These categories are then broken down even further so that students can see the exact topics they struggle on and need to study more for the future. If the Collegeboard were able to help all students in the classroom prepare or the SAT and college in general, students could spend more time on other important things that colleges also look at, such as grade point averages and extracurricular activities. College board already creates exercises through Springboard, which is a type of textbook for English and math classes. Since they already have a program like this, it is easy to see that lessons for every subject would be beneficial. Overall, the College Board uses the SAT to help students succeed and get prepared for college. The second stakeholder who would have an interest in this topic would be the college admissions committee of Cornell University. Cornell is a college that requires all SAT scores to be submitted. They are one of the colleges who do not participate in the Score Choice option, which is where you can submit which scores you would like. Cornell adds, that Cornell requires students to submit all scores from SAT tests taken and does not participate in the College Score to their admissions requirements page (Cornell.edu)This is not a great option for students who do not test well because it does not leave much room for mistakes, Atkinson 3 but also it could be helpful so Cornell can see that a test score has improved significantly since their first try. If Cornell changed their policy to one similar to St. Leo University, where students are not required at all the submit scores, then they may see a jump in GPA, in class test scores, and other things that also are taken into consideration when a student is applying to college. With a test optional policy, students can still submit SAT scores if they will it will benefit them in the application process, but they are not required to. If Cornell has the same outlook as St Leo does, they may admit very succesful students based on other aspects of their application. As stated on St. Leos admissions page, Leo University emphasizes a holistic review of credentials for admission and we believe that factors other than test scores are stronger predictors of a potential to succeed in (StLeo.edu)Cornell may turn someone down for admissions because their tests scores are not excellent, but they student could still be very successful at the university. The test optional policy would get rid of test scores being the deciding factor on admitted a student. Both of these stakeholders want success for students who are entering college. The College Board created the SAT for students to get prepared for college and uses the test as a way to measure success. Cornell admissions committee want students to be prepared and do their best because they want successful students at their university. A compromise that would benefit both stakeholders would be for College Board to come up with lessons to be taught in the classroom so that students can all get prepared for college equally and Cornell could have the test optional policy. Some students do not get into the college of their choice because of their SAT score even though they did well in their classes throughout high school. Also, some colleges weigh it very heavily in their decision for admissions. In the article, The Role of Standardized Tests in College Admissions, Syverson says less frequently is a college representative Atkinson 4 asked about the average GPA or high school class rank of their freshman This is saying that most incoming students really only worry about SAT scores and not anything else that could be taken into consideration for them to get into college. If Cornell were to look at the rest of the application, including GPA, extracurricular activities and community service, then students could focus more on these things during high school rather than SAT prep. Things of this sort are important for a student to spend time on in high school and can make them a very successful college student. Also, students already pay so much money for college admissions that they should not have to pay for hours of tutoring to perform well on the SAT. If College Board added lessons in class, this would eliminate the financial problem. An article from the radio show All Things Considered, tells how SAT scores do not prove how well of a student you will be. Bill Hiss, the vice president for external affairs at Bates College says, third of our classes enroll with no testing. The difference in grade-point averages between submitters and non-submitters is 5/100ths of a GPA (National Pubic Radio). This shows that a compromise like the one proposed can work. College Board can benefit from this because they would still be creating the test for students to take, but they could also focus on the preparing students more for college. This would be free for all students because they would integrate it into everyday class. Instead of focusing mostly on the student taking the test, they could shift their focus to tutoring and exercises for students to improve each year so that grades and GPA go up and there is a greater chance for college acceptance to Cornell University, as well as any other college. In conclusion, both stakeholder organizations want success for students entering college. If the organizations came to a compromise, it would benefit both of them. College Board could make curriculum for students during their everyday classes that prepares them for college and the Atkinson 5 SAT so that they are not forced to spend their own time doing so. Also, Cornell University could have a test-optional policy so that students can put more effort into other necessary things for college acceptance. Overall, this compromise could work very well since College Board already has Spring Board and other colleges have already gone to the test-optional policy. Atkinson 6 Works Cited Collegeboard.org Cornell.edu Commentary: Case against the use of standardized test score for college  All Things Considered, 4 Jan. 2005. Literature Resource Center, College Board jumps into SAT coaching as test changes  Pittsburgh Post-Gazette [Pittsburgh, 3 June 2015. Business Insights: Essentials. Web. 5 Feb. 2017 Stleo.edu Syverson, Steven. The Role Of Standardized Tests In College Admissions: Test-Optional  New Directions For Student Services 2007.118 (2007): 55-70. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 5 Feb. 2017.