Roman Dominguez 1 Ana Adam Carter ENC 1102 23 February 2017 Rhetorical Analysis of Prostitution Ads The organization Global Alliance Against Traffic in Women (GAATW) defends human rights, being against making prostitution legal. Prostitution not only goes against some human rights it also causes other problems such as Human Trafficking. That means that the person is being recruited, or obtained with the purpose of sexual actions without their consent by force. Most of the time it is a fraud where they play with the person telling them that they own something and the only way to give it back is by this performance. Because of situations like that one of the most popular explotation is sex trafficking, affecting women with 70% being trafficken into the commercial sex trade. There are two pictures added at the end of this paper ( Red Light District). One of them is a women inside of a box and the second one is a siluate on white with the background on red and another women with her mouth open on the right. Both of them are advertisements that are obvious that are against prostitution. GAATW uses the appeals of logos, ethos, pathos and kairos through their advertisement to make the audience aware of the idea of making prostitution legal would increase human trafficking In the second image it refers to ethos, that is the appeal of morality, by saying on the right in the bottom of the picture, the government of Luxembourg which gives the audience the credibility. It is important to see that part of the picutre even knowing that it Roman Dominguez 2 is a small portion on the right and it does not get your attention right away. Once the audience sees this part it makes them think that they should believe the message because it provides the image with credibility. Pathos refers to emotions. Both images show prostitution as the concept of people the product saying that they promote human trafficking. In the first picture a woman appears inside of a box with transparent plastic on top where you normally can find steak or fish inside. On the bottom you can find the code, so that means that she is being sold like food, or a piece of meat . It is not only the fact that she appears in a container which can find food. It is also the fact that the food is shown to everybody and it is not a box where you only can see the picture. The same happens when you go to buy that steak you can see how red it looks, how tasty it seems. So it is the same with this picture. You can judge her before you get her. You can see if you like the product because it is the way that she is being sold. That makes you feel that you are buying a human. Also her legs are crossed but she cannot cover herself because her arms are up which means that she is unprotected. Once you see that advertisement it makes you feel upset and angry, but at the same time vulnerable. Prostitution is represented as the sale of a body as an object. Poeple do not want to feel objectified. On the second picture the fact that there is a hand on the body make us think how miserable is the fact that the person that is being sold does not know the person who is buying them. The woman is in white and the background is red. Red is used to capture attention. At the same time the hand seems big when compared with the body of the woman which probably tells us that she is pretty young. On the picture on the right, they are using light colors, different types of white for everything. On the other hand they are again using the Roman Dominguez 3 red lips to create the constrast. Her mouth is almost in the middle of the picture making you focus your attention on that part when you first look the picture. It is a powerful image that explains the feelings of GAATW towards prostitution. In the first picture you pay a prostitute, you are financing human is refering to the appeal of logos that means logic. Some people do not realize that paying a prostitute can actually have these effects, and can be promoting that abuse. The information that appears written on the picture tells us the percentage of people who fall as victims of human trafficking and they say that 92% are used for sex and 98% of them are children and women which is pretty significant. For the second picture the sentence sex fuels human is talking about the same idea. Since the body of the women in the second picture is small it tells us that they are not only talking about human trafficking in general, they are also talking about children who are the most vulnerable. So that means that they are not only talking about women trafficking they are also talking about children trafficking. Kairos talks about timeliness. Prostitution has been there for a really long time but these pictures talk about something else. These images are giving us a clear message. The message is that you should do something and you should do it immediately. They are basically asking for help, asking for action, asking for response. It is something that should stop. It is not because prostitution, it is because of human trafficking. It is a huge problem and the percentage is pretty significant. People should not be recruited, kidnapped or forced to do something that they do not want. The last picture with the woman with the red lips tells the audience that they are the ones who should react and Roman Dominguez 4 avoid this situation. She cannot do anything, she does not have a voice in this. Her mouth is open but she cannot speak because there is something in the way. After analyzing these two images it is clear that both of them support Global Alliance Against Traffic in Women (GAATW) position about prostituion. Both of them reflect the idea of prostitution as promoting human trafficking as women are being sold as an object. The intention of these two pictures is to show that they are against the idea of making prostitution legal. By making the audience feel that women are being sold as food and aware that they are being attacked or they are victims of human trafficking, the images make the audience see this job as something negative. Something that goes against the rights of humans, so even if they did not see it before, now they have another perspectve. It is an individual choice to be in the world of prostitution, but organizations as GAATW will try different ways, as they did in here with these two advertisments to convince the audience that making prostitution legal will make the problem worse. It will promote human trafficking and it goes against the human rights. It is significant how much all of this information they are capable of transmitting to the audience by observing pictures. Roman Dominguez 5 Roman Dominguez 6 Roman Dominguez 7 Works Cited AdCat, By:. Posts about Advert on The AD  The AD catalogue. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Feb. 2017. Red Light District - Human Trafficking  Red Light District - Human Trafficking . N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Feb. 2017. Global Alliance Against Traffic in  Home - The Global Alliance Against Traffic in Women (GAATW). N.p., n.d. Web. 14 Feb. 2017. Higgins, Colin and Robyn Walker. Ethos, Logos, Pathos: Strategies of Persuasion in Social/Environmental  Accounting Forum, vol. 36, no. Analyzing the Quality, Meaning and Accountability of Organizational Communication, 01 Sept. 2012, pp. 194-208. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.accfor.2012.02.003. Petrovici, Iasmina. Aspects of Symbolic Communications in Online  Procedia - Social and Behavioral Sciences, vol. 149, no. LUMEN 2014 - From Theory to Inquiry in Social Sciences, Iasi, Romania, 10-12 April 2014, 05 Sept. 2014, pp. 719-723. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.sbspro.2014.08.276