Alfalatah1 Sarah Abdulkadir Alfalatah Modlin-Jackson ENC1101 3/26/2017 Criminal behavior and Mental Illness Researchers studies have varied over the years in determining if there is a relationship between criminal behavior and mental illness. Both earlier and later sources focus on establishing what is the relationship between mental illness and criminality; however, they consider different facts that affect criminality and use different methods to find a relationship. Earlier sources that were before 2010 showed that a lot of people with mental illness were arrested more often based on having a mental disorder, and believed that being mentally ill increased their chance of criminal behavior. Recent research focused more on analyzing and paying attention to other facts that could lead to criminal behavior and was more open to other effects other than just being mentally ill. Earlier sources were more narrow and focused on aspects that could be linked to psychiatric and mental facts. The recent research is broader and considers other facts that do not necessarily imply mental illness and their effects on criminal behavior. Over the years, researchers have been studying the possibility of committing crimes because of mental illness and tried to prove if mental illness does increase criminal behavior or not. In 2006, there was a criminal hypothesis which basically tested a theory of two major possibilities for committing crimes. According to John Junginger, the first possibility for criminal behavior is that mentally ill individuals are more often to be arrested and incarcerated Alfalatah2 than the majority of society. The second possibility is that being diagnosed with a mental disease increases the risk of engaging in criminal behavior. Substance abuse was also taken into consideration for affecting criminal behavior in this study. Raters analyzed the reason committed crimes and if it was related directly or indirectly to mental illness and substance abuse. Results show that mental illness and substance abuse have a minor effect on criminal behavior, but the possibility of committing a crime because of substance abuse is more likely to happen (882). Researchers considered more factors for criminal behavior other than mental illness in a study in 2014 by Matt Vogel. Drug addiction, alcoholism, and contact with criminal justice, were all considered as reasons for increased criminal behavior. Being diagnosed with a mental illness does slightly increase an possibility of engaging in criminal behavior (344). Results from research imply that being diagnosed with a mental illness does not necessarily determine that the person will commit any sort of crime, but it is a criminogenic risk factor. There are always more factors to consider that could influence violent behavior other than having a mental disorder (344). Therefore, criminal behavior is a difficult matter to understand completely and relate it to a specific number of certain facts like mental illness, drug addiction, The ability to understand criminal behavior depends on realizing the variety of facts leading to criminal behavior and establishing effective ways to decrease the risk of engaging in that sort of behavior. Researchers in both the earlier and later sources examine patients who have a mental illness; however, the later source only focused on patients from mental health programs. The earlier source examined mentally ill patients and others with a normal mental health. A study was published in 2010 where there was a mixture of participants who suffered from mental Alfalatah3 illness and others with stable mental health. Jillian Peterson studied a hypothesis that implies the main reason for criminal behavior is untreated psychiatric symptoms. Results from the study demonstrate that only 7% of the participants support the hypothesis; majority of the participants do not commit crimes based on mental illness (1221). Both groups have demonstrated criminal behavior effected by emotional reactions to a certain situation, lack of restraint, loathing for others, and drug addiction. Peterson mentions at the end of the article that considering all the other risk factors that lead to criminal behavior and not just focusing on mental health problems could help to lower the rate of criminality (1222). A later study by Na Zhu in 2013 studied individuals who have attention problems specifically ADHD. The study analyzes and examines the difference between 36 forensic and non-forensic patients from different mental health programs. Some researchers believe that mentally ill patients do not have a higher risk for engaging in criminal behavior (316). The study found that criminal behavior had higher rates in patients who have ADHD; however, results did not show a significant connection between criminality and attention problems(324). Mental illness does effect criminal behavior, but it is not a main reason that leads to criminality. Analyzing how the studies and research changed over the years provides us with more information and knowledge on what is the relationship between criminality and mental illness. The studies do have a consistency and relate to each other in many ways, but they also analyze situations with different perspectives and methods. All studies try to understand if mental health problems increase and effect criminal behavior. The earlier sources were more focused on proving that mental illness does cause criminality and mostly did not consider other factors that could lead to criminal and violent behavior. Results in earlier sources show that criminal Alfalatah4 behavior results from more than just being diagnosed with a mental illness. The later sources considered through-out their studies other factors like drug addiction, alcoholism, family abuse, and contact with the criminal justice system. Some studies have shown that mental illness does increase criminal behavior, but majority of the studies show that mental illness has a minor effect on criminality and people engage in criminal behavior based on a variety of facts and reasons. Determining and understanding what the other factors that lead to criminal behavior and figuring a way to decrease those risks is very important to the society. People should also keep in mind that mental illness, drug addiction, abuse, and alcoholism, do effect criminal behavior. Furthermore, that does not mean anyone who suffers from one of those factors is a criminal because they effect criminality, but they are not the only reasons for violent behavior. Put in mind someone you know who struggles from a mental illness or alcoholism and if they get arrested more often and treated unfairly and how you would feel about the injustice. Criminal behavior is more complex to understand than the society believes. Alfalatah5 Works Cited Vogel, Matt. Illness and Criminal Sociology Compass, vol. 8, no. 4, 2014. pp. 337-346. doi:10.1111/soc4.12140. Junginger, John, and et, al. of Serious Mental Illness and Substance Abuse on Criminal Psychiatric Services, vol. 57, no. 6, 2006. pp. 879-882. doi:10.1176/ps.2006.57.6.879. Zhu, Na, and et, al. Role of Inattention in the Relationship Between Mental Illness and Journal of Forensic Psychology Practice, vol. 13, no. 4, 2013. pp. 315-325. doi:10.1080/15228932.2013.817888 Peterson, Jillian, et al. Offense Patterns as a Function of Mental Illness to Test the Criminalization Psychiatric Services, vol. 61, no. 12, 2010. pp. 1217-1222. doi:10.1176/ps.2010.61.12.1217.