Gage 1 Vernon Gage Prof. Cat Modlin-Jackson ENC 1101 03/26/2017 Perception of Video Games Over Time Video games and the scholarly conversation pertaining to them have changed throughout the progression of time. Before 2011, researchers studied the impacts that video games have on mental state while after 2011, the research areas shifted towards the influence that video games have on emotion. Moreover, the techniques that were being used to obtain data among study subject have changed. Before 2011, DNA was not used to obtain data. As time progressed experiments were used that relied on changes in DNA samples that were caused by playing video games. Another change related to video games involves the factors that influence potential benefits that they can pose. Although there is no consistency in results before and after 2011, the potential benefits that they pose differentiate between researchers. The ideology and mentality that researchers had related to video games had a narrow focus before 2011, but due to technological advancements researchers are better able to obtain results and the potential that video games have are being revealed. A change in the conversation about video games is scholars results on the impacts that video games have on mental functions. Before 2011 most of the research performed focused how video games influence people on a mental level. According to Elizabeth Hutton, while playing video games the most beneficial impact occurs between high and low levels of arousal she says that important discovery of this study is that the degradation of cognitive performance at very high levels of arousal, noted by the Yerkes-Dodson law (Yerkes & Dodson, 1908) and demonstrated here by the self-reported drop in mental energy, can indeed be beneficial for Gage 2 fostering (Hutton 300). Another results show that most of the mental changes from playing video games were positive. Tom research showed that most of these behavior-change video games led to a broad spectrum of desirable outcomes from knowledge increases, to attitude changes, behavior changes, and other health- related (Baranowski 4). After 2011 researchers shifted their focus towards the emotional impacts that playing video games could cause. Isabela research focused on the children and she says may be among the most efficient and effective means by which children and youth generate positive (Granic 71). The accomplishments they make inside of the video games give themselves a sense of accomplishment which then directly boost them on an emotional level. Unfortunately, an opposite scenario the opposite result can be observed. This occurred in Doulas research where a violent video game led to more aggressive thoughts being (Gentile 42). What this does is portray both sides of the spectrum in regards to scholars research. Additionally, over the years the methods researchers use to obtain data have changed. Prior to 2011 the data collected tried to refrain from collecting DNA samples from test subject the experiments were being conducted on. In experiment search was conducted to find conducted experiments that examined video games and health-related (Baranowski 2). Instead of conducting an experiment the researchers chose to use data from the experiments of other to reach a conclusion. research data was collected differently. After allowing participants to play different genres of video games test subjects were given a test where the results indicated changes in mental state (Hutton 296). It was not until more recent times where DNA was used in experimentation. Cortisol levels change proportionally with stress levels. In order to test changes in cortisol levels DNA from saliva can be tested. This was used in Gage 3 Gentiles experiment where samples were taken to determine changes among (Gentile 41). Moreover, information regarding the factors that influence potential benefits that video games can pose have changed over time. There is no pattern found between the results found before 2011 and the ones found afterwards. This is likely due to the many variables that can contribute to how video games impact individuals. One factor that was studied by Gentile was how violent video games impact children. All of the observable results were negative and according to him the experiment related to playing violent video games no benefits were recorded among the children (Gentile 42). With Granics experimentation genres of video games showed cognitive improvements, benefits in long term memory, and improvements in social (Granic 41). This shows that genre is the largest factor in potential benefits of video games. The amount of stimulation also plays a role in recordable benefits with a prime example being experiment where contrary to the formulated hypothesis that predicted an increase in creativity proportionate to an increase in arousal after playing video games, increases in creativity were shown in extremely low levels of arousal and high levels (Hutton 298,299)). The final factor that influences how video games can benefit individuals is content. Aside from Gentile, research reached a somewhat similar conclusion where games can be used to positively manipulate individuals by providing stimulating (Baranowski 4). In summation, video games and the impact that they can have on mental functions have changed over time. The various techniques researchers use to obtain data and conduct research have been better developed. Over time researchers have found new factors that contribute to impacts that video games can pose on different groups of individuals. Thus, the obsolete Gage 4 mentality that video games are detrimental have been broken down and the potential improvement that video games cause are been illuminated. Gage 5 Works Cited Gentile, Douglas. video game effects on salivary cortisol, arousal, and aggressive thoughts in Computers in Human Behavior, vol. 70, (2017), p. 39-43. dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jshs.2014.12.004, (Accessed Jan. 29, 2017) Granic, Isabela, and Adam Lobel. Benefits of Playing Video American Psychologist, vol. 69 (2014): p. 66-78. 10.1037/a0034857, (Accessed Feb. 2, 2017) Hutton, Elizabeth, and S. Shyam Sundar. Video Games Enhance Creativity? Effects of Emotion Generated by Dance Creativity Research Journal, vol. 22 (2010): p. 294-303. 10.1080/10400419.2010.503540, (Accessed Feb. 2, 2017) Baranowski, Tom And Special Article: Playing For Real. Video Games And Stories For Health-Related Behavior  American Journal of Preventive Medicine, vol. 34 (2010): p. 74-82. 3474-82.e10. ( Accessed Feb. 3, 2017)