Kim 1 So hyun Kim Modlin-Jackson ENC1101 22 March 2017 Teaching methods in developing countries. Researchers have changed their field of studying in teaching strategies between 2000 to 2010 and 2011 to 2017. During 2000 and 2010, they are mostly interested in e-learning education. However, their focal point of teaching methods has moved. It does not mean the researchers are completely ignoring e-learning education. Researchers still consider e-learning, but they seem like finding the more effective way of teaching students by improving abilities. This is because in the developing countries there is lack of technologies for supporting internet and high technologies based education. Before 2011, the researchers tried to support and introduce e-education, but after 2011, they try different ways of escalating education by reason of obstacles for performing technology-based education in developing countries. Researchers have shifted their field of teaching methods from technology to human. During the years, researchers have looked for effective ways of teaching students all over the world. E-learning is not only important for developing countries but also it is also crucial for developed countries. According to the Richard Larson which is early source before 2011, BLOSSOM is a project which is electronic based, cross-border, collaborative and teaching system. The author argues that the schools sustain a 19 old education styles. Therefore, the educators in the developing countries are encouraged to make video modules by following BLOSSOMS project (Larson, Elizabeth 95). However, the researchers of this article also noticed that there are some difficulties in providing electronic devices. For example, some Kim 2 developing countries even cannot have enough foundation for using the CD, DVD, and VHS (Larson, Elizabeth 99). After 2011, investigators more concentrated on roles and a relationship between students, teachers, cultures, and teaching methods. Azigwe studied various methods in 2016 such as participants and students background factors. For instance, each student has different household economic durables and parents support (Azigwe, J.B., et al. 51). Some parents have an interest in academic record and encourage them to finish homework for following classes. And, some students have opportunities to keep their studying after finishing their schools, but others cannot have enough chances to keep studying because they do not have the proper environment for studying (Azigwe, J.B., et al. 54). Especially roles are more important in developing countries than developed countries. Researchers mention that how teachers can interact with their students and what teachers should do for their academic success (Azigwe, J.B., et al. 54). Teachers help their students to fix their misbehaviors and offer well-constructed home works for helping students to understand class subjects. Also, teachers can explain the way of managing time and various kind of study strategies which are essential for student life. Without proper supporting, successful education performance is impossible to achieve in both developing countries and developed countries. In developed countries, already teachers have highly educated and they are professional to teaching students, but teachers in developing countries cannot easily possess educational opportunities. Hence, researchers focus on ability to lead students and backgrounds. This is because the researchers found that improving capability and analyzing circumstances are more efficient methods of improving education quality than e-education system. Next, researchers studied the e-education by comparing the negative and positive Kim 3 aspects and suggesting the solutions for problems of e-education in developing countries before 2011. Moussa says that there are benefits of using e-education in developing countries. People can have high-quality education and it helps the number of educated people increase because people can easily access to high-level information (Moussa and Sandra 3). However, there are also a lot of limitation of e-education. Many schools have few attentions to high-quality education and cannot get enough financial support for buying facilities for e-education (Moussa and Sandra 2). Even some schools have electronic equipment, instructors lack fundamental knowledge for running the internet based programs and devices. So, Moussa and Sandra suggests recommendation for developing countries. A government has to realize the importance of e-education and try to spread e-learning in developing countries. Also, developed countries help developing countries to understand this system such as sending experts to developing countries for introducing e-learning. However, after 2011, the researchers compared a characteristic of teachers between developing countries and developed countries. Developing countries have traditional methods of teaching because of the huge gaps between students and instructors than developed countries (Deb 73). It shows that they cannot interact with each other. And the exam is not practical in developing countries. For example, during a math exam, teachers can offer formula sheets and it helps students to study other essential concepts of math than wasting time for memorizing formulas (Deb 73). The researchers shift their attention from carrying out e-learning to qualification. In conclusion, the researchers have moved their interests of research in teaching methods over period of time. The field of research which was mainly related to positive and feasibility of e-education before 2010, but they start to look for in class materials. For example, behaviors and backgrounds. Therefore, the researchers noticed that Kim 4 improving abilities and understanding background are more effective strategies than introducing e-learning. We have to consider teaching methods for improving both teachers and students because the students in developing countries can get decent job and it can help developing countries have better chance to be developed countries. In addition, education is important for both developing countries and developed countries. Therefore, developed countries should help the developing countries to have high technology for using e learning system. Kim 5 Works Cited Azigwe, J.B., et al. The Impact Of Effective Teaching Characteristics In Promoting Student Achievement In  International Journal Of Educational Development, vol.51, Nov. 2016, pp. 51-61. ScienceDirect. doi:10.1016/j.ijedudev.2016.07.004 Deb, Pradip. Physics Teaching And Learning Methods: Comparison Between The Developed And Developing Country  AIP Conference Proceedings, vol.1263, no,1. July. 2010, pp. 70-74. doi:10.1063/1.3479897 Larson, Richard C.1, and M. Elizabeth Murray. Open Educational Resources For Blended Learning In High Schools: Overcoming Impediments In Developing  Journal Of Asynchronous Learning Networks, vol.12, Feb. 2008, pp.85-103. Education Source. Accessed 2 Feburary. Moussa, Nabil, and Sandra Moussa. Quality Assurance Of E-Learning In Developing  Nonlinear Analysis, vol.71, no.12, Dec. 2009, pp. 32-34 doi:10.1016/j.na.2008.10.003