Lambotharan Vijayan Cat Modlin Jackson ENC 1101 03/02/2017 Hydrogen Fuels Hydrogen fuels has been a topic of discussion for awhile now and extensive research has taken place throughout the years. Without a question, hydrogen fuels has a far better promise than any other renewable source for the future of many developed and developing countries. Before 2010, hydrogen fuels were believed to only save the environment from many harmful pollutants. While after 2010, it was proven to not only save the environment from pollutants but also improve the economy of a nation. Before 2010, researchers were convinced that hydrogen could only be produced from natural gas. However, the stand has changed in recent years; researchers found out that hydrogen could be produced without the use of natural gases by using sunlight energy to power electrolysis to break down water into hydrogen and oxygen. The information and the production of hydrogen were restricted to lesser areas before the year 2010, but due to the shift of the research areas, researches explore new aspects of issues and have broaden the areas of hydrogen studies and hydrogen productions. Throughout the years, researchers have found more vital roles in the application of hydrogen. Before 2010, hydrogen was believed to save the environment from harmful pollutants. Researches found that environmental pollution was going over the board and was not only harming the earth but also the living organisms that lived on the earth. According to L.M Das, Hydrogen energy has distinctive properties,the application of hydrogen energy gives us immense benefits in the alleviation of problems due to climate change, pollution and security of the (750). Research results have shown that the burning of hydrogen fuel only produces water as a byproduct. After 2010, researchers found that hydrogen fuels does not only save the environment from harmful pollutants but also improves a economical growth. Adeel Ahmed suggests that fuel would be one of the best possible alternatives for the Malaysian (1377). For example, hydrogen fuels can be obtained by electrolysing water and heavy machineries to drill the earth surface to extract oil would not be needed anymore. Energy could already be saved by not powering heavy machineries and there would be no need for anti-pollutant developments. Those factors can save a country from using a lot of money hence, improves the economy of the country. Therefore, researches have found out that hydrogen fuels does not only act as an alternative fuel that can save the environment but it also acts as an agent for a economical development. Another aspect which has shifted from time to time is the type of sources used in hydrogen production. In the earlier research, researchers have made investigations on how to extract hydrogen to use it as fuels and for other aspects. According to A. B. Vandyshev Temperature Membrane Units are highly promising for special-purity (super-purity) hydrogen (SPH) production from natural gas consisting practically of methane (Page 726). For instance, hydrogen is available in abundance but it is not a free element that can be just collected from air. It has to be cracked out from a source which is rich in hydrogen and in this case hydrogen is being extracted from natural gases which which has a substantial amount of hydrogen. In the recent research, researchers found that hydrogen can be generated in variable ways including water electrolysis electrochemical, thermochemical, photochemical, photocatalytic, laser electrolysis and photoelectrochemical processes. fossil fuel gives the highest contribution to hydrogen producing industries, the availability of this source will run out in the future. This is one of the main reasons of rapid developments of hydrogen production is very (Noriah Bidin 134). This shows us the shift in development of hydrogen production throughout the years and this developments are promising as they give hope to the energy sectors. In conclusion, researchers have expanded their research and have found different other aspects in the areas of research in hydrogen fuels. The areas of research which have been changed are mainly on the production of hydrogen and the application of the hydrogen to the environment and economy. The researchers and the application of hydrogen fuels stand on the incorporation of hydrogen fuels in the energy sectors. Over the years, researchers have been exploring new ways to produce hydrogen from natural resources to save the environment from pollution and also to feed countries which are suffering from energy starvation. The idea of extracting hydrogen from alternative resources is brilliant because it is a process which would not harm the environment or further pollute it. Hence the incorporation of hydrogen fuels in the energy sectors in developed or developing countries are increasing largely, and the information about hydrogen fuels that people receive has become broader than it use to be. Works Cited DAS, L.M. potential of hydrogen as an alternative fuel for the transport and power sector in International Journal of Environmental Studies, Vol. 64, No. 6, Routledge Taylor and Francis, December 2007, pp DOI: 10.1080/00207230701770418. Ahmed, Adeel, et al. fuel and transport system: A sustainable and environmental International Journal of Hydrogen Energy, Volume 41, Issue 3, 21 January 2016, pp Bidin, Noriah, et al. The effect of sunlight in hydrogen production from electrolysis International Journal of Hydrogen Energy, Vol 42, 1, Elsevier Ltd, Issue, 5 January 2017, Pages doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhydene.2016.11.203. Vandyshev, A. B. Kulikov, V.A. ENGINEERING, PRODUCTION AND USE OF INDUSTRIAL GASES, VACUUM Chemical and Petroleum Engineering, Vol 46, Nos. March, 2011 (Russian Original Nos. Dec., 2010).