Pradeep Yadav Cat Modlin Jackson ENC 1101 28 March 2017 CHANGE IN PERSPECTIVE ON RENEWABLE RESOURCES TAKING OVER NON-RENEWABLE RESOURCES AND AFFECT ON ECONOMY Will Renewable resources ever be able to take over the Non-renewable resources such as the fossil fuels? It has always been the topic of discussion since many years after human have realized how we are running out of fossil fuels in our pursuit of development and economic stability. Not so long back during the last decade in 2005, it was believed that economies will still grow on even due to scarcity of natural resources till there is a continuous flow of the technical progress. Whereas in the year 2012, with much more broader research and deep understanding of the topic It was found out that economies can be stable and go upwards in the presence of the fixed rate in the market. The thoughts and ideas have been changing ever since this topic has been brought up to the general public. Growth in Overlapping Generation Economies with Non-Renewable Resources (2005) vs. What Is Stopping the Renewable Energy Transformation and What Can the US Government Do (2015) By the reading of the article, Growth in Overlapping Generation Economies with Non- Renewable Resources (2005), we came to know that economies tend to grow in spite of of how less the resources are left for the future until we have a continuous flow of technical particular, Stiglitz, analyzes the sustainability of a long-run positive growth rate in a model la with exhaustible resources as essential inputs and with exogenous technological progress and Stiglitz told that the stationary depletion rate of the non-renewable resources can be taken out by the saving rates of the same resources. Whereas a article from the year 2015,What Is Stopping the Renewable Energy Transformation and What Can the US Government Do?, describes about how the U.S.A. is focusing more on the economy based on renewable resources, government investment in research and development, renewable energy technology can advance enough to become a low-cost alternative to fossil fuel but being held back my different barriers like technology not very advanced and developed, infrastructure not so developed for renewable resources and the most important the complicated political issues which changes from government to government. So we can see how topics regarding the use and economic perspective changed from just a span of less than a decade. On The Relation Between The Endogenous Growth Rate Of The Economy And The Dynamics Of Renewable Resources (2009) vs. On Equilibrium In Resource Markets With Scale Economies And Stochastic Prices (2012) In this paper, On The Relation Between The Endogenous Growth Rate Of The Economy And The Dynamics Of Renewable Resources(2009), we could make out that there are two main concepts from the endogenous growth model which are exogenous technical progress and the second is the accumulation of the renewable natural resources. The main point of the topic is that it tells us how it is possible to combine permanent economic growth with permanent environmental assets.endogenous growth lies between zero to the rate of the technical progress, Physical rate of regeneration (which will occur if consumption would be zero) and of the rate of technical progress. However, in order to assure sustainability, the former growth rate should be larger than zero but smaller than the Whereas, in one of the other papers, On Equilibrium In Resource Markets With Scale Economies And Stochastic Prices(2012), It talks about the how the economies can be manifested in the presence of a persistent fixed costs for the supplies and daily items. The presence of the non-convex costs is very important as they have the potential effect that they may exert on the equilibrium price path, due to the reducing of their extraction rate we can reduce the average cost. discontinuous changes in extraction there would be a jump discontinuity in as the change in extraction happens so is the price going to be discontinuous and may vary hugely or at a very low level but would not be stable. In the conclusion, i can only say that researchers have expanded their research and have found other aspects in the area for the research of how renewable resources are taking over the non- renewable resources and its effect on the economy. My main emphasis was how were we to maintain a stable economy even while we are all losing the non-renewable resources which are fossil fuels which we are rapidly losing due to are huge usage in the industries and in the steps of our development. WORK CITED (1.) Agnani, Betty, and Amaia Iza. Growth In Overlapping Generation Economies With Non-Renewable  Journal Of Environmental Economics And Management 50.(2005): 387-407. ScienceDirect. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. (2.) Cohen, Steven. What Is Stopping The Renewable Energy Transformation And What Can The US Government  Social Research 82.3 (2015): 689-710. Academic Search Premier. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. (3.) Belbute, Manuel Madeira, and Paulo Brito. On The Relation Between The Endogenous Growth Rate Of The Economy And The Dynamics Of Renewable  (2009): RCAAP. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. (4.) Mason, Charles F. On Equilibrium In Resource Markets With Scale Economies And Stochastic  Journal Of Environmental Economics And Management 64.2010 Monte Verita Conference on Sustainable Resource Use and Economic Dynamics(SURED) (2012): 288-300. ScienceDirect. Web. 19 Feb. 2017