Rosenlund 1 Troy Rosenlund Ms. Cat Modlin-Jackson ENC 1101 3/28/17 How has more research changed the association of the brain and music? Over the years, research on my topic evolved very much. More information has become available as more teams delve into what the brain does when listening to music. Fortunately, since different teams used different styles of researching, this allows us to compare and contrast their styles. Not only did they use a similar basis of research, they also more or less had the common trend that our current mood can dictate the music we listen to. One of the largest things that many of my sources have in common is that they used EEG tests to determine what the brain was doing. Like what Bhatti (2016) found, they used an EEG test to see how brains were reacting to different 60 second snippets of music followed by the expressing what emotions they felt after each song. This is different from what Daly (2015) discovered because in this study, researchers used the EEG tests to see if they could predict the emotions that each participant was feeling based on the readings. Our mood, among other things, can determine what genre of music we listen to. Vuoskoski (2011) tells us that our choice of music can change based on not only our personality, but also on temporary mood swings. Mood swings such as anger and sadness can lead us to listening to music that suits those emotions, and in turn they make us feel better as we listen to the songs. When happy, we listen to the music, but when sad we listen to the lyrics Rosenlund 2 and connect with them on an emotional level, and in turn what makes us feel better is actually hearing the words of the artist and relating to the struggles been through. Not only does our current mood affect what we listen to, but our brain also makes something called an evaluative judgement that is made within tenths of a second after hearing the start of a song. This judgement is made to save us from wasting time on a song we probably like. made automatically and most times we even know that made the decision. When we make these decisions, while it does possibly save us from wasting time on a song we may not like, also the chance that we could like the song and we just skipped it. One of the things that were similar but different, were the findings of Daly (2015) and Bhatti (2016). They both played snippets of songs for the participants to hear, but they were each looking for different results. Daly (2015) wanted to be able to predict how somebody was going to react to a specific song or genre in order to help make music therapy more affective. Bhatti (2016) on the other hand, simply wanted to know more about what happened to the brain when people listen to certain songs and genres. There is also a common trend in at least a few of these studies, that the researchers simply ask the participants what emotions currently feeling. These questions were generally used in conjunction with the EEG tests as a way to reinforce the conclusions that the test came to. For example, in (2016) case, the researchers asked each participant to describe their emotion after each piece of music. This allowed them to confirm the findings of the test, as well as show how accurate people were at describing the emotion that they were feeling. As evidenced, there much research that has changed or been contradicted over the years, more has simply become available. Research teams have done a good number of studies Rosenlund 3 trying to figure out what goes on in our minds when we listen to music, yet there is still much more that can be learned. merely cracked the skull a bit and plenty of secrets to be found. This means both with the chemicals that are released, as well as which parts of the brain become active when we listen to music. While there is still a great deal of research and learning to be done on the brain in general, I think these teams did a great job in tackling a bunch of different aspects of how the brain reacts to music. Rosenlund 4 Works cited: Bhatti, Adnan Mehmood, et al. emotion recognition and analysis in response to audio music using brain Computers in Human Behavior, vol. 65, 2016, pp. doi: 10.1016/j.chb.2016.08.029. Vuoskoski, Jonna K., and Tuomas Eerola. role of mood and personality in the perception of emotions represented by Cortex, vol. 47, no. 9, Oct. 2011, pp. doi: 10.1016/j.cortex.2011.04.011. Daly, Ian, et al. emotions can be predicted from a combination of brain activity and acoustic Brain and Cognition, vol. 101, Dec. 2015, pp. doi: 10.1016/j.bandc.2015.08.003.