Alasadi !1 Zayd Alasadi Gottlieb Composition II April 9, 2017 Taking A Stand Although it may not seem like it at all, technology has influenced food tremendously in recent history. There was once a time in the world when food dictated where and how humans lived; today, scientists are able to manipulate the genetics of organisms in order to make them in many different ways. Genetically Modified Organisms, or GMOs, are: result of a laboratory process where genes from the DNA of one species are extracted and artificially forced into the genes of an unrelated plant or (IRT 1). These scientific methods have been practiced for decades and have also been a main subject of controversy. Even though GMOs bring some undeniable benefits to the world, they also cause a lot of problems as well. These problems include but are not limited to ones that have to do with health as well as having a big financial impact on the economy. Unfortunately, there have been numerous studies conducted that show the high percentage of Americans that are uneducated or simply uninterested in the topic of GMOs. However, it is extremely important for people to understand what is being put in their food. This is because when more people figure out the harmful effects of GMOs, they will realize the potential health risks they are taking for themselves and for their families as well as how these products affect a lot of other areas of society as well. It is imperative for society to stand up against major GMO producers, such as Monsanto, in order to put an end to this issue. Major GMO companies are at the mercy of the consumers and Alasadi !2 can only last as long as their negative impacts stay under the radar. Consumers need to be able to embrace the responsibility of halting the mass production of GMOs and making the food industry safer for the next generation. Before the mid all of the United food was produced locally and through organic strategies. As the world industrialized further and the technological revolution started to settle in, the organic methods changed to the modern day agricultural strategies. Companies such as Monsanto represent how most of the food is produced today. These companies use GMOs to apparently: make jobs easier and create foods with higher nutrient (Monsanto 2). They justify the use of their product by claiming that GMOs help alleviate the problem of world hunger. Although this may be true to some extent, their product will only help world hunger at an insignificant rate while at the same time present other major issue when people start to get affected by the potential health risks. Many organizations have done studies to show the negative affects GMOs bring to society. These studies show: increase the risk of allergies, kidney and liver disease, ADHD, cancer, infertility, chronic immune disorders and (GMF 1). Furthermore, there is also proof that reveals how the production of GMOs hurts the economy significantly. Not only does it lessen the amount of farmers the country needs to produce food, but GMO production also makes it so technology and machines can replace the work from the actual farmers themselves. According to the Genetic Literacy Project: modified crops only makes it better financially for the CEO of biotech companies and not the (GLP 1). Their have been many studies conducted by respected organizations and companies on the topic of genetically modified organisms. It is apparent that Alasadi !3 this new technology is another creation that feeds the greedy people in the world and is a huge detriment to the majority of society. Not only has there been studies conducted that reveal the negative affects of GMOs on health and the economy, but there has also been studies that surprisingly show how little Americans understand and know about this topic. According to a research experiment released by Rutgers University: than half of Americans (63 percent) say they know very little or nothing at all about genetically modified (GM) foods, and one in four (25 percent) say they have never heard of This is very striking because of the fact that GMOs directly affect the consumers. When a person goes to the grocery store and buys anything from cereal to snacks or from fruit to any type of meat, they are most likely buying products that contain GMOs and antibiotics for themselves and for their families. Their groceries will affect their health in the long term which should be a definite issue to care about for the average person. However, if that same person, for some reason, does not care about their health as much as they should, they should at least care about their health. Furthermore, there are many more detriments that come along with consuming GMOs that are not related to ones health. One of the most important reasons to avoid these biotech products according to the IRT is how the: GMO pollution will outlast the effects of global warming and nuclear (IRT 3). This is because their seeds can travel from generation to generation making it impossible to reset the gene pool. In other words, the more GMOs contaminate the genes of organisms, the worse it affects the situation of global warming. There is a myriad of reasons as to why people need to care more about this issue. Ideally, people also need to take major action in order to fight against the very strong biotech companies. Alasadi !4 The biotech companies that produce the majority of the GMOs need to be stopped or at least slowed down at a significant rate. They have caused the world too many problems that can only get worse if their reign continues onto the next generation. There are many ways to fight effectively and efficiently against the use and production of GMOs. First and foremost, Americans need to, as collectively as possible, abstain from buying products that contain GMOs; the products they should look to invest in should be labeled as organic. Not only does this stop the money flow from going towards the biotech companies, but it initiates the money flow going towards the organic companies. Furthermore, their are organizations such as Living Non-GMO that have created step by step plans that lay out what needs to be done to reverse the effects of GMOs. The first step, according to Living Non-GMO, is to: for the labeling of food products in the local areas of the United (Living NG 1). This can be done by putting unilateral pressure on state representatives via phone calls or even events they attend. The next step is to: the already existing organizations that have been fighting the biotech companies since their (Living NG 3). This is probably the easiest step due to the fact that it only takes a simple online search to find these organizations. Lastly, it is essential to spread the word out about the negative effects of GMOs to as many people as possible. Engaging more people in the conversation about this topic is one of the most effective ways to unite against the powerful biotech industry. It is very easy to be oblivious to the potential and very serious negative impacts technology may have on the world. This is because technology has brought society many great things that make lives much easier. However, the best example of how technology is not always good for society is how it has affected the food industry. GMOs may be one of the worst Alasadi !5 things to happen to the human race. This is because its harmful influences range from posing major health risks to hurting the economy in an unprecedented way as well as empowering the greedy people in the world. It is definitely unfortunate that there is still a considerable amount of Americans that are not educated on this topic whatsoever. Nonetheless, big biotech companies are still very vulnerable and their power only goes as far as the consumers want it to go. In order to reverse the damage that has already been inflicted, a series of steps need to be taken. These steps include: boycotting GMO products, people working against their local biotech industries by involving their state representatives, funding organizations that have been fighting GMOs for decades, and spreading the information on this topic to as many people as possible. Only then will society have a safe food industry that does not put them at risk. Alasadi !6 Works Cited Front  Organic Consumers Association Campaigning for Health, Justice, Sustainability, Peace, and Democracy. OCA, 11 Jan. 2017. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Mandel, Ken. GMO Food Pros and  Newsmax. N.p., 11 June 2015. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. ModernAg. The Science Inside a GMO  ModernAg. ModernAg, 28 Feb. 2017. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Monsanto at a  Monsanto at a Glance. Monsanto, 2015. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. Most Americans Pay Little Attention to Genetically Modified Foods, Survey  Most Americans Pay Little Attention to Genetically Modified Foods, Survey Says Media Relations. Rutgers University, 1 Nov. 2013. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. Negative Impacts on GM  GMO - Negative Impacts. GMF, 2005. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Smith, Jeffrey. GMO  Institute for Responsible Technology. IRT, n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Take  Living Non-GMO : The Non-GMO Project. HDPA, 23 Jan. 2017. Web. 09 Apr. 2017.