Lanier 1 Shamond Lanier Ms. Aranda ENC 1102- 033 February 22, 2017 National Collegiate Athletic Association and National College Players Association The National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) and the National College Players Association (NCPA) are both organizations that would like to support college athletes both academically and athletically. Both organizations have worked diligently to protect student- athletes and serve them in a way that benefits everyone. The NCAA stands for helping college attendants graduate and learn from their college experience. The NCPA hopes to assist student athletes graduate as well as help them regarding athletics. The National Collegiate Athletic Association and the National College Players Association have similar goals, but they each have different views on paying collegiate athletes salary. These two organizations have yet to find a solution that benefits each of them. If the National Collegiate Athletic Association were able to pay all of the necessities of a student cost of attendance, then the National College Players Association could ask players to avoid asking for more money, allowing the National Collegiate Athletic Association the ability to only have to give part of their earnings in order for collegiate athletes to fully receive the cost of attendance. The National Collegiate Athletic Association has always been about serving student athletes in their quest to graduation and beyond. According to the About page, National Collegiate Athletic Association is a membership-driven organization dedicated to safeguarding Lanier 2 the well-being of student-athletes and equipping them with the skills to succeed on the playing field, in the classroom and throughout (ncaa.org). In 1956, the NCAA officially allowed collegiate athletes to receive scholarships and grants to support their cost of attendance, but they have since refused to give student athletes a working salary because they are regarded as amateurs. The NCAA has avoided paying student athletes in order for them to remain as amateurs. The NCAA is committed to keeping their members as amateurs and their constitution currently specifically states, shall be amateurs in an intercollegiate sport, and their participation should be motivated primarily by education and by the physical, mental and social benefits to be Since the inception in 1906, student athletes have been regarded as amateurs and rules have been put in place to keep student athletes focused on education rather than earning monetary funds. According to the NCAA page on Amateurism, amateurism requirements do not allow, for participating in athletics, prize money above actual and necessary expenses, and benefits from an agent or prospective However, the NCAA admits to the fact that the grants, aids, and scholarship money earned has never completely covered the cost of attendance and this is one of the problems the National Collegiate Players Association wishes to fix. The National College Players Association was created by student athletes from UCLA in order to help collegiate athletes and allow them to voice their opinions. The NCPA mission statement reads that they would like provide the means for college athletes to voice their concerns and change NCAA The NCPA goals include the scholarship amounts, prevent players from being stuck paying sports-related medical expenses, eliminate restrictions on legitimate employment and ability to directly benefit from commercial opportunities, and protect educational opportunities for college-athletes in good (ncpanow.org). Since Lanier 3 its inception, the NCPA would like to achieve these goals to assist student athletes in many universities. The NCPA is willing to cooperate with the NCAA to find and support some chance of compromise. The National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) and the National College Players Association (NCPA) have often stuck to their guns and refused to come to a perfect compromise that benefits both parties. College athletes believe they work hard enough to be recognized as employees and earn a working salary. In Joe article Way to Start Paying College he states, Claudia Wilken decided during the case in 2014, that the N.C.A.A. was in violation of antitrust laws and that players should receive money to bridge the full of at This supports the rule that players should at least get a full cost of attendance. The NCAA disagrees and has stuck to their original amateurism guidelines and rules. According to John R. article Why We Pay College he says, 100,000 salary gives the college sports an advantage of $720 per year, the difference between this net salary of $65,100 versus the scholarship net of $64,380. not great news for the salaried player. bad news for the athletics department which paid $100,000 in salary rather than $65,000 in scholarship, driving up expenses This supports the argument that a salary is unnecessary because the scholarship does more. However a common ground could be found if at least one similar goal was solved: fully paying the cost of attendance and all extra living necessities. I propose that the NCAA and student athletes work together on created a solution that involves the NCAA paying full cost of attendance for all necessities, thus ending the student outcry. Recently the compromise to serve both the NCAA and NCPA has been awarded. As said in Steve USA Today article, of college athletes who received Lanier 4 traditional sports scholarships rather than a new version that covers the full cost of attending school will be compensated for the difference under a $208.7 million The NCAA was able to come to the conclusion that college athletes were not being financially cared in every aspect of school. This proposed compromise will ease tensions between the National Collegiate Athletic Association and the National College Players Association. The compromise benefits both stakeholders and ends a long debate of paying college athlete a full salary on top of scholarships. Lanier 5 Works Cited  NCAA.org. NCAA, 24 Apr. 2014. Web. 05 Feb. 2017.  NCAA- About. NCAA, n.d. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Berkowitz, Steve. NCAA to Pay $208.7 Million Settlement over Cost of Attendance  USA Today. Gannett Satellite Information Network, 04 Feb. 2017. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. Mission &  About NCPA National College Players Association. NCPA, n.d. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. Nocera, Joe. A Way to Start Paying College  The New York Times. The New York Times, 8 Jan. 2016. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Thelin, John R. Why We Pay College  Time. Time, 1 Mar. 2016. Web. 05 Feb. 2017.