Gasic Page 1 Jovica Gasic Angelica Aranda ENC 1102 Feb/1/2017 EPA versus Exxon: A Resource and Its Hazards Across the globe, Exxon is known as a powerful oil company and oil refinery that seeks to better itself and its community. Meanwhile, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) is a vastly influential government-funded organization, whose focus is to better human health and maintain the environment for the future generations to enjoy. One would think that their goals would be vastly different with how different the stakeholders are, however both stakeholders are very interested in helping their communities grow and stay clean. Exxon-Mobil has spent millions of dollars on helping the globe with Malaria and successfully more than 124 million and more than 13.5 million bed nets, 2.1 million doses of antimalarial treatments and 2.2 million rapid diagnostic around the world (Exxon-Mobil). The EPA, on the other hand, studies and researches problems occurring in human health and actively petitions changes in government and uses their budget to make massive changes while also funding education over the said problem. Seeing how both stakeholders are invested in helping or changing their communities, it is strange to know that the companies are at odds over climate change. The current mission for 2014 through 2018 is to tackle climate change and improve air quality around the world. Unfortunately, Exxon-Mobil does not agree completely with the EPA over climate change because oil refining and selling oil is their main Gasic Page 2 business; and selling oil is also one of the reasons why carbon emissions are still high, and one of the main things that gives oil companies a poor reputation today. Climate change is both a current and an inevitable problem, one where both parties are needed to help resolve the issue. Therefore, revising the Cap-and-Trade system to reduce carbon emissions would be a good way to compromise between the two organizations. The Cap-and-Trade system is a system where companies can earn tax credits and other credits by reducing emissions of specific chemicals by a certain margin each year, these credits can also be sold and bought between companies which stimulates economic growth among the companies. The EPA strives to keep human health in the United States and the environment safe for the future generations so people can live comfortably in the United States. The mission to protect human health and the (EPA). However, their toughest task to date is about the effect of climate change. In fact, their current official strategic plan lists climate change and improving air as their first goal (EPA). According to the EPA, the future of climate change is bleak, with average Earth temperatures increasing (almost a 3-degree Fahrenheit anomaly), average snow cover decreasing drastically (a decrease of about 3,300 square miles per year), and sea levels rising (about a 10-inch change since 1900). The EPA warns people that changes will impact our food supply, water resources, infrastructure, ecosystems, and even our own (EPA) And they are not alone in making this warning. A published article called of regional climate change on human by Jonathan A. Patz, Diarmid Campbell-Lendrum, Tracey Holloway and Jonathan A. Foley, a team of medical doctors and environmental scientists from Wisconsin University, pointed out that prevalent human diseases are linked to climate fluctuations, from cardiovascular mortality and respiratory illnesses due to heatwaves, to altered transmission of infectious diseases and Gasic Page 3 malnutrition from crop (Patz Campbell-Lendrum Halloway Foley, page 310). So, changes in temperature can lead to dramatic changes in human health in the United States and the entire world supporting the worry over climate change. On the other hand, Exxon-Mobil also care for the environment saying that they are improving environmental performance while pursuing reliable and affordable (Exxon-Mobil). However, means of improving their performance in the environment is different from how the EPA would want it to be. As a company, making drastic changes to their economy and attempting to keep up with such drastic changes would mean the end of the company or the complete restructure of it, so their style is more of a slow development in efficiency. Exxon has invested in technology known as and Reach to reduce ecological footprint and their impact on the environment while also continuing to benefit the economy (Exxon-Mobil). A 2013 study by Wendy L Tate, Lisa M. Ellram, and Ismail three prestigious researchers from their respective universities of Miami, Tennessee, and East Anglia, pointed out that Exxon has collaborated with nongovernmental organizations the world for its corporate citizenship activities concerning environmental sustainability. Exxon learns about possible ideas from its arms-length relationships with NGOs that it donates to, and those supported by its (Tate Ellram of Environmental Business Practices: A Network These nongovernmental organizations have contributed to a large portion of climate research and show that going slowly into the future of the environment may be a more efficient way for companies like Exxon to help the climate change problem that the world is facing. Unfortunately, the EPA and Exxon have a vastly complex problem, yet neither are willing to support the other due to the approach to the problem. As mentioned before, the Gasic Page 4 EPA seeks to better human health and will use governmental powers to help create laws and regulations to get quicker results. This presents a problem when considering that reducing Carbon emissions and reducing greenhouse gasses quickly would mean that every company that uses fossil fuels would be negatively affected. Companies like Exxon must quickly find a different market to operate in or change the type of business they conduct because the United States market would be too difficult to sell fossil fuels to due to very strict laws and regulations. This would not be good for the U.S economy and not good for the people of the United States as these companies support their communities by providing tons of money and resources. However, and way of changing the carbon footprint left by the company, may be too slow for the speed of global warming. Coming up with new technologies and implementing them takes several years, even for a company that invests in technology as much as 1.5 billion dollars in growth and efficiency in the past six years as Exxon has (Exxon-Mobil). With the strongest effects of global warming coming within a few decades, it may be smart to hasten the fight against climate change. This the first time that the EPA has clashed with energy companies over emissions. In the last century, The EPA has created dozens of regulations that energy companies must follow. One of which is the Clean air act. This helped improve the air quality in highly industrialized areas of the United States. Many large companies did not agree with the fast acting tactics that led to a small economic hurdle for many of these large companies to cross. For example, Exxon and a lot of oil companies of this time, had to change the fuel to reduce the lead content in the fuel sold to consumers because the lead would enter the bodies of people and cause damage. Lead was used in gasoline to reduce engine knocking and power failure in engines of early motors. Due to this new act, the oil companies including Exxon had to come up Gasic Page 5 with a new way to treat their fuel to protect motor engines without the use of lead. Though it initially it was high cost, the after effects of the Act saved companies millions and earned them a lot of money. The System used during this time was the Cap-and-Trade. There may be a solution to the problem of protecting assets and efficiency while dealing with climate change and air quality as fast as possible while. As a compromise, bringing back the Cap-and-Trade method as a way of capping the total amount of Carbon Dioxide allowed to be produced by companies like Exxon in one year, would benefit both stakeholders despite the initial costs for the oil companies. This is only a part of the compromise. Compliance to the Cap- and-Trade system would yield allowances to Exxon and other fossil fuel using industries which can help get tax breaks to these industries, and avoid penalty on the chance that the company goes over the cap. These allowances can be traded and sold between companies which will benefit the economy. The catch is that unlike the previous cap-and-trade system used to reduce sulfur dioxide in the air, this is going to focus mainly on greenhouse gasses. Therefore, providing even more incentives like more tax breaks for furthering technology in the field of capturing and extracting carbon dioxide from the burning of fossil fuels. This satisfies both sides of the argument because the EPA can expect faster results due to collaboration between companies like Exxon and a money based incentive would keep the pace up, while also being slow enough to standards where they can gradually make changes and investments based on where the company needs it. The success from around the world including in the European Union where this type of Cap and Trade system is currently taking place has seen the Carbon emission drop by 15 percent since 2005 (Env Defense Fund). These two stakeholders have the potential to work together to create a brighter future for people. This compromise will allow the two to tolerate each other better while also mutually Gasic Page 6 benefiting from the system. The EPA gain what they wanted in that the air quality will continue to improve and it is a relatively cheap solution for them, allowing them to focus funds in their other goals. Exxon gains public support for cutting down on the amount of Carbon Dioxide produced, but also gain a huge economic advantage which it can use to grow, change, and develop. Hopefully, climate change can be a smooth transition for human health and for the environment with the help of this compromise and others like it. Cited Gasic Page 7 Community Engagement Exxon and  Community Engagement and Support Exxon and Mobil. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. Env Defense Fund. How cap and trade  Environmental Defense Fund. N.p., n.d. Web. 03 Feb. 2017. Environmental Performance Exxon and  Environmental Standards and Performance Exxon and Mobil. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. EPA Strategic  EPA. Environmental Protection Agency, 07 July 2016. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. Learn about guiding  ExxonMobil. N.p., n.d. Web. 03 Feb. 2017. Our Mission and What We  EPA. Environmental Protection Agency, 21 Jan. 2017. Web. 03 Feb. 2017. Patz, Jonathan A., Diarmid Campbell-Lendrum, Tracey Holloway, and Jonathan A. Foley. of regional climate change on human  Nature 438.7066 (2005): 310-17. Web. Tate, Wendy L., Lisa M. Ellram, and Ismail Diffusion Of Environmental Business Practices: A Network  Journal Of Purchasing And Supply Management 19.(2013): 264-275. ScienceDirect. Web. 3 Feb. 2017.