Kunde 1 Hayley Kunde Professor Aranda ENC 1102 01/29/2017 Partnership For A Cleaner and Healthier America The United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and Cato Institute are two organizations that aspire to make American energy production the cleanest and most efficient on Earth. This is in order to make a cleaner, healthier environment for the American people. Both organizations overall have a mission to strive to protect the environment from climate change and global warming through regulation and preservation. Climate change is the difference in the usual weather, or climate. This change is caused by a collection of factors such as the driving of automobiles; the heating and cooling of home; the burning of coal, oil and gas; etc (NASA.gov). This increase in global temperature over the last few decades has led to what we know as global warming. There are an astounding amount of drastic environmental, economic, and health consequences that are expected to occur if these trends continue. For example, if the temperature continues to rise as a result of harmful behaviors caused by the population of the planet (NRDC.org). The EPA and Cato are advocating and fighting for change in these destructive actions, informing the public and generating regulations. Due to their similar perspectives and significance with the environment, it would be in their best interests to form a partnership in which the two appoint educated officials to a board and hold a symposium for the general public. This benefits both organizations as well as the environment and the American people. Kunde 2 The United States Environmental Protection Agency is a bureau of the federal government, established to conserve the environment and protect human health through implementing regulations. The EPA was created on December 2, 1970 by President Richard Nixon, in the of elevated concern about environmental (EPA.gov). Its purpose was to centralize one agency for federal research, monitoring, standard-setting and enforcement activities for environmental conservation and protection. The overall mission of the EPA is to human health and the (EPA.gov). Their extensive list of goals include ensuring that Americans are protected from significant risks to human health and the environment where they live, learn and work; national efforts to reduce environmental risk are based on the best available scientific information; and federal laws protecting human health and the environment are enforced fairly and effectively. Environmental protection is an integral consideration in U.S. policies concerning natural resources, human health, economic growth, energy, transportation, agriculture, industry, and international trade. These factors are similarly considered in establishing environmental policy; all parts of society - communities, individuals, businesses, and state, local and tribal governments - have access to accurate information sufficient to effectively participate in managing human health and environmental risks. Environmental protection also contributes to making our communities and ecosystems diverse, sustainable and economically productive. Lastly, The United States plays a leadership role in working with other nations to protect the global In order to do this, they engage in activities such as developing and enforcing regulations; giving grants to organizations; studying environmental issues; sponsoring partnerships with organizations on issues; and teaching people Kunde 3 about the environment. A symposium gives the EPA the opportunity to involve each of these activities with the assistance of Cato. The Cato Institute is a public policy research association that focuses on the commitment to the fundamentals of traditional American principles of limited government, individual liberty, and in a variety of issues including energy and the environment (Cato.org). The organization was founded in 1977 and named after which were a set of essays from the eighteenth century and an inspiration for the American Revolution, citing that liberty, limited government, free markets, and (Cato.org). Cato believes these freedoms to be an essential foundation for the future, even in society. As an institution, their mission is to how energy markets work and policies that leave questions regarding energy consumption, environmental standards, market structure, and technology to the market rather than government (Cato.org). Cato is very much devoted to protecting the environment and researching the issues that affect it in order to determine the most appropriate solution. Through a partnership with the EPA, Cato will have the ability to work with other professionals in their mission of working to conserve the environment through research. While both of these organizations are devoted to health and conservation of the environment as well as the people living in it, they do appear to be at odds with one another in the sense that they have different beliefs as to how they desire to go about upholding their mission. For example, Cato specifically attacks the actions of the EPA including the Clean Power Plan from 2015. In an article by Ned Mamula, he claims that this plan is the threat to US Energy (2015). While the EPA insists on increased Kunde 4 electricity generation from new zero-emitting renewable energy sources (like wind and rather than natural gas as a means of replacing coal power, Cato sees this as unrealistic at the moment (EPA.gov). Cato repeatedly attacks the decisions created by the EPA, seeming to be in opposition to all of their policies and regulations. This is just one case in which the two organizations hold slightly opposing views. While Cato advocates for the same issues as the EPA, they believe that the EPA is going about it the wrong way, even displaying in their article Cycle : EPA Deflates Climate Impacts, Inflates results from the EPA on one of their regulations, showing almost no significance or results to their governance (Cato.org). Both organizations care tremendously for a clean and safe country as well as protecting the environment. As Cato puts it in their mission on global warming, is ... a very complicated and difficult issue that can provoke very unwise policy in response to political speaking directly on the actions of the EPA. An appropriate compromise would be for the Environmental Protection Agency and the Cato Institute to create a partnership and to hold a symposium for the public. Although the reasons as to why this already happened in the past seem evident due to very articulate views on the EPA, the benefits of this compromise outweigh the losses. The EPA directly states on their website, protect the environment on our own, we work with businesses, non-profit organizations, and state and local governments through dozens of therefore, they are open and willing to work with others, such as Cato, in order to complete their mission (EPA.gov). In return to partnering up with the EPA, Cato will be publicly recognized by the organization. Together, they have the ability to create a board, or panel, of highly qualified professionals on every side of the argument to help make smarter Kunde 5 environmental decisions for the nation. The diversity in ideas will not only benefit the organizations individually and as a partnership, but the American public and environment as well. Their first measure as a partnership would be to hold a symposium open to the general public. This is a valuable step in publicizing the new partnership between the organizations. The symposium, funded by both parties, would bring in professionals on the subject to hold discussions and presentations in order to educate the public further on the environment, what the organizations are currently working on and how the public can help, whether that be through additional funding, advertising, etc. This symposium can become an annual demonstration for the two organizations to further promote and inform. While the two organizations, the Environmental Protection Agency and the Cato Institute appear to be at odds in their actions, their overall mission is very much alike, making them exceptional candidates for the proposed compromise. The proposition of a partnership and annual symposium does more than benefit the companies as individuals, but the country as a whole. The issues that they handle are much bigger than the organizations themselves. This is why both the EPA and Cato can afford to benefit from this cooperation. It will allow both organizations to be recognized respectably, work together to set goals and measure progress for their concerns on the environment, and have a wide array of professionals working together so that all viewpoints and theories are recognized. In addition, it will further educate the public on the consequences of climate change and the behavior of each individual on the environment, as well as construct and carry out regulations that could ultimately assist in making a cleaner and healthier environment for the American people. Kunde 6 Kunde 7 Works Cited - About  Institute . N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. - Cato  SourceWatch.org, 25 Jan. 2017. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. - CUTTING CARBON POLLUTION FROM POWER  . Environmental Protection Agency, 27 June 2016. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. - Dunbar, Brian. What Is Climate  . NASA, 14 May 2014. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. - EPA  . Environmental Protection Agency, 21 Dec. 2016. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. - Global  Institute . N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. - Knappenberger, Paul C., and Patrick J. Michaels. Spin Cycle: EPA Deflates Climate Impacts, Inflates  Institute . N.p., 20 Aug. 2015. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. - MacMillan, Amanda. Global Warming  . N.p., 21 Dec. 2016. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. - Mamula, Ned. Clean Power Plan Is the Biggest Threat to US Energy  Institute . N.p., 03 Sept. 2015. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. - Our Mission and What We  . Environmental Protection Agency, 21 Jan. 2017. Web. 01 Feb. 2017.