Maddie Higgins Professor Gottlieb 4/9/17 ENC 1102 Littering in Oceans Littering is a big issue in world, especially because of how it affects the creatures of the ocean. Most people see littering as a trivial issue, but as the years go on, it becomes more and more serious. According to the WWF, marine mammals are killed by plastic rubbish each year around the (Lyon). That shows how big of an affect one single piece of trash can have on the environment. Every day there are marine animals that get caught in a piece of trash or swallow one and it slowly kills them; sometimes they struggle and other times they do not. Innocent animals should not have to die because a person cannot wait until they find a trash can to throw their garbage in. It has been proven that plastic takes 400 years to disintegrate. Sadly, even after 400 years plastic can continue to exist as something called which are nearly impossible to see, so it ends up found in the stomachs of many fish Pervading the These tiny pieces of plastic can accumulate in the tiny stomachs causing them to die much earlier than they are supposed to and this is not fair. People do not realize how big of an affect one single piece of trash can have on these poor animals; it can be deadly. Another big issue is that the trash is not only affecting the marine population. If all these bad toxins are being ingested by these fish and humans end up eating some of them, the bad toxins will be released into the humans as well. Some researchers have found that plastic in humans can affect fertility, brain development, and other chromosomal issues which no one wants (Lyon). People usually do not think this far into the issue, but it is important that they do because it may cause them to care more about it. Therefore, people need to start considering the long term effects their actions can have on not only the fish, but also themselves when it comes full circle. Greenpeace is an organization that has taken a stake in this issue by advocating against trash being thrown into the oceans, in hopes to protect these animals. They believe that a clean ocean and surrounding area will lead to a better way of life, for everyone. Greenpeace made the statement, oceans are the life support system for our planet, providing 97 percent of the livable habitat and a home to more than 700,000 Our This means that people need to start taking better care of it because it has more of an effect on them, as in the human population, than they may realize. This organization does not stand for any litter whatsoever to be discarded needlessly, especially not onto the beaches or into the oceans. Greenpeace also deals with more than simply regular trash such as plastic bottles, they handle pollution from fossil fuels as well. This company firmly believes that the heavy reliance on fossil fuels has an extreme impact on the oceans health and it is endangering a numerous amount of species Our Their intention is to draw the attention to this bigger issue of fossil fuels on top of the regular trash thrown in the oceans to make people realize that it is a bigger problem than they think. Greenpeace aims to salvage and save what is left of the marine population and continue to improve their way of life. They have noticed how much trouble the oceans are in and want help with doing something to fix it. Clean oceans are extremely important to the human population and no one can argue with that. A clean and safe ocean would improve the lifestyle of the fish along with humans. Greenpeace made the statement, the oxygen we breathe is generated by our Our With this being true, if the oceans are being polluted, imagine the kind of oxygen people will be breathing in every day. This should make people a little worried since they could possibly be breathing dirty air because the pollution has gotten so bad. The oceans also provide food to millions of people because a majority of the human population has eaten seafood at some point in their lives. If the ocean is polluted that means the fish could possibly be contaminated. This does not stop fisherman from catching them though, so the seafood people enjoy could possibly be harmful to their bodies if the fish has ingested trash at some point in its life. Countless numbers of people go on vacation to the beach every summer where there is an ocean to play in. If this ocean is not taken care of, it will not be clean and no one will want to play in it causing the vacation to not be as enjoyable as desired. This should also serve as a motivator for people to want to clean up the shores and get the oceans back to being healthy like they should be. This is where the general public becomes extremely important. All it takes, is one person organizing a cleanup in his or her area to convince more people to join the cause. It is the human population that can fix this issue by helping with a cleanup day in the area or even donating to a more widely known cause, such as Greenpeace. There have also been cleanup projects organized such as Against where people went scuba diving to pick up trash that has sunk to the bottom of the ocean or gotten stuck in an animals habitat that no one can see. A large amount of divers have joined in on this cause in more than 50 countries and participated gathering over the 500,000 pieces of trash reported to be collected Dive Against Project ). Another way to address this issue could be to talk to a local leader and have them address the issue. It could be simply a church leader or a family friend who has a large pull in the community. It is best to find someone that people generally trust and take advice from because if that important person can be convinced that this issue needs attention, then everyone will give it consideration They could educate people in the community about the issue at stake and give them ideas of what to do to improve the situation. The main way to start a solution for the problem would be prevention. Help spread the word to everyone about the issue and organize a national prevention day or month; however long seems right. Overall, there are many solutions to this problem, people just need to participate in them especially the simple ones such as; reducing the amount of plastic waste, recycling it when done, start buying things with no plastic around it. This is another cause that supports the reuse, and motto because it would really help this issue of litter in the oceans. Greenpeace is simply one organization trying to make a difference in the world, but it needs something: more people. Everyone should be joining a cause like this one or starting their own to help clean up the earth, specifically the beaches and oceans. This will help fish to have clean water to live in again, along with people having pretty, clean beaches to sit on. There is no need for more pollution in this world, especially not where it can be prevented. There are plenty organizations out there so there is one for everyone. Human beings depend on the ocean for a lot of things, so why not give back and clean up the shores. At the very least, consider donating to the cause so that other people can carry out the efforts to clean up and get rid of this horrible ocean pollution one step at a time. Works Cited Dive Against Project  Project AWARE Homepage. Project AWARE, 2016. Web. 02 Apr. 2017. Litter - Pervading the  World Ocean Review. World Ocean Review, n.d. Web. 17 Feb. 2017. Lyon, Angela. 100 Days 100  100 Days 100 Paintings RSS. 100 Days 100 Paintings, 12 Aug. 2010. Web. 01 Apr. 2017. Pollution  Save Our Shores. Save Our Shores, n.d. Web. 01 Apr. 2017. Protecting Our  Greenpeace USA. Greenpeace, n.d. Web. 15 Mar. 2017.