Giang 1 Helen Giang Madeline Gottlieb ENC 1102 9 April 2017 Change Must Happen, Starting With You Poaching is a heinous act towards many animal species and it is defined as, illegal shooting, trapping, or taking of game, fish or other natural resources from private or public Department of Natural Poaching has been a problem for over several hundred years, but it was not until the late middle ages that poaching became a punishable offense Poaching Depending on the location, punishment may vary from community service, fines and jail time. Even though many know the consequences of pouching, the animal body count continues to rise causing the issue of animal poaching to increase with every death. Over the course of several years, a plethora of people have seized the lives of animals just to take their body parts to use them as decoration or fashion items such as boots, purses and other clothing pieces. With the poaching of animals, many species are at risk of becoming endangered. As a result, the environment and ecosystem is negatively affected the results can cause long term damage. Although some people are aware of what the definition of poaching is, many may not be fully aware of the severity of this issue. In the year of 2014 approximately 100 million animals were poached in the United States alone and about 40 million are killed each year for their fur Many Animals are Killed Each BUND Friends of the Earth is an organization located primarily in Germany and for several years they have protected the environment, human Giang 2 and animal rights. BUND has about 480,000 members and supporters, together they have created ponds, looked after and took care of protected areas, planted hedges and fought for the preservation of valuable natural areas throughout the country of the Earth Over the course of many generations, BUND has made it their priority to help with sustaining transportation, fighting nuclear power, establishing and revising nature protection are known as a non-partisan and non- religious grass root organization also known as a small organization that grew larger and is more well with some local branches dating back to of the Earth To make sure that their cause is well equip to inform the general public, BUND has created a large number of advertisements to spread the awareness of what is taking place in the environment, because their vision for the future involves establishing an effective political approach, ensuring the rights of children and people who are living in the global of this they have united about 30 national organizations with thousands of local groups. The goal for their ads is to on most urgent environmental and social and promote solutions that will assist in these issues happening of the Earth Poaching has taken the lives of many animal species worldwide. Some of these animals are harmless with no capability or means to defend themselves, some examples are the Northern Sportive Lemurs and the Leatherback Sea Turtles. According to the statistics relative to these species, percent of the lemurs are threatened by are currently between 20 and 50 of them left in the and all seven species of marine turtles are in danger of becoming Animals Are Nearly Extinct And Still Being The animals that have some sort of defense mechanisms are still no match for the weapons and modern technology that are man-made. The elephant and rhinoceros are two of the Giang 3 most popular animals that are commonly poached in an effort to obtain their tusks. After a poacher forcefully cuts off their tusks, these animals are left helpless and end up bleeding to death. In the cases where they do survive the attack, they are now left without a way to defend themselves from other predators; ultimately leaving them defenseless and are now more at risk of death the second they lose their tusks. In most cases these animals do not survive and this leaves the ecosystem at an imbalance causing a ripple affect of disruption and chaos. Generally, when the larger animals are killed off for their body parts, the smaller organisms would start to over populate which may lead to them over eating the resources. However, in this case these animals are eaten by predators such as lions, tigers, and hyenas causing these predators to turn to other food sources. Even though there are a lot of large well-established corporations and government laws supporting the protection of these animals, there are basic options and things that individuals can do in order to help support this cause. There are individuals out there that feel as those they need to have the real product; however, if individuals were to stop buying these products altogether and understand the suffering these animals had to go through then poachers would not poach as many animals because they are not as high in demand. Informing the public of the cruel tactics used by poachers to hunt these species can help sway the rate in which the demand for ivory and other materials are. The hope is that by educating people on the matter of how unlawful and cruel poaching is, there will be less of a demand for ivory and other animal body parts. This may help reduce the death rates and poaching of animals in this case but this suggestion will not stop the problem entirely. Aside from asking individuals to stop the buying of animal products, corporations could set up fundraisers and ask individuals or other large corporations to support the cause by donating; the donations would go to adding extra security and other extra precautions to protect these animals. Giang 4 The ecosystem is complex, there are many factors that can affect the balance. Such factors include the unnecessary slaughtering of animals through the method of poaching of several species. The unlawful act of hunting for game without permission allows for the increase of endangered species. Informing and empowering the public to take a stand against poaching by reducing the spending and purchasing of ivory and other materials can hopefully decrease the demand which in turn will reduce the amount of animals poached per year. Giang 5 Works Cited Foeeurope. Bund Umwelt und Naturschutz  Friends of the Earth Europe. N.p., Feb. 2012. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. Friends of the  Friends of the Earth. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. Kerns, Ben. These Animals Are Nearly Extinct - And Still Being  The Dodo. N.p., 03 Jan. 2017. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Lin, Doris. How Many Animals Are Killed Each Year for Human  ThoughtCo. N.p., 2017. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Shadow, Simon. How Poaching  HowStuffWorks. N.p., 09 Dec. 2008. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Watson, Krista. Top poached animals you can help  Global Citizen. Global Poverty Project, 2012. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. You are hereDNR Law Enforcement Report All  DNR - Report All Poaching. State of Michigan , 2017. Web. 09 Apr. 2017.