Casaes 1 Leonardo Casaes ENC 1102 Madeline Gottlieb 4/9/2017 Save the World; Stop Smoking Individuals have the capability to prevent around one in five deaths in the U.S from happening if they help to stop smoking (CDC). According to the Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) smoking, alone, accounts for six million deaths annually across the global. Six million is the number of Jewish people killed during the holocaust (USHMM), six million people make up the population of South Florida (Rabin), six million people make up the country of Libya (Worldometers). Regulating the tobacco industry can save countless lives and people who help can be a hero to the six million who still have a chance. The Action on Smoking and Health (ASH) organization is a strong force in the tobacco regulation industry and works to stop the millions of preventable smoking deaths. ASH is a non- profit organization, dedicated to anti-tobacco causes, been fighting the tobacco industry since 1967. ASH hopes, end the worldwide disease, damage and death caused by through, the public, tracking the tobacco industry, and working for sensible public policies at the local, national and global (ASH). Allying with 350 organizations in over 100 countries, ASH is a global brand filled with caring people from many different background aspiring to make a change and save a life. To help expand their work globally, ASH, has been working with the Framework Convention Alliance, (FCA) a coalition with over 500 organizations in over 100 countries (ASH). ASH helped, resources, leadership and Casaes 2 direction to the Framework Convention (ASH) by giving them their first executive Director between 2003 and 2015 (ASH). ASH and FCA were key players in enforcing the WHO Framework Convention on Tobacco Control (FCTC) the first international public health treaty (ASH). through its large support that ASH has been to sucessfully prohibit cigarette commercials on TV and radio and severely restrict it in other media; Ban smoking in enclosed public places and workplaces; Protect children from secondhand smoke; Restrict the sale of tobacco products through vending machines. ASH has even been recognized with the WHO tobacco No Day Award and by the American Lung Association because of their efforts. ASH will continue to work tirelessly to protect the future generations from a growing powerful tobacco industry and give a voice to millions of families and loved ones affected by tobacco related deaths. Smoking has the potential to killing up to a billion people by the end of the 21 st century- around 1/6 of the world population- and its casualties only rise after that (Tobaccoatlas.org). Imagine wiping out the country of Libya or losing the population of South Florida every year, and the amount of tobacco related deaths in the U.S. alone. As the leading cause of preventable death, smoking only harm the user, as second hand smoking killing around 2.5 million people (CDC). Innocent people who smoke are being effected for something they had no part in, creating such a negative and sometimes permanent punishment for just being in the presence of a smoker. Smoking comes at a monetary cost for the smoker, with an average of $1,500 dollars spent on cigarettes alone (Rutherford). Health and life insurance rates for smokers can also because of their higher risk of health problems (Rutherford). Not to mention it also lowers the resale value of a car and home because of its lasting musty scent. Smoking only take a toll on the victims and families of smoking, but it makes a large impact on Casaes 3 the economy. total economic cost of smoking is more than $300 billion a year, including: Nearly $170 billion in direct medical care for adults and more than $156 billion in lost productivity due to premature death and exposure to secondhand (CDC). This money could be going to cancer research or funding infrastructure, instead lost to the tobacco industry. Instead of investing in education programs they have to spend 491 million dollars on prevention and cessation (CDC) which is still lower than the recommended spending amount. Regulation could lead to more cost-effective spending and an overall better life to the general public. Tobacco threatens the health of every society it touches, whether indirectly or directly. Tobacco related death touches millions of lives all over the world, and as long the outrage from industries that profit off deaths remain, people should be working avidly to regulate the tobacco industry. People must come together to support organizations like ASH and informs others on the dangers of smoking. While tobacco related deaths remain the leading cause of preventable death in the world, individuals must push for government regulation. Individuals must work together to give a voice to the unheard non-smokers and fight the large influential tobacco industry. The steps ASH took on implementing the first international public health treaty should lay a path everyone must follow to create a better future for ourselves and the next generations. A future where we no longer have to worry about tobacco addiction claiming millions of lives around the world. We must continue laying the foundation of hope to rise above the tobacco oppressive claws, while have the money we have the passion to make a change, to fight the good (ASH). time to cooperate with one another to end the massacre plagued countless of innocent lives, and regulate the industry profiting on the lives of honest, decent people. People can donate to ASH though their website at ASH.org and inform any loved ones Casaes 4 on the consequential risks of smoking. No person should loss someone to a preventable death especially one as tragic as smoking. People let the tobacco industry affect the lives of them or their loved ones. With someone dying from smoking every six seconds (CDC), the regulation of tobacco has an almost immediate impact on countless lives. Therefore, ASH must gain support and why the public must be educated on smoking risks. This not only saves lives but improves the lives of everyone around the globe. Casaes 5 Works Cited:  ASH. N.p., n.d. Web. 08 Apr. 2017. Countries in the World by Population  Population by Country (2017) - Worldometers. N.p., n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Documenting Numbers of Victims of the Holocaust and Nazi  United States Holocaust Memorial Museum. United States Holocaust Memorial Museum, n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Fast  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 29 Mar. 2017. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Rabincrabin@miamiherald.com, Charles. South Florida Population Hits 6 Million for First  Miamiherald. N.p., n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Rutherford, Jack. 5 Reasons to Ban Smoking in Public  Richmond Register. N.p., 23 Oct. 2009. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Death  The Tobacco Atlas. N.p., n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017.