Marino 1 Eric Marino ENC 1102 Professor Aranda Feb. 19 th , 2017 Genetically Modified Opinions The subject matter of Genetically Modified Organisms has been avidly discussed and debated upon for the last decade. Most people hear the words and conjure up images of some horrific monster written by Mary Shelley. This usually leads to people having a negative connotation towards Despite these fears, the use of substantially reduces the amount of time and money it takes for crops and livestock to grow or become ripe, as well as creating bigger versions of crops and livestock. Organizations such as Monsanto are fully endorsing the use of and to make our products available to farmers throughout the world by broadly licensing our seed and trait technologies to other (Monsanto.com). Those on the opposite side of this argument, such as the Non-GMO Project, are against the usage of and are to building and protecting a non-GMO food (Non-GMO Project), believing that organically grown goods are the better way, even if organic foods are more expensive to grow. Both stakeholders are doing what they feel is best to feed the masses and grow their crops efficiently. Any foreseeable compromise between the two could be reached if they were able create a form of farming that integrates GMO and non-GMO techniques. Using GMO technology combined with organic crops could give both sides the compromise they deserve through being able to produce large amounts of organic crops with the use of GMO tech and farming techniques. Marino 2 In countries that have high rates of malnutrition and starvation, using can be distributed cost-effectively and be utilized to help feed these huge masses of people. An article titled Case for in written by reporter Michael J. Ssali, talks about how the use of can extremely benefit countries with harsh environments and poor food supplies. Uganda, people are starving and dying as a result of crops wilting due to diseases, extreme weather, and (Ssali 44). Some farmers are struggling to even feed themselves, make enough money to keep their farms, and can distribute their crops to the public. The usage of can help farmers who are struggling to sell their crops, increase their crop index as well as their distribution network, since more companies endorse GMO farms. Plus, part of the label includes genetic resistances to diseases, bugs, and various harsh weather conditions. This can hurt income if the source of their income is a single type of crop; the years, because of the Banana Bacterial Wilt (BBW), annual $550m production of bananas was reduced to (Ssali 44). This also gives the plant the ability to not need any polluting fertilizer or chemicals to stay alive. In the same genetic manner, GMO based crops have also been equipped to be larger and carry even more nutritional value than they would have if they were non-genetically modified (Monsanto.com). Even though the human body can live off solely bananas, cassava, and potatoes; these foods do not contain enough of every day nutrients that the body needs to stay in good health and body. Just because a body has been filled with food does not mean it suffering from malnutrition. Through distributing to people without proper nutritional food available, they can get micronutrients within in the food and are able to stave off malnutrition. bio-technology scientists around the world have succeeded in fusing, iron, zinc, and vitamin A into domestic food crops that have been eaten for (Ssali 45). Though the proposed compromise Marino 3 would deny the benefits of genetically modified crops, large quantities of organic foods would be produced with GMO technology and make these essential nutrients easier to obtain for consumers. While seem to have no negative connotations that come with them, having been genetically mutated does not have all positive benefits. Since are resistant to pesticides and certain bacterias, this can create the possibility of creating super-bacteria. They can become resistant the plants genetic ability and can take over the crop. Some peoples disliking to also comes from the fact that the DNA of the crops are spliced and mutated, making them a strain of DNA that does not naturally occur in nature. The organization, Non-GMO Project, works hard against the usage of GMO style farming and even states on its website modification affects many of the products we consume daily. As the number of GMOs available for commercial use grows every year, the Non-GMO Project works diligently to provide the most accurate, up-to-date standards for non-GMO (Non-GMO Project.com). The use of GMO technology is also a way for big corporations, such as Tyson, as a way of producing a huge amount of food without spending too much money in the process. This makes it so corporations can create a bigger profit in comparison to the small amount of money they spend to produce the crop. The use of GMO be towards making big pockets even bigger. Even though the Non-GMO Project and Monsanto are from opposite sides of the argument of GMO usage, there are a few ways that both organizations can reach a compromise. Through proper agreements, the usage of both techniques of farming can be equally beneficial to each side. Both organizations are simply trying to what they feel is best as well as feeding malnourished people. If they simply agree upon how the food people are eating is raised they could easily reach some form of compromise. With GMO products, they need to produce a large Marino 4 amount of food quickly. So, by putting in crops and livestock, it speeds up the amount of time it takes for the products to mature. The negative effects that come with is feeding more unnatural food to people, even though they contain a ton of nutritional value. Were the resources available, both stakeholders could experiment with a of crops to save on space, time, and money but can grow copious amounts of crops in a vast area at once. In turn, all the farmers who were struggling with selling their crops and making money for themselves, could all be given a new form of farming as a means of living. Their annual profit for their crops would increase as well as being able to hire on more farm hands to help with the work load. While arguing about who is right in the battle between GMO and non-GMO, there is no denying that people need to eat food to survive and arguing about the matter helping anyone. Both groups have their own ideologies and methods in their way of farming, and both can be mutually helpful in this situation if they simply figure out an agreeable way to combine their ways of farming. While genetically modified organisms are viewed as unnatural and as an unknown risk, there is no denying that it creates an efficiency in making food that, when grown organically, just as quick or money saving as crops are. While organic farming techniques are more expensive, they are also naturally occurring and benefit no big businesses out to make a quick buck. If to combine both positives of each farming techniques, it could create a revolutionary form of farming where people are fed well and wholesomely. It would also be a great way to create jobs for struggling farmers who are losing money by competing with big GMO endorsing corporations. These revolutionary horticultural could be the solution both Monsanto and The Non-GMO Project have been looking for. Marino 5 Works Cited Ssali, Michael J. The Case For Gmos In  New African 542 (2014): 44-45. Academic Search Premier. Web. 1 Feb, 2017. Monsanto. A Sustainable Agriculture Company. N.p., n.d. Web. 1 Feb, 2017 Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, eds. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. E-text. MOST TRUSTED  The NonGMO Project. N.p., n.d. Web. 20 Feb. 2017.