McMahan 1 Justin McMahan Angelica Aranda ENC.1102.033 Due: 2/22/17 Solving the video game violence issue The inclusion of violence in video games is a major issue in the video game industry. People are making the correlation that playing video games with violent tendencies will make gamers violent in the real world (PBS). Rock Star Games and the Parent Television Council (PTC) are two stakeholders that deal with this issue. These two Organizations have different views when it comes to the issue of videogames and violence. Rock Star Games is a game publisher that is most famous for their titles: Grand Thief Auto (Like the felony), Red Dead Redemption, LA Noire and many more titles that are considered games. Sandbox games are games that let the gamer walk around an open world and do anything they want including violent things; e.g. Killing, fighting, battery, assault etc... (Techopedia). The Parents Television Council is a non-partisan education organization advocating responsible entertainment, they advocate against violence in videogames and violence in media. People can see why they are in a disagreement when it comes to this issue. One supplies the violent videogames and the other is an advocate against it and believes in the correlation that violent videogames will make you a violent person. To benefit both companies, both companies will McMahan 2 work together to create a compromise of putting settings in the videogames that reduce the amount of violence/Blood and gore or activate a were no violence can occur in the video game. This compromise can address a common goal of both organizations dealing with the entertainment industry, while implementing a win win situation in start to solve the issue of violence in videogames. Rockstar games is arguably the number one game publisher in America or even the world. They are most famous for their Grand Thief Auto series and Red Dead Redemption. These two games, which they are most famous for, are games where the player controls and even styles a character in the way of his choosing and goes through the game as if you were living in the real world. The player can dress himself, drive, swim, play sports and talk to other players but where the issue is or controversy with Rockstar games is with these you can commit numerous amount of crimes; e.g. Murder, thief, soliciting, assault, battery, trespassing about 75 percent of crimes are violent. can a publisher make a real life crime simulator as a people ask themselves, after listening about what types of games Rockstar makes. Rockstar can do this by putting ratings on its games and people buying these games because they want to play them and they think their interesting and fun. The two titles I named and most of their titles say what this means is Mature 17, you have to be 17 or older to buy these games. This is the main way Rockstar can create such games. Rockstars mission statement on their official website is Rockstar Games label was founded in 1998 to create the most innovative and progressive interactive (Rockstar Games). Their mission statement sums up the whole company of Rockstar as a videogame publisher. This compromise is so important to Rockstar because what it means is they can still make the games they make a profit on and are famous for while sticking to their mission statement, they just have McMahan 3 to put settings in the game to make it nonviolent for the gamers to choose. By doing this PTC has to recognize Rockstars efforts and working together with them to solve or improve this issue. The Parent Television Council was founded in 1995 and they are currently established in Los Angeles California which is a non-partisan education organization advocating responsible entertainment with around 12,000 members (PTC). Advocating responsible entertainment in this case means the PTC seeks to advocate for the mental health of American children. Their method for facilitating this mental health is to prevent child interaction with violent forms of media, which they believe encourages them to copy the behaviors that they are viewing, and thus continuing the cycle of violence. Their mission statement is protect children and families from graphic sex, violence and profanity in the media, because of their proven long-term harmful (PTC). This mission statement proves the argument or debate of the issue that violence in videogames cause violent actions in real life. The Parent Television Council show their cause through many outlets, with the internet as their main voice. They have a lot of campaigns and links on their website and are very active in advocating for their cause. This compromise would be big for the PTC because they would get their point across and recognize Rockstar as a company that is trying to help them with the violence in videogames issue. With all this being said Rockstar and the Parent Television Council do have a commonality. That commonality is the word Both stakeholders want to help out the entertainment business in this world. Rockstar wants to produce videogames and the Parent Television Council want to advocate against graphic sex, violence and profanity in the entertainment business. They are both doing their part in the entertainment aspect of this world. Rockstar and the Parent Television Council have not come to a resolution or compromise as of McMahan 4 this day because of the market for video games, but in regards to the issue of violence in videogames a compromise of both organizations working together can be implemented. That compromise is to put settings in the videogames that reduce the amount of Violence/Blood and gore or activate a where no violence can occur in the video game. This compromise will work for a few reasons. Those reasons are: it satisfies both stakeholders, both stakeholders give little, no stakeholder is getting more out of the compromise and both mission statements can still be what they are with these stakeholders still working after the compromise. What this compromise means is Rockstar can still produce the games they always produce but they would have to add a setting where they player can activate it and it would reduce the amount of violence/blood and gore or activate a were no violence can occur. Both stakeholders win in the fact that Rockstar can still produce the same games and be successful and the Parent Television Council has gotten there word across and would recognize Rockstar by working together with them in this compromise as a company trying to improve the issue of violence in videogames. These two organizations working together is the big key to this compromise, without each other it could not function and would be pointless, this compromise is huge for not just the parties working together but for the issue at hand in violence in videogames. This could be the first steps to improving this issue. The issue of violence in videogames needs to be addressed. To address this issue, videogames need to stay strong to their rating system and only let people that are of age to purchase these violent videogames. Violence is inevitable (Legacy), the way portrayed that is the problem and why the issue of violence in video games is even a thing. This compromise will emphasize that both organization will work together and recognize each other McMahan 5 as stakeholders that are trying to address their common goal dealing with the entertainment industry and the issue at hand. McMahan 6 Works Cited Legacy. IS VIOLENCE INEVITABLE? 2017. http://www.legacyproject.org/guides/violence.html. 1 February 2017. PBS. Can Violent Video Games Play a Role in Violent Behavior? 2017. 1 February 2017. PTC. Frequently Asked Questions. 2017. http://w2.parentstv.org/main/About/FAQ.aspx. 1 February 2017. PTC. Homepage. 2017. http://w2.parentstv.org/Main/. 2 February 2017. Rockstar Games. Corporate Information. 2017. https://www.rockstargames.com/corpinfo. 1 February 2017. Techopedia. Sand Box. 2017. https://www.techopedia.com/definition/3952/sandbox-gaming. 2 February 2017.