1 Jorge April 5, 2017 Prof. M Heiser ENC 1102.069 Project 3 Multimodal Argument Intermediate Draft Ever since the 17 th century, humans have conducted studies on animals for their own purposes. The first study ever recorded took place in Britain by Harvey, demonstrating how blood circulation works in animals. Since then, animal testing has expanded throughout the years (Understanding Animals Research). During the 18 th and 19 th century, scientists used anesthetics to tests animals for their experiments. But nowadays, scientists do not consider using anesthetics because it makes animal research impossible to understand (Understanding Animals Research). So scientists use different methods of experimentation like: tying animals and testing cosmetic products on them before releasing for public use, conducting stress tests for animals since it is linked with humans, etc. (New England Anti-Vivisection Society). Since all these experiments have been linked to animal cruelty, more animal experimentation anti-cruelty laws have been passed by the government, and more organizations and people around the world have joined forces to end animal testing in commercial products. But whatever happens inside the lab, stays in the lab. So that stop big organizations from testing animals with commercial products. So that is why it is important to bring to the consumers attention, that by standing-up for defenseless animals, and also finding new ways for testing that involve the use of animals is a call to action that can help save animal lives from being experimented for commercial reason. Therefore, the examples, evidence, and facts that organizations, like PETA presents shows ways to unite and stand-up against big organizations that still test on animals for commercial purposes. 2 Every day, more and more people realize the negative effects that testing commercial products has on animals. A study conducted in September 2011, by the Physicians Committee for Responsible Medicine (magazine that talks and discusses medicine-related issues) wanted to know how informed the general public was towards animals being tested for commercial and cosmetic reasons and how inclined the public was towards purchasing animal cruelty-free products. The study showed that a 72% out of the 1,009 random individuals surveyed answered that testing animals for commercial and/or cosmetic use is unethical. Then, a 78% of the surveyors agreed that new methods not-involving animals should be used for testing products. Lastly, an 81% of the surveyors thought that companies and manufacturers should use other alternatives like using natural products, instead of testing with animals (Understanding Animal Research). But what the general public does not know is that there are still big and local company stores that sell non- cruelty free products when they say they These big company stores include the most common stores found in the US which are: Walmart, CVS, Walgreens and Target. Studies made from USA Today show that more than half of the consumers go to Walmart at least once a month to buy products (USA Today). Imagine all these people who visit these retail stores thinking going to buy cruelty-free products, and actually end-up buying products that cruelty free, because they do not know how to differentiate between them. Product brands like: Maybelline, and Revlon are some of the products that test on animals (Cruelty-Free Kitty). So, that is why the general public has to be educated, so they can know which products and stores are safe to buy animal cruelty-free products. Brands like: Enamor, 100% Pure, and 4mula (PETA), are companies that sell all animal cruelty-free products; and local drugstores that say 100% organic are also very reliable. In other words, if the general public is educated on this subject, 3 then they will realize false advertisements that big-name product brands and companies sell. However, not everybody is misinformed. There are people around the world that are educated on this subject and have formed groups and organizations that are in favor of protecting lab animals, such as guinea pigs and rats, from being tested for cosmetics and commercial reasons. Groups like PETA (People for Ethical Treatment of Animals) and the Pause for Paws club at USF (University of South Florida) are tremendous examples of the general public making alliances to protect animals from being tested and educate the general public. PETA is a non-profitable organization that focuses on animal rights (PETA). It is the biggest active animal rights organization that has stood-up for animal rights in many ways such as, making advertisements, slogans and videos. Even big name celebrities like Munn, Pamela Anderson and Waka Flock have joined PETA in their campaign stop animal cruelty through the use of experiments. A claim made by PETA states that there was an article talking about every advancement in medicine is attributable to experiments on was proven false by the very own magazine that it was published because all the claims that were stated by author in the article, backed up by any evidence, making it all biased opinions (PETA). As a matter of fact, the same article, that is present on website, states that universities, medias and experimenters have combined forces to hide the truth and lie to the general public just so they can continue experimenting on animals (PETA). On the other hand, if more people became more engaged on the subject, then these animal lives could be saved. A great way to become engaged and make an impact is to join clubs like the Pause for Paws at USF (University of South Florida). The Pause for Paws club is a student organization that focuses on expanding animal rights and welfare through volunteerism and education (Pause for Paws). The Pause for Paws club organizes many activities in which anybody can engage and take 4 a part in, like visiting an equestrian that focuses on rescuing and rehabilitating racing horses, and listening to presentations about animals. Not only that, but the club also educates its members on up-to-date topics and hopes to enlighten its members on different subjects involving animals. No doubt, that there are various ways to get involved and make a change in animal Moreover, by getting educated on the subject, one can take stand and end animal testing cruelty for commercial reasons once and for all. Therefore, if experimenters even get positive results by testing animals for medicinal reasons, then why test on them for commercial reasons? Also, experimenters have different types of experimentation which do not include animals, but instead, they decide to experiment on defenseless lab. animals that are suffering for no good reason at all because at the end of the day, every product that is tested with animals for commercial reasons, is/can also be tested on artificial objects and even humans. So, why care? Because all these poor and defenseless lab animals suffer psychologically and physically (just like humans) due to the experiments. Some experiments include: being tied while being injected chemicals into their bodies, and spending their whole lives incarcerated inside boxes by themselves where they fit just to be tortured and murdered by a human being; and if a human being has to go through all process and it is called inhumane and unmoral at the end of the day because there are machines that can be used for experiments, but instead they use humans, then same thing applies to animals, because God created all beings on this Earth equally, with the exception of nobody. Therefore, if you are a man of God, a Jew, an Atheist or really anything (just a human being) then do what is correct and take a stand for these poor and defenseless animals. Join an organization, a club, participate in peaceful protests, but do something. just stand around and do nothing, while big corporations commit genocide by murdering 100 of millions of animals (PETA). Be something, do something and become a hero 5 not only for the community and other animal lovers, but for nature and all the animals around the world who need help in ending this mass genocide. 6 Works Cited Animal Testing Is Bad Science:  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Apr. 2017. Anonymous. More Than a Makeup Trend: New Survey Shows 72 percent of Americans Oppose Testing Cosmetics Products on  The Physicians Committee. N.p., 28 Dec. 2011. Web. 05 Apr. 2017. Cruelty-Free Drugstore Brands (Target, Walgreens, &  Cruelty-Free Kitty. PubExchange, 12 Dec. 2016. Web. 05 Apr. 2017. Experiments on Animals:  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Apr. 2017. Frohlich, Thomas C., and Samuel Stebbins 24/7 Wall St. The most popular stores in  USA Today. Gannett Satellite Information Network, 15 May 2016. Web. 05 Apr. 2017. Pause for  OrgSync. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Apr. 2017.  History of animal research. N.p., 17 Mar. 2015. Web. 05 Apr. 2017. Society, New England Anti-Vivisection. Animals in Science  Harm and Suffering. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Apr. 2017. 7 Transition  Transition Words. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Apr. 2017.