Daveyah Daniels Daniels 1 Madeline Gottlieb ENC 1102 9 April 2017 The Fight Against Sexual Violence Across the Unites states, many individuals have become victims of sexual assault, domestic violence, and child abuse. This issue has created fear amongst families and victims of these crimes. The victims do not only consist of the general public, it also includes individuals within the military community and inmates. One out of every six women and one out of thirty-three men have experienced an attempted or completed rape in their lifetime Facts about Sexual ). This form of violence occurs more often than some may assume, which is why it is so important to educate individuals on this crime. Foundations, such as the Joyful Heart Foundation, was created to inform those on sexual assault, domestic violence, and child abuse; while also helping victims of this from of violence. In 2004, Mariska Hargitay created the Joyful Heart Foundation After starring in a role of a domestic violence victim, as Detective Benson on Law & Order: Special Victims Unit, Hargitay became interested in helping those who have experienced domestic violence Individuals proceeded to send Hargitay their personal stories in hopes of being supported and healed from their emotional trauma they have experienced. The emotional trauma that the victim withstands may take some time to cope with. Through this foundation, a Healing Program was created in efforts to provide their clients with the necessary wellness practices and healing techniques that focuses primarily on the physical and emotional health of the individual This program has had a positive impact on the survivors, as they are able to utilize the techniques in their everyday lives. The Joyful Heart Foundation also provides the necessary tools for the programs on how to forgive their abuser to Daniels 2 complete the healing process The mission of this foundation is to response to sexual assault, domestic violence, and child abuse, support healing, and end this violence Despite strong efforts, it is very difficult to end sexual violence and abuse permanently. Each year over 320,000 Americans 12 and older are sexually assaulted, or raped within the public Scope of the Problem: Statistics 60,000 children become victims of sexual assault each year Scope of the Problem: Statistics ). Sexual violence is apparent within the prison and military communities as well, consisting of an overwhelming 100,000 victims each year Scope of the Problem: Statistics ). This is a continuing issue amongst the American society, affecting not only the victims of these crimes, but their families as well. Unfortunately, most of these cases have been left unsolved or dismissed. In other cases, the perpetrator was never pressed charges against. It is evident that perpetrators of sexual violence are less likely to be sentenced to jail than any other criminal. The Justice system implies that it is okay for one to commit a crime of sexual violence, because they are less likely to serve time in jail. While the Joyful Heart Foundation brings attention to sexual assault, domestic violence, and child abuse, these terms could be defined differently amongst various states. For instance, according to the federal government, sexual assault is defined as, type of sexual contact or behavior that occurs without the explicit consent of the However, each state often uses different wording when defining sexual assault, that differs from the federal definition. This creates a problem within the legal system, because the laws are not clearly defined to the victim. The Justice system, leaves it up the individual to read the laws on sexual violence and abuse that corresponds to their specific state. While this is public information, the discrepancy Daniels 3 amongst state laws and the judicial system is a problem. However, individuals can make a difference to help victims of this from of violence. The Joyful Heart Foundation has proven that through advocacy, healing, and education, that there will be a decrease in the number of victims of sexual assault, domestic violence, and child abuse. From 2004 to 2014, this foundation was able to identify more than 100 serial rapists and directly serve 14,000 survivors and healers through the transformative programs Impact by the Numbers- Despite the strong impact on the American society, it is very difficult to end this form of violence forever. While helping victims cope with the emotional trauma and educating individuals on this form of violence is important, individuals should also be working to protect the rights of all victims of sexual violence and abuse and establishing the police relations with the law. This will not be an easy process however, society will see greater changes in the number of perpetrators of these crimes being punished. Using sexual assault as an example, in the judicial system the victim must prove that they have been sexually assaulted, or rape for there to be a strong case against the perpetrator. To help these victims, all individuals must encourage victims to go to the hospital, as soon as possible, and report the crime to the police immediately. With the use of these tactics, the American society may see a greater decline in the number of victims of sexual assault. In this country, it has been reported that more than five children die every day, as a result of child abuse and neglect Children and Teens: Statistics ). The effects of child abuse can be very long lasting and the child may suffer with this emotional trauma into adulthood and Teens: Statistics In hopes of decreasing the number of children becoming victims of abuse, individuals must become aware of the signs of child abuse. Teachers especially, should be trained and well equipped to notice any changes in the behavior or Daniels 4 any other signs of abuse. Some of the signs of child abuse include: a change in school performance, change in behavior, and visibly unexplained injuries, such as burns, bruises, and broken bones Individuals knowing these signs of child abuse and educating others as well, may help to decrease the number of victims of child abuse. Not only are decreasing the rate of sexual violence and child abuse crucial in the United states, individuals should also make an effort in declining the number of victims of domestic violence. One out of three women, and one out of four men will experience this form of violence Domestic Abuse Topline Facts and ). Knowing that it is sometimes difficult for a victim to come forward about the issue, individuals must be aware of the signs of a victim of domestic violence. Similar to child abuse, an individual may notice a change in behavior and visibly unexplained injuries. In addition to these signs, one may notice the victim isolating themselves from friends and, or family. If an individual believes that a person is a victim of domestic violence, they must report it to the police, so legal action can be taken. Sexual assault, domestic violence, and child abuse continues to be an issue within the United States. The Joyful Heart Foundation, has made a strong impact on American Society. Through advocacy, healing, and education, this foundation could identify over 100 serial rapists and directly help 14,000 healers and survivors Impact by the Numbers- In addition to this strategy, through stronger police relations with the law, and working to protect the rights of all victims of sexual violence and abuse, individuals may be able to make an even greater impact on society. Ultimately, the goal is to decrease as many victims of this from of violence as possible. Daniels 5 Works Cited About the  Joyful Heart Foundation. N.p., n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Child  Safe Horizon. N.p., n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Children and Teens: Statistics  Children and Teens: Statistics RAINN. N.p., n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Domestic Abuse Topline Facts and  DomesticShelters.org. N.p., n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Our Impact by the Numbers -  Joyful Heart Foundation. N.p., n.d. Web. 17 Mar. 2017. Our  Joyful Heart Foundation. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. Victims of Sexual Violence: Statistics  Victims of Sexual Violence: Statistics RAINN. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. Scope of the Problem: Statistics  Scope of the Problem: Statistics RAINN. N.p., n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Sexual  The United States Department of Justice. N.p., n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017.