Huynh 1 Tuan Huynh Robert Ryan ENC 1102 25 February 2017 Union of Concerned Scientists Advertisements emissions are bad and renewable energy is This is the type of black and white way of thinking many environmental groups are trying to impose on to the public. It is not really effective. After all, it is common knowledge that the burning of fossil fuel is harmful to the environment. Yet, the need for energy and the conveniences of fossil fuel has left many people content with their current lifestyle. Groups, such as the Union of Concerned Scientists, has made it a priority to educate the public about this issue and to advocate change. This organization puts, to work to solve our most pressing for a healthy, safe, and sustainable (Union of Concerned Scientists Mission Statement). In order to have a safe, and sustainable they must address the issue of harmful gas emissions. One way they are addressing this issues is through informational advertisements, such as their it (advertisement one) and their Climate Risks of Natural (advertisement Huynh 2 Their advertisements reflect their belief in proper education through informative and intuitive visual design but exposes them for using binary thinking on the issue. Advertisement one uses colors and imagery to help categorize what they believe is good and bad in accordance to the issue. Their color scheme is practical and has purpose. Things that are in red, such as the cars and power plants, are sources of gas emissions. Things that are in blue and green correlates to ways that people can conserve or reduce gas emissions. The blue logo in the top left of the ad reads, This implies that the cooler colors in the ad can be categorized as being good, whilst the warmer colors in the ad can be categorized as being bad. This type of two-way thought process is called Although this choice in visual design clearly helps state their stance on the issue, it does hurt their credibility by simplifying a complex issue because it account for the multiple points of view on a subject, lead to interesting arguments, and allow for critical thinking; it potentially leads to a shouting (Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs format and layout of the advertisement also helps organize the information presented. The information follows a winding road from the top to the bottom. The top showcases ways to make a difference on an individual Huynh 3 scale. As you get to the bottom of the road, the scale is raised to a national level. This format organizes the information in an intuitive way, effectively informing an audience about the issue. The primary rhetorical appeal in this advertisement is logos which is appropriate considering their primary goal is to educate. It is used to inform an individual about what they can do specifically to save the environment. Logos provide not only facts about ways an individual can save the environment but also gives statistics on what would result from their action. The logos work well with the formatting as it details specific actions an individual can take on a small scale (at the top) all the way to the national scale at the bottom. The advertisement also uses a little bit of pathos with its choice of diction. Phrases like and are repeated throughout the text to invoke a feeling of seriousness to the situation; the issue does not just affect someone personally, but also their family and friends. The UCS attached an emotional appeal with their information in an attempt to educate and provoke action. Similar to advertisement one, advertisement two also uses colors and imagery to categorize the two sides of the issue as black and white. Like the first advertisement, the warmer colors represent harmful sources of energy while the cooler colors represent clean energy. This Huynh 4 makes it easier to access and organize the information. If the information is presented in an easy and intuitive way, the information will more likely be retained. According to the article Color Can Affect colors aid in recognizing patterns. In fact, performed five to 10 percent better on standardized pattern recognition tests when they were administered in color rather than black and (Meacham). scaling of the images also helps compare the statistics in a logical manner. The point of these visual elements is to present the information as intuitively as possible in hopes that the advertisement can educate as many people as possible about using cleaner alternative resources. Like the other advertisement, logos are present to inform; but, unlike the other advertisement, this one uses kairos to create a sense of urgency in the situation in an attempt to get people to act now. The top statement of the advertisement, and inefficient coal plants are closing. The choices we make to replace them will determine our electricity sources for the next 30-50 makes the moment feel heavier and more serious. It hopes to make the audience believe that they must act now in order to secure the use of the right energy sources in the future. This notion is further amplified by the next statement, now we are moving Huynh 5 toward a natural gas-dominated electricity As expressed by the logos throughout the advertisement, gas emissions are bad, so the situation right now is even more dire considering that we are moving towards this harmful lifestyle. It is up to the individual to act now if they want to prevent this movement from happening. This is the type of urgency this company wants to instill in order to get people to act on the issue. The two advertisements are very similar in regards to both being very logos heavy. After all, the main purpose of their campaign is to educate and inform about better alternative solutions to energy needs. They both are also consistent in their use of bright colors and simple, intuitive images. These uses aim to draw in as many people as possible to their ad. The colors, however, do showcase a little bit of bias in their ads. They present everything in black and white, or, in this case, cool colors and warm colors. They made it obvious that they think gas emissions are bad, so they categorized it solely as so. This type of thought process is a credit to their conviction but discredits them for being too biased. The UCS wants the future to be healthier, safer, and more sustainable; so it makes sense that they would want to target younger people as well in order to pass their ideas onto the next generation. The pictures and colors do a great job at representing Huynh 6 the information to a younger demographic with simplistic but intuitive pictures, so, even if an individual quickly glances over the ad, they can get a general idea of the message: gas is bad, renewable resources are good. The UCS is trying to point out something that most people already know but are not educated well enough to act upon it. Through these advertisements, the UCS hopes to dispel this ignorance through the education of a wide-ranging audience. They hope that if their audience become more insightful about the situation and possible course of action, they will try to make a difference. No one really wants to see our planet destroyed, and most people know that harmful gas emissions are destroying our planet. With enough knowledge and direction, maybe we can make a sacrifice and do our dying planet a favor. Huynh 7 Works Cited Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, eds. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. E-text. Mar. 2017. of Concerned Scientists Mission Statement of Purpose - Nuclear Energy Institute. Nuclear Energy Institute. 2017. Web. Mar. 2017. Meacham, Margie. How Color Can Affect  . Blogs at ATD, 28 Apr. 2015. Web. 16 Mar. 2017. Huynh 8 Advertisement 1 Huynh 9 Advertisement 2 ( It is split up into 3 separate panels that are all part of 1 cohesive ad) Huynh 10 Huynh 11