Whitney 1 Alex Whitney Professor Robert Ryan ENC 1102 26 February 2017 Digital Learning Education is the way in which the world learns and evolves, so it makes sense that technology is used to evolve education. As the digital age continues to expand, the idea of incorporating technology into the modern learning algorithm to improve the quality of learning is being addressed. One of the leading organizations who support this development is the National Association for the Education of Young Children, abbreviated as NAEYC. The NAEYC works to interweave technology and new teaching methods into the education of children between birth and 8 years old. It is their belief, and motto, that used intentionally and appropriately, technology and interactive media are effective tools to support learning and (NAEYC). They also promote technology as a tool and not a replacement for the social interactions with family, classmates, and teachers to aid in the development of social skills. By bringing technology into the learning environment, the association says that this will allow children to be better educated and be better prepared for the world and the way life is evolving. The NAEYC uses strong advertisements to inform and inspire others to help them in their cause to incorporate technology into education in a safe and effective manner. The NAEYC utilizes advertisements in order to inform others of who they are and what they stand for as a trustworthy association. Prominently displayed across the center of the ad is the name of the association, clearly visible against the light-colored background. Below the name is a slogan of theirs about their efforts for working to improve the quality of the education being Whitney 2 taught to young children. On the right side of the image is a group of children playing in the snow, smiling and laughing together in the snow. The audience that would be most interested in this advertisement would be new or expecting parents looking to improve the future of their children and make it a happy one too. All the elements provided are intended to help create an effective advertisement to aid the NAEYC and its goals. The image has been designed to utilize a few well-known concepts used to judge the effectiveness of advertisements. It displays its credibility as a respected organization by making its name as the focus of the banner, representing what is known as ethos. People are more likely to believe in the words of those who have proven themselves to be trustworthy and reliable. Thus, having a logo enables something to receive the same level of respect as if it was in their name. The picture of the children is used to tug at the heart strings of those examining the ad and hold love for children, playing on their pathos, or passion, to keep them interested. Emotions like love, comfort, and safety are useful for making an audience feel a certain way in response to an claim, as is used in this ad. The slogan below the name explains what it aims to do if it achieves what it sets out to accomplish in an informed manner. By knowing what the organization stands for, the NAEYC would benefit from the increased exposure from interested parties with similar ideals. The image emulates the qualities necessary to be considered an effective advertisement for the organization. The second image continues to promote the NAEYC in a positive manner for the association. Unlike the first advertisement, this image come off as a more informational piece than one meant to soothe an doubt and curiosity. The name of the association, and one of its partners, is displayed at the top, followed by several bullet points containing the benefits of technology. The NAEYC logo, along with a partner organization called Fred Rodgers Whitney 3 Center for Early Learning and Media are displayed beside the list. At the bottom is the Hatch logo, a program supporting the NAEYC with its technology-pro learning equipment for children and teachers alike. The ad exists to list the good points of technology, when integrated into education, to those unsure of the benefits. It also promotes itself and its partners as creditable sources for those curious for more details. The ad provided by these associations will aid them in reaching out to others in their mission to better the education of children. This image was created to exemplify key elements that advertisements share to promote their goals to others. Like the first image, one of the most prominent parts of the ad is the two organizations: the NAEYC and the Rogers Center. They have their names and their logos taking up a large portion of the image, their names intending to the credibility of their claims for their missions, referred to as ethos. The list of facts included in the image is a clear appeal to logic, and the goal of theirs to create a technologically enhanced learning environment are not negative or detrimental. It could be argued that there is a sense of urgency in the ad, because the focus pertains to children from birth until age 8. To maximize their potential educational foundation would need to be decided upon sooner than later to make the most of this period of time. By effectively using the strengths of the advertisement to their advantage, both organizations will become more reputable and successful in their goals. The NAEYC used these images to promote its goals and dreams in a clear and diverse manner. The mission and desires for the association and the future are openly displayed for others to view. They use a direct approach to getting support rather than degrading their competition. One ad aims to appeal to those who understand the credibility, and the emotional impact on them for going out and finding the right way to educate children so they may end up with greater futures. The other takes a more scholarly approach by informing Whitney 4 others of the benefits to using technology, and by extension their work to incorporate it into the modern teaching methods of today and tomorrow. These two ads and others produced by the NAEYC allow for potential audiences to make the decision as quickly and as hassle-free as possible. The support the association gathers gives it the support it needs to continue to work towards its goals for the betterment of others. All these points display the work put in to show the standpoint in the world of education properly and accurately. Thus, the status as creditable and reliable association continue to be upheld by the quality of their promotions and public appeal. In this time of change, the NAEYC visually shows interested parties the beliefs and goals of their association and why they should be invested in this work. The NAEYC stands to incorporate technology into education in a safe and beneficial manner that will impact future generations in a positive manner. Quoted from the director of the NAEYC, Rhian Evans Allvin, he stated that we can capitalize on that and maximize the support and learning opportunities, then we really stand a good chance of setting young children on a trajectory of (Snow). The advertisements they create invoke the necessary components of an attention-grabbing piece in order to properly display themselves in an upholding and non-slanderous light. While not as timely as some, the emotional and informational prowess they display alongside their clear-cut credibility draws in others who seek better futures for their children. So, it is in this way that the NAEYC seeks to educate others in the effectiveness of technology in the education system and its benefits for the children of the future. Whitney 5 Works Cited Association for the Education of Young Children National Association for the Education of Young Children NAEYC, www.naeyc.org/. Skarda, Erin. the Experts: How Can We Fix Early Childhood Nation Swell, 3 Sept. 2015, nationswell.com/ask-experts-can-fix-early-childhood-education/. Snow, Kyle. News You Can Use: Family Engagement and Early Childhood National Association for the Education of Young Children NAEYC, www.naeyc.org/content/research-news-family-engagement/. Whitney 6