1 Alexis Campisi Professor Uddin Composition 1 3/12/2017 Animal Testing Animal testing is the process of using a living animal subject for experiments and tests on products later to be used for humans or pets. For years animals have been used in experiments for cosmetics, such as makeup and perfumes, and medicine, such as cures and vaccines for dogs and cats. In past years there have been several debates about if testing on animals should be allowed or not, even just for medical use. While most scholars have agreed that this practice should be allowed for medicinal reasons, there is a minority that has said the practice is just too dangerous for both humans and animals. In the early 2000s there have been multiple academic journals containing information about the continuation of animal testing, most of them containing the preference to keep it to continue research for medical cures and other reasons. In the article Why animal experimentation matters by Ellen Frankel Paul, she writes animal testing deadly viruses like rabies and yellow fever could have become modern versions of the Black Death, and our knowledge about human health and physiology would have been drastically One) meaning without our testing on animals for the sake of humans and other animals vaccines and cures, viruses could have spread much more quickly and become a lot more deadly. This same article simply states is logical to assume that for therapies against bacterial, fungal or viral infections the translation from 2 animals to man is more likely to be One)This also means that the transition from animal to man is the most likely thing to work besides working on the human kind itself. Another article from 2005 called Testing drugs on animals: A test case for socially responsible investment, has a slightly differing opinion deep within the long academic journal. It questions what is morally right when it comes to these things, and it states it is accepted that animal testing makes a positive contribution to the development of new drugs, the moral question that arises is whether the furtherance of human health and the saving of human lives justify the use of animals in the development of medical Four), This asks, if animal testing is to be accepted for medical uses, would people in the world be able to face the fact that killing and abusing living beings to make the world better for human beings? In the later 2000s, more towards the present date there has been more journals written on the pressing matter that is animal testing. As the years go by, one article called Background to animal testing written in 2017 explains how violent people who believe this practice should be stopped have become. It states to researchers and their families left some of the more prominent ones requiring bodyguards for One) and a similar incident from 2007, a bomb was actually placed under a car but fortunately, the bomb had a faulty fuse and nobody was One) , meaning that people believe that this practice should be stopped so badly that willing to threaten and even try to kill others who participate in animal testing. Another academic journal from this decade includes a paragraph explaining what the author thinks will become of the future for this practice. This article states that there will likely never be an end to the animal 3 rights activists efforts to stop the practice, but as the years go on, a new medium might become available, and animal testing will likely lessen and lessen as years go on. But in an ideal world there would be the perfect substitute for the practice. In the last two decades there been much change in the journals written about the practice known as animal testing. All writers from both decades seem to have similar conclusions when it comes to the idea of it: that it should be continued for medicinal reasons. Whether that be cures for the human race, or a differing animal species. One thing is for certain when it comes to the fight between should it be continued and should it not be continued, and that is that over the years, the animal rights activists have become increasingly more violent as their passion increases for the end of this practice. But, after reading academic journals and looking at professors and researchers information on the subject, it is clear that without testing on animals, human kind would have gone through many dark ages, and much more diseases would have been spread. 4 Works Cited Garattini, Silvio, and Giuliano Grignaschi. Original Article: Animal Testing Is Still The Best Way To Find New Treatments For  European Journal Of Internal Medicine (2016): ScienceDirect. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. Murnaghan, Ian. Background and History of Animal  Background and History of Animal Testing. N.p., 6 Jan. 2017. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. Paul, Ellen Garattini, Silvio, and Giuliano Grignaschi. Original Article: Animal Testing Is Still The Frankel. Why Animal Experimentation  SpringerLink. Springer-Verlag, 2002. Web. 28 Feb. 2017. Taylor, Robert. Testing Drugs on Animals: A Test Case for Socially Responsible  N.p., Apr. 2005. Web. 28 Feb. 2017.