Shapiro 1 Matthew Shapiro Prof Ryan 20 February 2017 ENC 1102.045 Parents Television Council and their Advocacy for Accuracy in Ratings The issue of censorship as it relates to broadcast television programming is a topic that has been debated since the ratings system was voluntarily adopted by the Federal Communications Commission at the end of the 20 th Century. The Parents Television Council is a US based censorship advocacy group, which was founded by conservative Catholic activist Brent Bozell III, and its founders consist of business and entertainment leaders in all walks of life. They claim their mission is to protect children and families from unwanted graphic sex, violence and profanity on broadcast television, based upon what they allege are long-term harmful effects on children. The PTC claims that the TV content ratings system has been consistently inadequate and broken for the purpose of protecting children over the past 20 years. The biggest claim is that the TV content ratings are administered and determined by the very same TV networks that produce the content. Simply put, they argue that this constitutes a conflict of interest, as in the proverbial wolf guarding the henhouse. The PTC contends that the ratings assigned by the content producers are inaccurate, inconsistent, and inappropriate. Among the various strategies and tactics used by the PTC are powerful images to convince viewers that the rating system is broken and badly in need of revision. The first advertisement is found on the website. The tone of this image is ardent and cautionary, in display of the various ratings symbols or icons with a Shapiro 2 fractured zig-zag line down the middle of each, representing the viewpoint that the ratings system is broken. This is highlighted in red words that state, Broken Rating The purpose of this ad is to educate and motivate viewers to participate by signing the petition for ratings reform, and hence, support the work of the Council. This advertisement would appeal to all parents of young children which constitute a significant population of interested parties who will go out of their way to provide their young children with clean and appropriate entertainment. The fact that this organization is petitioning for a reform would presumably move the audience to lend support. Within the first image, there are many rhetorical elements that contribute towards making appeal. The image is credible for the reason that it is taken from the website, although lacking the company logo, ethos can still be established by the mere fact that the Council is not trying to anything of value to audience, but merely seeking support to help young children. The rhetorical device of logos applies to this image as anyone would be able to infer the meaning of the picture when seeing the fractured TV rating icons. Broken or fractured TV rating icons infer clearly that there is a problem, with almost all categories except for the rating, which coincidentally is the rating least likely to be misused. The rhetorical device of Kairos is employed with the phrase Action because it helps to frame the opportune moment to fix this problem, and motivates the audience to act now. The second image is also taken from the website and what first catches the eye is the largest picture with the words the FCC do Job? The tone of this image from the publisher would be described as critical and urgent in arguing that it is completely wrong for something inappropriate like that to be aired on television for Shapiro 3 young children to see. At the top of the image, the name and mission is stated which establishes credibility in the altruistic intent. Already from analyzing those two items and seeing that they address the FCC, you can see that the ad has to do with inappropriate and sexually implicit TV programming from a popular show called, Under the headline criticizing whether the FCC will do job, appears the statement an FCC indecency which would presumably help stop the future possibility of showing more nudity and profanity in newer TV shows, by having people submit feedback. Credibility is established with the viewer by having the name and the bottom subtopics of the authoritative-sounding and reports conducted, family and action A sense of time-sensitivity is established with the small phrases appearing in the image, such as or These key phrases draw the audience in and make them more likely to act. In addition, another phrase in the image states that, unless we speak up, the will be getting its by airing nudity, profanity, and This will instantly spark a fire in most parents and persuade them to act in a timely manner in order to fully support the cause. Logically you can see the problem they advocate on the advertisement and what the organization represents from reading all the material and analyzing the subtopics towards the bottom of the screens. Both images selected were chosen because of their similarities. They both are advertised by the same organization and are both found on the company website. They both cover the issue of television programs being too violent, or overtly sexual, and not being rated properly. Both images advocate for reform and respectfully ask that the Shapiro 4 audience participate and help support the mission. They deliberately word and structure the design of the ads to instigate frustration and passion from the parents. Other viewers will in turn use this image as a starting point to learn more and become more educated on this topic arising in society. Perhaps, even participate. The motive is for the audience to be informed, be active and speak up. Both ads list on one image it is listed twice. This emphasis and repetition will make it efficient and easy when wanting to join the PTC. Rather then having to research further or find other links that will allow them to join, there is a text option to right on the same page. Furthermore the trending topic of indecent programs being aired and the need for reform is established in both images selected. The fact that TV shows are too violent and not rated properly is unfathomable by a large group of people. In fact the numbers are growing as they try to advertise their argument and their opinions. Both images are persuasive in the sense that the information listed, even with the small amount that is in the first image chosen, moves the reader to act and make them feel passionate about it. The tone is negative, of course the writers are not going to be satisfied or be quiet about this subject. Neither will the supporting audience. With that being said, this helps promote the organizations mission in providing a safe and sound media environment for children and families as more and more involved, active parents strive in making TVs programs clean and rated properly. Shapiro 5 Works Cited Parents Television Council -  Parents Television Council - Home. N.p., n.d. Web. 21 Feb. 2017. Herman, Sarah1. The Battle For The Remote Control--Has The FCC Indecency Policy Worn Out Its Welcome In Living  Washington University Journal Of Law & Policy 38.(2012): 357-382. Index to Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 21 Feb. 2017. Shapiro 6