Masse 1 Riley Masse Instructor Ryan ENC 1102 22 February 2017 Analyzing Visual Rhetoric from the NCPA The National College Players Association (NCPA) is an organization developed to fight for the rights of student-athletes competing under National College Athletes Association (NCAA) regulations. As it stands, the mission statement is provide the means for college athletes to voice their concerns and change NCAA (NCPA). The organization is currently fighting to raise awareness and generate a resolution for the argument over whether or not student-athletes deserve to be paid as employees under the NCAA. The two images provided by the organization use visual rhetoric to raise awareness about the issue that student-athletes do not feel they are being appropriately compensated for participating in NCAA competition. By generating emotion and validating credibility of the organization, these images work together to create a message that supports the position in defending these student-athletes. As a result, the organization effectively transcends its purpose through these images. Image #1 successfully incites emotion by bringing attention to the main points of the NCPA. This image portrays the NCAA as thieves wrongfully taking money from student- athletes. The organization sides with the athletes and generates a feeling of anger towards the NCAA. By doing so, NCPA would like to capitalize on that emotion in order to help corral people to stand with what they are fighting for. Pathos is the primary visual rhetoric used in this image. The thief in the image is used to portray the NCAA as an organization performing a crime or wrongdoing. Since the wrongdoer still has a semi-formal attire on, that helps further the point Masse 2 that the NCAA is not seen as thieves by the public eye. More pathos being applied, the fact that the thief is taking from a locker is likely there to show that these players are virtually helpless at the hands of the bigger corporation. By evoking this emotion of deception, the NCPA creates the connection to their claim that the NCAA is deceiving these student-athletes by making money off of them. Furthermore, the statistic provided ($6 billion) is presented in red letters. is energizing. It excites the emotions and motivates us to take (The Color Red). The NCPA wants to associate this number with the color red in an effort to generate strong emotion related to that statistic. Through pathos, the organization is trying to make the athletes seem innocent, while simultaneously exposing the lack of integrity from the NCAA. Visual #1 utilized other forms of visual rhetoric as well that effectively further their purpose of raising awareness. One example is the Logos in this image. This is seen when the organization presents the statistic of and the term Both of these indicate knowledge of the issue at hand. $6 billion refers to the estimated amount of money that has been allegedly taken from these student-athletes, while refers to the reason why the NCAA believes it can withhold further compensation from the student-athletes. Ethos is presented in the bottom left of the image. A section is set aside for the organization to present itself, clearly separated from the action in the image. This exhibits ethos because it prevents the image from just being another piece produced by a third-party. Since a professional organization such as NCPA is presenting this image, the validity of the image will be promoted as well. The purpose of image #2-to entice the audience to join a movement and raise awareness about the issue-is achieved through multiple forms of visual rhetoric. The organization primarily does this through Kairos. The action telling the audience to is an instant move that can be taken to help the purpose. This ability to click and make a difference is Masse 3 compelling. Often times people reading an advertisement or graphic feel that their action would not contribute. By providing this direct link, the image provides a place to make a difference. There is also a hashtag in this image (All Players According to a source, got their a way of making it easier for people to find, follow, and contribute to a (Brooks). The hashtag indicates that there is a movement already begun, and by simply using or clicking on the hashtag, they too can join this movement. Kairos is strong in this image, because the only substance in this graphic is the call to action. It sticks out among everything else, and the purpose is clear to act now to join the movement for NCPA. Ethos is also present in image #2. The organization name is provided in the right side of the image as a part of a website. This is a link to the website, where more information regarding the issue can be found. Instead of bombarding the graphic with statistics and information, the organization chose to use ethos as a way to legitimize both the image itself and the movement being targeted. Other sources of visual rhetoric in this image include pathos. The location and change of color of the in the top right corner is an example of pathos. The graphic is meant to stick out by changing the background color to white, and the big letters by itself in that portion of the image means it is the only thing that can be seen in that area. This is done explicitly because the organization views that as the most important piece of this image, and it gets people to interact with the hashtag. Looking even closer, there is a shield in the middle of the hashtag that indicates that using the hashtag can help protect the athletes. The ethos and pathos in this image help further assert that it is possible to help defend the rights of these athletes by raising awareness for the issue. The visual rhetoric in both of the images presented clearly exemplify the position that student-athletes are not being appropriately compensated for their efforts in NCAA Masse 4 competition. Each visual has a unique approach with the rhetoric. Image #1 primarily uses pathos to generate strong emotion in order to support the movement. Image #2, meanwhile, utilizes Kairos primarily to urge a call into action. These two images complement each other in the fact that one uses extreme metaphor and imagery to depict a point, while the other provides an outlet to go to make voices heard. Together, these images combine to collectively assert that the organization wants to inform of the issue as well as generate a movement to make a change. Neither image provides the same graphics, but they both clearly serve the purpose of wanting to join the fight against the NCAA. Masse 5 Works Cited Brooks, Rich. Hashtags Explained: The Complete Guide to Hashtags in Social  Flyte New Media. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. <http://www.takeflyte.com/hashtags- explained>. The Color  Empowered By Color. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <http://www.empower- yourself-with-color-psychology.com/color-red.html>. Mission &  More About NCPA. NCPA, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <http://www.ncpanow.org/about/mission-goals>. Masse 6 Image #1 Image #2