Mercado 1 Alejandra Mercado Robert Ryan ENC 1102 19 March 2017 Fight against Cages Since their inception, the organization known as PETA (People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals) has caused a lot or outrage with their campaigns and advertisements. This organization comes up with crude and bold statements in order to convince people of their cause. Their motto is, are not ours to eat, wear, experiment on, use for entertainment, or abuse in any other (About PETA). This means that their mission and goal is to protect animals rights. PETA focuses on four main areas in which the biggest number of animals suffer: the food industry, in the clothing industry, in labs, and in the entertainment industry. The use of animals for entertainments purposes is one of the most argued issues as it involves the morality of having animals in zoos. This is something that PETA is publicly and exclusively against. PETA uses various aspects of the rhetorical elements such as kairos, pathos, logos, and ethos in their ads to transmit the goals. ads are known to be bold and scandalous to make sure people pay attention and take action towards their goals. In picture 1, a woman can be seen with skin painted like a tiger. The woman that portrays a tiger is inside a cage looking uncomfortable and mad. A text is also displayed in the ad that says, lonely and abused: Boycott the This ad insinuates that attending the circus is supporting the circus, something that goes against the Mercado 2 morals. PETA uses rhetorical elements in all of their advertisements knowing it is the best way to get their purpose and message into the world. For instance, the first picture uses pathos to create empathy towards the animals.This way the animals as seen in more a more humane way and not for entertainment which is objective.The ad has the words, abused, These three words associated with the women dressed like a tiger are designed to educate anyone on how animals are actually being treated. PETA has spent many years trying to educate people on animals rights and how to fight against injustice. Logos, the appeal to logic or reason, is also present in this ad. At the bottom of the image, there is some information regarding tigers in the circus, it reads as follows, in circuses are viciously struck with sticks to make them perform difficult tricks, and confined to cages barely larger than their own bodies. Help stop this cruelty by never attending a circus that uses The last sentence in the ad is asking for people to action against circuses. This is useful for PETA since its main goal is to stop animals cruelty in food industry, in the clothing trade, in laboratories, and in the entertainment (About PETA). The main goal of this organization is not only for the organization itself to fight for animals rights, but for those engaged in the ads to act as well. Timeliness is another important element in any ad, as it ads a sense of urgency to the message that is being delivered. In the rhetorical analysis, kairos is what defines timeliness. The largest piece of text in the ad says, the This brings a sense of urgency to immediate stop supporting the circus and to never go to a show again. This has the sense of timeliness since boycotting the industry can be always be done, and of urgency, because they are asking for you to do it now. Not only is the message urgent, but it is also timely as it applies as Mercado 3 long as circuses still exist. A sense of urgency makes the message PETA is trying to transmit feel more powerful. PETA ads all look really similar as most of them have a celebrity posing as well as informative text about the issue at hand surrounds them. .This ad stars a woman without clothing in a bathtub. It also poses a question, Could you live in a bathtub for 40 years? An important part of this ad that also needs to be analyzed the title Seaquarium: Confinement and the information provided by the organization, it can be concluded that the main purpose of PETA with this campaign would be to close all aquariums as whales should be in the ocean. HAving information that denotes negative language and feelings helps transmit serious yet delicate goal. you live in a bathtub for 40 is the biggest text in the ad, marking its importance.This question evokes pathos, which is most used technique to spread its massage all around the world. By engaging empathy for the animals PETA is able to argue how animals and humans are so much alike. Since both animals and humans are so alike, they both deserve to have their rights protected. Logos, logic, is also a key element for this ad. The advertisement has information about a specific whale named Lolita. PETA uses logos to educate the people about the conditions whales live in when they are confined in aquariums. It says that Lolita was torn away from her family in 1970 and has been stuck in a tiny tank in the Miami Seaquarium. Also, she is in a concrete tank in chemically treated water and the aquarium refuses to release her. To top of everything, kairos also makes an appearance with the question discussed above. uses a specific technique called shock advertisements. This way of advertising disturbing and graphic imagery, slogans that disturb in order to draw Mercado 4 immediate attention to the issue at The organization feels like releasing provocative and uncensored ads vital if we are to reach the masses and initiate discussion, debate, questioning of the and, of course, (Animals Rights Uncompromised). Having shocking images and information helps the stakeholder to properly present the information needed. Certain goals cannot be achieved if all of the facts are not presented. Both of the ads presented have have very similar elements which are used to help transmit message out into the world. PETA has mixed reviews on the way they present its message in ads. It can be be said that both ads as a whole represent quite clearly what main message is even though it is advertising two different things. The big picture from both ads is to protect all animals, yet each ad focuses on a specific animal and situation. By concentrating on one animal PETA wants its message to be clear as possible. Also by talking about something in specific makes it easier to understand what the organization wants people to get from the ad. If PETA were to focus on the entire animals kingdom in one specific ad then it would be hard to understand what needs to be done for each animal to be properly protected. In this two ads the stakeholder is trying to send the message the animals should not be kept for entertainment they are being mistreated. This message can be simply deduced since the ad was being quite specific with the information given and the action it wants people to take. For many years PETA has been known for their advertisements as they can be quite bold. Nonetheless, this boldness is what causes for this ads to be effective as they convey their message quite clear. Having rhetoric elements such as pathos and logos included in the pictures is what gives them depth and what causes for the message to convert into action. Mercado 5 Mercado 6 Work Cited About  PETA, n.d. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. Animal Rights Uncompromised:  PETA, n.d. Web. 17 Mar. 2017 Manral, Kiran. The Effects of Shock  Effects of Shock The Advertising Club, 15 Nov. 2011. Web. 15 Mar. 2017. Mercado 7 Picture 1 Picture 2