Keever 1 John Keever Sabah Uddin ENC 1101 April 7th, 2017 The Historiographical Shift of Research Towards Drug Prohibition Policies In 1971 president Richard Nixon declared drug abuse public enemy number one. This led to drug prohibition based laws and policies to come into effect. The laws focused on destroying the supplies of drugs, and incarcerating drug traffickers. Overtime, support for drug prohibition has declined; as the negative effects of the prohibition have become more and more prevalent. An alternative to drug abuse was soon introduced: harm reduction. Harm reduction is an approach towards drug policies that focus on programs and practices that reduce the harms associated with the abuse of psychoactive drugs in people who are unable or unwilling to stop their use. It is agreed in the community of scholars that a harm reduction approach is the most effective approach cost wise; to solving the drug abuse problem within the United States. It been debated and concluded that a harm reduction based approach is the most effective method for reducing the use of drug abuse within the United States. While all four research took different routes over different periods of time, each having their own respective research methods: their results were equally conclusive in relation to each other. Keever 2 But there has undoubtedly been a marked shift over the past seventeen years in research on the emphasis of drug abuse; more recent scholarship focuses on the negative public health effects of drug prohibition policies as a central focus, but move away from the economic burden it has upon the United States economy. Recent scholars discuss the overall health impact that drug policy based prohibition has on the United States. They agree with the previous wave of scholars; in a sense they do discuss the rising incarceration rates due to drug prohibition based policies. But rather than relate how incarceration is an economic burden to the United States, they discuss the rising HIV rates in inmates due to incarceration of drug traffickers and drug abusers. As an example, in article, The Lancet Commissions: Public Health And International Drug Policy, she makes a clear indication towards pubic health being a main concern for the commission: One of the greatest impacts of pursuit of drug prohibition identified by the Commission with respect to infectious disease is the excessive use of incarceration as a drug-control measure . . . Drug use and drug injection occur in prisons, although their occurrence is often denied by officials. HIV and hepatitis C virus (HCV) transmission occurs among prisoners and detainees, and is often complicated by co-infection with tuberculosis. (Csete 1) Keever 3 In contrast to this idea, earlier scholars such as the Harvard Law Review Association, in their study of drug prohibition laws in the United states from 1993-2000, mainly focus on the economic burden that drug prohibition laws had on the United States economy: [They concluded the number of both federal and state prisoners increased nearly tenfold between 1980 and 1993 . . . federal and state prisons needs have skyrocketed dramatically, and now require over 1600 new prison beds each week to keep pace with new arrests and convictions . . . the fixed costs of building a prison ranges from 60,000 to 75,000 per inmate, and the average operating cost is about 60$ per day per inmate, or about $22,000 annually per inmate. (Harvard Law Review 1487) Economic struggles were one of the main concerns for their research, and a main argumentative point against the use of drug prohibition policies. They exclaim that the governments spend billions due to these drug problems and pay no attention to other needs such as education and social programs (1488). The main reasoning for this definite shift in drug prohibition research is mainly due to the change in targeted audience for the research. The early wave of researchers main targeted audience of their ideas were towards policy makers within the United States. Both current researchers and early researchers main objective in their research was to persuade policy makers to enact harm reduction strategies. The Harvard Law Review even mentioned that they had Keever 4 with several state and federal lawmakers to discuss the proposed (1495). That legislation being for their program; a program that they created in an attempt promote reintegration into society of appropriate nonviolent offenders by allowing nonviolent offenders who demonstrate sufficient evidence of rehabilitation to have their criminal records (1494). Progressively, researchers made their target audience a wider range, discussing public health as an incentive for the people of the United States. Rather than targeting policy makers and government officials who were unyielding within the United States, they targeted their research towards the people and the United Nations. For example, The Lancet Commission (2017), researched evidence on public health issues that come from drug prohibition related policies in an attempt to persuade the United Nations to have a focus on the public health problems that arise from drug prohibition (Csete 1). In addition, in (2011), Counselor Attitudes toward the Harm Reduction Approach in Substance Abuse Treatment, she attempts to inform the public that, needs to be known regarding the acceptance or rejection of the harm reduction model among counselors in the United (Kyser 4). This idea of a change in target audience causes a shift in research of the economic burden of drug prohibition, to public health concerns associated with drug prohibition. I believe this shift in research is solely due to the fact that public health concerns are more of a persuasive and relatable argument when portraying evidence to the people and to the United Nations. Keever 5 The historiographical shift of research that has occurred between 2000-2017 is apparent. Its main cause is due to the progression of the researchers target audience, switching from United States policy makers and government officials. To the United Nations and the people of the United States. Conclusively, all researchers eventually come to the same conclusion; that harm reduction policies are the most beneficial and cost effective method to stopping drug abuse within the United States. But the shift in research methods towards providing that conclusion has ultimately changed overtime. Keever 6 Works Cited Cohen, Michael M. Jim Drug War: Race, Coca Cola, and the Southern Origins of Drug  Southern Cultures, no. 3, 2006, p. 55. Csete, Joanne, et al. The Lancet Commissions: Public Health And International Drug  The Lancet 387.(2016): 1427-1480. ScienceDirect. Web. 13 Feb. 2017. The Harvard Law Review Association. the War on Drugs: A for Nonviolent Drug Harvard Law Review, vol. 113, no. 6, 2000, pp. 1502. Kyser, Nicole Marie. Counselor Attitudes toward the Harm Reduction Approach in Substance Abuse  Dissertation Abstracts International Section A: Humanities and Social Sciences, vol. 71, no. 11-A, 2011