Krishna Patel Dr. Sabah Uddin ENC 1101 04/07/2017 Does immigration have a positive impact on the U.S. labor market? Over the years, there is an increase in immigration in the U.S., which in turn, has had an effect on the U.S. labor market. From analysis of a variety of articles and individual interpretation of the scholarly evidence, the majority of authors reached a similar conclusion: that immigration creates a positive effect for the U.S. labor market; whereas, a minority of the authors highly disagreed with the above opinion. The author, George J. Borjas argues in his article, Immigration Grease the Wheels of the Labor Market that greases the wheels of the labor (70). In support of his argument, he uses data from 1950-90 U.S. censuses to analyze the link between wage differences of immigration and native workers in the United States. As a result of the analyses, he found that wages converged faster during high immigration period. Thus, the author admits that immigration does play an important role in improving the U.S. labor market. Moreover, in between deriving formulas for the location decisions of native workers and immigrants, Borjas points out the following two distinct benefits of immigration: First, they raise national income through the traditional immigration surplus: because the capital stock is fixed, immigrants increase the profits of native capitalists by more than they lower the earnings of native workers. Second, they help narrow the gap between 1 marginal products in the two regions, maximize the increase in GDP that accrues to natives, and reduce the volume of migration costs that natives would have had to incur (82). For these two strong outcomes of his analyses, the author highly believes that immigration drives the labor market, further boosting it, as evidenced by his calculations, graphs, and other various studies. Likewise, Gordon H. Hanson also discusses an idea similar to the above article. In article and Economic he notes that by immigration there is growth in the productivity of the capital and labor market. For example, the majority of highly educated women are married to highly educated men; and for both to work outside the home often requires hiring outside labor to care for children, to clean the home, to launder clothes, and to tend to the yard. According to a study of impact on U.S. cities, low-skilled immigrants have lower prices for dry cleaning, child care, house cleaning, yard care, and other labor-intensive services. Lower prices for these services translate into more hours spent at work for high-skilled workers. Thus, low-skilled immigration indirectly contributes to productivity growth by raising the effective supply of high skilled labor. Besides this idea, Hanson also notes that compared to the natives, immigrants are more mobile geographically; therefore, their mobility for jobs helps to smooth fluctuations in the U.S. economy and ease the burden on the U.S. workers when the unemployment rate rises. Altogether, the evidence supports the notion that immigrants tend to positively contribute to the U.S. labor market. 2 Analogous to the previous articles, author Darrell M. West draws similar conclusion to that of the aformentioned authors by providing additional supporting evidence in his academic article Costs and Benefits of West uses polling data of the impression of immigration. As a result, 51 percent believe that immigrants take jobs away from native-born workers. However, 86 percent believe that immigrants are hard workers, and 61 percent think immigrants create jobs and set up new businesses (432). This statistic shows that native born Americans also think that immigrants have no negative effect on the labor market. Additionally, West also includes that most immigrants come to the U.S. in their youth working period, when they are paying taxes, spending more time at work, and not drawing extensively on public pension. Furthermore, he also points out that most of the immigrants are clearly a vital part of the rise of the high-tech and biotech industries. According to one study of technology and engineering, foreign founder launched 25.3 % of businesses in America. This statistic proves that the U.S. labor market is, in fact, positively affected. In contrast, in George J. other article Labor Demand Curve Is Downward Sloping: Reexamining the Impact of Immigration on the Labor he disagrees with all the above conclusions and results by claiming that immigration lowers the wage of native born workers. To confirm this argument, he provides empirical analysis and graphical data depicting a decrease in native wages due to immigrant impact. And so, he concludes that this negative correlation indicates that immigrant presence and job occupancy worsens the 3 employment opportunities of competing native workers. Accordingly, it can be said that in the second article, Borjas argues in contrast with the other existing article. After reviewing the scholarly articles containing varied opinions and from different periods of time, the evidence weighs stronger and in support of the positive effect that immigration holds on the U.S. labor market. Altogether, the research sources utilized concludes that immigration vitally promotes, strengthens, and stabilizes the labor market. 4 Work Cited Borjos George J. Immigration Grease the Wheels of the Labor Papers on Economic 2001, no. 1, 2001, pp. 69-119. Borjas, George J. Labor Demand Curve Is Downward Sloping: Reexamining the Impact of Immigration on the Labor Quarterly Journal Of vol. 118, no. 4, 2002, pp. 1335-1374. Gordon H. And Economic vol. 32, no. 1, 2012, pp. 25-34. Darrell M. Costs And Benefits Of Science Quarterly vol. 126, no. 3, 2011, pp. 427-443. 5