Fernandez 1 Nicolo Fernandez Professor Udin 26 January, 2017 ENC 1101 - MW: 9:30-10:45 Intermediate Draft - Project 2 Medical Marijuana is cannabis that is prescribed by doctors to their patients to help patients with certain medical conditions. The legalization of medical marijuana has been a very hot topic of discussion for the last several years. There are those who believe that the cons of marijuana outweigh the pros and find that legalizing it will only do poor things for our country. Others believe that marijuana can do good for our country, both in health care and economically. Steps have been taken to legalize it from as far back as 1996 and in the last ten years the outlook of legalizing medical marijuana, continues to grow. Tracey Ashfield wrote an article in the Health in 2005, that discusses how medical marijuana can be used to help a patient with multiple sclerosis. The patient, Jack Bennett, was diagnosed with MS in the early and by 18 years time he was reporting symptoms of pain, muscle spasm and upper limb ataxia (Ashfield). Jack took conventional medicine such as morphine sulphate for his pain. However, they only partially relieved his pain (Ashfield). To further relieve his symptoms he decided to smoke marijuana (Ashfield). The article states however, that, much cannabis seemed to worsen the ataxia and left Jack very limp on (Ashfield) Fernandez 2 Marijuana helped Jack lessen his pain and in general, lessened pain for anyone, specifically those with MS. As you can see, in 2005, the outlook of using marijuana as drug to help those in pain was becoming more prominent. However, there was still speculation of the matter because if the intake was not limited, it could do more harm than good. In 2007, an article was published in which talked about a study that was based on the of pain from peripheral neuropathy related to the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) through (Nursing) It was a small study that contained only 50 people who had HIV.(Nursing) Twenty five patients smoked marijuana three times a day for a five day period while the other twenty five smoked placebo cigarettes. (Nursing) They found that those who smoked the marijuana recorded an average pain reduction of 34%. (Nursing) This was more than double the amount from the placebo group. (Nursing) According the article, a reduction of pain more than 30% is considered a significant level of improvement. (Nursing) This shows the trend of articles being published about the benefits of medical marijuana. Two years had passed since Tracey Ashfield wrote the article in Health and there are still people looking for different reasons to show people why medical marijuana is a good thing. HIV has been a continuously growing problem, and this article helped sway those that have been affected. Use And Motor Vehicle was published in 2012. The article discusses how even though marijuana is nonalcoholic it still plays a vital role in the in Fernandez 3 increasing the likelihood of car accidents (Li). 16 states at the time and the District of Columbia had passed law to decriminalize marijuana for medical use (Li). The article states that, authors performed a meta-analysis of 9 epidemiologic studies published in English in the past 2 decades identified through a systematic search of bibliographic (Li) They used articles and statistics from 2012 to as far back as the (Li). They found that marijuana used drastically increased the likelihood for a motor vehicle crash. This shows there was still people in 2012 that were looking for information and evidence that promotes their idea of how marijuana is bad for the country. This clearly differs from the two previous articles that discussed mainly how marijuana is good for our country. The final article, Research Article: Public Health Effects Of Medical Marijuana Legalization In  discusses the effects of medical marijuana. More specifically, how it affects hospital charges and poison control calls. The authors, an observational, ecological study. It used an interrupted time-series analysis to identify the changes in public health indicators from the policy changes regarding the legalization of medical which occurred in 2009. They took data and statistics from before 2009 and after. What they found is that since the legalization of medical marijuana, hospital discharges have increased. However, poison control calls about medical marijuana also increased. This article was published in 2016. This shows that even recently, there is still an argument about whether or not legalize it. This article shows both benefits and non benefits to the matter. In the case of the benefits of Fernandez 4 marijuana, it helped patients get out of the hospital. For the non benefits, it led to an increase in poison control calls. The overall outlook of the medical marijuana has been to legalize it. The articles have shown that even though there is still an argument about it, people in general have seen more benefits than downsides. Many laws and amendments have been passed to have medical marijuana more accessible to the public. This shows how America is moving into a time and is understanding all the ways that marijuana can benefit the country. Works Cited 1. Ashfield, Tracey. Cannabis Use In Multiple  Health 15.6 (2005): 25-29. Search Web. 13 Feb. 2017. 2. Davis, Jonathan M., et al. Research Article: Public Health Effects Of Medical Marijuana Legalization In  Journal Of Preventive Medicine 50.(2016): 373-379. Web. 13 Feb. 2017. 3. Li, Mu-Chen, et al. Marijuana Use And Motor Vehicle  34.1 (2012): 65. Provided Full Text Searching Web. 13 Feb. 2017. 4. Medical Marijuana: Good  37.4 (2007): 28-29. Search Web. 13 Feb. 2017.