Esperance !1 Queenie Esperance Prof. Sabah F. Uddin ENC 1101 April 7, 2017 Immigration Reform The United States has prospered economically, socially, and in many other ways from the strive of immigrants. However, the growing number of undocumented immigrants and the lack of security has brought on debates regarding bans, building walls, and passing laws to keep immigrants out of the United States. When examining various sources, the focus of the scholar discussions regarding humanitarian influences on immigration reform has shifted from an economical aspect to a political aspect. In many of the debates, immigration policies aim to either aid immigrants or rid the United States of them once and for all. According to Charles Olmeda (2011), solution is neither amnesty nor mass In the eyes the public, immigrants are either granted citizenship or sent back to their countries. This view is one of may reasons why in American Faith Community and A Just Integration Olmeda speculates the idea of A just, rational policy [which law-abiding undocumented persons on a path that leads to pursuing earned legal citizenship or legal to acquiring legal guest-worker status; or a path that leads to swift deportation of undocumented The basis of the idea focuses on immigrants as refugees and America being compassionate about their welfare. In helping law abiding immigrants adjust, the economy strives from their hard work in hopes of Esperance !2 helping their family. In the article, Olmeda focuses on the public embracing humanitarian values in hopes of striving economically and helping immigrants. In conversations held by other scholars, public opinion on immigration reform initiatives revolve around economical effects rather than welfare of the immigrants. According to K. Buckler, M. Swatt, and P. Salinas, who perceive that migrants present an economic threat to society will be more supportive of enhanced control measures and The concern is whether or not they have to thwart immigrants from harming their economy. For the same reason, the welfare of the immigrants is not a concern which is why it is easier to support enhanced strategies that removes immigrants from the United States. Scholars such as Buckler and Olmeda assessed public opinion and included results within the article to indicate how economic variables such as job loss would influence the pubic to support drastic strategies such as deportation. Though their methods were different, they came to the same conclusions. According to the results Buckler et al, who believed that migrants take jobs from do not pay their fair taxes, more income and are more highly educated were statistically more likely to support 323). The belief that the economy is crashing due to the number of immigrants taking jobs encouraged the public to elude the fact that immigrants are searching for a better life. Being that certain immigrants are gaining educational opportunities when they come here, the American people fear poor [is advantage of social service systems without contributing to Bucker et al, p.323). Economy impact continues to be a focus but greater control over immigrants is the goal that the American people aim for. Esperance !3 America has always been welcoming to immigrants looking to settle in the United States, however, the number of immigrants in the United states continue to grow significantly raising issues between the public and immigration policies. One event that stirred trouble within the political unit was the disastrous earthquake in Haiti. After the disastrous earthquake happened in Haiti, the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services(USCIS) granted many Haitians a temporary protected status which protected them from deportation. As stated by John J. Amann, tragedy in Haiti questions for Americans about immigration policy, especially those who might generally take a restrictive stance about who should be allowed to migrate to the United The American people began questioning the policies set to deal with immigration after the decision. This event was one of many to prove that the government was capable of caring about the welfare of immigrants as well as prove to the people that humanitarian solutions can be put in place as part of the immigration reform. In Fight Over scholar, Bryan Brown, assesses how immigrant welfare plays a role in the presidential debate. Immigration in American has been front and center since disputes between Clinton and Trump highlight how the immigration debate Brown, p.20). There are millions of undocumented immigrants living in the United States and both Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton offer ways to help America deal with them. suggestion is to minimize the risk of terrorist attacks by keeping muslims out of the United States, by keeping Mexican immigrants out with a wall and dealing with the remaining ones in a fair but firm manner (Brown, p.21). Although strategy seems logical and effective to a few Americans, many of them side with idea of immigration reform. Esperance !4 Clinton proposes helping immigrants become citizens by fighting for better reforms (Brown, Pg. 18). Although way of thinking aims to help America become safer and less overrun by immigrants, his strategies Clinton has against everything we stand for as a way of thinking embraces humanitarian values by putting the welfare of immigrants before anything else which embraces what the USCIS did for Haitians. Both ways of thinking puts aside any bad economical effect and focuses on helping immigrants adjust. Though way receives more positive feedback, many people supports trumps idea as well. The political parties are divided amongst the two candidates in this debate, however, they can both agree that America is indeed a country based on values and any policies made have to reflect those values. Consequently, when examining both the economical and political aspect of the immigration policy, the scholars conclude that both sides either choose to elude the welfare of the immigrants or embrace it. Economically the welfare of the immigrants is a non factor which makes it easier to rid the United States of them. However, the public does recognize that the economy may be striving instead of failing due to the fact that immigrants take the low level jobs that Americans want. The political aspect of the discussion forces the public to see how humanitarian solutions can be effective (Amann, 2011). As the immigration debate continues there will always be opposition and a division amongst the public. Immigrants are the same as everyone and while the wellness of the economy is important, humanitarianism should be the main focus for everyone. Esperance !5 Work Cited Amann, John J. Need For Comprehensive Immigration Reform: The Incomplete Compassion of US Immigration UMKC Law Review, Vol.79, No.4, 2011, P. 853-875 Brown, Bryan. Fight Over New York Times Upfront 19 September 2016. P.17-21 Buckler Kevin, Salinas Patti, Swatt Marc L. views of illegal migration policy and control strategies: A test of the core of Criminal Justice, Vol. 37, 2009, pp.317-327 Olmeda Charles. American Faith Community and A Just Integration The Review of Faith & International Affairs, Vol.9, no. 1, 2011, pp. 85-87.