1 Ryan Denis Sabah Uddin ENC 1101 3-7-17 The Conversation of Cannabis There has been much controversy on the use of cannabis substance for economical, medical, and recreational purposes since 2000 till 2017. Many authors over the years have done research into the future of cannabis. With their research, it shows that marijuana is more harmful to the economy and the users than what was previously thought. There have been many discussions on the views of cannabis use to boost economic growth. In 2006 author John Hazlehurst writes to discuss about the major contributions that marijuana has had to the local economy. analysis is based on the assumption the money from the sale of marijuana is spent in the local community. It was assumed $80,000,000 income is made from the sale of (Paragraph 2) With this large amount of income from the marijuana business it helps all parts of the local economy. In 2015 authors Aaron Roussell and Eric Jenson write to discuss the economical and recreational use of cannabis. The main focus of their research was on a dispensary in Washington, and they believed that the taxes were hindering the profits of the business. grower, the processor, and the retail outlet pay a 25% tax on the value of the cannabis. The structure of these regulations tended to benefit the retail outlets uniquely and they marked up 2 prices by 300 - (page 13) By having these taxes and making the retailer mark up their prices it then not only hurts their business, but the local economy too. Author Stephen Pudney refutes the use of marijuana for consumption. He goes on to inform the reader the harm that comes from cannabis Drug-related crime constitutes a large part of the external costs of drug (page 177) He talks about how there are many crimes with cannabis influence and how it is hurting the economy. Pudney also mentions the health problems that can be likely when people use cannabis. harms to physical health include lung disease, which is a consequence of the most common form of consumption smoking, often in combination with (page 175) These health problems can lead to bigger problems as well leading to more hospital bills and other fees hurting the economy. These authors write about the negative effects that legal cannabis use has caused for the economy and users with certain health concerns. Lost productivity in the U.S. workplace due to drug abuse costs employers $81 billion. (45) Even though it is considered medicinal, cannabis may likely impact productivity as (page 7) Finn and Salmore discuss these issues because they can cause harm the economy and it hurts the people consuming the cannabis. These authors discuss the health and economic concerns that cannabis has. Many of the authors have the same idea that cannabis is harmful to the general economy and user. There was one author who discussed the possibility that sales of legal cannabis could boost the economy, but many of the authors said that cannabis does more harm than good. They focused on the health issues and the cost that marijuana has in the overall economy, and it is agreed that the use of cannabis does more harm than good to economy. 3 Work cited Hazlehurst, John. Marijuana Sales, Distribution Major Part of Local  Colorado Springs Business Journal (CO), 27 Oct. 2006. Web. 02 Mar. 2017. Roussell, Aaron. Field Observations of the Developing Legal Recreational Cannabis Economy in Washington  International Journal of Drug Policy. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Feb. 2017. Pudney, Stephen. Drugs Policy: What Should We Do about  Economic Policy., Jan. 2010. Web. Mar. 2017. Finn, Kenneth, and Rochelle Salmore. The Hidden Costs of Marijuana Use in Colorado: One Emergency  Journal of Global Drug Policy & Practice, 2016. Web. 01 Mar. 2017.