Shawn Peed Sabah Firoz Uddin First Year Composition 2/27/17 Recreational Marijuana with Taxation The debate over the legalization of marijuana has been ongoing since its illegalization in the and has gained a lot of controversy in the to the present day due to increasing popularity, and also since it has been legalized for recreational use in places like Colorado and California. The economy has been going downhill since the early with no hope for getting better which only makes for a greater need of a new taxation. In this struggling economy there needs to be a new form of income to help boost are finance system. Earlier works and sources completely discredit the idea of legal marijuana and its taxation, yet they still claim a faulty economy, whereas the later sources show how marijuana and taxation of it could possibly help. One thing that proves the ongoing debate of legal marijuana and its taxation has changed is the many medical books and journals being published to show unlikely dangers. One of the books that will be analyzed is the book The Unbiased Truth about the Most Popular Weed written by Kevin Hill. This is a book with no biases written in 2015 because of all his facts being supported by evidence and his ability to show both the good and the bad of marijuana. It shows all of the supposed dangers of marijuana and debunks them. It shows medical and statistical research on things like addictiveness and its ability to help those suffering mental illness like depression, anxiety, or post-traumatic stress disorder. The other medical journal that will be analyzed will be the book The Impact of Marijuana Legalization on Adolescent Use, Consequences, and Perceived Risk: Substance Use & Misuse written by Ashly Estoup in 2006, an earlier time when recreational marijuana was thought to be an awful idea. This book only talks about marijuana and its potential to be addictive. The reason for these books proving why the view on this topic has been changed drastically is mostly because of the fact Kevin earlier book is unbiased whereas Ashly later book has obvious biases due to the lacking information and one-sidedness of the book. Kevin book shows the downsides to marijuana like memory and cognitive impairment, however it states that marijuana is a much healthier alternative to the legal drugs such as tobacco and alcohol. When debated in a much earlier time like the and it would only be discussed as a bad drug that could only hurt. This book even dispels the false accusation made by a famous movie in 1936 titled refer madness that argued marijuana turns good kids into drug addicts and violent spouse abusers. Back in the this was a serious movie and every one believed its information was factual, but since the topic has changed so much this movie is considered a joke and this book treats it like one. Ashly book written in 2006, only talks about the potential negative effects like addiction and abuse. This book shows a bias because of the fact it compare already legal drugs such as tobacco and alcohol or about how those legal drugs also have a very high capability to be abused. The later source also never list the beneficial use of marijuana like its ability to help those with terrible illnesses. The second reason this topic has changed so much is because of the changing and the decline of the United States economy. The United States economy has plummeted since the early and reached an awful low in 2009, as described in the book The Decline and Fall of the U.S. Economy: How Liberals and Conservatives Both Got It Wrong written by William McDonald, written in the year 2010. Throughout the book, he discusses the facts and shows why now of all times is so bad and what lead to this point. However throughout this book he never mentions recreational marijuana taxation as a potential benefit to the economy amongst his list because of how taboo the was in 2009. This source discusses a great factor in why this topic has changed. It shows and highlights the problems and reasons for the economic tumble that the United States is in. Marijuana, being illegalized after the great depression in a time of economic fortune, can finally have a justified purpose to be legalized for the United States economy. As a struggling economy, the United States is now in need of ways to get any income it can get, and so recreation marijuana has a purpose due to the fact that you can impose a tax on it. Taxes are one of the biggest incomes that the United States government receives. So since recreational marijuana can be taxed it has the ability to also help the United States economy. However throughout this book written by William McDonald, he mentions many ways to fix our economy, however he never mentions the idea to legalize and tax marijuana because of the fact the very idea of legalizing marijuana was hated and so he skipped over that idea and specified other things that could be taxed. A third, and also very large topic that has created a change in the topic of medical marijuana is the large number of prisoners the United States has. Prisons are not only growing at an alarming amount, but they also cost a large amount of money to fund. The amount that is spent on prisoners is analyzed in the book The Price of Prisons: What Incarceration Costs Taxpayers which is written by Christian Henrichson and Ruth Delaney in the year 2012. It goes over the logistics and the change in the price per prisoner over the years. The reason the cost of a prisoner has been changing the topic of legal marijuana is because of the amount of people that are imprisoned due to marijuana related charges. In the the cost of an individual prisoner was much cheaper however with the change an ethics for prison and the way that prisoners are treated, the amount of money per prisoner has increased a lot. Due to the fact that prisons are increasing at an alarming rate, at least decriminalizing marijuana in every state would cut down those numbers and make the United States government spend much less on prisons. It shows the change in the topic because back in 2000-2010 the growing prison rate was blamed on racial discrimination until more and more studies like this one came out proving marijuana related charges were actually one of the biggest reasons for prison growth. Bibliography 1. Estoup, Ashley C. Substance Use &  The Impact of Marijuana Legalization on Adolescent Use, Consequences, and Perceived Risk: Substance Use & Misuse: Vol 51, No 14. N.p., 9 Sept. 2006. Web. 2. Christian Henrichson, Ruth Delaney, The Price of Prisons: What Incarceration Costs Taxpayers. New York: Vera Institute of Justice, 2012. 3. Hill, Kevin P. Marijuana: The Unbiased Truth about the Most Popular Weed. Center City, MN: Hazelden, 2015. Print. 4. Wallace, William McDonald. The Decline and Fall of the U.S. Economy: How Liberals and Conservatives Both Got It Wrong. Santa Barbara, CA: Praeger, 2010. Print.