Murdock 1 Kennedy Murdock Professor Roth ENC 1101 SEC 018 April 8 th , 2017 Social Media and Its Negative Affects on Adolescent Girls Psyche Brooke, a twelve-year-old girl finally, receives her very own cell phone as a Christmas present. The first thing she does with this shiny new piece of technology is create an Instagram account like all the girls in her class. Through this account, the young girl follows all the beautiful women she admires, ranging from makeup mogul Kylie Jenner, to her favorite YouTube star Maddi Bragg, and even the most popular girls at her school. Next, the girl begins to take her very first photo to post. She begins an attempt to recreate a picture she liked of the model, Gigi Hadid, and purses her lips. After a few tries, the young girl results in what she considers a selfie of herself and posts it on her page. Afterwards, throughout the day, Brooke is consciously haunted about the number of likes it got and how other people perceived her picture. Why do you think something as insignificant as a photo would leave such a bothersome thought on mind? Researchers Trudy Hui Hui Chua and Leanne Chang state that these forms of social media have provided that manifest media and peer influences on teenage understanding of beauty towards an idealized which has negatively affected girls psyche in the sense that they are not accepted, or positively reassured enough on these networking sites. Through research such as Chua and Chang, I will be continuing to unveil stigma behind social media beauty perceptions and usage that has detrimentally affected adolescent psyches. Murdock 2 As the use of the Internet became more of a common tool to access, so have its uses. Instant Messaging, or an electronic message sent in real time via the Internet and therefore immediately available for display on the screen (as defined by dictionairy.com) became a common means of communication for girls especially before the times of text messaging and major social networking sites. Soon instant messaging became a means to an through the of information and gossip, the establishment and maintenance of friendships cliques, fighting with others, and the discussion of male peers and (Gallardo 03). Instant messenger is the first platform you can see that the interaction between young adolescents and social media begins to slowly change as it was only limited to interaction between the media and local friends. In this case the, the usage of instant messenger will be considered the controlled subject in terms of comparison. The use of this technology is noted as a preferred that is relied on to help aid in progression to adulthood. This is the first change in the psyche seen in the use of social media, as transitional objects traditionally tend to be blankets, etc. and not forms of social media (Gallardo 06). As time progressed, the use of instant messaging also established a ground for the basic of websites and applications that enable users to create and share content otherwise known as social (dictionairy.com). These new platforms of social networking opened a gateway to a vaster form of communication and interaction and has slowly began creating a new set of social rules girls have began to follow. Trudy Hui Hui, and Leanne Chang have recently noted what exactly these rules are and how it has impacted girls physiologically. After interviewing 24 girls, they came to the conclusion that many girls began forming their own ideals of beauty based off of the Murdock 3 people they with of their social media. The adolescents have also stated that they have become about how others perceived their content they post. However, some of these girls are not concerned how they are viewed in real life, but how they are seen the lens of a and what is posted on their profiles (Glass 01). These ideals critical roles in developing their identities and self so much that they have even taken the initiative to editing their photos in order to facilitate their perceptions. Although photo editing seem that detrimental, this is not the case, especially for those severely affected by the issue. Photo editing adds fuel to the fire by giving others (especially those with a following) an picturesque mask in which many hide behind. Removing freckles, smoothing out the face, and changing the dimensions of their natural body shape are all examples of what people do in order to be seen as by others (Glass 03) As stated before, many girls take how they are shown to the world of social media as a big deal, and the pressure of being accepted and to be recognized can take a huge toll on how adolescents subconsciously acts. In an effort to achieve this perfection you can see that many become obsessed with the idea of perception and their acceptance in the media. Many girls will post numerous photos just to them because it achieve a suitable amount of likes, favorites, or comments. This shows that many of them now rely on response of the social media to their in which will soothe their ego (Glass 01). Many people however may disagree with the idea as a whole as they believe the usage of social media has produced less than negative results, as many girls have used these platforms to produce a digital empire and build their rather than unnerve Murdock 4 it. Though many have been able to turn their platforms into an unrelenting community, there are still many flaws within their status. Many of these still display themselves in a way they in actuality. This will lead the youngers into believing their false lifestyles and many of times to copy or recreate such as Brooke did from before (Candace 027) Recreations of the impractical looks and habits of the influencers demonstrates the endeavor girls go to be seen in a light as those they perceived to be accepted and beautiful. Rather than being self confident in their own skin, they have to rely on others to set the standards in which the will follow thus establishing that idea within their psyche. To conclude, the use of social media has produced negative outcomes on adolescents psyche in a sense that their increase usage has increase their reliance on the media to confirms egotistical ideals of what is exemplified as beautiful and how one is on the track to establishing it. Trudy Hui Hui and Katie Glass both have noted how social media has influenced girls psychologically by stating the slow down hill negatives of social media as it is giving them a means to create a platform of of beauty and thus creating young girls to be more consciously aware of how they are viewed on these platforms and increased the progression of interaction of the medium. Critics have also tried to disprove this ideal by stating the positives social media has had on the success in some girls, but have failed to realize the how overall the impact networking has negatively affected many girls ego. Word Count: 1185 Murdock 5 Works Cited 1. Chua, Trudy Hui Hui, and Leanne Chang. Me And Like My Beautiful Selfies: Singapore Teenage Engagement In Self-Presentation And Peer Comparison On Social  Computers In Human Behavior 55.Part A (2016): 190-197. ScienceDirect. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. 2. Gallardo, Heather L. Review Of Instant Identity: Adolescent Girls And The World Of Instant  Journal Of Language And Social Psychology 27.3 (2008): 306-309. PsycINFO. Web. 17 Feb. 2017. 3. Glass, Katie. Deep; Have you applied your filter? With 1.8bn images uploaded on social media every day, digitally enhanced beauty is taking over but more to the selfie than meets the  Sunday Times (London, England) 2015: Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. 4. Smith, Candace. Cover Girl Culture: Awakening the Media  Booklist 2010: 69. Literature Resource Center. Web. 16 Feb. 2017