1 Austin Stooks Dr. Sabah Firoz Uddin English Composition 1 March 26, 2017 Privatization and Net Neutrality: An Evolving Trade With new innovations of the Internet come new challenges. Since the internet has been fully privatized (controlled and regulated by corporations) scholars have looked at the data over the years and have changed their opinions on net neutrality (the mindset that all data should be treated and charged at a uniform price) from one side of it being necessary for the Internet and the consumer, to the question of will these regulations hold back the global economy or not? The initial view of early scholars Shah, Rajiv C and Jay P. Kesan was one of reproach at first for the privatization process and seeing that there was little regulation to protect consumers. Through this transition, they evaluated how regulations were handled as well as the passing of the torch to private businesses. Unfortunately, there was little to few regulations in the beginning. From their article in the Journal of Broadcasting & Electronic Media they noted that, the lack of any performance requirements for the public NAPs (Network Access Points) led to them becoming (Shah 100) as well as lack of an interconnection policy has resulted in a concentrated industry with a few large backbone (Shah 102). The work of both authors can be summarized as the history and short term effects of internet privatization of a yet unknown good or bad as well as the seed of net neutrality. From the observations of the authors a new view was created and shifted towards. The idea of net neutrality, as seen in Sascha and Victor article from the Journal of Internet Law, neutrality, defined broadly, is non- discriminatory interconnectedness among data communication networks that allows users to access the content and to run the services, applications, and devices of their (Meinrath 11) This was a brand-new forming idea that was 2 challenging the notion of big businesses controlling what people could access. In their article Meinrath and Pickard liken the Internet to previous forms of communication like the telegraph and telephone technology. They use this comparison to argue that the Internet should be treated like a telecommunications service and should be protected as such. They go into a brief history of the regulations and process that the telephone had to go through in order for it to be what it is today. The authors make a proposal of a list of regulations that they think are necessary for the Internet to thrive and be protected. The list includes a common carriage carriage ensures that network operators lease their lines to all potential market players, including municipalities, at market (wholesale) (Meinrath 18)), maintaining open protocols and standards, safeguarding privacy, and many others. These suggestions harken back to and Kesan first complaints about the privatization process and shows how similar these scholars think for a solution to the problems with internet privatization. But as time went on more and more scholars picked up the subject and researched the problems that stifled the Internet. The causes also became a bit more personal and economical as seen in and article in the Journal of Economic Perspectives specifically talking only on net neutrality. Since the Internet had been around for a few scholars have looked more closely at the long term economic benefits/drawbacks rather than the short-term problems and solutions of net neutrality and privatization. In journal, he analyzed the cost and benefit equations of larger Internet services like Comcast and Netflix and what the standard consumer would have to pay for those services. He then compared those to another formula where there is more regulations and consumer protection. In this he also counts the base charge would go up as well because of the companies need to make up for the regulations in the first place. As he puts it, neutrality, instead, cuts all profits from content providers for the ISP, which is therefore not interested in generating additional traffic from them. This generates 3 inefficiencies when it is more profitable to make more money from fewer (Greenstein 138) which creates lazy providers and is overall worse for consumers and the economy. However Greenstein does give the concession that certain data like Skype calls lose value when not prioritized unlike other types like downloading a huge file. This brings up the debate of should Internet providers be able to favor other data types on the basis of need or in value? As stated by Greenstein, the absence of net neutrality, an internet service provider might benefit from strategically degrading the quality of the nonpriority lane in order to drive traffic to a paid-for prioritized (Greenstein 142) Scholars have now looked at net neutrality not as a blanket tool but as a scalpel and have tried seeing the effects it could have on the economy and if it is worth it, also in terms of scope how should net neutrality be treated across all platforms. This is spoken further upon in Richard article in Journal of Business & Technology Law on mobile carriers and if they should follow the same regulations of regular providers. In this latest journal net neutrality is no longer treated as a blanket treatment but as a question of will this help the economy and protect users from Internet providers? However, hope is on the horizon because as stated in paper, FCC has proposed a standard that achieves these goals without infringing upon innovative practices, or end user access to the open (Starr 107) Overtime scholars have seen the small beginnings of net neutrality as at first a small rule to protect consumers into a full-blown policy essential for the rights and freedoms of all people. From the collection of scholars and their varying opinions it can be summarized that most them are in favor of net neutrality and tighter regulations on the Internet to protect consumers. 4 Works Cited Greenstein, Shane, Martin Peitz, and Tommaso Valletti. Net Neutrality: A Fast Lane to Understanding the  Journal of Economic Perspectives 30.2 (2016): 127-150 Web. 6 Apr. 2017. Meinrath, Sascha D., and Victor W. Pickard. Transcending Net Neutrality: Ten Steps Toward an Open  Journal of Internet Law 12.6 (2008): 11-21 Web. 24 Feb. 2017. Shah, Rajiv C., and Jay P. Kesan. The Privatization of the Backbone  Journal of Broadcasting & Electronic Media 51.1 (2007): 93-109. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Starr, A. Richard, Net Neutrality: On Mobile Broadband Carriers and the Open Internet, The Commercially Reasonable Network Management Standard, and the Need for Greater Protection of the Open Internet, 11 J. BUS. & TECH. L. 89-107 (2016) 3 Feb. 2017