Samuel Fonseca Samuel Fonseca Guimaraes Professor Uddin Composition I 04/02/2017 Does the early use of marijuana cause brain damage? Smoking marijuana in youth affects the brain and works as a trigger for psychological disorders. Several scholars have conducted experiments, and despite using different methods of research, they all have found a link between the early use of marijuana and psychological diseases later in life. Jane E. Anderson (2015), a clinical professor of pediatrics at UCSF, summarizes all her experiences on the field and puts them into layman terms. article Development in Adolescents: New Research - Implications for Physicians and Parents in Regard to Medical Decision focuses on parents and teenagers, she tries to get the parents into the subject and get them to help their kids to not use marijuana, by clearly talking about what she has experienced and researched throughout her career. The article shows the influence of dopamine on the process of addiction, and about the damage marijuana causes to every lobe of the brain, especially the frontal lobe. She uses anecdotes for an easier understanding of the brain, e.g. when she says that frontal lobe is the CEO of the (Anderson, p2), which is the lobe responsible for thinking, processing information and other complex thoughts. By damaging the frontal lobe, the frontal lobe does not work at full capacity, inhibiting the brain development. Anderson also talks about the hippocampus, and how crucial it is to the development of the neural system, and also said that the earlier it is damaged, the longer the effects will last. Anderson demonstrated on this article the results of her innumerous experiences throughout her time working at the pediatrics department at UCSF. Samuel Fonseca The second scholar, Valerie Canadie (2015), the editor of Mental Health Weekly, wrote her article use by youth, schizophrenia genetic risk based on her interviews with Dr. Tomaz Paus - Professor of Psychology and Psychiatry at the University of Toronto -; differently from the previous scholar, who discussed her experiences on the field. Canadie (2015) wrote her article based on the research made by Dr. Paus and his team on the links between smoking marijuana and schizophrenia. Paus was the first researcher to look into the brain, he used fMRI machines to analyze the brain of 1,024 teenagers from both genders; afterward, he made a replica of this study using a sample of 504 males. The third and last replica was made with 426 adolescents. team found there is a negative relation between using marijuana in youth and the cortical thickness on teenagers who had a tendency to develop schizophrenia, where the more marijuana was smoked, the thinner the cortical tissue was. Thus, the odds of developing this disease and other psychological diseases were increased. Both of the scholars did not conduct the research; Anderson (2015) summarized all her experiences while working as a pediatric and wrote them down into an article to alert both teenagers and parents; while Canadie (2015) wrote her article based on her interview with Dr. Paus, who conducted a series of experiments using fMRI machines to have a detailed view of the changes the brain passes when it is exposed to cannabis. Agreeing with the previous scholars, Graham Lawton (2005), Executive Director at New Scientist and author of much, too agrees with the previous scholars, and again, bases his thesis on his experiences and interviews. Lawton (2005) talks about the history of the use of marijuana in early ages, from the Rastafarians in the 1960s to the coffee shops in the Netherlands. He interviewed Van a psychiatry of the University of Maastricht in the Netherlands, an expert on the effects of marijuana in the brain, especially in adolescents; Van concluded that smoking marijuana during adolescence increases the odds to develop schizophrenia in 23%. The author introduces us to a myriad of studies conducted throughout the years on the link between cannabis and psychological disorders in Samuel Fonseca early adulthood due to the early use of the substance. Gerry Jager - an expert in Psychophysics, Cognitive Science, Cognitive Psychology, from Wageningen University in the Netherlands - et al (2010) agrees with all the scholars; however, Jager (2010) wrote his article based on his research, differently from the previous scholars, who based their articles on others researches or experiences. The scholar conducted his experiments on an fMRI machine, the same machine used by Dr. Paus, who was interviewed by Canadie (2015), and through these experiments he came up with equivalent results to the ones showed by Lawton (2005). The scholar group found that smoking marijuana in youth increase the chance to develop schizophrenia in early adulthood, and also decreases the IQ levels. study consisted in examining the brain of 47 teenagers boys and test their IQs; after a couple years, when the boys had become adults, he tested them again and found out that the IQ levels of those who often smoked had decreased and were lower than 80, while the ones who had not smoked marijuana kept their IQs at the same level they were when they first took the test. In conclusion, the scholars have come up with similar conclusions. They all agree that the early use of marijuana does affect the brain and have influence in psychological diseases in adulthood. However, each one of the scholars have taken different pathways to come up with their conclusions, the majority basing their conclusions on interviews they did with experts on the subject; followed by a group of scholars who described the findings of their researches; finally, one author described her experience on the field. Based on what all the scholars described, marijuana causes permanent brain damage and it is the trigger for the development of psychological disorders, especially when used in youth. Samuel Fonseca Works Cited Anderson, Jane E., Development in Adolescents: New Research - Implications for Physicians and Parents in Regard to Medical Decision Issues in Law & Medicine; Fall2015, Vol. 30 Issue 2, p193-196, 4p. Canady, Valerie, use by youth, schizophrenia genetic risk Brown University Child & Adolescent Behavior Letter; Oct2015, Vol. 31 Issue 10, p3-4, 2p Jager, Gerry, et al. Use and Memory Brain Function in Adolescent Boys: A Cross-Sectional Multicenter Functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging Journal of the American Academy of Child & Adolescent Psychiatry, v49 n6 p561-572.e3 Jun 2010. 12 pp. Lawton, Graham, much, too New Scientist. March 26, 2005, Vol. 185 Issue 2492, p44, 4 p.