Dyal 1 Shawn Dyal Gottlieb ENC 1102 5 April 2017 College Athletes and Payment The topic of playing college athletes is something that arises time to time. The debate of whether young men and women should receive payment tends to be brought up when a college athlete is caught signing autographs for money or going to parties and seen with luxurious items and the question of how they received those goods comes up. The other, and more common, times debates on paying college athletes is during the college football and basketball season. basketball and football are the common top sports across the nation. The NCAA is benefiting from these men working for more than forty hours a week and traveling multiple times throughout the season to play a game that if they were playing in professional leagues would be paid to play The Insane Amount Of Time Student-Athletes Spend On The idea of receiving payment sparks debate from two very clear parties on whether athletes should be paid and a smaller third party who wants a compromise to be made. College athletes, especially football and basketball players deserve to receive payment for playing because they generate the most revenue for the NCAA and universities Much Money Do College Sports The beginning of April is the end to the college basketball season. The National Championship has been played and players are starting to declare for the National Basketball Association (NBA) draft. Many of those declaring for draft are forgoing their college eligibility to play in the NBA, where they are paid for playing in games. Many of the elite basketball Dyal 2 players have only been in college for one year NBA Draft 2017: Early entry list, biggest prospects who have ). This same idea is seen with the National Football League (NFL) draft toward the end of April. Some of the players in the NFL draft have played out their eligibility while others have played the minimum two years before declaring for the NFL draft Draft The idea that college athletes are giving up their education to go make money shows that college athletes are not entirely focused on their education. School can be seen as a stepping stone to a professional career for athletes. The idea of keeping college athletes in college until they finish college with a degree can occur with paying student athletes. With basketball and football being the two important sports in the nation, as seen with the increased importance of these two sports through televised events, those sports should receive greater importance than other sports in the beginning. Taking small steps can lead to the overall goal of having all student athletes receiving payment. College athletics is an implied important part of the college experience no matter what university individuals attend. The school could be known for anything from their lacrosse team or basketball team that play in small conferences or basketball and football that are well-known for always being good each season and play in a major conference. The football and basketball players receive most of the spotlight in the sports world because they are the primary sports that are liked. College athletes generate roughly eleven billion dollars to the college sports industry, football and basketball are the two sports that make up most that eleven billion dollars vs. The scary statistic that the NCAA and the university are making billions of dollars off college athletes shows that there is a lack of fairness between the players and officials. These athletes are putting in roughly forty hours a week on sports, the same amount of hours for normal work week in corporate America, Dyal 3 and have to focus on school which is supposed to be their main goal in school but sports ends up taking importance The Insane Amount Of Time Student-Athletes Spend On Student-athletes are not receiving payment for work that receives payment in desk jobs when they are putting their body on the line. These college athletes are trying to get to the next step and play in the professional league of their respected sport, where they can make millions. For those who do not play sports but have worked at a job where they received payment can relate to the lack of fairness that is occurring because those who have worked and not been paid fairly or at all know that not receiving the money shows a lack of fairness and shows that the boss is not treating others fairly. The money that was not disbursed fairly can lead to ideas that the boss is spending the money. This idea leads to two parties not getting along. This is seen between athletes and the NCAA and universities. The athletes are bringing in the revenue but they are not being paid. Instead, the NCAA and universities spend the money on future contracts in which they still benefit Athletes Deserve to be The idea that college football players and basketball players should be paid is based on fairness. Lack of fairness is a key factor when it comes to how college football and basketball players are being treated. As stated earlier, sports take a precedent over education because athletes are spending more time on practice and traveling, thus leading to less time spent on education. With sports being the focus, many athletes have the skill to forgo their college eligibility and play in a professional league where they can make money. If college athletes were paid in college, they would not have to give up their eligibility and would have the ability to finish their collegiate education. There needs to be a change to benefit the athletes. The NCAA and the universities are making billions from these athletes and some of that money is wasted. That money could be used to pay athletes. There have been proposed compromises that would Dyal 4 please the NCAA and the universities and the athletes. The main compromise states that players will receive money that is put into an account that cannot be used until the eligibility ends, either through forgoing eligibility or playing through all the years of eligibility (Groves). The compromise has only been stated, athletes are still not being paid. Something drastic needs to occur in order for athletes to receive payment. Actions can occur from different groups. Fans can boycott games; game tickets and concessions would not be purchased. This would cause less money to be made, which would hurt the NCAA and the universities monetarily. This would show that the fans care about the athletes and want them to, especially if revenue was lost from football and basketball games. The fans would be showing the support for the athletes, but athletes can also make a stand. The most effective action to lead to athletes being paid would be for athletes to protest playing and have a group consensus and not play in games. This would be the greatest force to lead to an eventual payment for athletes. This would be the most effective, especially with football and basketball players boycotting games. The boycott would have to last more than one game to show that the athletes are serious about wanting fairness when it comes to payment. This action by the players would be the most effective way of showing the NCAA and universities that they deserve to be paid, especially if the NCAA and universities were losing money. This action would further support the idea that basketball and football are the two sports that bring in the most revenue. The most effective ways for college athletes to receive payment would be a joint effort from fans and the athletes. The athletes boycotting playing in games and fans not paying for tickets and concessions would lead to a decline in sales, which means the NCAA and universities would not be making money. The lost money will show how important football and basketball is when it comes to how much money they generate. This will lead to the eventual disbursement of money to athletes for playing sports, Dyal 5 which will lead to athletes staying in college longer and not forgoing their college eligibility to play at the professional level. In conclusion, all college athletes should be paid for playing but paying all of them but that is not the most realistic idea currently. College football and basketball players should be paid to begin with because those are the two sports that make the most money would the NCAA and the universities Much Money Do College Sports There is so much money being made by the NCAA and universities that some of it is being wasted. The wasted money could be spent on college athletes, especially football and basketball players because they generate the most revenue. College athletes spend more time on sports than education, which leads to athletes forgoing their eligibility and education to play at the professional level. This is not fair to the education. If athletes were paid in college they would not have to lose their education. The idea of payment is backed by the lack of fairness athletes receive, paying athletes would balance the fairness and would lead to college athletes staying in college and leaving for the professional level when their eligibility ends. Dyal 6 Works Cited Barbash, Louis. Pay or Play: Paying College Athletes Just Fair to Players; It Could Improve College  Washington Monthly, no. 9-10, 2013, p. 13. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ed sgao&AN=edsgcl.343531776&site=eds-live. Greer, Jordan . NBA Draft 2017: Early entry list, biggest prospects who have  Sporting News. N.p., 04 Apr. 2017. Web. 04 Apr. 2017. <http://www.sportingnews.com/nba/news/nba-draft-2017-early-entries-list-mock- projection-markelle-fultz-lonzo-ball-jayson-tatum/f8lnavpz2ix6144rhump5ly2t>. Groves, Roger M. A Solution For The Pay For Play Dilemma Of College Athletes: A Novel Compensation Structure Tethered To Amateurism And  Texas Review Of Entertainment & Sports Law 17.2 (2016): 101-143. Academic Search Premier. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Jacobs, Peter. The Insane Amount Of Time Student-Athletes Spend On  Business Insider. Business Insider, 27 Jan. 2015. Web. 05 Apr. 2017. <http://www.businessinsider.com/college-student-athletes-spend-40-hours-a-week- practicing-2015-1>. Mahler, Jonathan. College Athletes Should Be Paid Exactly This  Bloomberg.Com, 02 Jan. 2014, p. 1. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ba h&AN=93451212&site=eds-live. Dyal 7 NFL Draft  CBSSports.com. N.p., n.d. Web. 04 Apr. 2017. <http://www.cbssports.com/nfl/draft/prospectrankings>. NOCERA, JOE and BOB1 WILLIAMS. Should College Athletes Be  New York Times Upfront, vol. 149, no. 10, 13 Mar. 2017, pp. 22-23. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=eu e&AN=121560773&site=eds-live. Sheetz, Audrey C.1. Student-Athletes Vs.  Brooklyn Law Review, vol. 81, no. 2, Winter2016, pp. 865-894. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=lft &AN=114527968&site=eds-live. Wilbon, Michael. College athletes deserve to be  ESPN. ESPN Internet Ventures, 18 July 2011. Web. 05 Apr. 2017. <http://www.espn.com/college- Writer, Leaf Group. How Much Money Do College Sports  Finance - Zacks. Zacks, 06 Aug. 2013. Web. 06 Apr. 2017. <http://finance.zacks.com/much-money-college- sports-generate-10346.html>.