Todd 1 Elijah Todd Dr. Uddin ENC 1101 4/7/2017 Decriminalizing Marijuana For years the general public perspective has been that marijuana was harmful, and was a gateway drug towards the use of harder illegal substances. Thus, marijuana had been considered as bad as drugs such as heroine and cocaine in the criminal justice system, and people were sentenced to a high number of years in jail for just possessing a small amount of the drug. (Blumenson 43) In recent years, with continued research on marijuana, it has been found that the substance has many beneficial medicinal effects, and the stigmas that were placed by the government during the on on marijuana, were mostly unrealistic. In fact many states have allowed for the medicinal use of marijuana to be legal, while states such as Colorado and Washington have gone so far as making the use of the substance legal altogether. Due to the shifting legal landscape surrounding marijuana, the perspective on marijuana shifted towards decriminalizing its use between 2000- 2017. In the early talks on decriminalizing or legalizing marijuana were met with much scrutiny and apprehension because no state or country had completely decriminalized or legalized the substance. Also, many people were worried that the legalization of marijuana would end up being similar to that of alcohol and tobacco, in that it would be easy to access and abuse. In The article, of Todd 2 Marijuana: Potential Impact on the Joffe says that adolescents and young adults in states or countries that had lower offenses for the possession of marijuana were reported more likely to use the drug. (Joffe, 634) Youths caught with possession of marijuana would still have to face the penalty of offense of marijuana possession, which would have a negative effect on their lives. Joffe points out that legalizing marijuana could lead to the advertisement of the drug across various media platforms, influencing more young adults and adolescents to use the drug. (Joffe, 634) Although Joffe believes that alcohol and tobacco cause more harm to members of society, and they are legalized, he does not think that it is logical for marijuana to be legalized since it is still considered a psychoactive drug. (Joffe, 636) Instead of legalizing marijuana, Joffe says that the laws regulating alcohol and tobacco should be enforced more strictly, and similar should be done to marijuana to reduce the chance of adolescents and young adults using marijuana. (Joffe, 636) Blumenson presents a counter to Joffe in his 2009 article, Rational Basis: The Pragmatic Case for Marijuana Law by stating that although there have been heavy marijuana control efforts along with recent decriminalization to a degree, amount of twelfth graders using marijuana has remained the same since (Blumenson, 48) Blumenson continues by saying that more Americans use marijuana than those that live in countries with far less penalization laws on the drug. While Joffe says that legalizing marijuana would increase the risk that more adolescents will abuse it, Blumenson says otherwise. According to Blumenson, with marijuana being illegal, it actually increases the risk that teenagers use hard drugs. (Blumenson, 50) Blumenson continues by saying that teenagers would be pushed to Todd 3 reach out to criminal dealers in order to get access to marijuana, exposing them to other, harder drugs that the dealer may sell, such as cocaine, heroine, and meth. In her article made in 2015, An Evaluation of the Effects of the Legalization of Marijuana in Colorado and Washington from an International Law Perspective, Bushan also disagrees with Joffe. She says that the Department of Justice will focus heavily on strictly enforcing laws regarding, distribution of marijuana to (Bushan, 193) Bushan mentions that by legalizing marijuana, it would help prevent the drug from being sold in the black market, where there will also be access to more dangerous drugs. (Bushan, 192) Blumenson and Bushan agree that the enforcement of marijuana criminalization laws have been a wasteful use of law enforcement resources. Bushan mentions that part of the reason Colorado and Washington legalized marijuana was because they found that previous marijuana regulatory laws were an, use of law enforcement personnel, funds, and resources, that could be instead used to combat violent (Bushan 192) In 2016 article, (And Whom) State Marijuana Reformers Forgot: Crimmigration Law and she would disagree with Joffe on stricter enforcement of marijuana criminalization laws. According to Rosenbaum, the current state of drug laws, especially on marijuana, has had a disproportionate effect on minorities. (Rosenbaum, 2) African-Americans and Latinos have been more likely to get arrested and receive longer sentences than white people since the on drugs began. (Rosenbaum, 3) Bushan makes a similar statement, as she says that Todd 4 members of minority groups are arrested for drugs at a rate that is much higher than the actual use of drugs. In conclusion, since 2000, the conversation on decriminalizing marijuana has gone from apprehensive, and leaning towards not doing so, to being in favor of it. As shown by Joffe, early on many people were worried about the perceived negative effect it would have on the youth, adolescents and young adults, if the penalty towards the possession and use of marijuana were decreased. On the opposite end, Blumenson, Bushan, and Rosenbaum argue that decriminalizing marijuana would actually lead to less arrests of minorities, and people in general. Also, decriminalizing marijuana would lead to better use of law enforcement resources, and legalizing would not have any affect on the actual use rate of the drug, but would make it safer for people to obtain the drug. Works Cited Blumenson, Eric and Eva Nilsen. Rational Basis: The Pragmatic Case for Marijuana Law Virginia Journal of Social Policy & the Law, vol. 17, no. 1, Sept. 2009, pp. 43-82. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true& db=a2h&AN=48617742&site=eds-live. Todd 5 Bushan, Aparna. An Evaluation of the Effects of the Legalization of Marijuana in Colorado and Washington From An International Law Canada- United States Law Journal 39. (2015): 187-201. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. Joffe, Alain and W. Samuel Yancy. of Marijuana: Potential Impact on Pediatrics, vol. 113, no. 6, June 2004, pp. e632-e638. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true& db=aph&AN=13164462&site=eds-live. Rosenbaum, Carrie. (And Whom) State Marijuana Reformers Forgot: Crimmigration Law and Depaul Journal for Social Justice 9.2 (2016): 1- 52. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web.