Jacqueline Langley Prof. Sabah Uddin ENC 1101 March 5, 2017 Title IX and Equal Funding Forty five years ago, Title IX, the law establishing equal funding for males and females was created. Times have rapidly changed and still are changing throughout the years especially when it comes to something such as gender discrimination. Different cases have been raised by the media that point out situations where schools have adjusted to make all genders feel fairly treated yet, there has also been a time where one gender is singled out and overshadowed by the other. With society changing its ways with discrimination by the day, it is dissatisfying that schools funded by our government are not following the ways of Title IX. With thousands of schools in the education system, we have seen cases of schools that have not changed and have changed over time. By trying to prove that not all schools follow Title IX, I have found in my research that indeed there are many cases that different schools no matter what the written laws say, people still choose to disregard them or try and find a way around Title IX. Many scholars have gone out into the field to provide information on this topic of Title IX. In 1972, Title IX was passed and was one the grandest historical moments for gender discrimination Richard Nixon passed this law. According to Susan Ware, this law states that any circumstances you could not discriminate the schools finical funding because of race, sex, or type of 2) under the sports aspect of it. Passing this changed many lives of women and men. Without this, who knows where we would be with gender equality in sports at schools. The president signing off on this bill was one of the greatest moments in life that shaped this country. With thousands of schools around, one scholar discovered a situation in California at a school named Sweetwater High School and this is just one of the many high schools out there that fall under the regulations of Title IX. However, just because the laws say it must follow the equal funding aspect of Title IX does not mean it does. One father on the softball team had a casual conversation with someone who turned out to work for the court. This father had been coaching the softball team at the high school and was not getting a cent from the athletic program. Instead, his funds were heading towards improving the football teams equipment. This school did not change when the law of Title IX came out. Instead, it just kept doing whatever they want and spreading their funds unequally. Luckily, the conversation with the softball coach was brought up to the court. Once this situation was discovered, the court gave Sweet Water High 45 days to fix the situation before any real legal suits were pressed and charged. As of now, the high school has maintained to be fair to all sports. Now taking a step in the level of education, Auburn University is a huge school. Scholars have generated facts that have shown that they spend of their athletic budget on the male football team. Scholar Kerensa Barr did her research and gathered these facts. More scholarships are giving to the football team over any sport. Yes, football might be the most popular and bring in the most earnings, but that should not decide whether and male or female gets the extra money needed to succeed in their college life. This discovery shows that not all schools change. People are always trying to find their way out of situations to avoid having to do it the right way. Although, some changes such as equal funds might not be being made, participation rates are. One man went around polling people to find out the numbers of people who now play sports. Before Title IX, one in every twenty seven girls played sports. Now, an overwhelming drop now says the number is one in every four participate in sports. Finding out this information shows how Title IX is changing in some ways. The event of Title IX is the reason behind this change. Without it, girls still might have the option of playing one sport. Back then, while trying to test if sports helped your health, one said have largely looked at pre- Title IX sports participation when few females played sports severely limiting the power of any (Stevenson) Now times have changed and we can prove because of this scholar research that more girls are participating in sports. There is an abundant amount of information and research for people to dig up now when it comes to male and female athletics. In another article, about women rising up in Title IX, we learn facts for example like, on Team USA there is more women on the sports teams. Each player costs an abundant amount of money. These facts show that not 100% of the time males are favored. Without the changes due to Title IX, we would not see the empowerment of women moving forward in their careers as athletes. Overtime, participating in sports has increased drastically due to Title IX. However, scholars have proved that not all schools around the country have spread government funds equally. Although this has been a law for around 40 years now, we can only hope to keep moving forward and take it one school at a time. Works Cited Barr, Kerensa E. THE OF ARE FAILING TITLE UMKC Law Review, 2013/10/01, Vol: 82, p181. Web. Stader, David L., and Jeanne L. Surface. Second-Class: Title IX, Equity, and Girlsa High School The Clearing House: A Journal of Educational Strategies, Issues and Ideas 87.3 (2014): 119-123. Web. Stevenson, Betsey. THE CLASSROOM: USING TITLE IX TO MEASURE THE RETURN TO HIGHSCHOOL The MIT Press. 2010. Web Ware, Susan. Title IX: A Brief History with Documents. Boston: Bedford/St. Martins, 2007. Print.