1 Rebecca Lee Professor Uddin ENC 1101 26 March 2017 Single-sex Education Project 2 Co-education is more of the norm in America in contrast to single-sex education. Recently, there has been an increasing interest in single-sex schooling. Now, there are currently over 90 single-sex public schools. In addition to that, there are over 400 public schools that offer single-sex classes. The effects of single-sex education were evaluated more psychologically before 2010 whereas after 2010, scholars began to look at the effects of single-sex education in a more singular, strictly educational or scientific way. Before 2010, research on single-sex education looked at not only how single-sex education affects children based on their educational success but how it affects them on a psychological level. In both Classes in Public by Ashley Johnson and presumptions: how single-sex schooling reifies false notions of sex, gender, and by Janna Jackson which were both published before 2010, despite their opposing views on how single-sex education may affect children, they evaluate the affects from a psychological standpoint while the research from after 2010 strictly looks at the educational perspective. Ashley article Classes in Public published in standing point on the effectiveness of single-sex education is obvious when it states things such as argue that single-sex education decreases classroom discrimination, improves educational experiences for both boys and girls, and gives parents more choices from which to 2 select the system of education that works best for their children. Proponents also believe that separating students by sex could increase the options available to poor and minority children, whose parents may not otherwise be able to afford the single-sex education traditionally offered only in private (Johnson, 2005, p. 632) in contrast to the other article which disagrees completely with statements like that single-sex schooling accommodates sex differences appeals to the popularly accepted notion that males and females are fundamentally different instead of interrogating whether these differences are biologically, socially, or individually constructed, or if they even exist in the first (Jackson, 2009, pp. 227-228) obvious that they agree on the effectiveness of single-sex education but once both are compared to the way articles released after 2010 articles discuss single-sex education, the difference in how broad the effect of it is observed beyond just an educational spectrum is prominent in both. League of Their Own: Do Single-Sex Schools Increase Participation in the Physical an article published after 2010 considered how single-sex education benefits confidence making them more likely to explore the world of physical sciences as a career saying that schools may present a unique opportunity for women to develop the skills necessary to succeed in STEM (Cherney & Campbell, 2011, p. 345) In the introduction of the article but not looking at the effect on girls any deeper than how single-sex education benefits them in STEM fields being science, technology, engineering, and mathematics. The other article from after 2010, It all : Middle School Teachers Evaluate Single-Sex is unique in the way it researches the effect of single-sex schooling. It takes a perspective and instead of seeing how it affects the students, it talks about how it affects the interactions and feelings towards the students in both co-education and single-sex 3 education environments. It look at the affects too psychologically in any way. According to the article, the conclusion met did consider that the way single-sex education affects both students and teachers on a complex set of (Spielhagen, 2011, pp. Vol. 34, Issue 7) It says of both sexes are more equitably served in single-sex environments, because they will be treated more fairly and produce better test scores when freed of the distraction and competition that derives from being in class with students of the opposite (Spielhagen, 2011, pp. Vol. 34, Issue 7) while slightly mentioning how it affects them emotionally by saying that treated more fairly in single-sex classes, it even directly consider the psychological effect fully amid mainly looking at how their achievement is affected. Recent studies do more experimental research than studies before 2010. The study on how single-sex education improves confidence leading to them going into STEM fields mentions different studies in the article. All of which are based on experimental research which stands out in how each paragraph starts with of recent recent and another study, (Spielhagen, 2011, pp. Vol. 34, Issue 7) one of the older articles very plainly takes a different route from researching experimentally and researches historically by stating ways that single-sex has tried to fix some situations, how it failed to, and how it resembles laws of segregation from the past demonstrated by contend that single-sex education presents the same legal issue as did Brown v. Board of Education: state- endorsed segregation of students. Segregation by gender, in eyes, threatens to erase the gains women have made over the past century. Opponents fear that men who have attended a single-sex school, and thereby have lacked contact with talented women, will be unable to recognize such women as (Johnson, 2005, p. 632) In that quote clear that the 4 scholars before 2010 took a different researching approach. Although the articles from before 2010 are on opposing sides of the effectiveness of single- sex education, they both look at the effects from the same spectrum and the scholars carried out their research in similar ways; through predictions from historical mistakes while the recent articles did elaborate experiments and focused on how single-sex education affects both genders only mentally opposed to psychological effects. 5 Works Cited Cherney, s. D., & Campbell, K. L. (2011). A League of Their Own: Do Single-Sex Schools Increase Participation in the Physical Sciences? Omaha: Springer Science+Business Media. Jackson, J. (2009). how single-sex schooling reifies false notions of sex, gender, and sexuality. Boston: Taylor & Francis Group. Johnson, A. E. (2005). Single-sex Classes in Public Schools. The H.W. Wilson Company. Spielhagen, F. (2011). It all : Middle School Teachers Evaluate Single-Sex Classes. Newburgh: Middle Level Education Online.