Krieman 1 Julia Krieman Professor Gottlieb ENC 1102.015 7 April 2017 Catholic Relief Services Argumentative Essay Catholic Relief Services is a nonprofit charity that collects donations to bring aid directly to people in need in other countries. According to their website, Relief Services eases suffering and provides assistance to people in need in more than 100 countries, without regard to race, religion or CRS works in faith to help others in need; they describe this on their website further: Catholic Relief Services is a manifestation of love for our brothers and sisters around the globe by the Catholic community of the United States. We protect, defend and advance human life around the world by directly meeting basic needs and advocating solutions to injustice. CRS is a pro-life organization dedicated to preserving the sacredness and dignity of human life from conception to natural death This organization provides services based on the teachings of the Catholic Church. All of their efforts are aligned with Catholic doctrine and work to protect human life at all stages. The main mission of this charity is that in action provides The goal of Catholic Relief Services is to obtain peace in and between all countries and to help people who are in the most need of aid. CRS has different areas of aid in which they break up tasks in order to help people in the most effective way possible. The efforts of this organization are important because of the service that they are doing, and the efficient way in which they are doing it. Krieman 2 Catholic Relief efforts work towards helping a broad range of people from broad ranges of places. CRS works in over one hundred countries around the world working to help people who do not have the basic necessities of life. Catholic Relief Services is constantly working to help every human in need; regardless of race, ethnicity, and religion. They have eight main areas of service that they focus in their ministry: emergency response and recovery, agriculture, health, education, microfinance, water and sanitation, justice and peacebuilding, and partnership and capacity strengthening. Emergency response and recovery focuses on helping people who have just gone through traumatic some threatening experiences. This section of their service is practiced using volunteers as first responders in the case of incidents. CRS has trained 3,300 first responders since 2009 to help in this area of service. Thirteen million people were helped in 2015 alone through Catholic Relief Services emergency work and over 200,000 families were provided shelter since 1995 because of the efforts of Catholic Relief Services. () agriculture program works to help farmers rebuild and work together to find more efficient and effective ways of building Relief Services helps millions of smallholder farmers worldwide recover from natural disasters and civil strife, build resilient farming systems, and grow them into agro-enterprises that engage successfully with By helping to create stability for farmers around the work, CRS is helping every human because they are creating unity amongst people that will allow for healthy relationships between farmers and consumers. Catholic Relief health program provides aid to people who need it the most and works in areas that would usually not receive aid from normal health systems because of location and population. health aid programs are designed to address inequities, support universal access to services and produce long lasting results. approach Krieman 3 strengthens local partners, develops local solutions and works in remote areas often neglected by existing health and social service This program is effective because it is reaching people who would not usually be able to be reached and it is providing them long term help. The education program CRS has implemented is working to, communities, local partners and governments in their efforts to ensure that all the most vulnerable and the right to a quality education. Recognizing that education can be a force for either inclusion and acceptance or exclusion and conflict, CRS engages a wide variety of people to ensure that schools play a positive role in building a culture of microfinance program is another way CRS is creating a lasting effecting on countries and communities in need. Relief microfinance programs in developing countries work through microfinance associations and their member institutions, as well as with informal or community-based savings groups. Both approaches encourage clients to save and to borrow for investments in income-generating microenterprises. Both reach very poor households and communities, and help to create a sustainable financial base for local community The water and sanitation efforts focus on providing clean water to countries that do not have it and improved sanitation systems: the past five years, CRS clean water projects around the world have provided more than 2 million people with access to clean water and more than a million people with access to improved sanitation. water, sanitation and hygiene services in more than two dozen countries, focusing on services for the poorest and most remote and CRS is working to provide equal opportunities for all people, they want to social benefits for people. CRS civil society and the public and private sectors to foster inclusion, equity and and final program is Partnership and Krieman 4 Capacity Strengthening, this program focusing on building strong communities. This allows people of different communities to lean on each other which allows for the lasting impact that CRS can leave on an area. By building communities, CRS is improving the quality of life for everyone in multiple types of places. CRS, people should lead their own They are to sustainable solutions with long-term and they to promote social justice, peace and human and Capacity Strengthening). All of the areas of work, work together to create and build up communities that rely on each other to maintain lasting efficacy in creating lives that are fulfilled with importance, equality, service to others. Because of programs, people in the most poor countries in the world are provided the necessities they need to have lives and to live those lives well. Catholic Relief main goal is to provide people in disadvantaged situations with everything they need to succeed and do well in their lives. CRS does this by helping people in every aspect of their lives. They work to help each person want to do better for themselves so they can reach their potential through their own efforts. CRS simply provides the resources people need to find success. uses a holistic approach called integral human development to help people reach their full potential. This long-term, dynamic process facilitates collaboration across civil society and the public and private sectors. It is based on the idea that human development cannot be separated into component parts and that personal well-being can only be achieved in the context of just and peaceful We Because of this holistic approach, CRS has been very successful in helping people in over 100 countries. CRS is in constant need of donations of time and money to continue to create a better world for people in every kind of situation. Catholic Relief Services is free from tax in the Krieman 5 United States which allows ninety three percent of their donation based income to be used directly through charity in other countries. The remaining seven percent of the income goes to fundraising, awareness, management, and general expenses Because CRS focuses their efforts on multiple areas of service, most of their income goes straight toward them aiding people in need. The donations CRS receives are put directly into helping others; making Catholic Relief Services a worthwhile charity. Even the smallest of donations would go directly to helping people who are in the most need of aid in the world. Feeding a family, giving a child the opportunity to have an education, or simply allowing someone to have clean water is possible and very simple because of Catholic Relief Services. Because CRS has made it so easy to help people in need in other countries, more people are able to receive the help they deserve. Because CRS is providing such an easy way to help others in need around the globe, they have found the best way to use the generous donations to directly support communities and individuals that need it the most. By providing aid for all areas of life, people and communities have been able to build up and remain strong. Catholic Relief Services is a worthwhile charity that uses nearly all of its income to provide aid to struggling countries and communtities. Krieman 6 Works Cited  CRS. United States Conference of Catholic Bishops, n.d. Web. 17 Feb. 2017.  CRS. United States Conference of Catholic Bishops, n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017.  CRS. United States Conference of Catholic Bishops, n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Faith in Action Leads to Results. Dir. Most Reverend Paul S. Coakley. Perf. Monsignor Brian Bransfield, Archbishop Paul S. Coakley, Bishop Gerald F. Kicanas, Cardinal Timothy N. Dolan, Bishop Robert N. Lynch. Faith in Action Leads to Results. Catholic Relief Services, 6 June 2014. Web.  CRS. United States Conference of Catholic Bishops, n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017.  CRS. United States Conference of Catholic Bishops, n.d. Web. 7 Feb. 2017. How We  CRS. United States Conference of Catholic Bishops, 02 Nov. 2015. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Justice and  CRS. United States Conference of Catholic Bishops, n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017.  CRS. United States Conference of Catholic Bishops, n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Mission  CRS. United States Conference of Catholic Bishops, 01 Jan. 2017. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Partnership and Capacity  CRS. United States Conference of Catholic Bishops, n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Water and  CRS. United States Conference of Catholic Bishops, n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Krieman 7