Tanzila Tasnim Professor Sabah Uddin English Composition 7th April 2017 50 Shades of Technology One of the highly debated topic among the parents of this generation is whether children should be introduced to technology at an early age. In an attempt to find a solution to the debate, researchers have conducted various studies but with each study there is at least one factor that separates that individual study from the rest. Each researcher has his own methods of conducting research along with a topic that is slightly different from others and because there is an enormous gap between the different age groups, it causes the difference in opinion between the researchers. The article Tablet Computers to teach Preschool Children to Write Letters: Exploring the Impact of Extrinsic and Intrinsic written by Melissa M. Patchan provides information about a study that was performed in only two age groups of children: fourth to ninth grade students and the first and second grade students. This study provides proof and examples favoring the use of technologies for children at an early age but since the study only focuses on children that are from grade one and above, the outcomes may differ from the other studies that are out in the same area of the topic. The researchers in this case were more interested on the impact it had on the handwriting of children and reached the conclusion Tasnim 2 that children working with tablet computer and a stylus were getting the same results as children writing with page and pencil. While the previous article suggests that technologies help children improve their writing and spelling skills, this article talks about not only the various forms of media such as: television, smartphones and computer and their effect on children but also discusses how gender comes into play with violence among boys and such, arguing against the use of technologies among the children. According to the article, Media Use and School Achievement- Boys at Risk, Boys are better equipped with electronic media devices than girls are and their media usage times are considerably (Kleimann, p2). The researchers, Matthias Kleimann and others are stating that boys are better equipped when it comes to media devices because of Xbox, Playstation and many others in addition to the regular smartphones, and laptops. This study however, does a parallel study between only fourth grade students and primary school children. Primary school being children from a whole wide range of students from kindergarten to fifth grade. Not only is there a wide range of students being used for the study, the number of students being used for the experiment also vary by a large amount. For instance, 5529 fourth grade students were used with a parallel study with 1157 primary school children. The writers, Jenny S. Radesky and others, of the article and Interactive Media Use by Young Children: the Good, the Bad and the proposes an argument that although there are various television shows to help children learn faster, they only work effectively on children who are thirty months or above. As for the children who are younger, they learn by interacting with applications which is where smartphones make their appearance. Tasnim 3 According to the article, well-researched television programs such as Sesame Street or Clues can promote early academic skills in preschool-aged children, children <30 months cannot learn from television and videos as they do from real-life (Radesky, p1). This study argues towards the use of smartphones and technologies among children by stating that they learn faster by acknowledging the fact that a balance is needed between learning and fun using visual designs and sound effects otherwise the children may get distracted. While other studies focus on children mostly from grade one with a few kindergarteners, the study from this article focuses on infants and toddlers, which is likely to create a much different statistic that the other studies. While previous articles talk about the newer versions of technology such as smartphones, the article Health Effects of Media on Children and by Victor C. Strasburger and others distinguish between the and the It discusses the platform the newer media creates for bullying and harassment as well as providing misleading information, if not careful of where to look. The study also states and adolescents learn by observing and imitating what they see on the screen, particularly when these behaviors seem realistic or are (Strasburger, p3). Along with other negative sides of technology this is another concern for parents when it comes to introducing children to technology. Even with the various precautions taken in order to keep a child from seeing something on the screen that he was not meant to see, it is inevitable and children at an early age do not know the difference between right and wrong. They only imitate what they see on the screen. This study does a good job in outlining the various differences, and the positives and negatives of using the older and newer Tasnim 4 media but the age group that is being looked at is vague. For instance, the article headline states that the study is performed among children and adolescents where various age level can be considered in the category of children. Each researcher has conducted a research that has factors that are slightly different from other researches whether it is the age group that the researchers decided to conduct their study on, or the gender role that played into the usage of technologies. These slight differences in their research methods is what made the outcome of their experiments much different for some and similar for others. Although each researcher mentioned in this paper has different outcome in their study, the reason behind their difference is identified. In order to get better results for future experiments if even one of these differences were changed in another research, the outcome may have been significantly different. Works Cited Thomas. Kleimann, Matthias. Rehbein, Florian. Pfeiffer, Christian. Media Use and School Achievement--Boys at Risk?British Journal of Developmental Psychology, vol. 28, no. 3, Sept. 2010, p. 699. EBSCOhost, United Kingdom. Patchan, Melissa M. Puranik, Cynthia S. tablet computers to teach preschool children to write letters: Exploring the Impact of Extrinsic and Intrinsic Computers & Education, ScienceDirect, 2016, United States. Radesky, Jenny S. Schumacher, Jayna. Zuckerman, Barry. and Interactive Media Use by Young Children: The Good, the Bad, and the American Academy of Pediatrics, 2014, United States. Strasburger, Victor C. Jordan, Amy B. Donnerstein, Ed. Effect of Media on Children and US: American Academy of Pediatrics, 2009, United States.