Pagan 1 Cheyenne Pagan Professor Roth ENC 1101 9 April 2017 Animal Cruelty in Cosmetics In the year 2016, the cosmetic industry thrived because it launched an array of new and exciting products. It was prosperous for anyone to be a part of this industry. Ever since cosmetics were first introduced, animal testing has always been a major factor. Animal testing involves a company testing their products on animals such as mice to see if they are safe for human consumption. Now that its 2017, many brands have found alternative ways other than testing on animals to see if their products are safe. Some of these include brands. But there are still many brands that have not yet managed to jump on this bandwagon. For example, you have the brand like Elf sold at a drug store with their products usually ranging from 1-10 dollars. They do not test on animals and it is actually a very big part of their marketing. On the opposite hand, you have a brand like Mac, with their cheapest item starting around 19 dollars. They still test on animals, and they have recently been under fire from many animal rights activists for doing so. The question is why do some of these luxury cosmetic brands still test on animals when many affordable brands have found alternative ways to sell their products without animal cruelty being involved? Animal cruelty in the cosmetic industry is wrong and should not continue to be done because not only have countries come together and banned it, but also because there are more practical ways to test these products without animal cruelty being involved. Animal testing has been around for a very long time, but as time progresses people have Pagan 2 found many alternatives instead of animal cruelty. Take the company Lush for example. A huge part of there marketing campaign is the fact that they do not test on animals. A trip to their website will give anyone who is curious about how they do it a complete answer. They explain in a nutshell that how they test their products out is basically they use human skin to test these products and that these models take less time to complete, at a fraction of the cost of animal (Lush 4). Animal testing itself is completely outdated, according to an article in Nature magazine Allison Abbott argues when companies that use animal testing to predict its safety for human use, its based off and often poorly predictive animal (Abbott 1). 2017, and the fact that some of these companies are still using animal testing that has been proven to not be as practical in all areas begs the question to why these companies even bother doing it at all? Does it have to do with the fact just a part of the way they have always done things? That they are not willing to accept change? Or does it have to do with money? These are all questions that these companies have yet to answer. In most countries, it is outlawed for cosmetic companies to test their products on animals. China is an exception to that rule however. Even though China is still pretty much the only country that still requires animal testing, according to a Current Status of Animal Welfare and Animal Rights in China officials are in the final stages of approving the countries first ever non-animal test for cosmetics (Wang 2). This article was written in 2013. China currently still requires the testing of cosmetics on animals. That being said, it has been a huge PR nightmare for companies such as Mac that do trade through China. They have been under fire recently because of the fact they sell and manufacture their products there. But on the countries that have outlawed it altogether, they include all of the counties in the European Union. Pagan 3 According to Seeker, many people consider these tests inhumane, and some places like Europe have banned products that have been tested on animals (Seeker 1:31). So on one hand you have all of Europe that is completely against it, and on the other you have China that is completely for it. Most of these companies pick and chose their battles, some chose to join Europe and continue the fight against animal testing, and others Although some may consider it wrong, some people see animal testing as something they can just turn a blind eye to and that it should continue to be done. According to a study made to examine attitude toward how animals are used, findings illustrate cognitive processing characteristics of the species of animal being used and the type of animal can all influence attitudes toward animal (Knight, Nunkoosing, Vrij, Cherryman 1). This means that people can sometimes be indifferent depending on the how and the when of animal cruelty, so all basically circumstantial to the subjects of this study. To some people, their thought process is not happening to me then why should I The truth is we should all care because an inhumane thing to do in the first place. These animals are being basically tortured when there are more efficient ways to bring about the same data that is found using animal testing. In 2012, the company Lush did a very public demonstration of a human going through the same testing an animal would go through in the lab of a cosmetic company. This happened in the streets of London. Many people were horrified by what they saw. People need to realize that even though it is not happening to them, still a thing happening and it is still wrong. To sum it all up, animal cruelty is still an ongoing thing that is still happening in 2017. It is still being done and it is still wrong. It has been proven to be outdated, outlawed, and even impractical. There are proven better alternatives made public by cosmetic companies such as Lush, or affordable make up brands such as Elf. And the European Union has completely made it Pagan 4 illegal for animal testing to even be a thing in country. All of these odds are stacked up against companies that still test on animals, and yet they are still continuing to do it. Animal testing is inhumane, and it should be put to an end. Pagan 5 Works Cited Abbott, Alison. Animal testing: More than a cosmetic change. Nature. 2005. Wang, Jianfel. Current Status of Animal Welfare and Animal Rights in China. ATLA. 2013. Do We Still Test Cosmetics on Youtube, uploaded by Seeker, May 20th 2015, https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3lb9w-XtaYA. Winders, Delcianna J. Combing Reflexive Law and False Advertising Law to Standardize Labeling of Cosmetics. New York University School of Law. 2006. Sarah Knight, Karl Nunkoosing, Aldert Vrij, and Julie Cherryman. Using Grounded Theory to Examine Peoples Attitude Toward How Animals Are Used. Leiden. 2003. Lush Cosmetics. 2002-2017. https://www.lushusa.com/about-animal-introduction.html. Accessed 9 April 2017.