Castillano 1 Sharae Castillano April 6, 2017 Composition 1 Professor Sarah Roth What Tarot Can Provide For People Tarot cards are a deck which includes 78 cards that contain 22 Major Arcana cards and 56 Minor Arcana cards. Each card represents something and are usually used to predict the future. Divination is the practice of seeking knowledge of the future or the unknown by supernatural means. There are several types of divination such as astrology, palmistry, and the Ouija boards. But there is one both popular and controversial; Tarot cards. Tarot cards are known to be a divination tool and came about in the early 1400s in Northern Italy. They have hundreds of different interpretations, which is why one card can mean several different things for multiple people. Although very taboo to most of the world, tarot cards should be looked upon and applied to nearly every life, in any aspect of his/her life. Firstly, tarot can provide many things for people. It provides peace and relief for people in the world. We all go through different trials in the world and whatever our problem may be now, tarot is a for (Tarot.com Staff). Some may even say that it is better and clearer than going to a therapist. It is less expensive and more effective than therapy. It is own form of therapy. It gives you a sense of clarity of yourself and the people around you. Although one thing tarot cannot provide people with is answers to questions, for example I move to Those answers are better answered within self. Castillano 2 Secondly, tarot cards and readings are all about receiving answers about every and anything you can possibly think of. You can receive information about your past, present, and even future. It all depends on the deck you use (Benson, Tarotist) and the person you receive a reading from, but for the most part, you will get answers on almost anything. According to most, tarot cards and their readings are (Benson, Tarotist). There are factors that can slightly alter the outcome of a tarot reading, making it turn from accurate to semi-predictive. Things like following instructions and the amount of energy and belief you put into it affects the reading. At the end of the day, we choose what happens in our lives. Tarot cards and their readings, although accurate, cannot determine every little detail of your life. If life is the whole project, tarot is just a guided outline to what can most definitely happen in your life. Lastly, tarot cards should be applied to every life. Tarot, like anything else, can become an escape from reality while also opening eyes to aspects of life. When having a problem, sometimes it is within self. Tarot helps people to see where the problem lies, whether outside or in their own lives. Tarot (Tarot.com Staff), which is to make (someone) stronger and more confident, especially in controlling their life and claiming their rights. There are things that you can turn to, to give yourself a more positive outlook on life and the world around you; tarot is one of those things. Tarot gives you a better understanding of things which can help you to look at situations with glass half It is said that tarot is a form of meditation and it can take you to a different world. Tarot can be applied to lives. In conclusion, like anything that you deal with, it is not all roses and gold. There are flaws with tarot such as a bit of inaccuracy and using it for the wrong reasons. Most believe that it should be applied to every life, but one must know and have the right reasons to. The Castillano 3 wrong intentions can result in the wrong outcomes, Therefore, one you have the motivation and the right reasons to use tarot, it is encouraged to do so. Castillano 4 Works Cited 1. https://marygreer.wordpress.com/2011/07/17/what-every-newbie-tarot-reader-should- know/ 2. https://www.tarot.com/tarot/heal-with-tarot 3. https://www.quora.com/How-accurate-are-tarot-card-predictions