1 Sarah Roth ENC 1101 9 April 2017 Child Brides Live Shorter Lives As a modern controversy, the act of marrying a child to an older man has become increasingly crucial to human rights. Child marriage occurs in both high and low income countries but it is more common in the latter. According to Girls Not Brides, poverty is considered to be the biggest reason why girls get married at a young age. A large number of parents are not able to feed their children so they decide to marry them off. They exchange money with the man who is marrying their daughter and hope that she will have a better life, which rarely happens. Research shows that children who get into early marriage are more likely to live shorter lives because of sexual and psychological trauma, young pregnancy and other stressors and health complications related to such a practice. Still, child marriage is affecting many young lives and the effect of physical and emotional dissatisfaction causes a shorter lifespan for child brides. Children at this age should not have to experience a marriage with a man who is much more mature than they are. They are too young to have all the responsibilities that comes with marriage and the various problems which they have to go through and in some cases the young brides end up dying because they were not physically or mentally ready for it. Sexual abuse is one of the problems and is an undesired sexual behavior by one person upon another. Children at this age do not even know what sexual behavior is so they are tricked or told that it is a game they are playing. These children are being physically and sexually abused over and over again. They observe bruises, fractures, burn, lacerations, pain, itching or bleeding in the genital areas and diseases. Child brides often face a higher risk of contracting HIV which 2 is a virus that attacks cells of your immune system. A person with HIV is more likely to get infections or infection-related cancer. There is no effective cure for HIV but there are treatments to slow it down (Aids, 2017). These treatments are not easy to get in low- and middle-income countries which leads them to death. However, victims of sexual and psychological trauma often take their own lives because they can no longer tolerate their situation. According to The Age, who have been abused have a life expectancy about 10 to 20 years shorter than those who have (Joyful Heart Foundation, 2016). Pregnancy can be dangerous for any women but pregnancy for young women can result in serious consequences. Eclampsia is an example of one of the complications that can occur during young pregnancy. Eclampsia causes high blood pressure and can produce swelling in the blood vessels in the brain of the mother and to her growing baby (Healthline, 2017). They can also experience one of three problems when they are in labor. For example, they can have a premature labor, when the child is delivered before 37 weeks. Another problem would be prolonged labor, when the child stays in the womb longer than necessary. The last problem they can have is obstructed labor, when the child is fully ready to come out but has problems exiting the birth canal. The most severe health risk which young girls face is obstetric fistula. Obstetric fistula can occur when the head and/or shoulders are too large for the pelvis. The symptoms from it can include pelvic pain, frequent urination, painful sexual intercourse, vaginal bleeding, reproductive and urinary tracts infections, constipation, vaginal discharge, difficulty walking, and urinary incontinence, which severely compromise affected ability to perform daily activities like walking, manual labor, sitting, or lifting her baby. According to PBS, are approximately 2 million girls living with fistula, and 100,000 new cases every These complications in pregnancy and childbirth are the second causes of death in girls aged 15-19 in low- and middle-income countries. (Preventing Suicide: A Global Imperative, 2014). However, in the 3 video 13, and a Bride by Plan International, a women named Ramatou was married off at the age of ten. When she was taken to her husband, she thought it was her father. When Ramatou got older she had 3 daughters, she worries about her daughters to go through abusive and sexual relationship. She is especially worried that her youngest daughter will get pregnant and experience health complications. Her other daughters were also married at the age of ten but their husbands waited for sexual intercourse until they reached maturity. In this case, her daughters lived a healthier and more stabled life than other girls. They have to face the responsibilities to take care of their child or health complications. Stories like theirs are really rare because statistics show that 70,000 young brides die every year as a result of pregnancy or child birth complications (Unicef, 2017). Health is one of the most important factor in lives but an early marriage is a big damage to it. Early marriage is a death sentence because young brides are not physically or mentally ready for it. With marriage, their responsibility becomes to take care of their child, husband and home and they are also forced into sexually activity. The young brides suffer from anxiety, depression, dissociation, flashbacks, difficulty concentrating and sleeping (Joyfullheart, 2016). All these factors can mentally and physically ill the bride and turn on thoughts about suicides. Suicide is the leading cause of death among 15 to 19 year olds globally (Preventing Suicide: A Global Imperative, 2014). In short, child who is forced into a marriage is at a higher risk of death. They are marrying an absolute stranger who is much more mature than they are. They are being forced into sexual activity and abused by the husband which can cause young pregnancy and mentally and physically problems. They face a severe health risk, obstetric fistula which affects their ability to perform daily activities like walking, manual labor, sitting, or lifting their baby. 4 Law and regulations against child marriage need to be strengthened because many young lives are being overvalued. 5 Work cited Al Jazeera English. N.p., n.d. Web. 31 Mar. 2017. Adolescent  World Health Organization. World Health Organization, n.d. Web. 31 Mar. 2017. Effects of Child Abuse and  Joyful Heart Foundation. N.p., n.d. Web. 31 Mar. 2017. Child Marriage Facts and  ICRW PASSION. PROOF. POWER. N.p., n.d. Web. 31 Mar. 2017. Lee, Jane. Child abuse victims live than other children, royal commission  The Age. The Age, 25 May 2015. Web. 31 Mar. 2017. Mali: Sanitation in Mali - Cleaner latrines and community  Best of UNICEF Research 2015 (2015): 14-17. Web. Nasrulah, Muazzam, et al. Knowledge and Attitude towards Child Marriage Practice Among Women Married as Children-A Qualitative Study in Urban Slums of Lahore, BMC Public Health, vol. 14, no. 1148, 2014. PBS. Public Broadcasting Service, n.d. Web. 31 Mar. 2017. Timing  Facts for Life - Timing Births. N.p., n.d. Web. 31 Mar. 2017. Who. Preventing suicide: a global imperative. Dulles: Stylus Publishing, 2014. Print.