Boccalon 1 Paula Boccalon Ms. Gottlieb ENC 1102.014 9 April 2017 Infectious Diseases Medical Research Many fail to notice the impact that infectious diseases have abundance of deaths that are accounted for because of this. Some organizations fight this battle to create a world where there are no risks of infectious diseases. Organizations such as ASTMH, or American Society of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene, advocate for doctors to find solutions for infectious diseases found for a place free of tropical diseases. This organization has strategically placed offices throughout the world where tropical diseases are in abundance, as a way of: the worldwide burden of tropical infectious diseases and improving global Their vision is to create a world free of infectious diseases by accounting and documenting all fatalities that have occurred as a cause of these illnesses. A case that was reported in the article was, fatal severe acute respiratory syndrome case reported during the Health While what they did was important, making people aware of the symptoms in order to get not to cure should have found a way to combat the disease. Ultimately, these deaths could have been prevented if a cure had been found before the outbreak happened. Something that many fail to take into account is that because of this loss of lives, there are things that occur; like a domino effect, jobs are lost and the economy decreases in that area. As the 800 lives were lost in the 2002 outbreak, there was a to $50 billion ... economic Health The organization proceeds to inform the public that, if another outbreak were to occur in the future, this could result is more fatalities or completely whipping out a population. The article further points out another Boccalon 2 catastrophe to the unwillingness of the global community to gather and create a cure to stop the Ebola pandemic, of lives unnecessarily Health One can witness the impact that this tragedy has brought. While it is a risk that many are willing to take, in order to stop the lives being lost, it is not something that can be achieved by a small group of doctors. This organization has realized that to make great achievements, it has to be a holistic contribution from every doctor and member in communities worldwide. Now, they have created samples and plans for future research as a way of stopping this pandemic. One of the steps they have taken is to create awareness of the catastrophe tropical illnesses they have created; However, not many know the struggles that this organization faces to get the involvement of individuals. The inevitable factor that this organization has come to focus on is the support of not just more individuals, but that of society. This organization needs the aid of society to support the work, to become knowledgeable on the steps taken to control infectious diseases and to spread awareness that there are solutions to these catastrophes. Throughout the nation many wonder why organizations that advocate for medical research should be supported. Various of the infectious diseases going around today start in many low- income countries. This is due to the large cluster of population in such a small zone, poor living conditions and feeble health that is found in these areas. These conditions allow for diseases to jump from person to person quickly and spread at an impressive rate before even detected. The World Health Organization, (WHO), released a statement of the three infectious diseases that thus far have caused the most deaths; these being Lower Respiratory Syndrome (with 3.1 million deaths), HIV/AIDS (with 1.5 million deaths), and Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Diseases (with 1.5 million deaths). Due to the illnesses starting in low income countries, not much can be done until millions of lives are taken as there enough funds to stop the pandemic. However, if the Boccalon 3 population were to follow the preventions plans released deaths of this magnitude could be stopped. While these deaths are currently taking place and doctors are working to stop them from killing many more, in the past there have been many viruses that have been able to wipe out entire populations in the blink of an eye. In 1918, killed half a million people in the U.S. and 50 million (Infectious Diseases). When this unexpected sickness hit, there was no cure for it take many unsuspecting lives. Now due to medical research the flu can be prevented by the simple precaution of vaccines being distributed to the something that ASTMH makes sure that will occur. In more recent time, a disease that has been detected to come back since its first outbreak in 1976 is Ebola. In 1976 populations experienced 88% of those detected to contain this virus dying, now when the latest outbreak hit from March 2014-2016 it was the most complex virus yet causing 11,374 deaths worldwide (WHO). What many fail to realize is that this causes a chain effect, while many die there is a huge economic loss and a decline in the gross domestic product (GDP). Because of the Ebola outbreak in 2014 there was a $2.2 billion economic deficiency and a $7.4 billion gross domestic product decay (World Bank). On the other hand, with the help of those that already actively participate as advocates for medical research on infectious diseases, there have been major positive results on other viruses. The smallpox caused 50 million deaths prior to it being contained; after developing an antigen placed in vaccines, that were then distributed across the world, this disease can now be completely prevented. This advance can further be seen in cases infected by the polio virus, where it affected 640,000 people and killed the vaccine there was an 86% prevention of this occurring again. In retrospect, one can see what organizations such as American Society of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene and World Health Organization are doing to prevent yet nothing can occur without the support of people worldwide. Boccalon 4 As seen many of these infectious diseases that rapidly spread can be prevented, but as stated by many organizations this has to be a holistic not only doctors take part in, but people around the globe do as well. One can contribute to this cause by spreading the word, volunteering at the offices owned by the organizations in the area, following the released prevention plans, etc. American Society of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene have released prevention plans for many diseases in the past, if humanity were to act now and start following the set rules that the organization has released, many of the catastrophes that have occurred and much of the economic loss could be prevented. As numerous people have the vision of a world free of deaths caused by infectious diseases, people must come together and create a contingency plan to prevent any future outbreak from happening. Although this will take a long time from occurring, as many of the diseases adapt faster than the cures that are being produced, if everyone in different nations around the world came together this vision could become a reality. Organizations constantly release ways to spread awareness of diseases that are occurring in low income diseases that just a threat to those living in those areas but to those living across the world a way of getting funds to be able to proceed with more medical research and get support from everyone. As seen above there have been remarkable outcomes of this, where pandemics are either completely eradicated or mostly contained. However, for situations such as the Spanish millions across the world must act now and take part in this cause. People fear of what could go wrong while researching infectious diseases, however nations also fear what could happen if this were to be ignored. Once can see that these epidemics can rapidly become pandemics and wipe out entire populations. Organizations such as ASTMH and WHO advocate for medical research to be done, but they acknowledge the fact that nothing can be Boccalon 5 done without the help of everyone why people take action and help support these organizations any way they can. Boccalon 6 Works Cited: Gavazzi, Francois Herrmann, Karl-Heinz Krause; Aging and Infectious Diseases in the Developing World. Clin Infect Dis 2004; 39 (1): 83-91. doi: 10.1086/421559 Introduction to Infectious  Baylor College of Medicine, n.d. Web. Michael G. Head. Research Investments in Global Health: A Systematic Analysis of UK Infectious Disease Research Funding and Global Health Metrics, 1997  E. Bio Medicine 3.C (2016):180-190. Web. Pandemic and Epidemic Diseases  World Health Organization. World Health Organization, n.d. Web. 08 Apr. 2017. The Economic Impact of the 2014 Ebola Epidemic: Short and Medium Term Estimates for West  World Bank. N.p., n.d. Web. 08 Apr. 2017. Undergraduate Global Health Degrees: The Time Is  The American Journal of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene. N.p., 01 Jan. 1970. Web. 24 Jan. 2017.