Kulikov 1 Anatoly Kulikov Professor Roth Composition 1 Project 3 Intermediate draft Social class differentiations and their relationship towards each other in Globalized era. Social status has changed dramatically during periods in history of United States. The importance and significance of such topic can be given by defining the meaning of Social class and its relation to Globalization. Social class division of a society based on social and economic status, which has transformed into main topic in the world of cultural, political, and economic interactions between countries and nations. Governments worldwide segregated societies into Poor, Middle and Rich classes based on income and privileges, which created new norms of living between them. These can be defined as: establishment of unequal opportunities throughout lifetime, which give certain result. It is widely disputed topic in United States and covers huge historical context, however it is mostly spoken in the beginning of Industrial era. With chosen scholarly sources, it is possible to determine: how social classes became separated and defined throughout historical evidence, their interaction, and relationships with each other and how determined in the era of Globalization. Various works on economy and civil order have set the basics of living in the ancient city-states. The knowledge of those politicians and sociologists were then transferred into modern governments and scientists to study and improve such qualification of classes. The most valuable theory of class was given in the era of Industrialization by economist and sociologist Karl Marx. He wrote several works which determined social class on the new level and explained how they behave in capitalistic system. Although, throughout times, his works were heavily criticized and his prediction of the future inaccurate, his works contain important point of Kulikov 2 view on society and still being studied as a historical document. work illustrate the structure of social inequalities in ways that proletariat (working class) are required to work for bourgeoise (rich class, non-working) and keep their own benefits from this work on a level of their survival. This is the first work that was written for the working class, instead of rich class; however due to complexity of language and lack of copies, it was barely distributed among them (Marx, 2009). As Karl Marx provided his theory to public, society split it to more general and established 3 main classes: rich, middle and poor, with further sub-classes (Eisenhauer, 2011). To calculate and establish class of an individual or households, economists collect data specific data of wage, job, wealth, and income (Eliazar & Cohen, 2014). The great example of so is the data collected of Italian bank in 2002-2004 to determine level of poverty of surveyed households. The information gathered from 8000 households resulted in only 13.6% of population of Italy lived in relative poverty and 4.9% in extreme poverty (Eisenhauer, 2011). As seen from this example, it is necessary to determine sub-level of poverty, as this data can be used to calculate minimum wage, and rate of taxation. To perfectly define data and predict government policies towards social classes, economists use complex formulas in analyzing wealth and income. For example, theory of Vilfredo Pareto to analyze reams of tax data determines 3 forms of fractality with different formulas for each class. This helps to prevent unnecessary difficulties towards economic policies and study levels of poverty in deeper scales (Eliazar & Cohen, 2014). Throughout history social classes were segregated not only in the means of wealth and income, but on the level of power and abilities. For example, in ancient Rome ability to own a slave meant to have a dominance over other social class participant, however. This defines that classes are build up into hierarchy of power and dominance over each other. Rich dominate poor and middle classes in economic and political area, as well as middle class dominate poor. However, they still interact with each other in real and virtual world and meaning of by far gone. economic background highly effects relationships with Kulikov 3 others households in work, study and living. In the study of urban adolescence, researchers found out that people with support from mentors, teachers and family were more successful in academic development than students that does not have this support. As they stated class is virtually it is however of the most meaningful cultural dimensions in (Noonan, Hall & Blustein, 2007). By this it means that people judge others by differentiation of social class and availability in resources provided by such class, but not openly. People use to gather into groups with the same believes, values and ideas, however not always by economic background, they trying to Relationships with society is by the way not the last factor influenced by social class differentiation. Children with poor economic background tend to develop lower IQ and education throughout their lives. Education is another factor that causes segregation of people into more groups, it is derived from availability of such individual to receive it on environmental factors. As stated by the study of Mortality risks, individuals with lower IQ tend to have more mortality risks (Hart & Deary, 2003). Society is segregated into classes by which they receive privileges over the others, however they interact with each other on everyday basis virtually and physically, and gets much easier with technology provided in Globalized era. This is a complex topic to be discussed in real world as it derived from income such individual receives, his success and level of education. However, the segregation of classes is a great economic structure that allows economists to build theories and calculations to decide questions of taxations of different classes. It allows governments to implement policies to improve society and economy as a whole. The era of Information enabled more social interaction between classes and located the goals of each class to move upward the social class ladder. The social class structure is old as the human history and will eventually change by disappearance of social class, either poor or middle class. Kulikov 4 Work Cited: Marx, K. (2009). Das kapital: a critique of political economy. Regnery Pub, 11-24. Eliazar, I. & Cohen, M. H. (2014). Hierarchical socioeconomic fractality: the rich, the poor, and the middle-class. In Physica A: Statistical Mechanics and its Applications, 402, 30- 40. 10.1016/j.physa.2014.01.059 Eisenhauer, J. G. (2011). The rich, the poor, and the middle class: thresholds and intensity indices. In Research in Economics, 65 (4), 294-304. 10.1016/j.rie.2011.01.002 Hart, C. L. & Deary, I. J. (2003). Childhood iq, social class, deprivation, and their relationships with mortality and morbidity risk in later life: prospective observational study linking the scottish mental survey 1932 and the midspan studies. Psychosomatic Medicine, 877-883. Noonan, A. E., Hall, G., Blustein, D. L. (2007). Urban experience of social class in relationships at work. In Journal of Vocational Behavior, 542-560. 10.1016/j.jvb.2007.01.005 Ruhela, A., Bagchi, A., Mahanti, A. & Seth, A. (2016). The rich and middle classes on twitter: are popular users indeed different from regular users? In Online Social Networks, Computer Communications, 73B, 219-228. 10.1016/j.comcom.2015.07.024 Muntaner, C., Borrell, C., Chung, H. (2007). Class relations, economic inequality and mental health: why social class matters to the sociology of mental health. Mental health, social mirror, 127-141.