Al-Khaldi 1 Mansoor Al-Khaldi Meredith Modlin-Jackson ENC 1101 28 March 2017 Impact of Online Booking on Travel and Tourism Nowadays, it has become clear and highly important to recognize that information technology affects both consumers and businesses that operate in travel and tourism field. It gives more possibilities regarding online booking and budget planning while booking a trip. A large number of Internet users search for the information related to traveling and top vacation destinations. Therefore, they visit travel agents and websites frequently and use their email address to book a trip and plan their journey. Information and communication technologies have a major impact on travel and tourism, especially in the field of online distribution channels. Tourist agents use the global distribution system for marketing strategy and extension services to increase its competitive benefit. The companies have an opportunity to increase the variety of services in the global online registration tours and online booking systems. In addition, many travel sites offer the planning, booking, and online payment services for greater convenience. Long-term effects of using that kind of tool cover the improvement of the information availability, high level of competition as well as the larger market of consumers and businesses worldwide. Nowadays online booking replaces travel agents. It reduces the work of several companies that leads to reorganizing. This study is intended to examine both positive and negative impacts that online booking service has on travel and tourism industry. Al-Khaldi 2 Research over the past few years demonstrates that the trend of online booking is gradually changing from positive to more cautious since the impact of the Internet has its consequences. It should be kept in mind that the quantity and quality of sales are the main factors that ensure the work effectiveness of the tour operators and travel agents. The use of reservation systems and online booking within the tourism business affects the sales positively, improves the quality, and maximizes the efficiency. The growth of tourism reflects significant development and improvement of the transport and communications sectors that became one of the main consumers of innovation and information technology products like online booking systems, electronic information systems, and communications. The quick growth of the number of airlines and travels by air has led to the need for using the online booking system, which became the main tool for booking tickets. Online booking system has a significant impact on the tourism sector since it provides services not only for flights but also hotel accommodation, car rentals, cruise travel, destinations information, exchange rates, weather reports, bus and rail links, etc. The application of the online booking allowed to notably reduce the time of the customer services, provide online reservation, reduce the cost of services, optimize the formation of route by price, time of flight and other things. The great demand for online booking increases not only for the convenience and ease using, but offering lot of information about different sectors on the Internet. The largest online booking systems in the international tourism market are Amadeus, Galileo, Sabre, and Worldspan. Typically, the main standard of the selection is the price and quality of service. All global booking systems offer various connecting options that are available both in price and quality of any tourist business. Most participants of the tourism market provide the benefits of online Al-Khaldi 3 booking, based on real information directly displayed on availability at current rates with the possibility of reservation. In practice, this two functions are often described. The benefits of applying an online system include an immediate receiving of confirmations; rapid clearance of vouchers; the opportunity to get information about the application at any time by phone or online; and the possibility to receive the notification of application status changes by e-mail or SMS. The advantages for tour operators are the cost reduction. All tours, group or individual, go through the system that provides a real-time picture of sales and full and maximum automation of individual tours. The managers do not have to spend time notifying customers about the status of their requests, calling the client, answering their calls, checking payments and requests from foreign partners, etc. Increase sales are the dismissal of areas with individual tours. Furthermore, the elimination of the delay of information transfer between the departments speeded the passage of the application. Tour operator receives relevant and obvious information about sales at any time. The agency is able to form any application in the system (both the processed and rejected). Improving the quality of customer service, faster processing of applications, availability of additional services for customers (having access to information on their applications at any time, and general assistance) these features create a unique value of information technology for the travel industry. The global experience demonstrates that customer service is the key factor in determining the success of the activity of any travel company within the tourism market. The winner is the one who has the ability to provide clients with the full range of services on-line for the best rate. Booking agent tour operator services are central to the overall service technology. Because of whether the application will be able to confirm the tour agent in the presence of the client Al-Khaldi 4 relationship depend on the rest of the customer to the agent and the services it provides. Nevertheless, in the first decade of the 21st century, researchers displayed the popularization of online booking within tourism and travel industry quite positively. In conclusion, it has to be noted that the attitude to the problem of online booking in the tourism industry has gradually changed since the initial eagerness was replaced by the understanding that such dramatic changes cannot bring exclusively positive results. Indeed, the most recent articles on this topic are more concerned with the negative consequences of online booking than the benefits that it can bring on a long term. Al-Khaldi 5 Works Cited Christou, Evangelos, Marianna Sigala, and Professor Dimitri. Ioannides. Social Media in Travel, Tourism and Hospitality Theory, Practice and Cases. Farnham: Taylor and Francis, 2016. Print. Crnojevac, I. H., J. and S. ETourism: A comparison of Online and Offline Bookings and the Importance of Hotel  JIOS 34.1 (2010): 41-54. 10 Mar. 2010. Web. 26 Mar. 2017. <http://hrcak.srce.hr/file/83901>. Molchanova, V. S. The Use of Online Service Booking in Tourist  European Journal of Social and Human Sciences 2.2 (2014): 75-79. Web. 25 Mar. 2017. <http://www.aphr.ru/images/books/pdf/european-journal-of-social-and-human- science.pdf>. Ye, Qiang, Rob Law, Bin Gu, and Wei Chen. The influence of user-generated content on traveler behavior: An empirical investigation on the effects of e-word-of-mouth to hotel online  Computers in Human Behavior 27.2 (2011): 634-39. Web. 26 Mar. 2017. VT: Ashgate Pub, 2012. Print.