In todays society, marijuana is commonly used by many teens and adults. There are many reasons that a person may decide to partake in smoking marijuana. for example, marijuana can be used for medical reasons, socializing, obtaining a high or escape depression. In addition, the medical use of marijuana can benefit an enormous amount of patients worldwide and can one day even lead to a cure for certain diseases. The legalization of marijuana has been a topic that has been around for a very long time. While there are people who support the legalization of marijuana there are many who do not agree with legalizing marijuana. Many of the opinions about the legalization of marijuana are based on off the idea that marijuana will lead to hardships later in life. common argument against the legalization of marijuana is that making marijuana lawful would encourage the legalization of stronger drugs such as hashish and hashish (Kahler). Marijuana is used as a social drug and can be put at the same level as alcohol, but because of the restriction that are put on it the arguments that are put on the topic are ones that are most of the time based solely on biased opinions. In this paper, I will be exploring some of the claims that are made about why marijuana be legalized and I will counter their arguments. Many people believe that the act of legalizing weed should not even be discussed. Like stated earlier a very common argument that is used against the legalization of marijuana is that it would lead to the conversation about legalizing harder drugs such as opium. Although there is possibility of a conversation stemming from the legalization of marijuana the probability that they would put a drug on the market that is known for killing people and having lasting effects on the body is very low and almost nonexistent. For a drug to be legalized there must be a valid reason to legalize it. For marijuana, there has been proven studies that show that it helps with certain types of pains and can help people that are suffering from depression or anxiety. But because people view marijuana as a form of a gateway drug many people are suspicious about why this conversation is even a thing. There is argument that are supported by many that say that the drug itself a gate way drug it is the drug dealers that are behind the selling that put into the heads of the buyers that trying harder drugs that in most cases cost more money and will make them addicted to it is a good idea. Marijuana is also the only drug that is out on the market that has an almost nonexistent death toll. This is a very uncommon thing when it comes to drugs even over the counter drugs have the chance of killing people if to many are taken in a short amount of time. Marijuana also does not affect the body the same way other drugs do. There is another argument that is frequently used is that if marijuana were to become legalized there would be more traffic violations and that more people would be drinking and smoking more frequently. If marijuana usage were to become legalized there would have to be rules that would be provided for situations such as that so they would be able to control the usage of it. The situation would become similar or the same as to what happens when a person gets pulled over for drinking and driving. Once there are regulations put on smoking and driving people will go out of their way to make sure that they drive while being under the influence of marijuana. there will be people that still do it because you stop everyone just like how people still drive drunk but with the regulations that would be put onto it there would less people that will drive under the influence. Another common argument that is used against the legalization of marijuana is that it will become a health hazard for our nation. I think that this claim is based from biased opinions that stem from a lack of understanding on the issue. The number of drugs that could damage our nation is an outstanding number and out of all the drugs marijuana is the least likely drug to make the nation go into total disarray. Marijuana is compared constantly to cigarettes and is even portrayed to be worse than cigarettes because marijuana has 50% more tar than tobacco does and damages the lungs. When in fact cigarettes are worse than marijuana because cigarettes have led to more illnesses than marijuana. the same can be said for alcohol which leads to things such as alcohol poisoning and alcohol and cigarettes have both lead to situation where many people have died from both alcohol and a frequent use of cigarettes. A drug such as nicotine is legalized but leads to an average of deaths a (kahler) when marijuana has not lead to any known and reported deaths. The use of marijuana could be used to get rid of an addiction such as alcohol or nicotine addiction. The legalization of marijuana can also have many benefits that could be looked at a state level. With marijuana being illegal it has not stopped people from buying and selling it. If states would harnessed the opportunity to sell it there economy would grow significantly. is the most valuable cash crop, worth an estimated $122 million a (Murphy) being able to take marijuana would lead to the government being able to use the money for stuff that would make there state better. To do this though the states would have to make marijuana legal to buy and sell. This would also lead to less people going to jail for the selling and the usage of marijuana which would help the states with overcrowding issues in jail. With all the biased opinions that come with the use of marijuana there are also many reasons why it would benefit the public. although marijuana is a drug there are many different benefits that can come from the legalization of marijuana. these changes will not happen soon but if the facts are out there maybe eventually they will be able to look at all the facts and not just biased opinions. Bibliography Kahler, K. Debate Legalization of Los Angeles Times 4 Dec. 1988: 25. ProQuest. Murphy, E. D. Urges Legalization of McClatchy Tribune Business News. (21 Apr. 2011). ProQuest.