Student 1 Student Lisa Dubois ENC 1102 5 March 2017 Good or Bad, Label GMOs Within the grocery store, consumers may have no idea what type of crops or products are used within their products. The truth is many of these crops used could be genetically modified organisms, or GMOs. For some this may be dangerous and careless by the producer, to others this could mean a problem to world hunger and another step of the agricultural revolution. GMOs are created through. use of genome editing technologies or genetic engineering to introduce desirable traits into (FDA 4). Companies such as the Green America feel that GMOs are still largely untested and pose dangers to the consumers, taking action by forming campaigns like GMO Inside providing information and tools to the public to take action against producers using GMOs and form non-GMO networks. Other companies such as Grocery Manufacturers Association see GMOs in another light, that an important scientific discovery and a process that has been occurring since the beginning of agriculture for the betterment of human kind. They try to support GMOs by providing dispelling many negative claims against GMOs and promote the positive aspects through one of their projects, The Facts about GMOs. A situation is required for the use of GMOs within the united states as already nations have banned the use of GMOs, these 38 countries, GM crops are banned on the government level, with the backing of the scientists, doctors, and environmental (Just Label It! 5-6). Furthermore, a solution is needed that tends to both sides of the argument. Although both organizations hold drastically opposing views regarding the use of Student 2 GMOs, a solution such as the non-bias labeling of non-GMO products for a fee will allow for the public to decide their stance on the use of these crops by purchasing GMO products or non-GMO products. A major stakeholder of the anti-GMO side is Green America and their coalition, GMO Inside. Their organization feels GMOs come with an assortment of environmental impacts, corporate control, and health risks. Their stated environmental impacts of GMOs include the herbicide and pesticide resistance is creating super weeds and superbugs, requiring heavier application of these (Green America) and crops are also accelerating the drive toward mono-crop agriculture, which diminishes genetic diversity and threatens food security in the event of widespread crop (Green America). Furthermore, corporate control of these crops negatively impacts many farmers as companies exercise strict patent laws, suing farmers for patent infringement if their fields are contaminated with genetically engineered (Green America). GMO Inside further states that these companies spend millions of dollars on anti-GMO labeling (Green America) effectively keeping consumers in the dark. These even consider the possible health effects of GMOs on the population, as Green America states that are not yet proven safe for human (Green America). As many of these studies are funded by the same corporate industries for short periods such as 90 days (Scientific American). GMO mission is to give people and tools, and provides a place for a growing community of (Green America). Through these means they can help all Americans be aware of which foods utilize GMOs and support non-GMO Producers. Within the other side of the GMO argument is the stakeholder The Grocery Manufacturers Association and their project, The Facts About GMOs. Their projects belief is Student 3 that use of genetically modified ingredients is not only safe for people and our planet, but also has several important (Grocery Manufacturers). This is done through providing answers to consumers with questions or beliefs about the negative impacts on GMOs. Through providing multiple sources they state that GMOs are safe, been around for a long time, keep food affordable, help the environment, and feed the worlds hungry. They state the safety by referencing the regulatory agencies that study these organisms, finding that modified food ingredients are safe and there are no negative health effects associated with their (Grocery Manufacturers). Also that GMOs are not a new and untested discovery, stating that technology has been around for the past 20 years, and today, 70-80% of the foods we eat in the United States, both at home and away from home, contain ingredients that have been genetically (Grocery Manufacturers). The small requirements for pesticides, water, and cost of production for GMOs, as stated by The Facts About GMO reduce the price of crops used for food, such as corn, soybeans and sugar beets by as much as (Grocery Manufacturers). Contrary the points made by Green America, The Facts About GMOs state that technology allows farmers to use fewer chemicals, such as (Grocery Manufacturers) and that planting techniques for these crops reduce greenhouse gasses, water use, and erosion of sand. The Facts About GMO uses these claims supported by their sources to specify the benefits of these crops, such as a solution to world hunger crops produced through GM technology, can help us feed the hungry and malnourished in developing nations around the (Grocery Manufacturers). While both Green America and Grocery Manufacturers have opposing views towards the use of GMOs they still feel that the public has a right to know what is in their food. A procedure being used already in 64 nations is the labeling of genetically modified organisms (Just Label It! Student 4 2-3). Although within the united states labeling of GMOs face challenges. An article exploring the idea of labeling all GMO products found that legal barriers surrounding many states are too difficult to overcome to establishing a national policy regarding the use of GMOs impossible, only through adoption of individual states can any strides be made (Wohlers 73-84). Although propositions have been made to states, they still face difficulties, such as proposition 37 for labeling of GMO products (David Zilberman). The major argument against labeling was the enormous cost of regulation and hidden cost for the courts as well (The Senate Committee On Revenue & Taxation 23-28). Although it also must be taken into account that the rejection of Prop 37 was also partly due to the contributions of these GMO producing biotech companies pitching money on campaigns against the labeling of GMOs (Ryan 4-6). If producers could opt for a FDA approved non-GMO label for a small fee will allow for a solution that would satisfy both sides of the GMO issue. Green Americas coalition GMO Inside benefits from this policy as they are already supportive of non-GMO producers and labeling non- GMO products, with pushing for FDA regulation of non-GMO products. Although the fees will raise the price of the products, studies such as the one produced by Ken Roseboro saw that there is a growing want for non-GMO products within stores (Roseboro 32-33) and another study performed by David Zilberman saw that these consumers are willing to pay a premium for these non-GMO products (David Zilberman 108). Meaning that these non-GMO producers can afford the fees and cost of production, including the cost of regulation of these non-GMO products. The Grocery Manufacture Association benefits through the labeling costs not placing a heavy burden on the taxpayers as the fees elevate the cost of regulation. Additionally, a non-bias GMO label will not cast a negative light on the aspect of GMO usage. Additionally, new labels, such as smartlabels could be included which with a smartphone could direct to a site giving non-bias Student 5 facts about research done with GMOs (Lowe). Allowing the public to choose which crops they want to consume. Although both organizations have drastically opposing views, non-bias optional labeling of non-GMO products can appease both sides, allowing the population to choose their own best interests. If this issue goes without any solutions within the united states, anti-GMO organizations such as Green America will continue to find GMO using producers and build non- GMO networks. Pro-GMO organizations such as the Grocery Manufacture Association will continue to try and educate the public about GMOs and dispel any myths. With this solution both GMO and non-GMO products could intertwine within the markets without any large bias or negative connotation to either, such as the coexistence occurring within Italy (David Zilberman 73-78) Student 6 Works Cited David Zilberman, Scott Kaplan, Eunice Kim, Gina Waterfield4. Lessons from the California GM Labeling Proposition on the State of Crop. Washington, DC: Agricultural & Applied Economics 2013. FDA. Modernizing the Regulatory System for Biotechnology Products. Regulatory. Washington: Product of the Emerging Technologies Interagency Policy Coordination Biotechnology Working Group, 2016. Online Document. Green America. FAQs. 6 4 2012. Website. 5 3 2017. Why GMO Inside? 6 3 2015. Website. 4 3 2017. Grocery Manufacturers. The Facts About GMOs. 4 8 2016. Website. 5 3 2017. Just Label It! Labeling Around The World. 3 4 2016. Website. 5 3 2017. Lowe, Roger. Smart Label. 5 3 2016. Website. 5 3 2017. Roseboro, Ken. Prepared Foods. NY: BNP Media, 2016. Print. Ryan, John. Monsanto Pours $4.6 Million Into Anti-GMO Labeling Campaign. 10 Sep 2013. Scientific American. Do Seed Companies Control GM Crop Research. 1 8 2009. Article. 6 3 2017. The Senate Committee On Revenue & Taxation. PROPOSITION 37. SACRAMENTO, CALIFORNIA, 29 10 2000. Online Document. Wohlers, Anton E. Labeling of genetically modified food: Closer to reality in the United  Politics and the Life Sciences, Vol. 32, No. 1 (Spring 2013), (2013): pp. 73-84. Document. Student 7