Student 1 Student L. E. DuBois ENC 1102 5 March 2017 Treatment of depression is necessary The ratio of depression and suicide is increasing, so an effective treatment for depression is very important. According to the World Health Organization (WHO), 350 million people worldwide suffer from depression. Severe depression can destroy a family as well as the life. According to the survey, Over 50 percent of all people who die by suicide suffer from major  Most of the depressed patients do not seek treatment; although most patients can get help, even including very serious patients with depression The As a result of years of fruitful research, there are currently drugs and psychotherapy can alleviate the pain of depression, such as clinical trials, talk therapy or interpersonal therapy. But still some people do not think that depression is a treatable disease. ADAA (Anxiety and Depression Association of America) and ReachOut.com are two organizations that are dedicated for supporting treatment of depression. The two organizations hope to help their depression and reduce suicide rates through their help, but they use different treatments. ADAA is based on a scientific and medical point of view as the main treatment, using a companion and understanding to help patients with depression. Although the two organizations have the common goal, but they did not work together and enlarge their missions. They can try to understand each treatment, and can be combined. Effective treat and help patients with depression. Student 2 ADAA is an emphasis on academic organizations, they advocate through clinical trials, research and education to treat depression. The main goal of ADAA is to help patients understand their illnesses and find ways to recover and heal, because they think that the way can effectively find the right treatment and recovery methods. Inadequate treatment can cause poor results to the patient, and clinical trials can find a suitable treatment and effective treatment of . (Clark, David M. np) The organization presents a scientific approach and develops new clinical treatments to help and prevent depression. ADAA provides academic education, resources, and support about the disorders. The organization attaches great importance to use of educational, scientific, academic and clinical trials to treat patients with depression. They think that scientific, educational and clinical trials are helpful in the treatment of patients with depression, which can be effective in the treatment of depression and contribute to future development. summary, among ADAA callers surveyed in our study, most subjects found ADAA a useful resource for their anxiety problems and were very satisfied with the service (Wei Zhang, Ross, Jerilyn, and Davidson, Jonathan. 103) ReachOut.com is a driven and supported organization by young people, and it is an innovative and special organization. ReachOut.com are different from other treatment of depression in the organization, they have been using the Internet to build an online mental health service for young people. The main goal of ReachOut.com is to address youth mental health problems and reduce youth suicide rates, and they have established an online health community platform. Social media sites are commonly used for communicating about suicide-related behavior with others, which raises the possibility of using social media to help prevent . (Robinson, Jo, Rodrigues, MariaFisher, SteveBailey, and EleanorHerrman, Student 3 Helen. np) They want to meet the needs of young people, regardless of their location, gender or sexuality. They work with marginalized young people and are in contact with schools in rural and remote areas. Many health professionals and schools use Reach Out to support young mental health and well being.  Mental health and depression are closely related. Psychotherapy can solve the fundamental problem, reduce the risk of depression and can prevent depression and prevent the occurrence of . (Hollon, Steven D. np) Psychotherapy is a fundamental treatment that accompany and understand can help patients get rid of negative thoughts. ADAA advocate through education, research and clinical trials to treat depression. This organization is a scientific and medical point of view as the main treatment, their relationship with the depressed patients are doctors and patients. ReachOut.com advocates improving the psychology of depressed patients through the Internet, community sites and app. They are mainly targeted at young people; they are always accompanied by online to help patients with depression. Their relationship with the depressed patient is a friend who helps these teenagers out of negative thoughts by sharing and understanding. However, ADAA and ReachOut.com are hoping to help depression patients solve psychological problems and reduce suicide rates, although through different ways of treating depression. They continue to study new methods and develop new drugs, systems and App; the main purpose is that they want to find a way to effectively treat depression. They both are concerned about what treatment is effective for depression, because they want to reduce the number of depression patients and suicide rates. In addition, they also promote the treatment of depression and prevent depression, they hope that people can face this problem and Student 4 understand the severity of depression. There are many people who suffer from depression but they do not know and then the disease becomes more serious and even leads to suicide. This is terrible, so the two organizations hope that through their education and propaganda to let people understand the importance of treatment of depression. The two organizations are in the field of treatment of depression are very important seats, they have their own good and professional areas, but when people are too focused on a field when it is possible to ignore the other part. This may cause them to miss an effective treatment and cure the chance. However, if they can combine two distinct treatments together, this may create greater possibilities for the treatment of depression. ADAA focuses on education, science and clinical trials, but they do not have a perfect mind counseling and companion system. At this point, they can use ReachOut.com to establish a healthy psychological platform. Although ADAA has a sound medical team, they lack real data and ideas. They can have a lot of web data, information and statistics through ReachOut.com as their supporting information. media data collection drastically arri from traditional social science methods in that the former enables fast, sometimes even real-time quantitative data (Altug, Andrei and Bjorn. np) ReachOut.com is not a true medical institution; it is a network platform to help patients with depression to solve mental illness. ReachOut.com is like a friend who accompanies and shares psychological problems for a depressed patient, but it is useless for some patients, such as patients who are serious and need medication. ReachOut.com can refer patients who need professional medical treatment to ADAA because they have a sound medical team and equipment. ADAA is a professional medical point of view to treat depression, and ReachOut.com is a Student 5 companionway to treat depression. Both of them are suitable for patients at different stages, the former is for severe depression patients, the latter applies to patients with mild depression. If the two organizations can cooperate and distribute the work, this can effectively solve the depression. Suggested for ADAA, they should adds more and better mental platforms, which can reduce the patients who want to give up treatment or suicide when they cannot stand professional treatment and clinical trials. Recommendations for ReachOut.com, they focus on using social networks to accompany and help patients with depression, but they should build a professional medical team. Because some of the severe depression patients need drugs to control their disease, they may not be able to solve their problems by accompanying means. Assuming the two organizations can work together, this can create a win-win situation. ADAA has a well-developed medical team, and ReachOut.com has a sound mental health platform. Both sides have their own advantages; through the cooperation they can all-round care of the patients so. This can effectively reduce the suicide rate and the occurrence of depression, and to achieve the goal of both. Depression is a common global disease, although there are many effective treatments, only less than half of the patients to receive effective treatment. There may be many factors that affect the effective treatment; depression patients often cannot get the correct diagnosis. It is hoped that this article will allow people to understand the severity of depression and the importance of treatment. They are very good for the treatment of depression, although they use different treatments. They can work together to create greater Student 6 benefits for the treatment of depression, and more effectively help more patients need to be treated. Student 7 Works cited Anxiety and Depression Association of America. Anxiety and Depression Association of America, https://www.adaa.org/. Accessed 28 Jan. 2017. Akay, Altug, et al. Assessing Antidepressants Using Intelligent Data Monitoring and Mining of Online  IEEE Journal of Biomedical & Health Informatics, vol. 20, no. 4, July 2016, p. 977. Clark, David M. Developing new treatments: On the interplay between theories, experimental science and clinical  Behaviour Research and Therapy 42.9 (2004): 1089-1104. Hollon, Steven D., et al. Psychosocial intervention development for the prevention and treatment of depression: promoting innovation and increasing  Biological psychiatry 52.6 (2002): 610-630. Wei, Zhang, et al. Posttraumatic Stress Disorder in Callers to the Anxiety Disorders Association of  Depression & Anxiety (1091-4269), vol. 19, no. 2, Mar. 2004, pp. 96-104. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1002/da.10138. ReachOut.com. ReachOut.com, http://au.reachout.com/. Accessed 25 Feb. 2017. Robinson, Jo, et al. Social Media and Suicide Prevention: Findings from a Stakeholder  Shanghai Archives of Psychiatry, no. 1, 2015, p. 27. EBSCOhost, doi:10.11919/j.issn.1002-0829.214133.