Student 1 Student Instructor Lisa E. DuBois Composition II ENC 1102 07 March 2017 Finding Common Ground Conflicts are a common aspect of nature. We fight verbally or physically because of many things: land, resources, ideas, people, etc. Climate change, which is just a natural effect that is beginning to speed up is one of those areas of fighting in which people fight (in a battle of arguments). Greenpeace is one of the contenders in this battle, they are an organization that fights against human activities that promotes and help the effect of climate change. Their argument is that climate change is real and an urgent concern for the well-being of the Earth, people, and all living things in her and thus, action must be taken fast. On the other hand, The Competitive Enterprise Institute (CEI) is an organization that works to expand the principles of limited government, free enterprise, and the liberties of the people. Their view on this issue is that climate change is real, but there is no need to be alarmed and the issue does not require any real, urgent solution. These two organizations do not share the same goal, but an agreement could be reached if both agree. By using scientific teams all over the world (a neutral party), data will be collected and analyzed, they will make a judgement and both companies must agree in whether the issue is urgent or not. Greenpeace is a long-lived non-profit organization that had worked to protect the environment since its foundation. Their main objective is to make people aware of climate change and find ways to solve it. The organization may be violent and radical sometimes, but they are peaceful and rational too. They have the first face mostly because they view climate change as an urgent matter that must be solved as fast as possible if the planet and Student 2 life as we know it is to survive. On twenty fourteen the organization presented a paper that was peer reviewed entitled: A sustainable USA energy In this paper, there is a clear thesis that says: expert consensus is that a fundamental shift in the way we consume and generate energy must begin immediately and be well underway within the next ten years in order to aver the worst impacts of climate (Greenpeace 8) This thesis sets a solid ground in the argument of the organization. They stated clearly that if there is no action in ten years (in a geological scale this is no time at all) climate change will change the planet into something yet unknown. With this claim, they are also calling to action the people so something could be done. They also stated that make the Energy real and to avoid dangerous climate change, Greenpeace and GWEC demand that the following policies and actions are implemented in the energy (Greenpeace 10). In this quote, the organization is providing solutions to climate change, but they also are demanding those solutions. This can be interpreted as they are desperate to implement those solutions, reinforcing their argument on the urgency of the issue. Greenpeace works to ensure that the climate change issue is solved as quickly as possible in order to avoid damages to the environment. The CEI is a public non-profit organization that works for fairness since its foundation in nineteen eighty-four. Although their main objective lays on the economic and political ground, they also want to achieve something in the environmental scenario. This organization recognizes that the climate change is a real thing that affects the world, but they see it as a non-alarming issue that does not need any urgent fixation. The view on the issue is clearly seen when they say that questions global warming alarmism, makes case for access to affordable energy, and opposes energy- rationing (CEI Web). In this statement the organizations makes clear that they Student 3 acknowledge global warming, but they do not believe that is should be a top concern for the world. They also have the stance that affordable energy should be a priority and they want a laisse-fair approach to the energy industry. These two last positions go against the notion of urgency and worries of the first stakeholder because this organization will favor fossil fouls since they are cheaper and affordable. Their not-alarming approach to this issue is explain well by the Czech President in his speech when he says: of us know (or at least should know) that this panic have a solid ground, that is has not been set off by rational and that its substance is not With these words, it is clear why the organization and many people do not see the issue alarming, they argue that the alarmism is not based on empirical data and thus there is no need to create the panic that has been created over many years by organizations like the first one. The CEI argues that climate change is a real issue that does not need a fast solution since there is no need for panic because there is no empirical data. Since both stakeholder relay on the veracity of empirical data, a method to reach an agreement must be created using the scientific community as a neutral party or arbiter. Both involved parties will probably listen to the results of a scientific experiment if they agree to do so. In order to carry this solution, these steps should be followed: Many groups of scientists around the world (at least five teams from every geographical continent) must carry out the same experiment in order to ensure fairness and solid results. Both parties must agree to recognize the results and abide by them. The experiments will consist on test, repeated hundreds of time to see if the climate change is an urgent or unnecessary concern. This solution will work because it will finally set some consensus in the scientific community about the veracity of the alarm about climate change. If the alarm was necessary, the second stakeholder will have no ground in which support its arguments. In the other hand, if the alarm was not necessary, the first stakeholder will Student 4 have no ground in which support its movement and actions. As Mohammad stated in his article, rules with a focus on civil law are considered to be among non- formal (Mohammad 314). This means that this method will in theory not be practical since it is non-formal and parties can just ignore it. But as it was stated above, both parties must agree a priori that they will submit to the judgement of the scientist. Whether climate change is an urgent matter or not, these stakeholders have different opinions on the matter. Greenpeace advocates for an urgent solution to the climate change, since it can present serious damages to the world and life. On the other side, CEI advocates for a of the masses since there is no scientific reason behind such alarm with respect climate change. Between these two arguments, an agreement could be reach if both parties agree to submit under the arbitrage of a coalition of scientists all around the world. This empirical experiment will set once and for all their differences. (WC.: 1210) Student 5 Work Cited The Competitive Enterprise Institute. The Competitive Enterprise Institute, n.d., http://www.cei.org . Accessed 07 Mar. 2017. Greenpeace. A Sustainable USA Energy Greenpeace International. 2014. Greenpeace USA. Greenpeace USA, n.d., http://www.greenpeace.org/usa/ . Accessed 07 Mar. 2017. Klaus, Global Warming Alarmism and the Mont Pelerin Long-Term Economic Affairs, vol. 29, no. 1, Mar. 2009, pp. 45-48. EBSCOhost, doi: 10.1111/j.1468-0270.2009.01866.x. Nevisandeh, Mohammad. Nature of Arbitration Procedia Economics and Finance, vol. 36, no. 1 st International Conference on Applied Economics and Business, 01 Jan. 2016, pp. 314-320. EBSCOhost, doi: 10.1016/S2212- 5671(16)30042-9.