Benjamin 1 Laurie-Ann Benjamin Professor Dubois Enc 1102 26 February 2017 Compassion & Choices: Images Do Carry Messages Compassion & Choices is an organization that advocates for end of life choices to be legal in all the states. Their mission is to empower patients to make decisions regarding the end of their life that are in alignment with their value system. Not only do they promote their cause through words, but it is depicted in images. One such image is the cover of one of the resource magazines that Compassion & Choices offers. to go Resource educates interested parties about steps that must be taken if they were to indeed use an end of life option. This actually goes along with their mission statement to people with information and tools, including our free consultation program, to receive healthcare that is consistent with their values and priorities as they approach the end of (Compassion&Choices.org) The second image states the date that end of life option act will become effective. This image encompasses the legal change aspect of Compassion & Choice goal to legalize end of life choices in all actions. Both images use rhetorical appeals such as ethos, pathos and logos, to get their messages across to the public. The first image is the cover of Good to Go Resource This guide educates people on all options available to them when considering end of life choices. It also contains steps that one should take if they were to embark on this journey. These steps include making a will and covering expenses before the scheduled time of death. In Image one, there is a glowing Benjamin 2 blue car with the words To on the license plate on a winding dirt path. On the right side of the car. There is a physician with a checklist and someone who could be interpreted as a religious leader. On the left side, there are two persons with the Compassions and Change logo fixing the tires. There is also a woman at the window seemingly conversing with the people inside the car; we could interpret this as the woman saying her final goodbyes. Finally, there is a couple in the back who appear to be reviewing a will that was left by the couple who are in the car. Compassions and Change focuses on the patients wants and needs but while doing so they must adhere to laws established by the state government. The physician with a checklist embodies this. Most states have said that a physician must declare the patient mentally capable and fatally ill in order for them to be eligible for end of life choices. Physicians must also refer the patient to another physician and if both physicians have the same conclusion then the end of life option is approved (procpn.org). If all the requirements on the check list are met then the patient is one step closer to being to The involvement of religious activities is completely up to the patient. If the patient decides that they want to partake in religious activities on their end of life journey, then Compassion & Change makes it happen. On the left side of the car, two persons are fixing the tires. We can interpret these people to be works of Compassions & Change because of the logo on their backs. These people play a pivotal role in the life because they are who equip the patient with the necessary materials necessary for the journey, except for the lethal drug which is provided by the physician. The to Go Resource is one way members of the organization assist patients on their journey. By reading this guide, patients get a general understanding of everything that must be done in order for this journey to be a successful one. Members assist by Benjamin 3 coming alongside them to be a friend and an assistant if they have questions or if they have doubts. The To Go Resource is a product of Compassion & Change. The logo on the shirt of the workers alludes that the magazine and the organization are correlated. The use of the logos on the clothes also incorporates the rheotorical appeal ethos. According to Rhetoric Matters, is the way of establishing trust with his or her (Rhetoric Matters, 18). The correlation of the organization and magazine establishes trust because it implies that the information in the magazine is from an informed organization. This image also uses pathos, appeal to (Rhetoric Matters, 20). The purpose of pathos is to let the reader feel something when they look at the image. Image 1, makes it seem like everything will be okay once the reader follows the resource guide, thus emotions such as relief and relaxation are evoked in patients. Relief is also evoked in family members of patients. The fact that the two older results are reading a will implies that everything has been finalized. They do not have to fight over belongings that were left behind because everything was settled before the scheduled departure. Image 2 is an announcement about the End of Life Act in California. It says End of Life Option Act Takes Effect June The words of life option are capitalized, in a larger font, and bright blue in color. The name and logo are at the top of the image and at the bottom is a website that the reader can go to find out more information about end of life options. There is also a map of California faded into the background in a blue tint. The map of California allows readers to see how big California is and also allows them to imagine the amount of people who will benefit when this act is passed. of life being in all capitalized letters as well as a bright color causes the eyes to be drawn to Benjamin 4 those words first. This is great because that is the main topic shown in the image. is in orange and in a similar sized font to of Life Option These two phrases are easy to read at a glance. This is beneficial because it communicates that something related to the End Of Life Act is going to take place on the ninth of June. The colors used in this image are colors that Compassions and Change use to represent their organization. Ethos is dominant in this image. By placing the name and logo on the image the creator is attempting to create trust between the viewer and the image. Trust is also created by placing the website on the bottom of the image. If one wanted more information on the End of Life Act in California they could easily follow the link. When looking at image 2, a sense of victory and joy is evoked. Compassions and Choices for end of life choices to be legally available in all the states. Fact that this aim is coming to fruition in California is worthy of celebration. Both of these images incorporate rhetorical appeals. Image 1 heavily relied on the emotional appeal, pathos, whereas image 2 heavily depended on creating trust, ethos. The images also depicted Compassion & Change aims to assist those who want to die with dignity and for medical aid in dying to be lawfully recognized. Images are a fast and efficient way to convey messages. This is especially shown in Image 2; instead of having to read an article the viewer immediately knows what is happening by simply looking at the image. Benjamin 5 Works Cited & Compassion & Choices. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb 2017 Hoffman, Allyson and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Matters : Foundations of Rhetoric and Composition. Acton, Massachusetts : XanEdu, 2016. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx ?direct=true&db=cat00847a&AN=usflc.034578054&site=eds-live. Benjamin 6