Benrube 1 Jared Benrube Professor Adam Phillips ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Fixing the Electoral College System The Electoral College has been used since 1787 as the system to determine the next president of the United States, but a few changes need to be made. Currently forty-eight out of the fifty states use a winner-takes-all system to determine which candidate their electoral votes go to. This means that the candidate with the most votes in the state gets all of the electoral votes. The only two states that follow this system is Maine and Nebraska. In these states a congressional district method is used to determine which candidate the states electoral votes go to. If every state were to switch to this system the voices of every individual district in the states will be better heard. In order to enact the congressional district method in every state, each legislators should be contacted and told about the benefits it would have on future elections. The Electoral College was originally formed as a compromise to how the president is elected. In 1787 a Constitutional Convention was held where delegates worked to lay the foundation for the national government. Issues were beginning to arise in the relationship between the national government and the states over how the president should be selected. Originally the Virginia Plan and New Jersey Plan were being looked at as potential methods of presidential election which had selection being done by the national legislature (Ross 149-150). These plans were ultimately rejected as the delegates want Congress to choose the president because they would select someone that has similar views to themselves (Byas 13). Benrube 2 Eventually the Electoral College was chosen as the method of presidential election. Through the Electoral College System each state has a select number of electors depending on the number of representatives and senators the state has. This system was formed as a method of allowing the smaller states to have their voices heard on an equal ground to the more populous states. In the present day there are 538 electors and 270 of the electoral votes are required to be elected president. While the system has worked over the past two centuries a problem arises as most states use a winner-takes all system to determine who their electoral votes go to. Only two states follow a different methods of determining which candidate their electoral votes go to, Maine and Nebraska. Both Maine and Nebraska use the congressional district method which has the popular vote of each congressional district in the states determine which candidate their electoral votes go to with the remaining two electoral votes going to the statewide popular vote winner. . According to Steve Byas, Founding Fathers Madison and Hamilton preferred the congressional district method to the winner-takes-all method that is used in most states today (16). Under this method, the voice of each state district is heard in the outcome of the election. If this method was enacted by every state, especially the bigger ones, it would better show what candidate that the voters in each congressional districts voted for. If this method was enacted in every state during the 2012 presidential election, Mitt Romney may have been elected over Obama as president. This is because Romney won 99 of the congressional districts in the 26 states won by Obama (Byas 16). Opposition to this compromise method may say that it will cause state legislatures to redraw and manipulate the congressional district lines in a way that would benefit one of the parties. This is known as gerrymandering and while it is potentially bad, an argument could be made that increasing the power of state legislatures would help restore more power in the states in relationship to the federal government (Byas 16). Benrube 3 Most states may find the congressional district method to be a strange method in determining which candidate that their electoral votes go to, but if each legislators are more informed on the benefits of the system then the United States will become closer to having every voice heard in upcoming elections. This can be done by contacting state legislators and representatives either online, through sending a letter, or by call. If enacted there will also be potential for a higher voter outcome as in recent elections voters have felt that their votes are meaningless due to lack of understanding of how the Electoral College system works. When the Electoral College is revised, voters will have a greater chance of their votes meaning something in future elections as electoral votes be determined through just the popular vote in each individual state, but instead by each individual congressional district. Benrube 4 Works Cited Byas, Steve. The Electoral College: The Best Way to Pick a  The New American, 23 Jan. 2017, p. 10+. Academic OneFile, go.galegroup.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/ps/i.do?p=AONE&sw=w&u=tamp44898&v=2.1& it=r&id=GALE%7CA480029190&asid=df688c323b045de19e2732366e12ffb0. Accessed 13 Apr. 2017. Ross, Robert E. Federalism and the Electoral College: The Development of the General Ticket Method for Selecting Presidential  Publius: The Journal of Federalism, vol. 46, no. 2, Spring2016, pp. 147-169. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1093/publius/pjv043. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. Zingher, Joshua. The Relationship between Bias and Swing Ratio in the Electoral College and the Outcome of Presidential  Journal of Elections, Public Opinion & Parties, vol. 26, no. 2, May 2016, pp. 232-252. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1080/17457289.2016.1145686. Accessed 13 Apr. 2017.