Student 1 Student Instructor Lewis ENC 1102 16 April 2017 The Fight to End Homelessness Starts with You It is such a tragedy that human beings in the world have to live in such cruelty with no place to go at the end of the day. At the end of the day everyone needs a place to go that they can call home and relax. It is a massive issue that the world needs to figure out how to solve, but at this rate the world may never figure it out. Especially with the pace of population growth these homelessness is becoming more and more the norm. Unfortunately, not everyone understands how tragic homelessness is and need to be reminded. The fight to end or even prevent homelessness starts right now and it will take help to fight for this cause, the call to action for everyone is to join helping organizations or donate to the helping organizations that are taking this initiative. Humans are always on board when they see homeless pets such as dogs or cats to help them get a home, why they be that cooperative when it is one of their peers in the community? If the people do not believe what they see every day or on television or on the internet, then maybe they will believe facts about the homeless. According to the Huffington Post, over half a million people just in the United States alone will either sleep in homeless shelters or on the streets. Just thinking about that has got to put a knot in stomach considering that number is just the homeless population in the United States. After the recession in the United States homelessness has been bigger than ever and it has to come to a stop especially with others Student 2 reaping the rewards of the economy strengthening. What is really depressing about homelessness is that over thirty percent of the homeless population is under the age of twenty-four. Imagine college-aged humans being homeless not being able to receive education, how can they expect to succeed in life? To think how many people walking past homeless people in the world and do nothing to help them is ridiculous. Everyone in the world deserves a place they can go to get peace and reflect on life and relax. Without a home, a person is lost. For example, after the catastrophe of Hurricane Katrina many lives were affected and many people were left without homes and jobs. There were many people who helped the victims of Hurricane Katrina and it is a shame that it takes such a catastrophe like that to get the rest of the population to respond. If people would support the homeless in a normal day like they did with Hurricane Katrina, then this would not be such an issue for the world. As people know, a home is one of the basic needs for life in this world. Every species either has a home or will not survive without one, it is kind of crazy to think about how the human race is the most advanced species on the planet and there are still people lacking basic needs of life. The basic needs of life are as followed, food, water, shelter, and clothing. Unfortunately, from personal experience and I am sure that others have witnessed this as well, that homeless people are usually lacking in more than one basic need of life which the human population should find sickening. Another issue which has become a basic need of life is education, without education the person will have trouble succeeding in this day and age. It could be point out that even without sanitation the human will have trouble with survival as it will be easier for the person to catch disease, bacteria, and viruses. Student 3 It is pretty amazing how often people look at homelessness right in the face and ignore it, I cannot lie, I am guilty of this from time to time as well and it sickens me. In big cities such as Orlando or even all the way in Seattle are popular homeless locations. I have seen it and it is sad that the homeless get ignored in big cities. The homeless who interact with people to get donations have better chances of getting them because when people are faced with the pressure of donating they are likely to be generous and donate whatever they can. Even non-engaged stakeholders may be willing to help out the homeless when they come into contact with it first- hand because they will feel sympathetic for the homeless. That I do know from first-hand experience, if the person takes initiative and walks up to me then I will be more likely to donate rather than them just holding a sign and standing still. Non-engaged stakeholders should care about this issue for many various reasons. For one, if they care about humanity then they will wish everyone to have a peaceful life with a home. I know any kind of human being that would wish homelessness upon another human, it is not in our nature to wish cruelty upon others. Another reason a non-engaged stakeholder should care about this issue is because for example if they help a homeless person get on their feet and that person ends up being very successful then that person might help that stakeholder in the long run with business. People remember things, especially if a stakeholder helped a certain person succeed in life when they had nothing. Another reason a non-engaged stakeholder might want to help resolve this issue is because it will bring good public relations to the stakeholder and it might ultimately attract more customers for doing so. As bad as it is, to help the cause to make the company look good, it is still helping the homeless people in their time of need which is the main focus. Student 4 Homelessness has been a tragedy for as long as mankind has been around, there has been no wrong way to try and solve this problem. All anyone can do is try to help, if not join the helping organizations then donate resources to the organization. If the human populations fail, trying to solve this problem then more and more people will become homeless and less people will be willing to try and help solve it. The more people that join this fight, the less that people will be homeless and that will encourage more people to join the fight to end homelessness. Like I have been saying all along, there are two realistic options that people can take at this point which is to either join the organizations that have already taken initiative or to just donate money and resources to that certain organization. Either option will help fight this issue, whichever works best for the stakeholder or person. With the human population growing at an enormous rate, homelessness is becoming more frequent and we need to put an end to it now before too late. The time is now but it will take everyone to do their own part in this fight. We are the most advanced species on earth and too many of us are lacking in an essential need for life which is ridiculous. The more people that join this fight now will provide a future with less homelessness in it. (WC:1218) Student 5 Works Cited About StandUp For  StandUp For Kids Helping homeless and street kids every day in cities across America About StandUp For Kids. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <http://www.standupforkids.org/about/default.aspx>. End  National Alliance to End Homelessness. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Baumohl, Jim. Homelessness in America. Phoenix, AZ: Oryx, 1996. Print. Veteran Homelessness  Veteran Homelessness Facts Green Doors. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017 Burt, Martha R., and Barbara E. Cohen. Differences among Homeless Single Women, Women with Children, and Single  Social Problems. Oxford University Press, 31 July 2014. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Hwang, Stephen W. Homelessness and  Canadian Medical Association Journal. N.p., 23 Jan. 2001. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.