Taylor 1 Reef Taylor Ms. Alison ENC 1102 14 January 2017 Goliath Grouper Permit Florida economy relies heavily on tourism to stay up and to run, with visitors coming from near and far to witness some of mother best work. Visitors of the great state can part take in activities such as airboat riding, fishing, camping, scuba diving, and much more. However, one of the largest tourist attractions in the state is being threatened by a long time resident of the coastal waters, the Goliath Grouper. The Goliath Grouper was almost fished to extinction many years ago, but due to strong efforts from the Florida Fish and Wildlife Commission (FWC) the species has made a strong comeback and continue to flourish. And now as population numbers reach an all time high the coastal marine environments are showing the repercussions of an overpopulated key species. Humans are the only natural predator capable of regulating the population and as the amount of grouper grows the option of removing the harvest ban becomes a realistic idea. By removing the harvest ban on the Goliath Grouper temporarily, the FWC will be able to issue out a permit program capable of raising money to conduct population studies to see how the controlled harvest effects the species and allow for proper amounts of permits to be sold for the harvest of Goliath Grouper (Shideler). Taylor 2 Between the years of 1970 and 1980, the grouper population in Florida dropped dramatically affecting all species of grouper but especially the Goliath Grouper and placing the species on the critically endangered list. The Goliath Grouper species can live to 100 years and weigh up to 800lbs, resembling a small station wagon (Goliath Grouper). Many believed that the Goliath Grouper would go extinct, however, due to the Florida Fish and Wildlife implementation of a harvesting ban on the species in the 1990s. The species has seen a population comeback in recent years to what many believe to be a possible overpopulation of the Florida waters. During the 1970s the Goliath Grouper would only be found as far north as waters, however, today there is a multitude of Goliath Grouper sightings daily in the panhandle (Koenig). The panhandle was initially believed to be too cold for the Goliath grouper species. It is thought that the species has expanded its range of habitats to this new region because of global warming increasing northern waters and the over population of the species in the south Florida waters. The Goliath grouper is incredibly territorial and much of the time will stay in a localized area of 100 sq. yards for over a month before relocating for a renewed food source (Goliath Groupers). While the species is localized and territorial they are required to locate every so often because a juvenile Goliath Grouper (approximately 5-6 years old and 200-300lbs) is capable of cleaning out a small reef structure in about a month With the feeding habits of a Goliath Grouper historically compiled of small crabs and injured reef fish, but in recent years the Goliath Grouper has been seen to regularly pursue and devour key reef species (Mature Lobster, Taylor 3 Snapper, Grouper, small Sharks) creating competition with fisheries and devastating the underwater ecosystem (Koenig). Sharks, Barracuda, and Mackerel feed on juvenile Goliath Grouper, but when fully grown the Goliath predators are large Sharks and Humans; meaning that without human intervention there is not a substantial amount of natural predators to keep the population numbers at a healthy level. As the Goliath Grouper population in the Florida waters continues to grow it is only a matter of time before environmental researchers see a damaging effect from the overpopulation of the species. And with humans being the only capable regulatory predator human intervention will be needed to ensure the survival of our coastal waterways. The goliath grouper fears no other creature in its domain and will continue to grow until it is too late and the damage is done. But it is not too late now if the state were to lift the harvest ban and allow a controlled permit program, then the state would be able to regulate the amount of grouper harvested from the surrounding waters. The purchase of permits also brings in large sums of money that the FWC is capable of using in research studies to better control the Goliath Grouper species and keep from the becoming over or under populated in the future (Shideler). Without the permit program, Goliath Grouper will continue to multiply and eventually will begin to cause irreversible damage to the surrounding waters. And once the damage is done it is done, the Goliath Grouper are capable of destroying key fisheries through eating all inhabitants, and can even run a species such as Red Grouper, or lobster extinct. With so many children flocking to the Taylor 4 oceans every day it would be nice to leave them something to witness. Anne Lamott once said, was raised by my parents to believe that you have a moral obligation to try and help save the And for many other people, they were raised the same as Ms. Lamott, so it is only reasonable that desire to keep the Goliath Grouper species from destroying the environment when the state is fully capable of safely controlling the population before it gets out of hand. In the late 1900s the human population fished a species close to extinction, but with the help of FWC, the species was capable of repopulating the coastal waters of Florida. However, the species is growing larger than ever before and stretching its reach to areas unseen (Shideler). Goliath Grouper are among the largest species in the Florida waters and are capable of eating other species to extinction, and it is only a matter of time before the species grow to a dangerous level. Many believe the species is already over populated while other believe the grouper are beck to normal population levels. Whichever the case there is no species regulating the Goliath Grouper growth and thus they will continue to grow, eventually becoming a threat. However, the FWC can begin regulations of the species growth now, before it is too late. And for anyone who feels they have a moral obligation to help save the planet, know they can start here with this problem all they have to do is sign the petition that the New Tampa Wildlife Coalition has begun. The petition will be given the FWC to show that inhabitants of the great Florida state want to get ahead of an environmental issue for once. They want to see a change in how conservation is Taylor 5 conducted, and they want to leave behind the world equal or greater than the current one for future generations to witness. Taylor 6 Work Cited: Goliath  Big Fish. National Geographic, n.d. Web. 15 Feb. 2017. Goliath  Goliath Grouper. Florida Fish and Wildlife Commission, n.d. Web. 15 Feb. 2017. Koenig, Christopher C., Felicia C. Coleman, and Kelly Kingon. Pattern of Recovery of the Goliath Grouper Epinephelus itajara Population in the Southeastern  Bulletin of Marine Science 87.4 (2011): 891-911. Web. Shideler, Geoffrey S., David W. Carter, Christopher Liese, and Joseph E. Serafy. Lifting the goliath grouper harvest ban: Angler perspectives and willingness to  Fisheries Research 161 (2015): 156-65. We