Rodriguez 1 Keanna Rodriguez Alison Missler ENC1102.044S1713 16 April 2017 #PinkABull Going away for college can lead to a lot more independence and freedom than some students are used to. As much as parents would like to believe that their child is solely exercising their newfound freedom to study, we should not stray away from the thought that some students are having sex and that it is okay for them to do so. However, what is not okay is not having access to reproductive healthcare. With President recent legislative signing to allow states to decide whether or not they want to fund Planned Parenthood, this may soon be the reality for some students (Dwyer, Signs Although many disagree with their providing of abortions, Planned Parenthood is much more than that, and offers services that would benefit students who cannot afford reproductive healthcare or would like to receive such care off campus. In order to raise awareness about the benefits and the need for Planned Parenthood, on May 12 th , the University of South Florida will be launching the #PinkABull, social media campaign, in an effort to show the solidarity with the organization. In 1916, Planned Parenthood was founded in order to provide women with the care they needed without having to worry about encountering any limitations. According to their website, the mission is to provide healthcare in an environment that will not only protect privacy, but also their individual rights Annually, 2.5 million patients, many of whom are of low-income and uninsured, visit Planned Parenthood to receive affordable Rodriguez 2 services such as pap tests, breast exams, tests and treatments for sexually transmitted infections, and more Parenthood at a Although in its founding Planned Parenthood catered to women, today, Planned Parenthood is just as accessible to men as it is for women. In fact, an estimated 328,676 men have already made the visit Parenthood The services Planned Parenthood offers that specifically target men include cancer screenings (colon, prostate, and testicular), condoms, vasectomies, infertility screenings, erectile dysfunction and premature ejaculation services, STD testing and treatments, and more Sexual In addition to their reproductive healthcare services, you can also receive general healthcare services such as anemia testing, cholesterol and diabetes screening, physical exams (for work or sports), flu shots, and more Health As you can see, Planned Parenthood offers many services that can really benefit college students. Although the University of South Wellness Center and Student Health Services offer similar services to those of Planned Parenthood, students may find comfort in being in a setting away from their peers as an extra effort to maintain their privacy and not feel judged. In other words, it can be seen as a safe space for those who feel like they do not have anywhere else to turn to. Such was the case for Jessica, a 30-year-old women, who went to Planned Parenthood in her sophomore year of college after she was sexually assaulted. Jessica felt ashamed and embarrassed about what happened to her, so she never told anyone and did not report the incident. However, she went to Planned Parenthood, for discrete STI screenings. Not only did Jessica find the staff to be and she also credits their care to her personal recovery (Pearson, Rodriguez 3 Despite the many services and the millions of people who benefit from them, Republican lawmakers want to defund Planned Parenthood because of one particular service: abortions. The argument goes that federal funding should not go towards funding abortions, yet the Hyde Amendment has already made sure that abortions could not be federally funded since 1976 Furthermore, abortions only account for 3% of their services Planned Parenthood at a ). Above trying to take away autonomy over their reproductive healthcare, what these lawmakers fail to realize is that defunding Planned Parenthood could be a matter of life and death. As previously mentioned, many of Planned patients are either of low-income, uninsured, or both, and are in positions where they have nowhere else to turn to. For instance, Maggie, a 32-year-old women, was and without so she visited Planned Parenthood for an OBG-YN exam. Had it not been for this visit, Maggie would not have known about the abnormal cells on her cervix. Not only did the doctors at Planned Parenthood remove these cells, they also saved her life (Pearson, Furthermore, in regards to abortions, if they become unaffordable or unavailable, there may a rise in the amount of women who seek alternative methods, of which may be unsafe and can lead to their deaths. It is evident that Planned Parenthood is very useful, especially for college students. With the Republican Party working toward finding a way to defund it, the University of South Florida will be launching the #PinkABull campaign on May 12 th , in opposition of their efforts and in support of Planned Parenthood. With this being a social media campaign, it will be very easy and simple for students to participate in. All you have to do is change your profile picture to the color pink and upload a picture of yourself wearing pink onto your Snapchat (personal or the USF story), Instagram, Facebook, etc. If you are not comfortable with posting a picture of yourself, feel free to just post the color pink. In order to accomplish this intended purpose of Rodriguez 4 bringing awareness to the importance of Planned Parenthood, along with the photo, participants should include in their captions/descriptions either why they believe Planned Parenthood is important, how Planned Parenthood has helped them or someone they know, or a combination of both. Also, do not forget to include the hashstags: #PinkABull and #StandWithPP. One in every five women use Planned Parenthood at least once in their lifetime Parenthood at a This means that even if you feel as though you will never need to visit Planned Parenthood, chances are you will probably know someone who will so why not join in the fight to make sure that they can continue to have access to the affordable healthcare services Planned Parenthood has to offer. With females making up 55% of the University of South population, the university acknowledges the necessity for Planned Parenthood, which is why they want to aid you in your activism and involvement by launching the #PinkABull campaign so that you can share with your friends and family the reasons why Planned Parenthood is beneficial. A problem is not seen as a problem until people start talking about it, so why not start up the conversation; all it takes is posting one picture. Rodriguez 5 Works Cited Dwyer, Colin. Trump Signs Law Giving States Option to Deny Funding For Planned  NPR. NPR, 13 Apr. 2017. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. General Health  General Health Care & Services Offered by Planned Parenthood. Planned Parenthood, 10 Mar. 2017. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Hyde  Planned Parenthood Action Fund. Planned Parenthood, n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Sexual  Understanding Male Sexual Health. Planned Parenthood, 19 Apr. 2016. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.  Planned Parenthood. Planned Parenthood, 21 May 2014. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Pearson, Catherine. 17 Women Share How Planned Parenthood Transformed Their  The Huffington Post. TheHuffingtonPost.com, 18 Sept. 2015. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Planned Parenthood at a  Planned Parenthood. N.p., 01 Nov. 2016. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Planned Parenthood is: Health  Northern New England. Planned Parenthood, 15 Aug. 2014. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Rodriguez 6