Tkach !1 Daria Tkach Adam Phillips ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Fighting The Modern Crisis of The Genre of Horror Horror genre has a long and interesting history which was formed by various cultures from all over the world. The roots of fearsome stories were shaped by natural phenomenas, historical events, literature, folklore, and even daily routine of ordinary people. In the end of the nineteenth century, the new type of media was created. The art of cinematograph overwhelmed millions of people. Furthermore, moving pictures allowed to tell the same stories in an absolutely new manner. It became easier to make the viewer to submerge into the atmosphere of the film and experience emotions and feelings of characters. Undoubtedly, cinematograph proved itself to be a great tool for manipulation of human sentiments. Suchlike technique was a great opportunity for the genre of horror to attract the audience. Naturally, horror had all rights to be a competent form of art which deserves respect, observation, and attention. However, in the end of the twentieth century, resent horror movies showed a notable shift of quality. The rise of technology allowed to produce a larger amount of pictures and to get more profit. Filmmakers formed several primitive plot formulas which were based on successful story lines of old movies and started a mass production. Unfortunately, it had a serious negative impact on the overall perception of the genre by the average viewer. Horror has never been in the range of popular branches of mass culture; and popularization of cliches and parasitism on main stream tendencies of pop culture made a lot of viewers to turn away from the genre. Eventually, only few of new Tkach !2 scary motion pictures can be considered worthy since the genre became a victim of multiple unsuccessful remakes of classical films, repetitive and predictable plot lines, excess amount of gore, and uncontrollable hyper sexualization of characters. Despite of all failures of the film industry, there is a chance of improvement for the genre. There is an example of enthusiastic directors of 1980s and 1990s who created a new wave of horror fame by VHS released low- budget films. With the use of modern technologies modern viewer has all chances to show his ideas to the whole world and create his own movie. Resent horror pictures created by large famous studios are mostly used as a way to make money. The majority of filmmakers seems to ignore the grace of real horror masterpieces, long and affluent history of the genre, and gargantuan potential at all. On the other hand, mass media gave the audience the opportunity to create their own content and disseminate it all over the world. It is time take a camera and make the alternative ourselves. Fear and anxiety may be applied in different ways. Terror can educate us, show the worst parts of human life, and bring up all nightmare of the society. Contrariwise, scary stories bring us excitement of adrenaline rush, help us to explore our own weaknesses, and satisfy human grim Horror movies have long served both purposes. They deliver thrills by the hearseload, as well as telling us stories of the dark, forbidden side of life (and death) cautionary tales for grown  (Horror Film History). Modern horror industry, unfortunately, experiences a massive decline of quality. They degrade human beings by distorting their nature and showing the audience stupidity, highly sexualized or/and cliche set of non-empathetic characters. All fans of movies would agree - typical boring protagonists with stereotypical and flat identities ruin the pleasure from watching regardless the genre. In case of horror genre, characters of that kind also Tkach !3 spoil the plot line. For instance, the popular high school bully and his vulgar cheerleader girlfriend are going to die first, the nerdy young man, the of the group, is expected to be killed in the end, a crowd of people around main characters serves generally no role except the one of family which moves to a new house must be prepared to meet a terrifying demon, ghost, poltergeist, witch, evil from cellar/attic/wardrobe in playroom, creepy doll is likely to be possessed by something supernatural, etc. The viewer has seen a plenty of pictures with suchlike setting. This product cannot be claimed to be a full-fledged representative of horror pictures since it induces no fear or tense and has nothing to do with creation of pressing atmosphere. Nowadays, the audience is not expected to be engaged, amazed or thrilled by the movie. The main target is a large-scale collection of money. Surely, not everyone agreed to waste their income and sources on an hour and a half of boredom. People inspired by beloved action pictures and original characters try to shoot a film themselves. Directors with and without any specific knowledge of film shooting endeavor to realize dreams of many cinema fans. This industry live off the purest enthusiasm. The counterweight to professional filmmaking has own story of development. In the early the impact of drive-in theaters (the former haven of the independent filmmaker) was beginning to wane. However, with this slight loss, there came about a force to truly be reckoned with, especially with regard to the genre of horror. This was the mighty home video market brought up by average motion picture fans. There have been many formats for such a unique market; some of applied tools were Super 8mm reels, Beta tapes, and Laser disc. However, the most infamous and successful was the VHS tape. With their flashy artwork and sometimes enormous boxes, VHS tapes conquered the market and several films that tanked in theaters absolutely thrived on Tkach !4 video. The B movies were easily the champions of this world, as the major studios had few titles released on video due to piracy fears (SOV footage is a film which was ostensibly found by someone and is usually shown to the viewer with a minimum or no editing at all (as the creators present it), which in the aggregate with a constant shooting from the hands of the first person maximizes the effect of the presence within the  (Ionov Tkach !5 Works Cited Horror Film History. N.p., n.d. Web. 9 Apr. 2017. SOV HORROR. N.p., n.d. Web. 13 Apr. 2017. Ionov, Alexei. FOUND FOOTAGE:  Vestnik Sankt-Peterburgskogo Universiteta 15th ser. 1 (2016): 34-43. Web. 13 Apr. 2017. Sexton, Jamie. US : Critical Reception, Genre Construction, and Suspect  Cinema Journal 2012, 5th ed., sec. 2: 67-86. Print.