Hnin 1 Myat Noe Hnin Dori Davis ENC 1102 17 April 2017 Awareness of Internet Privacy According to the Javelin Strategy & Research, 12.6 million U.S. adults were victims of theft their private information in 2012 which are 5.6% of U.S. social accounts (Hotspot Shield). By looking at it, some of the internet users are careless with managing their personal information and activities online. So, this was meant for the hackers to steal the private information. According to a report from Carolyn Duffy Marsan in Network World, in February 2006, Jason Fortuny, who is the network website developer from Seattle Web, posed as a submissive woman seeking sex on Craigslist to see how many responses and comments that he would get in a day. After doing that research, he received 178 responses included full e-mail addresses, telephone numbers, photos and names of men who answered that advertisement. Then Jason Fortuny published every single response without censored all personal information to Encyclopedia Dramatic website. Instantly, after happening the incident, media and the men who knew they were scammed started identifying Jason Fortuny. In May 2009, Fortuny was sued in Illinois court for spamming their information and in the end, he received $75,000 default judgement (Network World 2). By looking at that incident, people should be aware of their private information and not giving their personal information recklessly. But some people think it is not much of a big problem and they try to ignore it. However, this is not a problem that will go away just by ignoring and it will lead to a bigger problem if ignored. Therefore, people should try to fix it first instead of ignoring it. There are many ways Hnin 2 people can do it. The first thing is to educate themselves so that they can protect themselves by preventing the hackers steal their private information. When they have knowledge, not only they can protect themselves but also, they can educate other people to do the same thing. Knowledge is a powerful thing and it can create a society that is powerful enough to protect anything. The second one is to rely on service tools that EPIC (Electronic Privacy Information Center) has created in order to protect their information. By using their program, people can safely store their private date without being stolen. EPIC was a public interest research center established in 1994, Washington DC. It focuses on public emerging privacy and to protect privacy data in the information ages. EPIC also makes a lot of privacy researches to show that a information can be very dangerous and it is their job to defend it from thefts. EPIC plays a leading role in developing consumer privacy and the Federal Trade Commission and to protect rights (EPIC/ Consumer privacy project). Their goal is to ensure that Federal Trade Commission and Federal Communications Commission help protect the privacy of internet users. They provide a lot of services that people can use to let them protect their information. First, they have EPIC mailing list which is used only to mail the EPIC Alert and to send notices about EPIC activities (EPIC Mailing List). They also have a bookstore which you can buy books in a safety way. And this information is limited to processing payments and shipping publications (EPIC bookstore). The misconception of EPIC is that some people do not trust the EPIC since almost everything is hackable. However, there are no people who got hacked while using an EPIC related website. Fortunately, there are some ways and guidelines to protect online private information. These ways are not going to have a complete control over the person who is always spying the personal information on the internet. There are reports that users prefer the ability to obtain redress Hnin 3 for privacy violations. An August 2000 Pew Internet & American Life report showed that 94% of internet users thought that privacy violators should be disciplined for stealing other people private property (EPIC/ Public opinion on privacy). But there are certainly advices which can reduce the risks of being hacked. First one is about installing the latest antivirus software on devices. An antivirus software must have for the computer device to protect from stealing personal data. But keep in mind that antivirus purpose is only to protect only the device not internet browsing connection. Because that antivirus software cannot protect computer browsing section and internet communications. Secondly, in that time, using a personal VPN (Virtual Private Network) is best thing to protect browsing section and internet communications. How is VPN working? secure the web sessions by creating a secure tunnel on the internet between the VPN server and the (Hotspot Shield). Using VPN technology, the IP address is hidden by replacing other IP address. Then, the user will appear as anonymous online and it will prevent hackers by making them unable to spy on any information. VPN also protects private information and other information such as account passwords, credit card information and banking information from tracking the government and hackers. Thirdly, people should be careful about sharing on social media such as Facebook and other social apps. In hotspot shield, the entire Facebook business model is based on leveraging personal information for advertising and marketing purposes (Hotspot Shield). Since most of the account thefts are based on social media, people should not trust easily when sharing information especially on social media. Also make sure shopping sites need to be secure because the hackers can easily take credit card information and banking information from them. Lastly, there have tracking cookies of code that websites attach to the computer storage information about online activities. So, they are needed to block or remove from browsers on a regular basis. Hnin 4 To conclude, no matter how they say they do not trust the internet, they still need to use it. The issue is that people in the area need to understand what is causing them and they should figure out how to fix it. EPIC also provided their tools to protect internet private information such as helping through their mails and reading from their books. Moreover, they still must protect their information from other when using the internet. So, it would be better for an educated person who have knowledge about the internet privacy protect their own information than a person who does not care about his internet privacy with zero knowledge about the internet. Hnin 5 Work Cited Epic.org. 2015, Web. 17 April 2017. Consumer Privacy Epic.org. N.p. Web. 17 April 2017. Epic.org. N.p, Web. 17 April 2017. Opinion on Epic.org. N.p, Web. 17 April 2017. Ultimate Guide to Protecting Your Privacy & Identity Hotspot Shield. 2012, Web. 17 April 2017.