Gormley 1 Cassidy Gormley Instructor Alison Missler English Composition 1102 15 April 2017 A Fight for the Animals Are you taking your children to a local Tampa Bay zoo this summer? Zoos could be educational and entertaining; however, have you ever thought about what it is like to live your life in a cage? These zoo animals are treated unfairly, live in bad conditions, and are forced to breed all for the purpose of human entertainment. Although zoos could be educational, keeping captive that are healthy and able is taking away their chance at a natural life, making captivity immoral. By starting in the Tampa Bay community, you could become a part of something bigger than yourself. To start, many animals are captured from the wild to become zoo animals. They are being taken from their homes and separated from their families. PETA, a widely known animal rights organization, stated, 2016, the US Fish and Wildlife Service approved the capture and transfer of 18 African elephants, a species designated as threatened, from their natural habitats in Swaziland to zoos in Kansas, Nebraska and (PETA). Although preservation of endangered species seems ethical, the herd of African elephants was split between three states and multiple zoos. They are now living in a different environment than they are used to without their companions. I could only imagine the emotional turmoil the animals go through from this tragic regularity. In addition to becoming separated from family, the animals bred in zoos are typically sold to the wrong hands and forced to leave their mothers sides. These babies do not know what Gormley 2 their future holds of them. In the Cape May Zoo, two baby giraffes were born and then sold to a circus. PETA explained, director of the Cape May County Zoo actually admitted to seeing the pitiful living conditions in the circus but did not do anything to alleviate their suffering or improve their (PETA). Stories like this happen far too often and a difference must be made. You would not want your child to end up in the wrong hands, living a pitiful life. Animals do not want this for their children nor themselves either. After being torn away from their homes and families, the life keeps getting worse. The conditions the zoo animals are living in are extremely different than the wilderness. The sizes of the exhibits do not compare to the space the animal has to roam in the wild, even in the best conditions. For example, captivity, a typical polar bear enclosure is estimated to be just one-millionth the size of their natural (PETA). PETA informs us that the natural home-range for a polar bear reaches 300,000 square kilometers. This is a huge misfortune for many animals. Wild animals like bears, tigers, elephants, and monkeys need space to roam, exercise, and keep themselves occupied. With limited space to do this, the animals start to show symptoms of As well as being treated unfairly, taking them out of the wild has many psychological effects on them. Have you seen a tiger pace back and forth in its cage on your last visit to the zoo? This is an example of Michelle Carr, a member of PETA, states that condition is so rampant in zoos that some zoos give animals a mood-altering drug, such as Prozac, because the public has started to catch (Carr). This is extremely inhumane and unnatural for the animal. Nikia Fico, director of Save Tucson Elephants, that elephants in captivity typically die at about age 40, while those in the wild live into their (Cohn 715). It is clear that animals become stressed, sick, and even suicidal from the abnormal activity they Gormley 3 present which is demonstrated by the death rate of elephants. This is not something to be entertained by, but rather alarmed. Humans should also be alarmed by everything they could do to help zoo animals, but fail to do so. Instead of giving your families money to a zoo this summer, donate your money and time to an animal sanctuary. There are many sanctuaries to visit around the country that protect a variety of animals such as apes, elephants, chimps, lions, and more. To start making a difference in your community, visit the Big Cat Rescue, a local sanctuary in Tampa. They rescue a variety of wild cats and give them 55 acres to roam and a home away from abuse (Big Cat Rescue). This would be a great way to spread awareness, as well as receive the educational value you would like to give your children. Another way to get involved is to sign a petition against Busch Gardens of Tampa. It is very close to the goal of 3,000 supporters to release six elephants to a sanctuary. Help make this difference possible and give the elephants another chance at life. By taking your child to a zoo, you are teaching them unfairness. It is not fair to the animals that are being locked up for our own entertainment. It is not fair to the animals that are being deprived of the life they were meant to live in the wild. It is not fair to the animals that are becoming unhealthy due to being held captive. All things considered, zoos are not fair to animals. In conclusion, zoos could be educational and entertaining; however, animal captivity is immoral. Taking an animal away from his home in the wild is only the beginning of a gigantic downfall. It hurts to think of the families that are affected by this process, as well as the separation of mother and baby after breeding. Life in a cage could never compare to life in the wild, no matter the conditions. Captivity not only affects an physical abilities (running, hunting, etc.). but affects them psychologically. Starting with your community, you could make a Gormley 4 difference locally and eventually worldwide by spreading awareness. One way you could get involved in Tampa is visiting the Big Cat Rescue to inform your children of this issue while also educating them on wild cats. Another way to make a difference is signing the petition against Busch Gardens to release the six elephants they have in their exhibit. Overall, taking away an right to live wildly is taking away the life completely. Gormley 5 Works Cited About  Big Cat Rescue. Big Cat Rescue, n.d. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Carr, Michelle. The Reality of  PETA. People For The Ethical Treatment of Animals, n.d. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Cohn, Jeffrey P. Do Elephants Belong In Zoos? Zoos And Animal Welfare Advocates Differ Over Elephants In Captivity. Critics Say Zoos Lack Space To House Elephants. Zoos Argue That They Are Expanding And Improving Exhibits, And That Elephants Live Better In Captivity Than In The Wild With Disease, Drought, Habitat Loss, Poaching, And Conflicts With  Bioscience 9 (2006): 715. Academic OneFile. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. International Polar Bear Day: 4 Things Polar Bears  PETA Australia. People For The Ethical Treatment of Animals, 25 Feb. 2016. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Zoos: Pitiful  PETA. People For The Ethical Treatment of Animals, n.d. Web. 14 Apr. 2017.