Alvarez 1 Luis A. Alvarez Dr. Oana Cimpean ENC 1102 14 April 2017 Government Surveillance Somewhere is Government Overreach Everywhere Leaks of classified U.S. government documents invoked a paradigm shift in the understanding of not only of the American intelligence apparatus, but of the promises and pitfalls of the internet writ large. Policymakers, whistleblowers, activists, and writers are working on the cutting edge of the digital revolution, where a battle is being fought over who will control the most decisive tool of the 21st century. They represent those seeking to harness the web in the name of national security, those working to bring it under the letter of the law, and those hoping to liberate it in the name of human freedom. Although the collection of information on law abiding Americans promises to maintain civility, it often backfires, redacting the comfort of having a discussion of a controversial nature and the freedom of speech. Public debates continue to increase in the United States due to national security and privacy threats that will possibly arise from the intelligence use of electronic surveillance. The encryption debate and the homegrown threats that may emerge from the intelligence reforms are also discussed. Two vocal stakeholders in this debate are the National Security Agency (NSA) and the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU). These two key characters share the common ground of upholding the U.S. Constitution and valuing free speech and the freedom of the press. They are both tasked with protecting the First Amendment and the Alvarez 2 American people without a political or institutional lens. The First Amendment limits government efforts to free speech, freedom of the press, and the right to peaceful (Congressional Digest 1). A majority of Americans hold that in the U.S., they are able to exercise their constitutional rights at their discretion. And they place much (unrequited) faith on the government to safeguard their freedoms. The government and the national security organizations that comprise the security apparatus maintain that in order to guard these protections, the security apparatus must know as much as possible about as many people as possible. Through the reporting of the constitutional abuses revealed by brave policymakers, whistleblowers, activists, and writers, these revelations demonstrate to even the most patriot that the activities are usually not performed with the American best interests at heart, that investigations can be woefully off base, and that the government can lie. Nearly twenty years ago, thanks to a request made under the Patriot Act following the terrorist attacks of 9/11, the American government under the Bush Administration gave the security apparatus permission to record phone calls and wiretap so-called  of the President. However, affair with illegal surveillance on innocent Americans dates further back. The government secretly wiretapped the phone calls of Martin Luther King Jr. during the Civil Rights Movement. They believed his rhetoric was  and thus made him an  of the President. The 1974 Privacy Act passed to obstruct the constitutional abuses uncovered by the government, prevents federal agencies from keeping records on how Americans exercise their First Amendment rights. However this restriction is not absolute as it allows the collection of such information if it is pertinent to and within the scope of an Alvarez 3 authorized law enforcement  That is a loophole that is easy to abuse when the rights guaranteed by the First  are exercised by those considered to think  or write  the wrong people. Why should the viewer care if they are just a young college educated law abiding American? They are already part of this debate. Their tax dollars fund the very national security organizations that flout their civil liberties unbeknownst to them. As young adults are considered more rebellious than their elders, they are even more vulnerable to illegal government surveillance. With this sense of questioning the government, innocent young college students should feel driven to oppose the national security apparatus. The issue of government overreach is more relevant to millennials than ever. Their civil liberties have been violated since the 9/11 terrorist attacks when a majority of them were too young to realize how governments do not always act according to the American best interests. Now that these individuals are old enough to protect their rights, they can a stand for Worse still, on campus and in the classroom, many young adults are realizing that universities do not adequately support open discussions, debates, and protests addressing socially significant, controversial, and sensitive issues. They feel that they are censored, either by the university or even by their own decision (self-censorship), due to standards of that compromise their comfort with discussions of a controversial nature and their freedom of speech. In the name of emotional well-being, college students are increasingly demanding protection from words and ideas they do not like. Here is why that is disastrous for Alvarez 4 education--and public health. A movement is arising, undirected and driven largely by students, to scrub campuses clean of words, ideas, and subjects that might cause discomfort or give resentment. This new climate is slowly being institutionalized, and is affecting what can be said in the classroom, even as a basis for discussion. According to Greg Lukianoff, the president of the Foundation for Individual Rights in Education, this tendency describes vindictive protectiveness. It is fostering a society in which everyone must think twice before speaking up, lest they face changes of insensitivity, aggression, or worse. However, vindictive protectiveness indoctrinates students poorly for professional life, which often requires collaboration with people and ideas one might regard as incongruent with their personal system of beliefs. A campus climate bent on policing speech and castigating is likely to foster thought patterns that are alarmingly similar to those generally accepted by cognitive behavioral therapists as precursors of depression and anxiety disorders. Lukianoff recognizes that this protectiveness may be engendering students to think pathologically. This propensity to defend oneself ideologically is very detrimental for any democracy. As each camp demonizes the other, compromise becomes more challenging due to a polarization of beliefs and biases. While government surveillance keeps the nation safe from crime and terrorism, it can lead to government overreach, in the form of infringement of free speech (Berman 124). Americans need the news media to unveil government corruption as never before. Print and electronic news agencies can look forward to constant battles, being reviled and labeled (lying press) and being shamelessly manipulated. Americans hope the ACLU does not grow weary in the fight. This enmity toward the press recovers a myriad of images of Alvarez 5 Germany, circa 1933. Not that the government will recreate the Third Reich, but within a few years society may wake up to find that America has become a country that no one recognizes, a society that persecutes most law abiding citizens, and a political reality that all are powerless to change. This illustrates that government surveillance plague not only the press, but also every law abiding citizen in the country. The government violated the constitutional rights of Martin Luther King Jr. while he was championing civil liberties for marginalized groups. This portrays the concern that government surveillance will always result in government overreach despite the so-called benefits of the security apparatus, regardless of the current administration. The only way to stop these unlawful seizures is to advocate the initiatives of the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU). Anyone can become a member of the ACLU regardless of political or institutional bias, gender, race, ethnicity, or religion. And as many can and do join, supporting the ACLU is a popular and therefore logical decision. At the heart of freedom are civil rights. In fact, it takes more than pride to protect these rights. The catch phrase a Stand for Your is effective in expressing the urgency in joining the ACLU in the fight against unlawful government infringement of civil liberties. Young college educated adults can call the White House at 202-456-1414 to tell the administration to stop illegally spying on Americans. The kariotic concern is that government overreach will continue to infringe on the rights of innocent Americans unless they support the organization immediately. In order to continue security cooperation with Americans, responsible strategic decisions imposed by the intelligence apparatus must rely on their trust in the government (Berman 124). Wiretapping Martin Luther King Jr. was unconstitutional and still Alvarez 6 The viewer should join the ACLU because protect Although the Constitution guarantees Americans their civil liberties, these rights are not set in stone. It to guard these protections from government overreach. Alvarez 7 Works Cited the The ACLU. The American Civil Liberties Union. January 2017. Web. 21 January 2017. the The NSA. The National Security Agency. 5 April 2015. Web. 21 January 2017. American Civil Liberties Union. a Stand For Your 11 June 2011 via Google Images. Creative Commons Attribution (CC BY 2.0). Web. 20 February 2017. American Civil Liberties Union. Years Ago, Wiretapping of Innocent Americans Was an Abuse of Government Power. It Still 9 March 2002 via Google Images. Creative Commons Attribution (CC BY 2.0). Web. 20 February Berman, Emily. Domestic Intelligence Washington and Lee Law Review. Volume 71. Issue 1. Winter 2014. Academic OneFile. 3. Web. 24 January 2016. Pros and Cons of the Domestic Surveillance Congressional Digest. Volume 94. Issue 10. December 2015. Academic OneFile. 12-20. Web. 24 January 2016. National Security and Preserving Privacy: Report of the Review Group on Intelligence and Congressional Digest. Volume 94. Issue 10. December 2015. Academic OneFile. 12-20. Web. 24 January 2016. Vollmann, William T. of Loving Foreign Policy. December 2013. 68-71 Print.