Cabreros !1 Eldin Cabreros Alison Misler ENC 1102 April 12, 2017 Freedom of Choice Many individuals do not have the liberty to choose how they want to die, living with uncertain death. What if they are given this opportunity? Physician-assisted suicide provide patients with the decision of prolonging their life or terminating as an act of compassion, a death with dignity (Huntoon 98). The practice is only legal in a few states in America, some fear its legalization as a result of the term giving negative connotations. What people fail to realize that its actually a tranquil, voluntary termination of a patients life with the assistance of a physician (MedicineNet). Voluntary as in with the permission of the patient receiving the treatment. By making the practice illegal, it lessens the ability of elderly and terminally-ill patients to make their own end-of-life decisions. To resolve this issue, it is important to be informed and be aware of physician-assisted suicide and the controversies of making it illegal. Although many believe in a patients natural death, research shows that patients desire an end-of- life option to end their unbearable suffering, necessitating a revaluation of physician-assisted suicide. According to Dead with Dignity, a nonprofit organization that is a primary supporter of physician-assisted suicide, the practice allows patients to and request medication to hasten their death in a and dignified (Dead with Dignity). The terms and establishes the importance of the patient making the Cabreros !2 decision while the terms and implies the tranquilness of the practice. The procedure also allows for the patient to receive the requested medicine by her own means. This provides a distinction between physician-assisted suicide and euthanasia. If the physician is the one primarily administering the lethal medicine it would be euthanasia, if it was facilitated by the physician but administered by the patient it would physician-assisted suicide(Carter). In addition to prescribing medicine, physicians must also provide patients with information about end-of-life care. The various steps that the practice must follow reveals that the physician merely facilitates the procedure while the patient is the one that directs it. There are many requirements that patients must fulfill to qualify for end-of-life treatment and direct physician-assisted suicide. These requirements include being a resident of a state that has dead with dignity laws, being eighteen years or older, mentally competent and be diagnosed with a terminal illness that can lead to death within six months (Dead with Dignity). One of these requirements restricts patients from making their own end-of-life decision and that is being a resident of a state with dead with dignity laws. Only five out of the fifty states in America have legalized physician-assisted suicide, Oregon, Washington, Vermont, California, and Colorado (Dead with Dignity). It highlights the large amount of work needed to be done in order to alleviate the hardships faced by patients not being able to make their own end-of-life decision. The requirements of being mentally competent and having a terminal illness establishes the justness of the practice. The requirements portrays patients having the option of continuing their life and that they not being forced to choose physician-assisted suicide rather they are qualified for it. Cabreros !3 The controversies associated with physician-assisted suicide are linked with the dispute on who is making the decision. One of the categories being paid by our taxes is healthcare, which includes medical insurance and medicaid (The White House). As it continues to be funded, many question whether or not physician-assisted suicide is a treatment being administered for monetary reasons. Although many believe physician-assisted having financial incentives, evidence show that in states that have the practice legalized there is no demand for it (Carter). Those in opposition of the practice believe its going against the role of a physician being a healer. If you were to be in opposition of it, it means removing a patients end-of-life option. In addition, it also means removing the patients competence and autonomy to make that decision. decision of whether or not to preserve a life or terminate it should remain in the hands of the when they are able to express that opinion (Cohen-Almagor). Despite the controversies of physician-assisted suicide, the importance of patient decision is still highlighted within these controversies as those who are vulnerable, the elderly and the terminally-ill, are at risk. Patients who are terminally-ill or elderly are the main groups being negatively impacted by states that disapprove of physician-assisted suicide. These patients who are of old age or with a debilitating illness are times depressed and lonely and desire to end their unbearable suffering (Huntoon 98). By opposing physician-assisted suicide, we are essentially degrading their quality of life by continuing their depression and loneliness. Many of the reasons that patients seek death as a means of treatment include depression, hopelessness, issues of dependency and loss of control (Carter). To resolve the issue, you can raise awareness in your community and directly act upon your local government. Cabreros !4 It is clear how the opposition of physician-assisted suicide can negatively impact terminally-ill and elderly patients and why its legalization should be acted upon, which is why raising awareness and directly acting on your local government is important. One of the ways to raise awareness is to volunteer with your local compassion and choices center and inform the local community about physician-assisted suicide. You can find volunteer resource centers near you by going to their websites and typing in your location (Compassion and Choices). Other ways to raise awareness and directly act on the legalization of physician-assisted suicide is by signing a petition. If a number of signatures is reached, it can directly inform the government of a need in a revaluation of physician-assisted suicide in the state. Large changes in the community begins with your actions. Cabreros !5 Works Cited Dead with Dignity. N.d. Web. 29, January 2017. Carter, Joe. 9 Things You Should Know About Physician-Assisted  TGC - The Gospel Coalition. The Gospel Coalition, 21 June 2016. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Cohen-Almagor, R. Dossier to Live and An Argument for Physician-Assisted Suicide and against  Ethics, Medicine and Public Health, vol. 1, 01 Oct. 2015, pp. 431-441. Compassion &  Compassion & Choices. N.p., n.d. Web. 13 April. 2016. Curlin, Farr A., et al. To Die, To Sleep: US Religious And Other Objections To Dead with Dignity. N.d. Web. 29, January 2017. Hix, Richard. Your 2014 Taxpayer  The White House. The White House, n.d. Web. 13 April. 2016. Huntoon, Lawrence R. Physician-Assisted Suicide And Euthanasia: The Destruction Of Morals, Ethics, And  Journal Of American Physicians And Surgeons 4 (2016): 98. Academic OneFile. Web. 29 January 2017. Definition of Physician-Assisted MedicineNet 24, January 2017 N.d. 13, February 2017.