Barroso Campos 1 Alberto Barroso Campos Professor Jackson ENC 1101 4/9/2017 Project 3 Intermediate Draft Being an athlete, has so many benefits because universites pay for their tuition, scholarship, meals, free tutoring, etc. But also they have a main issue that is the money that they do not receive for playing, and this money goes to the coaches, sponsors or the Universities. Over the years, money was a big issue for athletes and cause a lot of problems in the teams, there are being little changes such as: money for advertising or video games. According to the NCAA, college athletic programs are big money makers for colleges. Ticket sales, television, radio, alumni donations, royalties and NCAA distributions, combined bring in over $6.1 billion in annual revenue to colleges. According with Veronica Majerol football and basketball are the main sports in all the universities, these sports generate many profits to universities, sponsors, coaches. For example, television networks are also generating huge amounts of money thanks to the athletes.This is big money for the schools. It also is a wonderful marketing tool for colleges. One of the reason why they should get paid it is college athletes put their bodies on the line each game they In the 2013 NCAA tournament Louisville player Kevin Ware suffered a horrific injury to his lower right leg while attempting to block an opposing shot. Six months later, Ware was healed and back to practicing. He was lucky. There have been instances of players becoming paralyzed by hits or tackles on football fields or other injuries that have ended careers before they even get Barroso Campos 2 started. These athletes are sacrificing their bodies and physical health at a chance to play a game they love, and possibly make it to the professional Another big reason it is these student-athletes bring in an incredible amount of money. Journalist (Michael Wilbon) has written that seeing the $11 billion deal between the NCAA and CBS/Turner Sports for March Madness between 2011 and 2024 prompted him to change his mind about paying student-athletes. This deal shows the amount of money the NCAA is bringing in over the course of one month alone. March Madness is one of the most watched sporting events in the country. Yet the money being made off this event is not trickling down to the players, who are the stars of the tournament. The last reason why they should get paid it is paying college athletes would help to begin creating a sense of financial awareness. One aspect I find lacking in this topic discussion is the ignoring of the very real fact that a lot of athletes are very financially irresponsible. The ESPN documentary Broke gave an inside view of the financial woes of many professional athletes, noting that around 60% of NBA players are broke within five years of retirement. Many of these players blamed poor investments, trusting unethical financial advisors and lavish spending habits as the reason for their money troubles. If schools were to begin paying players, they could also help these students build a foundation of financial literacy. This would allow them to introduce these students to financial investors who had their best interests in mind. Whether or not these college athletes went on to play professionally, they would at least, have some type of financial literacy to carry with them into whatever career they choose. This would (hopefully) set them up a better financial future.(Patterson). Barroso Campos 3 Therefore, there are many people that think that college ahtletes should not get paid, the reasons are many student-athletes already receive scholarships and other benefits. While not all student-athletes are on scholarship, many are, particularly those who are playing for schools we see winning national championships. In addition to free tuition and room and board, these college athletes also often receive stipends to help towards books and other basic needs. This money does not have to be paid back. Most other students are not receiving these benefits, and will come out of school with a great deal of student loan debt. Thus, in comparison, student-athletes already have it easier, financially, than most of the students at their school. why some people answer the question student athletes get with a firm Another big reason why they should not get paid it is Paying college athletes could detract from the purity of the game.(Patterson). There are many fans of collegiate-level sports who are fans because they believe the players at this level play with more passion and love of the sport than athletes at the professional level. There are some who say professional athletes do not play as hard because they have already made it to the highest level, and they do not want to risk injury if a game is not for a national championship. Paying student-athletes could detract from their passion and make them less motivated to play hard to get to the next level. The last reason why they should not get paid it is really difficult. Paying college athletes is difficult for a number of reasons. Firstly, according to (Jeffrey Dorfman), only a few collegiate sports actually bring in money. College football, as well as and basketball, are the money makers as far as collegiate athletics is concerned. Most other programs are actually cash strapped. Therefore, the issue Barroso Campos 4 becomes should only football and basketball college athletes be paid? Is that fair to other student-athletes? Furthermore, where should the money come from? Is it the responsibility of the school to pay these athletes or the NCAA? Other questions include how much should students-athletes be paid, how often, will it work in a similar way that professional contracts work, etc? All these questions reveal how difficult it would be to change the college athletic system to compensate college athletes. In conclusion, there are different reason why they should get paid or not, and both of them make sense. It is a difficult decision that the NCCA has to make. But college athletes deserve the money and being pay for their hard work. Barroso Campos 5 Work Cited MAJEROL, VERONICA, et al. Should College Athletes BE  New York Times Upfront, vol. 147, no. 2, 15 Sept. 2014, pp. 14-15. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/log in.aspx?direct=true&db=eue&AN=98041132&site=eds-live. PR, Newswire. March Madness - Should College Athletes Get  FL- PR Newswire US, 26 Mar. 2013. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true &db=bwh&AN=201303261743PR.NEWS.USPR.CG83694&site=eds-live. Should College Athletes Be  American Teacher, vol. 86, no. 1, Sept. 2001, p. 4. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true &db=eft&AN=507707534&site=eds-live. Tiffany Patterson 03 Febl 2017 https://smartasset.com/retirement/should-student- athletes-be-paid. Accessed 08 April 2017 Jeffrey Dorman /www.forbes.com/sites/jeffreydorfman/2013/08/29/pay-college- athletes-theyre-already-paid-up-to-125000year/#1f342c772b82. Accessed 08 April 2017 Schultz, Jeff. COLLEGE ATHLETICS: NCAA Needs to Take a Hint: At Very Least, Push to Unionize Athletics Will Lead to Paying  The Atlanta Journal-Constitution (Atlanta, GA), 2014. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true &db=edsggo&AN=edsgcl.363086567&site=eds-live. Barroso Campos 6