Hnaing Ma Kha ENC 1102 In this age of ever advancing technology, it would only be natural for countries all over the world wants to advance themselves as well. However to advance themselves they will need a source of energy to supply themselves. Two of the most used and useful sources of energy are crude oil and natural gas. One of the main suppliers and stakeholder for natural gas and crude oil is American Energy Works or also known as Energy Tomorrow. Due to the recent advances in oil and natural gases American Energy Works have jumped oil and gas production more efficiently and cutting down carbon emission by a lot without sacrificing jobs, economic growth, energy security or consumer affordability. Despite harsh treatment against them, natural gas and crude oil has proven time and time again that they are both super useful and very efficient to power up any countries around the world and keep them running. gas has many advantages in its favor some of these are: 1. Widely used, contributes 21% of the energy production today 2. Delivery infrastructure already exists 3. End use appliances already widespread 4. Used extensively for power generation as well as heat 5. Cleanest of all the fossil fuels 6. Burns quite efficiently 7. Emits 45% less CO2 than coal 8. Emits 30% less CO2 than oil 9. Abundant supply in the US. DOE estimates1.8 trillion barrels 10. Low levels of criteria pollutants, (e.g. SOx, NOx) or soot when burned 11. Can be used as an automotive fuel 12. Burns cleaner than gasoline or diesel 13. No waste (e.g. ash ) or residue to deal with 14. Lighter than air, safer than propane which is heavier than air 15. Can be used to makes plastics, chemicals, fertilizers and hydrogen 16. Natural gas industry employs 1.2 million (TriplePundit) Of course there are flaws in using natural gas such as it being a non-renewable source of energy and that despite the recent advance in technology to reduce the carbon emission, it is still emitting a small amount. However all these can be ruled out by the usefulness of natural gas and all its contribution to run machines all over the world that runs things as big as then entire cities to the small stuffs air coolers. And beside although natural gas is a non-renewable resource, it can be found almost all over the world. Although crude oil does not have that much of an advantages compared to natural gas, it is the most efficient type of energy and the most used raw materials used in many day to day objects involving household and daily life such as cooking, plastic components and many more. Some of these includes: 1. Saccharine (artificial sweetener) 2. roofing paper 3. aspirin 4. hair coloring 5. heart valves 6. crayons 7. parachutes 8. telephones 9. bras 10. transparent tape Like natural gas crude oil also has some harsh views against it, but it also has proven itself to be very useful and have many advantages although not much compare to natural gas and if viewed together with the advantage and disadvantages, unlike natural gas which has much more advantages, crude oil has a more balanced ratio with the pro and cons. of the advantages includes: 1. High Energy Density Oil has one of the highest energy densities which means that a small amount of oil can produce a large amount of energy. This makes it very useful as its high energy density has made it the preferred choice for use as fuel in automobiles. 2. Easy Availability, Infrastructure for Transport and Use Oil is widely distributed in almost all parts of the world. Also there exists a massive infrastructure to transport oil to other places through ships, pipelines and tankers. This means that oil is available throughout the world. 3. Crucial for wide variety of Industries Besides Transport,Oil is a critical component in a wide variety of other industries. It is difficult to think of a commodity which has such a huge role to play in a wide variety of human products from Vaseline, cloth, medicines etc. 4. Easy to Produce and Refine Oil is not very difficult to produce though most of the low cost locations have already been depleted. Now Oil is being mined off the coasts in seas and also tar sands. Oil Refinery Technology is also quite old and mature which implies that refining of oil to get valuable products like diesel, petrol is also quite easy. 5. Constant Power Source and Reliability Unlike solar and wind energy, oil can produce power 24/7 and is highly reliable. Oil engines are a mature technology and highly reliable to work (Green World Investor) Both Natural gas and crude oil has many similar advantages such as: both can be found at most part of the world despite being non-renewable resource and being the most efficient type of energy with just a small volume being able to power up a lot of machines. With all these advantages and facts being proven and shown, it is safe to say the many countries have switch to natural gas and crude oil as their main source of energy due to it being able to power up their cities and run them or even improve them into an even better city and improve their economy at the same time by producing more jobs and able to have more time and resources to spare into other matters due to efficiency the two source. However many still see that using them is very dangerous to the environment and are not aware or ignoring the fact that there are also more advantages in using them and that those two source are the main used source of energy that are able to make people enjoy their day to day lives. Despites all these advantages and facts presents, many organization all over the world that supports the production of natural gas and crude oil will gladly appreciate if more people are educated about the topic and supports them as well. There are many efforts being made to educate people about these facts and convince people, they still need help to raise awareness about many factors: 1. Their advantages 2. The recent advances in technology that allows to reduce carbon emission 3. The recent precaution and advance in equipment to transporting the oil and gases 4. The fact the many countries are heavily relying on them. 5. Many jobs are being created from offshore sites to extract the materials