Chase Fisher Hanson ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Self-Driving Cars The automobile is one of the most important inventions of the 20st century, but has seen insufficient innovation in past decades (Thrun). The automobile is one of the most, if not the most popular methods of transportation in the world, and in America is the cause of over 35,000 deaths a year This lack of innovation can be seen as a cause for all of these deaths. Now, however, things have changed. Now there has been innovation. The self- driving car is a vehicle which can save the 35,000 lives. These vehicles have the power to change the world and the way the world drives. This technology needs to be further developed and implemented so people understand that these vehicles are safe, and can save your life. This innovation began in 2004 with the first Grand Challenge, hosted by DARPA. This challenge was a 142-mile course through the Mojave Desert which a driverless car had to navigate trhough (Thrun). This course was well defined, had a ten-hour tine limit, and a $2 million prize, but no team was able to complete it. DARPA hosted this challenge again in 2005 along a new 132-mile track, and 4 teams completed the course. This challenge happened 18 months after the first one which no team could complete, this shows the amount on innovation that can happen in this field quickly. Following the Grad Challenge, DARPA hosted the Urban Challenge in 2007, this was a competition which took place in a mock city with paved roads (Thrun). This challenge also had multiple completions and showed that self-driving vehicles can safely navigate an urban area. The next goal was to get these vehicles onto public roads, Google and Tesla Motors have been working on that. The Google self-driving car, now known as Waymo, has been on public roads for years and has driven millions of miles. These vehicles work by using a combination of sensors and software to see other vehicles and pedestrians, among other things for up to two football fields away in all directions These vehicles know how to stop and start, change lanes, and react to temporary obstructions such as construction or a stopped vehicle These vehicles are different from the Tesla however because they are not available to the public, the Tesla is. The Tesla works in a very similar way, it is covered in sensors and can react to obstacles on the road. these vehicles are driven by normal people and have shown that they can perform at a level safer than humans. The self-driving car is exponentially safer than the normal vehicle which most everyone in the world sits in every day. That vehicle caused 1.25 million deaths worldwide in 2014 the The self-driving vehicle has seen one reported death, in 2016. Millions of miles have been driven when combining and data, and only one person has died. This number should also stay low because these vehicles are constantly being updated. Once that death occurred Tesla immediately began to fix the issue in their software so that the rare situation in which the accident occurred could be seen if it happened again (Tesla Motors). Google also has a few million miles driven though not with the everyday consumer. The Google self-driving car is looking to have no pedals or steering wheel. This vehicle had its first travel on a public road in 2015, the first fully self-driving ride on public roads Fully self-driving is something that can improve passenger efficiency. If someone does not have to be driving then that means passengers have more time for leisure or work activities. The self-driving vehicles allows you to watch a movie with you kids while traveling, or respond to emails on the way to work. These vehicles should also be able to control their acceleration and deceleration curve, this allows for a more comfortable and fuel efficient ride (Urmson & Whittaker). This product of self-driving vehicles mean you will spend less on fuel and have a ride similar to rail travel which has been described to be well for leisure or productive activates (Le Vine, et al). These vehicles have clear benefits in the world, they can save lives and give people back their time. There are issues surrounding these vehicles and they are mostly legal related to the possibility of an accident. Currently the law in America assumes that a human is driving the vehicle, this means that if a self-driving vehicle is at fault in an accident it is likely the car company will be sued (Greenblatt). This lawsuit would likely be design-defect, which can cause issues for car companies and self-driving vehicles. these lawsuits are expensive for both parties and could cause a recall. This lawsuit could stop all the data collected from the vehicles as they are collected and fixed. This issue seems like it would be difficult to fix, but it is relatively simple. This can be fixed by treating the human driver and computer driver equally (Greenblatt). When the computer driver is treated as a human driver then design-defect laws can be avoided and negligence laws can be used instead. This would mean that a computer driver would only need to be held liable under the same conditions that a human driver would be held liable. If this happens than the expensive design-defect laws can be avoided and the self-driving vehicles will be free to drive, collect data, and improve. This idea makes sense, now it just needs to be implemented. These policies will need to change state by state in the United States because state government controls its roads. changing these policies requiring showing government officials that the people want these safer vehicles to exist on their roads, to do this the people need to contact their officials. People need to show the officials that these vehicles are safer than normal vehicles and do not need to be treated different from a human driver. If self-driving vehicles are not allowed then begin with showing the government that these vehicles are safe. This can be done by sharing the NHTSA policy, or the data related to death and miles traveled for both normal vehicles and self-driving vehicles. The self-driving vehicle is an important development in the automobile world. This change started in 2004 and has seen massive change sense then. It took almost 10 years for these vehicles to change from an idea to a real thing that consumers can drive on the road. these vehicles are safer and more efficient than the normal vehicle. These vehicles could save nearly all of the 35,000 lives a year in car crashes. This improvement in safety should be enough to have these vehicles implemented, but they have yet to receive mass acceptance. To show that these vehicles are safe they need to be on public roads often, and in front of everyone. The world needs to see these vehicles and everything they can do. Works Cited National Highway Transportation Safety Administration. U.S Department of Transportation, 19 Jan. 2017. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Greenblatt, Nathan A. Self-Driving Cars and the  IEEE Spectrum, vol. 53, no. 2, Feb. 2016, p. 46. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ed b&AN=113435470&site=eds-live.  Waymo. Google, n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Le Vine, Scott, et al. Autonomous Cars: The Tension between Occupant Experience and Intersection  Transportation Research Part C, vol. 52, 01 Mar. 2015, pp. 1-14. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.trc.2015.01.002. On the  Waymo. Google, n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.  Waymo. Google, n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Tesla Motors. A Tragic  Weblog post. Tesla. N.p., 30 June. 2016. Web. 26 Apr 2017. Thrun, Sebastian. Toward Robotic  Communications of the ACM, vol. 53, no. 4, Apr. 2010, p. 99. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ed b&AN=49089998&site=eds-live. Urmson, Chris and William Whittaker. Self-Driving Cars and the Urban  IEEE Intelligent Systems, vol. 23, no. 2, Mar/Apr2008, p. 66. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ed b&AN=31659822&site=eds-live.