Lee ! 1 Lesther Lee Alison Missler ENC 1102 April 16, 2017. Transgender Rights The issue of gender has been in a controversial state, particularly to people of the transgender nature. A transgender person displays a gender identity that is different from their assigned sex (Schilt and Danya 17). In some cases, it is possible to find a girl behaving as though she is a boy, displaying all the characteristics of a man with very little of being a girl in her. Being transgender is not determined by sexual orientation, as those involved are not necessarily homosexuals. Due to their unusual appearance, other citizens have constantly discriminated against them (Kattari and Leslie 286). It, therefore, has become a necessity that the rights of such people should be protected to make them feel part of the society. Different countries have managed to pass legislations that have so far enabled the transgender community to express themselves without fear. Some countries, like the United States, are yet to embrace such measures to ensure that all its citizens are protected under the law irrespective of their gender (Schilt and Danya 17). In writing this paper, the aim is to present the transgender community in a manner that other people may come to learn about them and get to respect their identity. The result will be a comfortable living environment without any form of discrimination due to the improved understanding of what transgender is and how to cope with the community. Lee ! 2 The main problem with every person in the contemporary generation is the thought that gender ought to be binary. At a time of birth, the expectation is that the doctor should mention the exact sex of the child to be either male or female, as it is something that is visible to all. During this time, no one is able to tell the changes a person may undergo while growing up to ascertain the gender observed at birth (Schilt and Danya 21). As people of this nature grow up, the realization that they are the exact opposite of the gender people know crops up and they find it hard to deal with the situation they are undergoing (Kattari and Leslie 287). The society, instead of being supportive and help them through such moments, becomes hard on them and chooses to discriminate in every aspect. Despite the fact that they have what many may consider an abnormality, transgender people are still human and deserve fair treatment by enrolling them into the same schools other children attend and offering them jobs when they deserve it. Some inconsiderate employers are totally against the idea of including them in their operations, as they fear what other people may think of them (Kattari and Leslie 287). Discrimination, particularly against innocent people, is not a fair deal because nature has dictated their form. The ability to transition in the life of transgender people is extremely important as it presents them with an opportunity to understand themselves better (Testa et al. 125). Transitioning occurs successfully only after an individual has accepted their state and has the ability to make a decision on what to do with themselves. Some of the available options include undergoing recommended surgeries to attain the sex they feel comfortable in and conducting legal name changes to match the chosen gender (Testa et al. 125). In countries such as Denmark and Argentina, transgender people are afforded a chance to conduct these as long as they are sure it is what they want with their lives. The young children are induced with hormones to delay Lee ! 3 puberty until they are able to make a decision on which path to follow. The sad part, however, is the fact that many countries are still unable to come up with such stands to give transgender people a chance to exist comfortably. Nations, such as the United States, are yet to issue legislative rights to the transgender community as they form part of different public institutions, yet there is no issue of any form of special consideration (Liptak). Others like Iran are operating on double terms, leaving the community unsure of their status in society. Any nation with the interest of its people at heart must ensure that they all are able to receive protection from the constitution and enjoy a sense of freedom like other citizens. The law may be able to protect the transgender people from open abuse and discrimination that can result from interaction with other people. It is notable that no form of law can protect this community from the social stigma that exists in the contemporary society. Today, many believe that they can recognize people who are transgender depending on how they look and sometimes go an extra mile in placing them into assumed classes of sexual orientation (Kattari and Leslie 290). According to statistics, 2016 was the harshest year for the transgender community as 27 deaths occurred in the United States alone. The worry is that this is only in the reported numbers, as much more may exist that have not been reported by the bereaved families. Stigmatization has led to worse cases of lost self-esteem and attempted suicides, which are a serious indication of the community as an endangered people (Testa et al. 125). The world does not need to assume the state in which the transgender community exists. Every transgender person belongs to a family and is a sibling or child to another citizen who desires that they should be treated with respect and shown love (Testa et al. 125). Discrimination is a negative approach to the existing matter, which if considered based on the law is a hate crime. To Lee ! 4 eliminate such perceptions and the underlying dangers, the government should consider conducting mass education on transgender issues (Kattari and Leslie 291). With such an approach, the possibility of the loss of more lives and continued discrimination faces alleviation. From the reviewed information, transgender people have been mishandled by the society only because they are different. Many members of the community are not in their position out of choice, but because nature has dictated it so. Discriminating against them should not be the way to go as it creates a divide in the society, with some not knowing how to attend to such situations. They are all citizens just like any other and thus are deserving of employment opportunities, legal name changes, healthcare, and the chance to express themselves for who they are. Among the most important things is giving them an opportunity to blend with the people, as they form an integral part of the nation with regard to talent. Every individual has the right to belong and feel part of a bigger team. In conclusion, the transgender people should be granted a chance to lead their lives to completion just as other people do. Taking such an action in itself will be ensuring that equality reigns for all people. Lee ! 5 Works Cited Kattari, Shanna K., and Leslie Hasche. Differences across age groups in transgender and gender non-conforming experiences of health care discrimination, harassment, and  Journal of Aging and Health Vol.28, No.2, 2016: pg.285-306 Liptak, Adam. Court Hear Major Case on Transgender New York Times. Created March 6, 2017, Accessed on April 16, 2017, from https:// www.nytimes.com/2017/03/06/us/politics/supreme-court-transgender-rights-case.html? Schilt, Kristen, and Danya Lagos. The Development of Transgender Studies in  Annual Review of Sociology Vol.43, No.1, 2017: pg.17-38 Testa, Rylan J., et al. Suicidal ideation in transgender people: Gender minority stress and interpersonal theory  Journal of Abnormal Psychology. Vol.126, No.1, 2017: pg. 125.