Bynon 1 Austin Bynon Professor Hanson ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Protecting the Environment While walking down the street to your favorite public area, you will for sure see litter of some sort. In fact, 75% of people admitted that they littered in the past 5 years INTERESTING FACTS AND STATISTICS ABOUT This is why littering is a huge issue. If 75% of people admit to littering imagine how much litter those people actually caused. People carelessly just throw trash out of a car window or just throw it on the ground when they feel like it. What those people understand is how them littering is going to have harmful effects on the environment and wildlife. In order to stop this problem I want to organize a day every month where people go out and clean up litter in public places. Littering is an increasing problem which needs to be dealt with. People must act and stop littering before it ruins our environment. Littering is destroying our environment. Litter also known as is ruining the aesthetic appeal of the places people enjoy The EPA is an organization which creates laws and makes sure the environment is being protected from pollution. They want to stop litter from the source. On their website they said, can reduce waste by considering packaging when buying anything, and we can reuse materials like containers and products. We can also use reusable Trash at the They are talking about recycling and reusing items. I believe the slogan Reuse, is exactly what we need to do to prevent Bynon 2 litter. simple so even kids can understand the slogan. For example recycle all of your plastics and glass you use. Litter is harmful to humans and other living creatures. Plastic takes years to decompose, so if an animal is eating something in a field and for some reason a plastic bag or bottle might be there on the ground they might decide to bite it but plastic clogs their food pipe or starts accumulating in the stomach eventually causing the animal to (WEB). This could be a huge issue with animals that live in public parks. People always litter in public places, which can affect the humans and the animals in that environment. Littering is a nuisance to the environment and we must do something about it. Littering in public places is a huge issue in society. People think its okay to just throw their garbage on the ground. This makes the place look unappealing and disgusting. It also affects the wildlife that live in the place. For example, when people throw trash into bodies of water it affects that ecosystem. Birds can get their heads stuck in plastic materials which can cause them to die. Fish can get trapped in garbage or even get plastic stuck around them which causes death or growing defects. Here is a fact I found interesting, Ocean 2008 International Coastal Cleanup garnered 3.7 million pounds of trash along 9,000 miles of U.S. shorelines in a single Deadly Truth About This shows you how much litter is actually out there. The litter was cleaned up across the US shorelines, a place where people and their children enjoy going to the beach. It breaks hearts that the place they once loved is now covered in trash. Litter is affect animals in all environments. A wildlife rehabilitator said she has seen, poisoned from lead weights, skunks with yogurt containers stuck on their heads, eyes poked out from fishing hooks. But the worst case she remembers was a raccoon whose paws were stuck in beer Deadly Truth About This is obviously an important matter because it has to do with living creatures. People Bynon 3 have to realize by them littering it can take an innocent creatures life. Even if the animal die from its run it with litter it can makes its life miserable. For example, that raccoon with its paws stuck in the beer cans. The animal die but it had to learn how to walk with the inconvenience of the cans being stuck to its paws. Imagine if that was your pet, you would be upset and disgusted with people that litter. This is exactly why we need to stop this epidemic. We need to do something fast to prevent and reduce the litter in the US. I want to organize a day every month where people go out to public places and clean up the litter. If the local city will participate they will supply the garbage bags and will properly dispose the trash. People would go to local parks where kids play and clean up the trash. This will benefit the kids, people living in the neighborhood, and the living creatures that live there. This going to get rid of all the litter in the country but a good start. If we can get people nationwide to participate in this day once a month, people definitely would see a positive outcome. Other people say, is the best way to reduce the litter (888888). Another fact I found was about beaches in Italy. different sites of a beach were sampled seasonally from spring 2014 to winter 2015. A total of 31,739 items were removed and classified into 103 categories. Plastic represented the majority (94.4%) of the collected Marine Pollution Bulletin, This fact is showing you littering is ruining environments worldwide. This is why we must recycle to reduce litter. You want places you enjoy going to a public park, beach, or town being over ran by litter. It ruins the visual appeal and makes the area seem dirty due to the excessive amount of litter. This is why we must act upon the issue at hand. We all must stop littering and we should all try to recycle. Another idea I have is make all the public parks a no smoking area. This will prevent cigarette butts on the ground plus it will benefit the kids by not inhaling smoke. An article online says, butts are the most commonly Bynon 4 discarded piece of waste worldwide. It is estimated that 1.69 BILLION pounds of butts wind up as toxic trash each year, creating an enormous environmental, health, and economic Butt This would reduce a lot of litter in public places which is what we need. No one wants their kids playing in an area where there is cigarette butts on the ground and people smoking around their children. Some people are also in favor of fining people for littering. A community was sick of people littering on their beach so, vast majority of the population endorsed a fine for beach Ocean and Coastal This might reduce littering if the law enforcement enforces it. All in all littering has to stop. ruining the environment and has harmful effects on animals. I plan on organizing a day once a month where people go out and clean up public places. Another way to reduce litter is recycling. The EPA is an organization which creates laws to prevent littering and other types of pollution. Its time for change and we must act fast before litter ruins the environment. Bynon 5 Works Cited King, Luther, and Lucky Marshall. 9 Interesting Facts and Statistics about  Litter. It Costs You. N.p., 27 Sept. 2015. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Cigarette Butt  Cigarette Butt Waste. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Eastman, Lucas B., et al. Identification of Self-Reported User Behavior, Education Level, and Preferences to Reduce Littering on Beaches a Survey from the SE  Ocean and Coastal Management, vol. 78, 01 June 2013, pp. 18-24. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.ocecoaman.2013.02.014. Preventing Trash at the  EPA. Environmental Protection Agency, 29 July 2016. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Reducing and Reusing  EPA. Environmental Protection Agency, 14 Dec. 2016. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Poeta, Gianluca, et al. The Cotton Buds Beach: Marine Litter Assessment along the Tyrrhenian Coast of Central Italy Following the Marine Strategy Framework Directive  Marine Pollution Bulletin, vol. 113, 15 Dec. 2016, pp. 266-270. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.marpolbul.2016.09.035 The Deadly Truth About  The Humane Society of the United States. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.