Fennimore 1 Christopher Fennimore Alison Missler ENC1102 April 16, 2017 Weed Can Do It Have you ever had surgery for an injury, had your wisdom teeth taken out, or even know someone who has suffered from a cancer? Many of these examples are treated nowadays with opioid pain killers to relieve the pain. What many people do not realize is, these pain killers are highly addictive and can lead to either over doses or high risk for dependency. Marijuana which is a plant known as Cannabis sativa is known for having curing remedies practiced for thousands of years. Through years of research, more and more scientists are discovering it can be used to help the public today as well. With illnesses such as arthritis, epilepsy, strokes, and schizophrenia, and many more, marijuana provides a specific therapeutic property that reduce the pain the patients experience. The University of South Florida sees the increasing risk for opioid addiction and would like to make the public aware of its issue. To join the fight against pain killer based prescriptions, spreading the awareness of danger opioid medicines can cause compared to the benefits marijuana could help tremendously to provide patients with best treatments. Today many patients who experience chronic pain from cancer are given the drug OxyContin as a pain reliever to reduce the harsh symptoms of chemotherapy. This pain medication last up to 12 hours and is very effective for the patients who need it. After the great reviews of curing the agony of the side effects of chemotherapy, the prescribing of this drug Fennimore 2 exploded with availability. This also increases the risk for it to be abuse for those who are not prescribed this medication used solely for the purpose of its Dispensaries now see the wide market for its profit and jump onto the wagon for distributing to abusers. This is dangerous for the health of the public because many are not mindful of the potential overdoses that correlate with this dark money. many states still see numbers of unintentional overdose deaths due to pharmaceuticals higher than those associated with heroin and cocaine (Burke). This undeniable concern is an epidemic amongst America, that not only affects the health but morals of legal positons. One organization that recognizes the abuse of opioid abuse or addiction is the National Football League. In a study conducted by the University of Washington St. Louis School of Medicine, nearly 52% percent of retired players have reported misusing this drug. They used these pain killers (Vicodin as the primary choice) to relieve pain from concussions or severe injuries. Players who were prescribed opioids were 3 times more like to misuse their intended purpose. The National Institute of Drug Abuse also found, percent of the retired players who used prescription pain pills while playing obtained the medications from a nonmedical source: a teammate, coach, trainer, family member, dealer or the (National Institute of Drug Abuse). The mishandling of the opioids is an issue that needs to be resolved. The easy access to a drug so powerful with a high risk of overdosing is a scary concept to grasp. Even though it may help temporally with the pain associated with injuries or illnesses, there is another alternative you may want to consider. Marijuana is an all-natural substance that contains FDA approved properties known as cannabinoids or in other words known as THC. Medical marijuana and its support is a growing industry with 20 states passing bills for its medicinal uses. Scientist can extract chemical in Fennimore 3 marijuana called cannabidiol (CBD) which has affects that are not intoxicating that most people associate when they hear the word marijuana. According to the National Institute on Drug Abuse, body also produces its own cannabinoid chemicals. They play a role in regulating pleasure, memory, thinking, concentration, body movement, awareness of time, appetite, pain, and the senses (taste, touch, smell, hearing, and (National Institute on Drug Abuse). CBD oil does not create the euphoric feeling that the normal ingestion marijuana provides. It is known for reducing swelling, pain, and inflammation amongst patients who consume. If scientist can extract this pure substance for the benefit of the health, this would erase the misuse of opioids that are created in laboratories. The human body naturally uses this chemical to cure itself, so an exact ingredient would be the best logical answer. The more studies being conducted, the more invested researchers are in exploring its maximum potential to help cancer treatments. In an animal study, they tested to the use of marijuana extracts on rodents to see if there are any benefits. What they found is, with the use of radiation with the combination of purified extract oils of CBD and THC can decrease the size of cancer cells and those around it. One of the biggest discoveries within this study was the oils could delay the growth of brain tumors in the rats tested. As of currently, only two FDA approved drugs of medical marijuana are dronabinol and nabilone for those who suffer from the harsh conditions of chemotherapy. There is no doubt there is a serious problem with the wide access to the opioid medicine within the United States. They are amongst the leading issues behind overdoses and the huge possibility for a risk of addiction. Many organizations are aware of its harm and are looking other alternatives that are safer and more effective. Medical marijuana is an opportunity to help America improve and give the people the treatments they deserve. With similar effects of opioids Fennimore 4 for reducing the pain of patients, marijuana is a pure substance from the Earth. These opioids that are distributed to are synthetically made in labs do not contains chemicals the body naturally produces by itself. Let us give the unfortunate the best medication for the result. Spread the awareness to others and let them know the matter that is being overlooked. Just like medical marijuana, you also contain the power to heal our suffering victims of cancer. Fennimore 5 Works Cited Barr, John. OTL: Painkiller Misuse Numbs NFL . ESPN.com. N.p., 2017. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Burke, J. Finding Balance in the Rx World in the Crackdown on Abuse of Pain-Killers, Legitimate Patients Can End up Facing Undue  Pharmacy Times, vol. 78, no. 11, 2012, p. 78. EBSCOhost. Nelson, Elizabeth Marie McGhee, PhD. Medical  Salem Press Encyclopedia of Health, January. EBSCOhost. Marijuana As . Drugabuse.gov. N.p., 2017. Web. 17 Apr. 2017.