Introduction There has been a big problem in college sports pertaining to college athletes and if they should get paid or not. A big advocate for college athletes getting paid is the NCPA, the NCPA helps with making sure that college athletes are being treated fairly while play for college. NCAA has rules and regulations that prevent college athletes from getting paid. College athletes should get paid they are playing for the school and the school is getting all the benefits from the sports being played. The NCPA is having a nationwide protest for college athletes at the NCAA headquarters to help get the word out about how college athletes should be paid. People and members are going to the NCAA headquarters and colleges to get the word out and help donate to the cause on April 30th, 2017 which is National Student-Athlete Day. Body 1 The NCPA is doing a lot when comes to helping college athletes when it comes to be being treated right by the colleges and the NCAA. The NCPA helps with the college athletes by sponsoring bills that will get passed to help college athletes get the right amount of treatment injuries while playing college sports. (www.sacbee.com) The NCPA has had a lot of reforms accomplished when it comes to helping college athletes like a lawsuit that made millions of dollars that directly benefited the college athlete. The NCPA helps a lot when it comes to making sure that the college athletes are getting treated right and by helping advocate college athletes getting paid. Body 2 College athletes should get paid because the NCAA and colleges make billions of dollars off the college athletes and what they do every they are part of a college sports game. The NCAA and colleges get a lot of money from TV deals, ticket sales, and merchandise like jerseys that might even have the college athletes name on it. Since the college athletes are in the sports that make the NCAA and the college a lot of money they should get paid, college athletes wake up early almost every day just to practice for the team and basically have no free time throughout the day to themselves. Being a college athlete is basically a job and the college athlete is working for the college and making the colleges and the NCAA tons of money. College athletes do a lot for the colleges and the NCAA so the colleges and the NCAA can make the billions of dollars they get in revenue from the TV deals, merchandise sales, and ticket sales. Body 3 There was study at the Drexel University Department of Sport Management and the NCPA did a joint study scandals created by an unethical NCAA restrictions on college athletes. College athletes who live off campus are living below the poverty line. (www.ncpanow.org/research) The values of some college athletes high enough that they should get paid by the NCAA or the NCAA should allow the colleges to pay their college athletes. This study helps show one of the major reasons why college should get paid. Conclusion With people coming to the NCAA headquarters and local campuses to protest for college athletes to get paid on April 30 th , 2017 will help the NCPA and the college athletes to spread the word will get what the college athletes deserve and what they earn every time they take part in the sport they are a part of.