Tsai 1 Sharon Tsai Alison Misler ENC1102 16 April, 2017 Save Child Laborers Clothing is one of the necesscities in usual life, however,with the prosperity of priced fashion people tend to buy more clothes than that they actually need(Rudell 283). Due to impulse buying, it is sad but true that most people do not take account of the consequence of buying these products. According to recent report, apparels from big-name brands like, H&M and GAP are manufactured by sweatshop factory workers and even by child laborers(Maclntyre). These poor children are forced to work in dangerous working conditions with receiving extremely low payment. Child labor has been a serious issue for decades but only few people and organizations acknowledge this fact and tackle with it. In order to rasie the awarness of this problem and educate the concept of shopping with conscience which is one of the methods for consumers to improve the child labor issue, the University of South Florida decided to hold an event called Your Shopping on June 24 th . In the event, college students will learn more about child labor and start to shop with conscience which not only benefits themselves but also improve the current status of child labor. Unfortunately, there are still around 168 million child laborers in the world and around half of them working in hazardous Child ). Child labor is defined as that deprives children of their childhood, their potential and their dignity, and that is harmful to physical and mental Child ). Professor Zarkar, the Tsai 2 Pakistani expert in human rights issue, points out that there are five reasons why child laborers are under danger: their jobs are injurious to health, are likely to lead to injuries, involve night work, have long working hours, and affect education (Zarker 23). He conducted the research on the child laborers who worked in brick kiln in Pakistan. the winter, children worked with mud and cold water for long hours. In contrast, during the summer, they had to work directly under the scorching sun and cases of dehydration and sunstroke were (Zarkar 24) Without a doubt, it is unethical to put children in such an unsafe environment and let them work in extreme weathers. worse, most child laborers got hurt during their work but they are never taken to see a doctor. (Zarkar 24) They frequently suffer from fatigue and backache, it was observed that one of them could not even walk properly because of severe (Zarkar 24). Therefore, the existence of child labor is intolerable and it need to be eliminated as soon as possible. It is a well-known fact that one of the biggest contributors to global poverty is lack of access to education. Millions of child laborers are asked to work 12 to 16 hours a day since they are six or seven years old which brings about a vicious Pay High Price for Cheap Most child laborers drop out school and go to work because they want to increase the income for their families and the main reason why parents are not able to make enough money to rasie their familes is because they are in lower paid occupation which is due to lack of education. Those child laborers growing up without being educated to certain extent might end up getting low payment and their children will be forced to work and deprived the right of receiving education. Nelson Mandela once said, Education is the most powerful weapon which you can use to change the If those children never got the chance to receive education, it is impossible for them to escape from being exploiated. However, the long working hours keeps children from attending to school in daytime. In order to eradicate the poverty in developing countries, children are supposed to study in a Tsai 3 safe school instead of working in an unsafe factory. Child labor not only does harm to themselves but also hurts the interests of consumers. After the Industrial Revolution, merchants have tried to massively produce everything including, garments and agricultural products and child laborers are one of the victims of this trend. KNOw Child Labour organization claims that child laborers are commonly engaged in the production of low and medium quality KNOw Child Labour Global March Against Child ). In other words, even though the products manufactured by child laborers are cheaper, in fact the quality is relatively worse. Normally,everyone who plays the role of consumer is unwilling to buy products with lower quality. Thus, stopping child labor will bring a silver lining to the child laborers with gauranteeing higher quality products from professional manufacturers. It is obvious that the problem of child labor is harmful to both manufacturers and consumers so the University of South Florida wants to raise the awareness of this issue by holding an event called Your Shopping On June 24 th , college students would be able to get the information of child labors and how to shop with conscience. There will be some information booths from organizations which are prominent of opposing the usage of child laborers, like UNICEF, Global March Against Child Labour, and so forth. Also, USF will have a running event to raise the funding on the next day June 25 th and there will be free food and gifts given out. After the two events, students will be capable of exercising the right of consumer wisely and raising the voice for child laborers. Child labor has deprived the careless childhood and the chance to fulfill their dreams from millions of child laborers. Every child is born equal and none of them deserve this kind of treatment. Therefore, it is important to take action to stop making it worse. Consumers have a lot of power, and every descison that they make can bring a difference. Professor Tsai 4 Rudell declares, the government must regulate and legislate to ensure a level playing field, companies must be more responsive to public concerns and take responsibility for their (284). In other words, consumers have more impact on companies than governments do. Thus, so as to let students use the power of consumer wisely, USF will hold Your Shopping Matters to provide the information that they need. This event will help students be more aware of child labor issue and develop the ability of shopping with conscience. Everyone is invited to the event and takes action to do the right things after knowing the fact. Tsai 5 Works Cited Child  International Labour Organization, www.ilo.org/global/topics/child- labour/lang--en/index.htm. Children Pay High Price for Cheap  Home UNICEF, www.unicef.org/pon95/chil0016.html. KNOw Child Labour Global March Against Child  Global March Against Child Labour From Exploitation to Education, www.globalmarch.org/kNOw-child-labour. Maclytyre, David. 10 Major Clothing Brands Caught in Shocking Sweatshop  TheRichest, 7 Aug. 2014, www.therichest.com/rich-list/most-shocking/10-major- clothing-brands-caught-in-shocking-sweatshop-scandals/. Rudell, Fredrica. Shopping with a Social Conscience: Consumer Attitudes Toward Sweatshop  Clothing and Textiles Research Journal. Sage Publications, vol.24, no. 4, October 2006, pp.282-296. Zakar, Muhammad Zakria, et al. Likes A Person Whose Body Is Covered With Health Hazards Faced By Child Laborers In The Brick Kiln Sector Of The Okara District,  Canadian Journal Of Behavioural Science / Revue Canadienne Des Sciences Du Comportement 47.1 (2015): 21-28. PsycARTICLES. Web. 9 Feb. 2017