McCutcheon 1 Caitlyn McCutcheon Dr. Karen Hanson English Composition 1102 16 April 2017 Animals in Captivity People often wonder what it would be like if dinosaurs gone extinct. If humans were alive at the same time dinosaurs were, would dinosaurs really be extinct? With the help of zoos and aquariums, conservation acts are put in place to use animal captivity to prevent extinction of species. Animal captivity is an animal living in any place that their natural habitat. Places like the Toronto Zoo not only think zoos are beneficial to the community because it educates spectators about the animals and some of their simple behaviors, but also to make sure animals go extinct. Keeping animals in captivity has many benefits including a place to make sure animals go extinct, and to rehabilitate animals that are sick or injured. The Association of Zoos and Aquariums(AZA) is an association promoting animal captivity. On the AZA website it states, is a priority for AZA-accredited institutions and is a key component of their (AZA and Animal Program Conservation Initiatives). Since there are many animal species on the endangered species list, and animals that need treatment because ill or injured zoos and aquariums are essential for health. Animal captivity is something not everyone agrees on. Animal captivity has a few bad characteristics about it, like animals live in their natural habitat, but all of the good reasons weigh out the bad ones. On the World Wildlife Foundations(WWF) website, there are currently 19 critically endangered species, and 27 endangered species on the endangered species list (Species List: Endangered Species). Different zoos throughout North America use animal McCutcheon 2 captivity to fight extinction. The Toronto Zoo located in Toronto, Ontario, Canada has a large team researching what they can do to help animals from going extinct. Gabriella Mastromonaco runs the Reproductive Physiology team at the Toronto Zoo. Their main goal is to genetic diversity (Fighting The narrator of the video, Toronto Zoo: Why We Are Here, states our tanks at the moment there are herds of bison, prides of lions, and all sorts of wildlife that we have enough space for in the zoo itself. However, these specimens fit perfectly well in the frozen zoo, and are waiting to help repopulate species as needed. (Toronto Zoo: Why We Are If an entire species were to go extinct in the wild, leaving the only animals left were in captivity, the zoos would have the power to procreate the animals genetically made to repopulate the species. Another benefit of zoos and aquariums are the steps they go to help animals that are sick and injured. The Shedd Aquarium located in Chicago, Illinois focuses on the care of animals brought into the aquarium. Not only does the Shedd Aquarium treat sick and injured animals, but focuses on the training and enrichment of the animals, have learning experiences for all ages, and has a plentiful amount of conservation research being done. The onsite animal hospital, is one of the largest full service hospitals in the country. The medical team at Shedd is diversely trained in helping different animals, medical team, working closely with the animal care experts, have pioneered cancer chemotherapy in several types of fishes, MRI for high voltage electric eels, dentistry for pufferfish, prenatal care of beluga whales, neonatal care for sea otters, assist feeding of sea stars and the growing veterinary specialty of geriatric care for a host of long-lived aquarium & Care: Veterinary Hospitals and Labs). Zoos and Aquariums benefit animals in various ways. The benefits of zoos and aquariums are extremely valuable to every animal for the future of the species and to make sure the animals are well taken care of. McCutcheon 3 Imagine being a little kid wanting to go to the zoo or aquarium to see your favorite animal, but your parents say there are no more. The disappointment you would feel would be indescribable as a child. According to an article written in the Environmental Education Research Journal, the Canadian Federation of Humane Societies counts 40,000-50,000 cats and dogs are euthanized each year in Canada and 2.7 million in the US are euthanized (Russell). For some people animals are just as important as people are. The connections between animals and their owners/ caregivers can be like priceless. A zoo keeper from the Toronto Zoo, Andy has one of those relationships with one of the zoos new giraffes, Kiko. Kiko came from a zoo in Greenville, South Carolina, and is settling in to the zoo in Toronto. Andy and the staff has been working Kiko making sure he is healthy, and ready to engage with the other giraffes and be seen by the public. A species on the WWF endangered species list, the Vaquita Marina is critically endangered. On the AZA SAFE Signature Species, researchers reported there were 567 vaquita marina in the wild in 1997, and now there are less than 30 left in the wild. With the help of zoos and aquariums we can prevent more species becoming extinct. There are multiple ways you can become involved in supporting animals in captivity. In order to promote animals in captivity you should take action by doing the following options. I encourage you to visit and learn from the local AZA accredited zoos and aquariums. Busch Gardens, Lowry Zoo, The Florida Aquarium, and Animal Kingdom are a few examples. If not from the Tampa area, you can go on the AZA website to find an accredited zoo or aquarium near you. If you make it to a zoo or aquarium you can also donate to the AZA or any conservation group, zoo, aquarium, sanctuary, or rescue group in effort of the animals. Another great way to promote animal captivity is to educate others about why you support animals being in captivity. McCutcheon 4 While many people realize how helpful animal captivity can be for our future. By helping promote animal captivity you can take action by visiting AZA accredited zoos and aquariums, donating to conservation groups, zoos, aquariums, sanctuaries, or rescue groups, and educating others about why you believe animal captivity is beneficial. To put forth these actions, we can only hope to see an end to ending extinction of species, and helping sick and injured animals. McCutcheon 5 Works Cited and Animal Program Conservation AZA and Animal Program Conservation Initiatives. AZA. www.aza.org/aza-and-animal-program-conservation-initiatives. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. Toronto Zoo Fighting Extinction, Toronto Zoo, www.torontozoo.com/FightingExtinction/. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. Russell, Joshua. has to die one children 19s explorations of the meanings of death in human-animal-nature  Environmental education research 23.1 (2017):75-90. Web. WWF, World Wildlife Fund, Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. TorontoZooChannel. Zoo Keeper Talk with Kiko the YouTube, YouTube, 29 June 2015, Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. Vaquita Marina. Association of Zoos and Aquariums. www.aza.org/SAFE- vaquita. Accessed 25 Feb. 2017. Hospital & Veterinary Hospital & Labs Shedd Aquarium, Shedd Aquarium, www.sheddaquarium.org/Animals--Care/Animal-Health-Welfare--Training/Veterinary- Hospitals--Labs/. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017.