Emily Edgington Spencer Bennington English Comp II 16 April 2017 Unlocked and Loaded On March 29 th 2017 at 9:17 P.M. the Pasco county police department responded to a report of a four year old boy who suffered a gunshot wound. The child was staying with his grandmother that night and while she was in the bathroom, he wandered into her room, spotted a gun, and shot himself in the abdomen accidentally. In the past year alone, 672 children were injured or killed as a result of gun violence. This little boy from Zephyrhills, FL is one of the lucky ones. He was rushed to the hospital immediately following the accident and is expected to make a full recovery. Sadly, this is not the fate of many children affected by gun violence every day. (ABC Action News). Child gun violence is arguably the most tragic breed of crime, and every sane person can unite in the opinion that it must be stopped. I. Much research has been conducted on the specific statistics of gun violence involving children, and the findings are abhorrent. These studies aims to make people realize that gun violence is a serious calamity affecting youth. Over 1.69 Million American children and teens are living in homes with loaded and unlocked firearms... 73% of children ages nine and under reported knowing the location of their parents firearms, including many whose parents reported that their children did not know the  (smartgunlaws.org) This quote is reliable because it comes from a non partisan, non profit organization with the sole purpose of distributing reliable fact-checked data about gun violence. It empowers because it uses logos to shock people into realizing that this is, in fact, a real problem. II. Child related gun violence is essentially a threat to everyone. Children our the future and must be protected at all costs. At the most fundamental level, providing adequate investments that enable children to thrive is a moral imperative, and investing in a child is to invest in future. Most would agree that there could be no more compelling argument than  (UNICEF.org) This quote is reliable because it is from UNICEF, an organization dedicated to improving the lives of children. It is an effective quote because it evokes kairos and makes the reader believe that they must act now which is essential to a call to action. III. Every person who interacts with children can help minimize this tragedy. Parents, teachers, school board administrators, older siblings; all of you can directly decrease child gun violence. The public health approach means talking to parents about how to keep their children safe, and looking for behavioral, and make everyone  (NewYorkTimes.com) This quote is effective because it is from a reliable news source, written by a pediatrician and evokes logos. IV. The NRA has a special sympathy for those affected by child gun violence, and have created a program to teach children how to act if they ever find themselves in a situation with a gun. It does teach parents about gun safety and how to relay that information in a method really memorable to kids. the gun equivalent of stop, drop, and roll, my kids can recite  (Lisa L. NRA Website) This quote is extremely effective because it is personal. This lady is a mom whose children have learned from this specific program. She has ethos and credibility that someone without kids would lack. While you may have disagreements with the NRA, you cant argue that anyone has a better track record of promoting safety as they do. what this is all about  (Capitalnews.vcu.edu) This is effective because It is from a reliable source, a university, and because it appeals to those who do not support the NRA which is important that the specific program can appeal to everyone even if the organization itself can not.