Ragsdale 1 Carson Ragsdale Comp II 4/16/17 Intermediate Draft Immigration has been a problem in America for years, especially in the form of illegal immigration. Over the years, illegal immigrants have been flowing into the United States and there has been little done to find a solution. The United States government has a set process of how immigrants can become legal citizens, this process is called the naturalization process. However, the increasing number of illegal immigrants has been rising, showing that this process is not working to its full effect. The citizens of the United States need to be concerned with the rising number of illegal immigrants as they can cause harm to the economy as well as national security. In order to solve this problem Americans need to show concern to the government about the reformation of the immigration laws and vote to lessen the restrictions to become a citizen, making it easier for immigrants to come to America. The process of becoming a citizen of the United States, or naturalization, has not changed much from its original design. Per The United States Citizenship and Immigration Services, the process of naturalization is a lengthy process and is multifaceted. The website outlines the main points of the process and requirements to enter the process. Some of these requirements include being a permanent resident with a Green Card for 5 years, must be fluent in English, and understand the government and ideals of the Constitution (Naturalization Information). These are only a few of the requirements to become a citizen, the full list includes about ten specifications. Once all the requirements are met, the naturalization process can begin. Ragsdale 2 The process includes about ten steps including interviews and paperwork and then four tests (Naturalization Information). It is clear that the citizenship process is very tedious and somewhat overbearing. Part of the reason that illegal immigrants are unable to become citizens legally is because it takes too much time and money to be able to become legal citizens. If the citizenship process is cut down and made to be more simple, there would be more people willing to enter the country legally. The next reason that a solution should be found for illegal immigration is the danger that illegal immigrants can cause to both the economy and national security. Immigrants can take jobs away from Americans and cause taxes to increase because they do not pay their fair share. In 2014 there were about 8 million undocumented immigrants that occupied American jobs (Krogstad, Manuel, et al.). This means that these immigrants were also getting benefits from the government to compensate for their work, benefits that Americans were not getting. Immigrants often take the jobs that are known as blue collar work such as construction jobs and other types of labor (Federation for American Immigration Reform). These jobs are often taken by lower class Americans who are unable to apply for higher paying jobs. With these people out of work the poverty line in America is raised and skewed. Another problem that illegal immigrants can cause is problems to national security. If the government allows immigrants who are trying to become citizens to better their lives and their families lives, what is to stop criminals from entering the same way? By not cracking down on all immigrants, dangerous immigrants can infiltrate the country and cause problems through things like drug cartels and other criminal actions. FAIR has multiple examples on their website about how these illegal immigrants can pose as people with good intentions and turn evil when given their opportunity. FAIR has story after story about how these illegal aliens can commit crimes that alter the lives of so many Ragsdale 3 Americans (Federation for American Immigration Reform). It is important the US reform the laws to bring in immigrants and keep out criminals and those with malicious intentions. Illegal Immigration affects multiple aspects of daily life for Americans. These aspects include anywhere from tax dollars to loss of jobs and work. In order to solve these issues and put Americans first, it is necessary to engage the American people to persuade the government to reform the immigration laws. If these immigration laws are not reformed, American citizens are at risk of losing jobs, their safety, and their freedoms. If the number of illegal immigrants continues to rise, the number of Americans out of jobs will rise as well (Federation for American Immigration Reform). Not only will the economy be affected, the crime rate and national security will be affected as well. Some of these immigrants are coming to America with malicious intentions as well. Michael Snyder, a respected author stated in an article, illegal immigrants are responsible for lots of crime in this country. In recent years, nearly 1000 illegal immigrants have been convicted of committing sex crimes against children in the state of Texas alone. And as you will read about below, illegal immigrants have a murder rate that is 3 to 10 times higher than the general (Snyder). Americans have a lot at stake when it comes to illegal immigration. The main focus for Americans should be on American lives first. It is dangerous to worry about the well-being of people of other countries before taking care of own nation. In order to be safe from such economic downfall and national security breaches, it is necessary to alert the government of the concern and need for immigration reform. In order to solve the problem of illegal immigration and stop it from continuing is to vote to reform immigration laws and procedures. It is necessary to make it easier and more appealing for immigrants to come into America through the legal process instead of having to Ragsdale 4 come through illegally. Therefore, it is the American duty to bring their concern to the attention of the United States government through protests and petitions. By expressing the rights given to the American people in the Constitution, Americans can make a change in the lawmaking process by letting the government know what is wanted by the people. It is the American job to bring this to the attention of the government so there will be something to vote on. After the attention is brought to the lawmakers, it is the civic duty of the American people to go out and vote on what they want to be changed. It is important that this problem is solved because it is ultimately hurting this country. Illegal immigration is something that has been harming the United States of America for decades and it needs to be put to an end. Illegal immigrants are causing harm to both the economy of the US and the national security as well. Many stakeholders, such as the Federation for American Immigrant Reform, have taken their side on the argument, but the stakeholder that continues to disagree is the American people. There must be a compromise reached on this argument so there can be further steps taken. Americans have continually disagreed on what to do in regards to immigration reform. Americans must consider the future to see what good could come out of an immigration reform. Through simplifying the immigration process, Americans could face considerably lower crime rates as well as unemployment rates. It is the job of the American people to fix this problem because nothing can be done if an agreement cannot be reached. Ragsdale 5 Works Cited Krogstad, Jens Manuel, Jeffrey S. Passel, and Cohn. 5 Facts about Illegal Immigration in the  Pew Research Center. N.p., 03 Nov. 2016. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Naturalization  USCIS. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Reform, Federation For American Immigration. Factsheet Why Should You Care About  Scribd. FAIRUS, n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Snyder, Michael. 10 Horribly Violent Crimes That Were Committed By Illegal  Infowars. N.p., 14 July 2015. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.