Claire Embry Professor Spencer Bennington Composition two 17 April 2017 The Road to A Solution: Conflict Diamonds Blood Diamonds, powerful nickname, and impactful problem. This term given to the on going issue throughout the diamond industry was adopted due to the severity of unethical practices throughout the Diamond world. This gruesome nickname was given quiet literally in response to the amount of blood shed involving this industry. It is estimated that over 3.5 million human lives have been lost or displaced due to conflict diamonds in Africa alone (Global Witness). This number is already too high and will continue to rise if action is not taken. Organizations like the Greener Diamond are teaming up to spread awareness and build back a healthier lifestyle of those affected by Conflict diamonds. By getting involved in organizations like the Greener Diamond, awareness of the dangers of blood diamonds will spread, the industry little by little will become cleaned up, and the quality of life in these conflict diamond areas will begin to rise. On April 21 st Anna-Mieke Anderson the founder of The Greener Diamond will be speaking in a TED talk at the University of South Florida, by participating in such an event you could help improve the lives of thousands of lives in Africa. Most everyone has heard of blood diamonds or the conflicts in countries such as Sierra Leone. While people have heard of such problems, little has truly been done to stop them. Diamonds are everywhere. Although not everyone gets married, the chances of you tying the knot are increasingly high. With the long lasting tradition of marriage, there is a related tradition of engagement rings. Engagement rings have always been seen as a beautiful symbol of love that a woman gets to where for the rest of their lives. Little do many women realize is that lives have been lost in result of that diamond they will wear for the rest of their life. It has been estimated that from 6-15% of the worlds diamonds in trade are conflict diamonds. The Kimberly Process by definition is joint governments, industry and civil society initiative to stem the flow of conflict Process). This whole scheme was established in 2000 to address the obscure violence and flow of conflict diamonds throughout the African countries. While the scheme has good intentions it has become apparent that flaws have left the industry to do whatever they want. a known corresponding stakeholder within the industry claims Kimberley failure to enact stronger controls has left the door wide open to diamond Earth). To stop the issues, it has now been truly been put into the hands to stop blood diamonds all together. The Greener Diamond is a leading organization making a positive impact on the worlds mining industry. They live through quotes such as will only come through action, motivated by the sincere understanding of the impact of our decisions. We encourage you to investigate for yourself and make an informed decision before you make your next diamond Greener Diamond). Small actions of everyone will create a big impact. By teaming up with organizations such as The Greener Diamond it is inevitable to see the impact each and every persons efforts make. Education is one of the major factors in creating a change. Many do not realize that this is not old news and is still very much a problem. By educating people about where their diamonds are coming from, they will then be more empowered to purchase wisely. It can be as simple as researching jewelers, asking the jeweler whom their providers are, or simply finding out where the diamond you are purchasing is from that can safe many lives. As the spring comes to an end, so does school. With graduation approaching for many the purchasing of class rings is also in mind. With this thought churning in minds, it is fitting to hold a seminar educating how to practice the purchasing of pure diamonds for those rings. On April 21 st there will be a TED talk held at The University of South oval theatre in the Student Marshall center to spread awareness of the purchasing of conflict diamonds. Anna-Mieke Anderson, the founder of The Greener Diamond, will be the lead speaker for the event. This will be an awesome opportunity to hear first hand the stories that Anna has experienced with these people effected by the diamond industry and embrace the change you can make just like her. Blood Diamonds are a problem that is not disappearing on its own. With many efforts such as the Kimberly Certification Scheme and other law enforcement efforts within the industry a fact has become clear, the power is with the people. The people of Africa are living with horrific conditions and are not able to speak up for them selves without the risk of getting murdered. Speak for them, make a difference. Change is what the world needs, and the first step is getting involved. Bibliography David Johnson. Kimberly Process, December 2 2012, https://www.kimberleyprocess.com/en/about Accessed 7 April 2017. Ellen Livingston. Brilliant Earth October 2015, https://www.brilliantearth.com/kimberley-process/Accessed 5 April 2017. Wilson Harris. in April 2011, http://www.worlddiamondcouncil.com/ Accsessed 9 April 2017. Brock Lithim. The Greener Diamond to http://thegreenerdiamond.org/get-involved-3/. Asessed 15 April 2017.