Johanning 1 Gregory Johanning Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 5 April 2017 Protecting the Children, Abolishing Corporal Punishment The development of children and making sure that they are properly nourished is vital to how they grow up. It is important that the next generation be raised in such a manner that educates them on the decency of what an ideal society envisions. Children all around the globe are experiencing physical abuse from authoritative figures and are crying out for help. Setting the rest of the globe aside, the United States has one of the worst rates among other industrialized nations on losing children to abuse or child neglect (Child Abuse Statistics). Physical punishment is still used as a method of discipline today, even in preschools (UNC School of Medicine). Since children around the world are continually playing the victims to physical abuse as a form of discipline, couples without children should be informed through classes taught by those with knowledge of the negative effects of corporal punishment so that child abuse can be eliminated once and for all. It is rare that one would hear commotion about a parent severely beating their child. Although physical abuse is not a prevalent means of teaching children discipline anymore in our society, it still exists and is used. Shockingly, the United States alone loses an average of four to seven children daily due to physical abuse (Child Abuse Statistics). There are only a handful of countries around the world that have banned the use of corporal punishment of children. One area of the world that has worked tirelessly to prohibit corporal punishment in their region is the Caribbean. In this part of the world, children are more susceptible to being beaten and abused Johanning 2 within their own homes (The Nature and Extent of Corporal Punishment). This means that there are still portions of the world that view physical discipline as acceptable or effective. Of the 14 states in the Caribbean, the governments of 13 of the nations are either reviewing legislature or approving laws and bills that help protect the children of their countries (The Nature and Extent of Corporal Punishment). In this case, the word is a strong word. It is interpreted differently by each person. Some would call this method of discipline because the unwanted behavior of the child would cease while neglecting the psychological effects the physical discipline would have on the child. A study was conducted where there was significant evidence pointing to the fact that there is a strong correlation between corporal punishment and a decrease in brain development of children (Cuddy, Emily, and Reeves). Possible responses children can have to physical discipline are feelings of dejection, lack of belonging within their family, and even lack of self-expression out of fear of the possible repercussions that their actions may bring upon them. These possible side effects that physical abuse can bring is what leads to the underdevelopment of children both socially and mentally. Currently there are many large corporations working to end the corporal punishment of children worldwide thus proving that there is quite a substantial amount of support for this movement. The fact that organizations at the corporate level are having a hand in the progression of the fight to end corporal punishment of children increases the financial backing that the movement is receiving which shows that this movement is not slowing down or backing away from any adversity any time soon. These larger businesses are providing ad campaigns, ways to donate, and all of the other reasons why it is vital to become involved in the global fight to end corporal punishment of children. The goal of these organizations, like many others, is to successfully prohibit the use of physical punishment on children as a form of discipline Johanning 3 worldwide. They believe that the use of corporal punishment on children is a direct violation of their rights as a person and does not defend their dignity either (Global Initiative to End All Corporal Punishment). Each of these groups are fighting for the lives and protection of each and every children worldwide. This is a noble cause worth being a part of because the purpose is intended wholeheartedly and with sincerity. These organizations defend those who cannot necessarily defend themselves and are calling on others to stand with them. These children deserve a voice and the right to be heard because they cannot lead their own fight for justice. The possibilities of how to effectively end the corporal punishment of children are numbered. A few of the ways that couples without children can help are by educating themselves on how to effectively discipline children, either when they decide to have children of their own or if they simply just decide to be involved in a life. They can do this by taking classes on effective parenting methods, specifically other ways to discipline children other than through the use of physicality. Those who teach or administer the class would have to be registered and pass an exam showing that they too understand how children should be disciplined because it is vital that those who are looking for education on this issue receive and attain the best quality of information. Another way couples without children can contribute to this movement is by donating money to any one of the organizations who have planted themselves and made a mark on the continued fight to end corporal punishment of children. The more funding that these organizations receive, the more likely it is to start programs where couples can start being informed on how to better themselves on disciplining their children. With financial backing, organizations like The Global Initiative to End All Corporal Punishment of Children will continue to expand and blossom, attracting new members with an increase in popularity. As more and more people are educated on this issue and the immediate and long term effects it Johanning 4 presents to children, abolishment of corporal punishment of children will spread to countries where this will be viewed as a form of foreign policy at first. However with these methods of getting involved in this movement, couples without children and those already involved will be able to create enough momentum moving forward that will prolong and strengthen the fight against those who use corporal punishment as a form of discipline. Words can simply not express enough the importance of protecting children of any generation. The formation of their lives starts with a nourishing, intellectual, and loving childhood build around the parents or adults that raise them. Understanding that their path to independence one day is a delicate one is the first step those without children or who have no knowledge of this issue must come to realize. Getting involved in this movement and not sitting on the sideline is the first line of action needed. It essentially does not matter how one gets decides to take action because when any person joins a cause, others consequently follow. Corporal punishment of children is no doubt a serious issue in society, both locally and globally, and needs to be dealt with accordingly. Informing those, like couples without children, will help bring about an end to this menacing problem. Children deserve to grow up in the best environment possible with an encouraging support group guiding them along the way. Making this a reality for them is the least everyone can do to contribute to the cause in ending corporal punishment of children. Johanning 5 Works Cited Child Abuse  Childhelp. N.p., n.d. Web. 22 Feb. 2017. Corporal Punishment of Children Remains Common Worldwide, UNC Studies  Corporal Punishment of Children Remains Common Worldwide, UNC Studies Find - UNC School of Medicine. N.p., 24 Feb. 2011. Web. 10 Apr. 2017. Cuddy, Emily, and Richard V. Reeves. Hitting Kids: American Parenting and Physical Punishment Brookings  Brookings. Brookings, 26 Oct. 2016. Web. 12 Apr. 2017. The Nature and Extent of Corporal Punishment: Prevalence and Attitudinal Research in the  PsycEXTRA Dataset (n.d.): n. pag. Web. 21 Feb. 2017. Welcome to the Global Initiative - Global Initiative to End All Corporal Punishment of  Welcome to the Global Initiative - Global Initiative to End All Corporal Punishment of Children. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.