Pervaiz 1 Mariam Pervaiz Adam Carter ENC 1102 12 April 2017 Are You Aware of Prostitution? When hearing the word come out of mouth, what are some of the first thoughts that come to mind? Initially, my first thought was that it was a shameful act upon women wanting to be physically pleased while making money. Before learning about prostitution, I was proven to be naive on the issue. Most people who have not been informed might have also been in the same boat as me. After doing some research, it was found that prostitution happened to be one of the most dangerous professions of all time (Anderson). So, if prostitution happens to be one of the most dangerous professions of all time, then why do people turn to it? Why is it continued to this day? Further research has answered the previous questions. Prostitution is not only one of the most dangerous professions known to man, but it is also one of the oldest professions (Anderson). Just because prostitution is branded as in some parts of the U.S., does not mean that it will halt people from partaking in the act. There are actually many reasons for people turning to the sex industry even though there are consequences involved. Although, prostitution is one of the most dangerous professions in the world, there are ways to improve the sex industry by educating, engaging, and empowering audiences who do not know of the situation. What exactly is prostitution and why is it such a big deal? Prostitution is the act of buying or selling sex. Known to most, it is such a big deal because it is illegal all over the U.S. except for some parts of Nevada. Why exactly is one of the oldest professions, prostitution, considered Pervaiz 2 illegal throughout most parts of the U.S.? According to a writer named Emily Baezlon, prostitution is illegal because the buying and selling of sex is exploitive and demeaning to sex workers. The government also believes that the sex industry directly contributes to the modern- day slave trade (Baezlon). Prostitution is kept illegal throughout most parts of the U.S. as a way to prevent human/sex trafficking, diseases, and violence. According to an article from the Sex Crimes, over a five year period, New Jersey showed an increase in homicide victims amongst prostitutes. From the same article, it was found that prostitutes have had increased incidences with sexually transmitted diseases. After learning about some statistics of prostitution, making the profession illegal has not proved to be of any help to anyone involved in the sex industry. The statistics have shown that prostitution is still one of the most dangerous professions, regardless of the fact that it is kept illegal for the safety of people. After being informed about the dangers and risks of prostitution, it made me want to take a stand and keep anyone involved in the sex industry away from harm. When people hear of the word prostitution, it is either disregarded or becomes concern. For college students like us, it should actually be a big concern. Most college students know the struggle of not having enough money to do anything, day after day. Many college students can barely afford to go out to a nice dinner or shop with friends due to a low income because they are not getting paid enough at work. Some college students cannot even afford to work because of the overwhelming class schedule or no way of transportation. Whatever the reason may be, college students are struggling, year after year, to pay for their tuition, books, living expenses, and more. According to DeGraw, a journalist with the Ordinary Times, there has been an epidemic amongst college students paying for their tuition by becoming prostitutes. College students have turned to prostitution for the money, knowing that it comes with great Pervaiz 3 risks and dangers. Although, prostitution is kept illegal as a way to prevent harm and danger to the people of the U.S., nothing has changed. Prostitution has still proven to be very dangerous. Young adults, like college students, that do turn to prostitution in hopes to pay for their tuition, should be kep from way. Average college students, like you, might turn to prostitution one day, which is acceptable if that is the route that needs to be taken. Everyone has their own ways of dealing with situations, but if prostitution happens to be a main option for many students, then it should be a safe option. Instead of having college students, who may turn to prostitution, worry so much about what could happen, there are ways to make the profession a safer option. Most people are unaware, but Nevada happens to be one of the only places in the U.S. where prostitution happens to be legal, only in brothels (Seals 793). According to research, safety plays a major role in brothels (793). Major safety precautions such as, safe sex, alarm buttons in all rooms, and management surveillance are implemented within the brothels (Seals 793). The research by Seals concluded that brothels were free of minors, drug use, violence, and even trafficking (793). Brothels in Nevada have proved to be a safer option for prostitutes rather than staying outside on a corner, or living in a house with a pimp. If brothels have proved to be a much a safer way to practice prostitution, then the other states should follow lead. Any college student could turn to prostitution at any moment, which means risking lives in doing so. If there are ways, such as the use of brothels, that could maintain the safety of prostitutes, then it needs to be implemented in other states so college students have access to that resource. People need to take a stand and insure the safety of prostitutes because they are average people, just like you. There are many ways for people to take a stand in and fight for what they believe in. The Sex Workers Outreach Project (SWOP) does just that. They are involved with the issue of Pervaiz 4 prostitution by supporting the legalization of it through advocacy and protests (Sex Workers Outreach Project). The main goal for the national organization that fights for the human rights of prostitutes, is the safety of anyone involved. There are ways for you too to get involved, just like the Sex Workers Outreach Project. There is a local chapter belonging to the Sex Workers Outreach Project (SWOP) that are basically only on Twitter and Facebook, but hope to meet physically (SWOP Tampa Bay Area). A great way to physically get involved and fight for the legalization of prostitution by brothels is to join the movement with the local chapter of SWOP. By supporting the local organization, any protests and fundraisers will benefit the community of prostitutes in the area as you are fighting for their rights and safety. One small step leads you down a bigger path. It just takes one person to make a difference. While most people disregard the issue of prostitution, there are many people involved out in the world risking their lives in hopes of earning money. Knowing that it is one of the oldest and most dangerous professions known to man should mean that there should be something done about it. The best solution for prostitutes would be making the profession legal within brothels, where they are safe from harm. University students are at great risk when they turn to prostitution. The Sex Workers Outreach Project has many local chapters, including Tampa, where people can join and support their cause for the rights of prostitutes and the legalization of prostitution. All it takes is for one person to accomplish something for it to make a big impact on the community. It is time for adults, university students, average people, and any sex worker to come together and offer help to prostitutes that are at risk. Pervaiz 5 Works Cited Bazelon, Emily. is prostitution Slate Magazine, 10 Mar. 2008, egal.html. Accessed 13 Apr. 2017. DeGraw, Saul. women turning to Prostitution to Pay for Ordinary Times, 20 Pervaiz 6 Sept. 2014, ordinary-gentlemen.com/2014/09/20/are-women-turning-to-prostitution-to- pay-for-college/. Accessed 15 Apr. 2017. Seals, Maryann. Rights and Health Protection for Prostitutes: A Comparison of The Netherlands, Germany, and Health Care for Women International, vol. 36, no. 7, 2013, pp. doi:10.1080/07399332.2013.850085 Workers Outreach Project Sex Workers Outreach Sex Workers Outreach Project / Sex Workers Outreach Project, www.new.swopusa.org/. Accessed 11 Apr. 2017. Tampa Bay SWOP Tampa Bay Area, swoptampabay.org/. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. Prostitution Statistics You Have to Sex Crimes, sex-crimes.laws.com/prostitution/prostitution-statistics. Accessed 15 Apr. 2017.