Ramsamy 1 Taylor Ramsamy ENC 1102 Dennis April 16, 2016 NSA: An Ignored American Danger On September 11, 2001, the United States suffered one of the biggest tragedies in its 240 year history. Over three thousand Americans died that day as a result of a terrorist plot that sadly could not be discovered in time to stop it. Many American citizens are old enough to remember the image of the Word Trade Center billowing smoke as it slowly collapsed due to the impact of two hijacked airplanes hitting them. The image was ingrained into our minds as we swore that we would never let the tragedy repeat, no matter what the cost. As a result of this immense tragedy, the American Government scrambled to try and find ways to prevent this from happening in the future.However, in recent years, due to leaked documents from whistleblowers, it has been discovered what exactly they did to do this. In 2001, President George W Bush gave unprecedented power to a government agency called the National Security Agency (NSA), by allowing them to begin monitoring their fellow citizens without their knowledge. Instead of protecting the American people, this law allowed the NSA to trample the rights of the American people by invading their privacy to unwarranted levels. The Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF) is one of many groups who has begun to fight against the NSA as a result, as they sue the organization to hold it responsible to the American values it was created to help protect. It is my belief that the NSA needs to be put into check as a result, as the NSA has gone too far into its Ramsamy 2 surveillance by collecting too much information without realizing the dangers of doing so and without showing results. As stated before, the NSA is a government agency that was created as a result of the Patriot Act of 2001. The main goal of the agency is to gather any information that is needed by the federal government in order to protect the American people from any potential threats Asked ). The organization does this by monitoring communications and activities made by suspected terrorists in search of any clues as to an incoming attack. As a result, the NSA examines many different venues in search of any potential terrorist threats. They previously examined telephone records, but now their main attention is on the internet. Currently, they target information found through e-mail, as well through accounts under organizations like Yahoo, Google, Facebook,Skype and Apple. (Gellman ). In contrast, the EFF is an non-profit organization that was built to protect civil liberties as they apply in terms of the internet. It is the belief of the EFF that all people have access to the level of privacy that they desire Their main goal is to fight back against any threats to civil liberties by utilizing attorneys, technologists, and activists to protect these liberties The EFF has tackled the issue of NSA surveillance by going as far as taking the NSA to court as they believe that the NSA goes too far in their surveillance, though the case currently is stalled in the District on First Unitarian Ramsamy 2 The amount of data that the NSA has control of is simply staggering. Before the 2015 revision of the Patriot Act in Congress , it was found that the NSA had been recording 3 billion phone calls a day directly. Even after the revision though, the NSA would have access to these phone calls though, as the organization just has to request it from the phone companies themselves (Harkinson). The EFF claims that the NSA has access to at least 1.7 billion e-mails per day with current technology the Domestic Spying Program In addition to this, NSA veteran William Binley has stated that he believes that the NSA is in possession of 15 to 20 trillion information transactions from the course of eleven years. the Domestic Spying Program There is an immense danger with allowing the NSA to to be able record and have possession of so much data. The NSA has been found to keep the communications they stumble across online for at least five years, later keeping those records offline in a different server for up to ten years. (Levison-Waldman).This means that the government would have access to any phone call or message you send for up to ten years to bring up whenever it finds it necessary. It may seem to be unimportant to many Americans as they believe they have nothing to hide, but unfortunately that means nothing. By keeping these records for so long, the NSA risks having this information being leaked or accessed by others. Even if the NSA claims that it is a secure venue, there have been lapses in security before. An example of this is the the scandal involving the spying of NSA officials on love interests. According Reuters, it was found that at least 12 NSA officials had been using their position to examine the actions of those they knew. Due to their positions in the NSA, it was found that they were able to track the call and or e-mail records of their loved ones and track Ramsamy 2 their actions through those means. (Selyukh). The NSA, however, claims that this massive surveillance is necessary and that it has pulled results. In fact, the NSA has claimed that they have prevented 54 terrorist attacks using these methods. This may seem impressive, but this information is misleading. First off, only 13 of those 54 attacks would have taken place in the United States.In addition, there was no major terror plots prevented by the NSA as none were detected by them in advance. Most of the potential threats that had been detected by the NSA were of smaller crimes like supporting terrorist groups, aspiring to attack, or joining the group. Also, it was found of those potential attacks, the FBI had already intercepted them and were in the process of determining the validity of the attackers before arresting them. (McLaughlin). This proves the NSA has been largely ineffective so far, even with their massive surveillance. The issue of NSA surveillance may seem to be an issue too big for ordinary citizens to protect themselves from. However, it is easier than it seems to protect yourself from the dangers of NSA surveillance. For example, the EFF recommends that people protect themselves by creating strong passwords to any account that you make. This can be done by making them longer than usual by using a system of random words combined together. This can be done easily by going to a dictionary and picking out an assortment of words. A password like that may seem hard to remember, but there are ways to remember. For example, you could write out the password on paper and keep it in a secure place that only you are aware of or have access to. If it goes missing despite this though, the EFF points out that you would be aware of this and would be able to change Ramsamy 2 the Internet In addition, it is recommended that you turn on a two-factor authentication on your accounts whenever it is possible Internet Two-factor authentication is a system that would send a randomly generated confirmation code to your phone or e-mail whenever you log into an account. Before you would be able to access the account, you would have to input this code. If the code is not implemented in addition to the password, access would be denied to the device. This authentication is also available on Gmail, meaning that this could be added to your student account provided by USF. To add two-step authentication to your gmail, all you would have to do is search to add two-step authentication to your gmail and click on the link entitled 2-Step Once there, all you have to do is follow the instructions listed there. Those are two easy ways that you make it harder for the NSA to track your actions online. There is no denying that the events of September 11, 2001 were tragic. It is a day that the lives of over three thousand American citizens were killed due to the fact that their government was unable to detect the threat in time. However, this does not mean that the American people should hand over all their rights to privacy to the government for an agency that only gives them the illusion of safety. The reason Americans fight again and again in war is to protect our constitutional rights, including the right to privacy. It would be an insult to those who sacrifice their lives to protect us and our rights to simply hand over our rights like they mean nothing. The American People have fought tooth and nail for these rights. They should be treasured, not discarded like they mean nothing. Ramsamy 2 References Frontier 29 Oct. 2014, www.eff.org/about. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. Asked Asked Questions About NSA, www.nsa.gov/about/faqs/about-nsa-faqs.shtml. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. Gellman, Barton, and Laura Poitras. British intelligence mining data from nine U.S. Internet companies in broad secret Washington WP Company, 7 June 2013, www.washingtonpost.com/investigations/us-intelligence-mining-data-from-nine-us-internet-compa Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. Harkinson, Josh. the incredible amount of data the NSA could be giving up in just 24 www.motherjones.com/politics/2015/06/patriot-act-nsa-surveillance-expiration. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. the Domestic Spying Program Frontier 9 Aug. 2014, www.eff.org/nsa-spying/how-it-works. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Ramsamy 2 Levinson-Waldman, Rachel. double danger of the it policy on surveillance Rachel Guardian News and Media, 10 Oct. 2013, www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2013/oct/10/double-danger-nsa-surveillance. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. Selyukh, Alina. NSA staff used spy tools on spouses, ex-lovers:  Thomson Reuters, 27 Sept. 2013. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Steps You Can Take Right Now Against Internet Frontier 27 Oct. 2013, www.eff.org/deeplinks/2013/10/ten-steps-against-surveillance. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. on First Unitarian Church v. NSA: First Amendment Challenge to NSA Frontier 21 Sept. 2015, www.eff.org/deeplinks/2015/09/update-eff-case-arguing-nsa-spying-violated-groups-first-amendme nt-rights. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017.