Homayoun Kamalimoghaddam Erika Staiger COMP2 America is the most well armed nation in the world, according to the small Arms Survey 2007 by the Geneva based Graduate Institute of International Studies, citizens own about 270 million of the 875 million (Maclnnis). Today in the United States, gun control is an extremely serious and important issue. There are two sides to every story as usual, some people are against it and some people are for it. As in this case, there are different opinions where the National Rifle Association (NRA) thinks that guns are for the better since they are used for protection by responsible citizens, whereas others believe that guns are dangerous to be kept and used and that it should not be owned by anyone and only be used by the people who are in charge of protecting the citizens such as the National Guard and law enforcement. I personally agree with those who believe that guns are unsafe because, today, we live in a society where humans cannot control their anger and temper and life is about the moment of impact. Owning a gun is safe until someone gets to the point in life where he or she cannot understand their surrounding. In one small moment, everything can change, the lives of so many people, attached to a gun like a thread. Additionally, the gun control in the United States allows anyone to own a gun that also includes teenagers where they can carry a gun into university campuses risking the lives of so many students. The reason that people feel gun ownership is such a problem is that so many people lose their lives by them each year. I believe guns lead to increases in crime, murder and even suicide from a young to older. By reducing availability of guns and providing education on gun safety, I think that these things will help make America safer. People think that owning a gun is safe because they can protect themselves in the situations of risk. But what they think about is that guns take lives. The lives of so many people that even deserve to die. Sometimes it happens by accident that someone shoots a person and sometimes it Both ways, a murder and this happens because we allow this for ourselves. This happens because guns are allowed to the people who be in charge of anything. There are people for every job, teachers to teach, sellers to sell, and many other jobs. Therefore it is the duty of National Guards and policemen to protect the country and the citizens of that country not the citizens. Gun is not a toy to people with and neither are the lives. Every human is born to live and a life full of hopes and passion, a gun cannot ruin this chance and right. Elders are role models for the teenagers of the society. By allowing guns for anyone teenagers too are being drawn into this path and believing that guns are for better. While they are for the worst because anything can happen with a gun, someone can die, somewhere can be exploded, and something can be destroyed. The result of anything done with a gun is a mess, something upsetting. I believe guns increase crimes, murder and even suicide. With this law anyone can own a gun and with a gun they can do lots of things that affect their surroundings. People who own a gun sometimes takes advantage of this chance and do things that the best for others. Committing a crime and murdering is easy when you own a gun because it gives that person a sense of control. We humans, like to abuse things most of the time. If we have power over something, then we use it to the fullest. Sometimes having that power might not cause anyone a trouble but sometimes it might be used to put ourselves in trouble and danger. Having a gun means having that power to do anything you please. There are people in this world who are not happy with their lives and having a gun makes it worse because it is only a matter of time that they decide to commit suicide and kill themselves. This is actually happening among us, especially college students. Due to so many reasons such as cyber bullying, the pressure of studies and exams, racism, not fitting in, and many other typical and disappointing reasons, students in universities commit suicide and owning a gun makes it worse as it can take lives of many. There is a always a solution to the problem. In this case by reducing availability of guns and providing education on gun safety on college campuses we can make this world a better place to live in. By starting from college campuses we can continue on this path to reduce the amounts of guns owned by the citizens. I believe that one thing that college campuses should talk about more and educate more students is the topic of gun control in United States because guns truly effects the lives of so many people even if we do not see it everyday. But gun accidents are happening everyday, taking lives, and affecting so many others. By educating students we can create a community where there are educated people who know that guns are not there to protect us but only to harm us. Guns be used by anyone but by those who have their limits and control and those who are actually in charge to protect others. By reducing availability of guns we reduce the number of deaths, crimes, murders, and suicides. In conclusion, power can be good or evil it depends on the situation. If power is abused then evil, and if it is used in the right way for a better cause, then it is considered as good. In most of the situations that I personally have encountered power is evil. The reason why the concept good or evil exists is because of us, humans. Therefore, we are in charge of what we do, and in a world so full of crimes and wrongdoings, do a little good. By reducing gun availability, we are doing good to so many people, saving the lives of so many people who are waiting and longing to be saved and those who need saving before anything such as students. By educating the students on this topic, they are being saved and kept safe.