Jain 1 Shaurya Jain Dr. Oana Cimpean ENC 1102 051 16 th April 2017 Felony Disenfranchisement: One Wrong Step, Judged Forever Abraham Lincoln dreamed of America where everyone can be treated equally. He said, men are created (Jr.). After more than 150 years, America has not been successful in establishing free and fair place for all. More than 6.1 million Americans cannot vote because of their past conviction (The Sentencing Project). Voting is the best way to exercise equality and participate in a free and fair country. The stats show that America has failed in doing so. The most effective way to restore voting rights of ex-felons is by educating them and encourage them to take a stand against the government so that they can participate in the decision making of the country. Felon disenfranchisement refers to the loss of voting rights by a citizen because of his past conviction. (Civil Rebirth). Felon disenfranchisement is adopted from ancient Greek and Roman civilizations and Medieval Europe. According to the article in Temple Law Review, early justifications for felony disenfranchisement were based on the philosophical contract theory. According to the theory, citizens enter a social contract where they give up their personal liberty in exchange for protection from the government. If a voter does not have best interest then the voter should not participate in the decision making. According to Temple Law Review, practice of disenfranchisement ex-felons is deeply rooted in the American political system and Fourteenth Amendment allows Supreme Court to permit state felon disenfranchisement laws. Therefore, numerous people lost their case in the court. Since 1800s, Jain 2 Supreme Court has faced numerous challenges to restore voting rights but plaintiff has failed every time. Felon disenfranchisement exists in most states in different forms. Some states do not let ex-felons to vote until a waiting period has elapsed which may even last after probation or parole, whereas some states automatically restore their rights after completion of their sentence, probation or parole (Civil Rebirth). Initially, felons only lost their voting rights for committing extreme crimes then it expanded over time to minor offences. There are two ways to restore voting rights. The first way is through clemency power or automatic restoration after completion of a sentence. Moreover, the clemency systems are According to National Conference of State Legislature, there is inconsistent communication among agencies. The communication method among courts, correction and election officials are not timely and inconsistent (National Conference of State Legislatures). James Ghent, completed his sentence for burglary in the early 1990s in Miami. In 1995, he completed his parole and defeated his drug addiction. He also went to school for radiography. In 2000, he started his process to regain his voting rights. He believed that voting always be a He was also motivated to get his voting right back to get his professional radiography license which requires restoration of civil rights. Ghent appeared 4 times a year in Tallahassee for his hearings. The Clemency Board consisted of governor and his cabinets and they denied appeal. The Board granted less than .01% of applications for restoration of civil rights from 2011 to 2012. Over time, states have make some amendment in the voting policies which has made the process more complicated. Maine and Vermont are the only two states with no voting disenfranchisement laws. Florida, Iowa, and Kentucky only restore voting rights after receiving an executive pardon through the clemency board which itself is a lengthy process with low success Jain 3 rates for the applicant. Fourteen states and District of Columbia allow people to vote while on parole or probation but not while incarcerated. Four states allow to vote on probation but not during incarceration or parole and eight states restrict voting rights based on the type of crime or amount of time that has passed since its commission. (Civil Rebirth). There has been some success in the past few years. In 2013, Delaware legislature passed a constitutional amendment that removed the five years waiting period after completion of a sentence. California Secretary of State said that they would litigation over policies that prevented low-level offenders from in 2015 (Silicon Valley Newsroom). In the same year, Wyoming allowed first time nonviolent offenders to vote. These cases suggest that under great pressure, time and scrutiny of public, law enforcement agencies tend to listen to citizens. In states like California, people have actively participated by protesting. Though there has been tremendous progress towards loosening restrictions on post-sentence voting, organization like Heritage Foundation suggests for lists and application process for violent (Civil Rebirth). Scholars presented statistics that backed up the claim. Many ex-felons are unable to restore their voting rights because of confusing and arbitrary restoration process (Civil Rebirth). It is mainly because of applicant fees and complicated and poorly publicized processes. If automatic restoration of voting rights is practiced then it will be beneficial both for the state and the ex-felons. Automatic restoration reduces confusion and is more efficient for the state. Non-automatic voting restoration methods threaten the of the American democratic processes by excluding large swaths of the (Civil Rebirth). In conclusion, it is important that people take necessary steps to restore the voting rights of ex-felons. Considering close this election this year, it is important that we take every Jain 4 vote in consideration. 6 million votes can change the outcome of election. It is vital that people understand the importance of voting. Works Cited Jr., Mark E. Neely. The Abraham Lincoln Encyclopedia. illustrated. Da Capo Press, 1984. National Conference of State Legislatures. n.d. 16 04 2017. <http://www.ncsl.org/research/elections-and-campaigns/felon-voting-rights.aspx>. Silicon Valley Newsroom. sanjose inside. 12 08 2015. Metrosiliconvalley. 16 04 2017. <http://www.sanjoseinside.com/2015/08/12/voting-rights-restored-for-60000-low-level- offenders/>. The Sentencing Project. n.d. 16 04 2017. <http://www.sentencingproject.org/issues/felony- disenfranchisement/>. CIVIL REBIRTH: MAKING THE CASE FOR AUTOMATIC EX-FELON VOTER  Temple Law Review89.02 (2017): 451-85. USF Online Library. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.