Garcia 1 Santiago Garcia Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 15 April 2017 Why Animal Rights Matter Circuses, Bullfighting, Zoos, Aquariums, Hunting and Movies all have one thing in common, animals being exploited for entertainment. The entertainment industry is a greedy business where the only thing that matters is revenue and large audiences. Animals are being used to get this industry tons of money, and the animals get abused or killed for these purposes. These animals are trying to live normal lives, but people are selfish and using them to get quick money. Animals can be punished by being hurt physically, mentally, and by not getting fed when their performance was not perfect. People who do not work in the entertainment industry are unaware of these things going behind the scenes, especially pre-teens, which are not introduced to these problems until middle school or high school. The teenagers and adults have tried to get this problem to stop from happening, but the main source of income that the entertainment industry gets is from pre-teens. These pre-teens need to be aware of this in order to understand what goes on these field trips to zoos and aquariums. Pre-teens need to protest against animal exploitation by not going to these entertainment businesses in order to give them the message that animals are not to be used for money, which would give an end to this abuse that animals are going through, thus leading the businesses to lose revenue and would then have to set the animals free. Garcia 2 Most people believe that animals in entertainment industries such as movies and circuses like what they are doing, but this is not the case. The behaviors of the animals when they do stunts or acting is all due to tremendous amounts of torture and insane training methods (PETA). Animals in circuses are exposed to many diseases, because they were not given basic medical first aid. Most of these animals get tuberculosis, and this is due to not being treated for wounds that were inflicted during beatings and natural occasions. Circuses are also known to have topsoil available in order to hide the wounds and blood on the animals (Causes). Movies also tend to be a great business that uses animals and hurts them so they can do something for a film. One of the worst cases of animal cruelty in a movie, is the film, It was proven that a minimum of six animals, which include: a muskrat, a pig, a monkey, a snake, a turtle, and a large spider were killed for the sake of the film. There was a problem with the first monkey being shot in the film, so they had to shoot another monkey for the scene (Causes). Countries like Sweden, Costa Rica, Austria, Finland, India and Singapore have banned and restricted the use of animals in circuses to prevent this monstrosity that the entertainment industry pursues (Causes). Animals being used for the entertainment industry live 96% of their lives in chains or cages. In circuses, animals travel for eleven months a year in long distances inside a box car with no climate control, sleeping, eating, and breathing the same air as other animals which causes diseases and illnesses. When the animals are allowed out the cages and chains, they are exposed to abusive discipline such as whipping, hitting, poking, and electric shocks (Paws). The United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) has made it so there are very minimum standards for caring of these animals, yet most of these animal used areas are not inspected. When animals are taken out of the wild, they may carry diseases that are threats to the general Garcia 3 safety. The animals can carry tuberculosis and may infect humans with the disease. Many public records have proven that most circuses use Tuberculosis positive wild animals in their public shows (Paws). These circuses, are not required by the law to have the equipment for rampant or loose animals, and due to this, there have been over 100 human injuries worldwide. The circus animals like elephants are usually put in cages with shackles that are as little as five feet in length, which is a striking difference to the thousands of miles of space they lived in the wild (Paws). Hunting is a terrible sport where the animals are shot and killed in order to become trophies and for their fame. Killing animals should not be a sport, especially when they are innocent animals that are only trying to live their lives normally. Hunting should be stopped by having its viewers complain and not watch these terrible shows. Animals in the entertainment industry will need tons of support from pre-teens, because they are the ones who are most brought to these businesses. If these children are understanding of this major situation that is going on around the world, they may have sympathy for these animals who are being used and abused for the sake of entertainment. The pre-teens will need to protest against these businesses to help the animals gain their liberty and rights to live their normal lives instead of being put in chains and in containers that defecate them. They will have to email the circuses to set them free in the wild again, and they will also have to contact the investigators to check up on what goes behind closed doors in these businesses. The entertainment industry will lose tons of money from people not going to attend their shows, watching their movies, etc. The pre-teens will also have to contact their local government to make a law against animals in the entertainment industry. Pre-teens need to not only picture themselves in the positions, but also make sure other people know about these terrible problems going around the world, because people Garcia 4 will not do anything unless it affects the younger people or children. The parents will be able to understand their children which they can help support their viewpoints and then there will be tons of success in order to get these animals out of this terrible danger for a greedy and monstrous business. Kids can contribute to helping this cause by forming groups and organizations and get donations to help these animals get fed and medical attention. In conclusion, animals in the entertainment industry are being tortured and killed, for the sake of entertaining an audience, but not that many people are standing up against it. Children need to join organizations and merge with other organizations like PETA in order to stop these terrible businesses and sports from using animals for show. This will be a big step into becoming a friendly community with the animals without having to force them to do anything against their will. There are obviously tons of fans of the entertainment industry that uses animals, but if the pre-teens can inform these other oblivious people about what goes on behind the scenes, it will definitely change their hearts and opinions about zoos, circuses, and other types of industries that exploit animals for entertainment. Not only will it inform them, but it will set these animals back to where they belong. WC: 1178 Garcia 5 Works Cited Animal Abuse Facts and  Causes. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. <https://www.causes.com/causes/549994-stop-slaughter-houses-stop-animal cruelty/updates/416945-animal-abuse-facts-and-statistics>. Circuses: Three Rings of  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. <http://www.peta.org/issues/animals-in-entertainment/animals-used-entertainment factsheets/circuses-three-rings-abuse/>.  Animal Equality. N.p., 19 Sept. 2012. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. <http://www.animalequality.net/entertainment>. PAWS - People Helping  Enjoy the Circus? The Animals PAWS. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. <https://www.paws.org/get-involved/take-action/explore-the issues/circus-cruelty/>. Peta2. Why Animal  Peta2. Peta2, 17 Mar. 2017. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. <https://www.peta2.com/animal-rights-basics/why-animal-rights/>.