Luis Velez ENC1102.034 Adam Carter 16 April 2017 Intermediate Draft When a college student steps foot into a University for the first time in their life, it is an overwhelming feeling consisting of various adventures, new interactions with friends and acquaintances, and a world full of opportunities. Some of these opportunities are beneficial to a student, and others can drag a person down a pathway of bad decisions: smoking happens to be one of those negative opportunities. Smoking may look cool at first, but the catch is that it does not only affect these college students who may experience it for the first time, but it affects all people at the University, especially other students who interact with smokers on a daily basis. Although the temptation of smoking surrounds innocent bystanders as well as smokers in its toxic grasp, people can take a stand and end the self-suppression that smoking creates in a person. To begin, smoking is permissible to adults who are above the age of eighteen years old; it is a right that is given to people by the people, and it is an action that is done entirely by an individual with their personal choice. There are risks associated with smoking such as lung cancer, diabetes, stroke, and other illnesses and diseases, but it is labelled clearly for smokers to see on the box. People tend to smoke for a variety of reasons, ranging from it being a stress reliever, or just from a regular habit influenced by family members, friends, or others. As college students, life can hit us negatively at different levels: huge exams that determine our grade in a class, pop quizzes that catch us off-guard, or fragile relationships with friends or significant others. Unfortunately, these events can come gradually or all at one instant. The buildup of stress on a person would create an urge for a student to vent out that stress; if it is not partying or binge-drinking alcohol, smoking is one of those stress relievers. According to a survey taken by Emmons, over twenty percent of college students (out of a survey of over 17 thousand students) were smokers. The survey did not specify specific actions or methods of smoking, such as smoking cigarettes, marijuana, or hookah, but some of these smoking methods are worse than others. If students relied on smoking as their dominant stress reliever, these college students would not only impact their health negatively, but it would also affect others around them. For example, a man named Jamason was diagnosed with asthma as an infant due to secondhand smoking. Due to other choice to smoke, he has life threatening asthma attacks and it was not from his personal choice. (Center for Disease Control). With any smoking product, there is a boatload of chemicals and toxins that are used in other household products. For example, in each cigarette, there are approximately 7000 chemicals that have the purpose to keep a consumer addicted to smoking (Tobacco Free Florida). Even if the label on a cigarette box says that there are natural products (like tobacco leaves), it still is harmful to the human body and can cause cancer; the ultimate form of sending your body to the grave earlier than expected. Hookah, an to smoking, can impact your health negatively even more than by smoking cigarettes. According to Tobacco Free Florida, one hour hookah session contains 46 times the tar and about 3-6 times the carbon monoxide as the smoke from a single With the devastating amounts of chemicals and toxins that is inhaled while smoking, the effects that are brought on to the human body are disastrous. Life threatening diseases such as cancers, stroke, heart disease, and diabetes can be developed from smoking. Some physical attributes that come with smoking over time would include hair loss, cataracts, and even lesions in the throat or mouth. What makes this more terrifying is that this can all begin while a student is here at a four-year university, trying out a cigarette after a long and rigorous exam week. What may seem harmless now can become horrifying ten or twenty years from now, when a person has the possibility of having cancer virtually anywhere in the body just from smoking cigarettes. They would not be the only ones who would be affected. Secondhand smoking can be just as deadly because the ones around a smoker can still develop cancer just from breathing in the smoke. A man by the name of Nathan developed bronchiectasis, which is permanent lung damage, and caused him to pass away at 54 years old from secondhand smoke, even though he never smoked a day in his life. After hearing about the various effects that smoking can do to body and to others around them, it is time for change. After knowing how drastic the consequences of smoking are, we must act to protect ourselves, the ones we love, and the community that we serve. Quitting is the first step in accomplishing this goal, but having the support system necessary will help any individual in successfully quitting. When an individual can understand their situation on their addiction and the reasoning on why they want to quit, it makes the process easier (GSK). If we college students stand up and say no to smoking, and encourage our other colleagues to do the same, we can make a difference not only in our University, but within our community here in Tampa, Florida. As student at the University of South Florida, I insist that we all stand up and encourage ourselves and other fellow students to throw away any cigarettes that we have as an active first step towards making our campus healthier. Another alternative step that we can take would be to visit USF counseling services and develop a plan to quit smoking, along with attending group sessions that will have support from your fellow peers at the university. If people all come together as one to promote a higher cause (which is to end the self-suppression that comes with smoking), we not only change our lives for the better, but the lives of our fellow students and faculty around us. Although the temptation of smoking surrounds unaware students as well as smokers in its toxic grasp, we can take a stand and end the self-suppression that smoking creates in a person by throwing away any cigarettes and tobacco that we have and by seeking counseling services from USF in order to create and maintain a plan to end smoking. Everybody has faced a struggle in their life in one way, shape, or form. Smoking is one of the hardest habits to quit because of the amount of nicotine and other chemicals put into tobacco products to keep students addicted to using their products. The ringleaders, or corporate bosses who control the market for tobacco products, know how dangerous and poisonous products are: they do not even use them: they have even said, smoke that s#?!, we just sell (Tobacco Free Florida). We have the knowledge to see that smoking is illogical and should be avoided, so why not stand up, and take charge of your life and stand alongside others who have done the same. In a life full or decisions, it is a guarantee that quitting the urge to smoke will be a decision with no regrets. Works Cited Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Tips From Former Smokers, https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/campaign/tips/stories/ Emmons, K. M., H Wechsler, G Dowdall, and M Abraham. of Smoking Among US College American Journal of Public Health, vol. 88, no. 1, Jan 1998, http://ajph.aphapublications.org.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/doi/pdf/10.2105/AJPH.88.1.104 Accessed 16 April 2017. GSK, Quit Quit.com, https://www.quit.com/quit- smoking.html?rotation=71700000009401652&banner=58700000401409452&kw=60254 Tobacco Free Florida, #The Facts Now: Exposing Big Lies, http://thefactsnow.com/tagged/theeffects