Terry 1 Taquon Terry 16 April 2017 Hannah Lay ENC 1102 Say No To GMO They say you are what you eat and if true, then over half of the population is a GMO or genetically modified organism. This is a plant, animal or other organism whose genetic makeup has been altered using gene modification or transgenic technology (Most Trusted Seal). Today nearly of our produce contains a GMO and that ratio is slowly increasing as scientists begin experimenting on more plants and animals. In recent years, there has been controversy over whether GM foods are harmless or can they cause long term health issues. If they are indeed potentially dangerous, the best way to avoid long term harm is to become educated while still young and make the choice for yourself on whether to eat them or not. College students across the country must become educated on the adverse effects of genetically modified foods in order to protect both their current and future health. Through becoming educated and refusing to continue consuming genetically modified foods, these dangers could easily be averted. Genetic Modification has been around for over 40 years, yet many people are still unaware of what it is are and which crops are affected by it. In fact, a national survey Terry 2 taken by researchers at Rutgers University showed that percent of Americans say they know very little or nothing at all about GM foods, and 25 percent say they have never even heard of them (Branson It until 1992 when the Environmental Protection Agency approved testing on the first insecticide-producing tomato crop and as time passed with our technology becoming more enhanced, scientists were able to fabricate many more GM crops (Rangel 1). This was done technology or the process of removing the DNA from one organism and inserting it into the permanent genetic code of there are currently ten GMO crops being grown on 105.7 million acres of land by farmers in the United States and they most commonly include: corn, soybeans, cotton, canola, alfalfa, sugar beets, papaya, squash, potatoes, and apples (Monsanto). With so many GMO crops emerging, it is important to know why you should avoid consuming them, why many people object eating them and why they believe GM products to be harmful to human health. Although most GM seeds have been tested and presumed to be safe by regulatory agencies such as the FDA, there is still evidence that counters that safety claim. In the article Our Food: Possible Risks versus written by Jimmy Kocher and Muhammad Rashid, a student and professor at the University of West Florida, they stated that in recent years scientists have questioned human health risks in relation to GM foods. This lead to many independent studies by researchers who in fact have found links between GMOs and immune problems, Terry 3 accelerated ageing, faulty insulin regulation, and infertility (Kosher 928-929). only the beginning of the worries. In 2015 the International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC) classified glyphosate, the most common herbicide used in GMO seeds, as a likely human carcinogen or an agent directly involved in causing cancer (Landrigan). The insecticide Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt), also found in GMOs, produces another toxin called the Cry1Ab protein which has shown to cause cell death in human embryonic kidney cells and eventually cancer (Corsi). Maintaining your health should be one of your top priorities and typically that begins with monitoring what you do or put inside your body. With labeling not being mandatory in the United States, most people would find it really difficult to know which products are safer for them to consume. The best way to avoid going in blind is to become familiar products made by anti GMO non profit organizations. The Non-GMO Project is the perfect website to visit. This is perhaps the most accredited organization in the country that pushes toward GMO avoidance. Their website further informs you on the science behind GMOs, gives you a list of their certified organic groceries and also provides recipes for those who would rather prepare their own healthy meal. To ensure that you have easy access to non GM goods, they even go as far as providing you with a list of participating retailers that supply non GMO goods. The website also provides a sublink to their which provides customers with ways in which they can donate and get involved with the organization. Finally, they host something called the Terry 4 Non GMO Challenge which month-long celebration that gives shoppers, brands, and retailers the opportunity to make meaningful non-GMO (Most Trusted Seal). Now is the time to begin maintaining a healthier lifestyle, so do not hesitate to visit this website and get involved. Although many people still deny that GMOs are harmful, research is still being done and evidence is still being found to prove that GM food has its adverse effects. Everyone wants to maintain a healthy lifestyle, but if the food eating is harming us in the long run then doing so is definitely challenging. Becoming aware early on of what GMOs are and how they could be harming human health is the best way to avoid any type of harm. students across the country need to become educated on the adverse effects of genetically modified foods in order to protect both their current and future health along with the health of their loved ones. Through becoming educated and refusing to continue consuming genetically modified foods, these dangers could easily be averted. Anti GMO organizations are a perfect way to get informed about issues pertaining to GMOs and ways to get involved with healthier food choices. be afraid of change. As our technology advances scientists will surely be able to determine the full on effect of GM goods and the controversy of GMOs on human health will begin to die down. Terry 5 Works cited Branson, Ken. Most Americans Pay Little Attention to Genetically Modified Foods, Survey  Americans Pay Little Attention to Genetically Modified Foods, Survey Says Media Rutgers Today, 01 Nov. 2013. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Corsi, Hector. Evidence of GMO Toxin Absorption and  Journal: A Global Digital Media N.p., 09 May 2012. Web. 16 Apr. 2017 Kocher, Jimmy and Muhammad Rashid. Engineering Our Food: Possible Risks Verses  - Social and Behavioral vol. 176, no. International Educational Technology Conference, IETC 2014, 3-5 September 2014, Chicago, IL, USA, 20 Feb. 2015, pp. 927-932. doi:10.1016/j.sbspro.2015.01.560. Landrigan, Philip J. and Charles Benbrook. Gmos, Herbicides, and Public  New England Journal of no. 8, 2015, p. 693. ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true &db=edsgao&AN=edsgcl.430881771&site=eds-live.  Sustainable Agriculture Monsanto, 2002. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. MOST TRUSTED  NonGMO N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Terry 6 Rangel, Gabriel. From Corgis to Corn: A Brief Look at the Long History of GMO  in the Harvard University, 23 Oct. 2016. Web. 16 Apr. 2017