Student 1 Student Instructor Lewis ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Giving Hope To The Hopeless Depression is a condition that affects more than one out of every ten Americans adults per year. That is over 15 million individuals suffering from a severely harmful affliction. To many people depression is merely a feeling of overwhelming sadness or hopelessness that one might experience during traumatic or stressful periods of life. In actuality the effects of depression go far beyond a simple feeling of sadness or hopelessness. According to the statistical data from healthline.com the US states with the highest rates of depression also had exceedingly high rates of obesity, lack of education, sleep disorder, heart disease, and stroke (1). Evidently there is a correlation between depression and other important aspects of life. Thus people suffering from depression have lower quality of life overall. Ronald Kessler wrote in his article Epidemiology of Major Depressive that people who suffer from extreme depression are more prone to having suicidal thoughts, committing acts of self-harm, and in some cases actually committing the act of suicide (1). With such a high number of Americans reportedly diagnosed with the disorder the chances are high that a friend or a loved one could be battling with suicidal thoughts and self harm at this very moment. More frightening than that there is a good chance that the number of Americans battling depression could be much higher than 15 million. According to healthline.com over 80% of the people who display symptoms of clinical depression are receiving no treatment at all, and the number of patients diagnosed increase by approximately 20% per year (1). Additionally more often than not the effects of Student 2 depression last for years and can worsen over time if not properly treated. Depression is a growing epidemic and a prevalent negative force in the lives of countless Americans. In order to combat this scourge it is imperative that we learn to recognize the signs, and gain knowledge of the multiple treatment methods available to formulate the best treatment plan specific to the individual. When an individual is suffering from depression that person is certain to exhibit multiple warning signs that would indicate that he or she is depressed. It is of utmost importance to be able to recognize these warning signs in others and in self as well. An article on webmd.com lists off all of the common warning signs portrayed amongst depressed individuals. The two most common signs are prolonged feelings of sadness and hopelessness, although these signs are more easily identifiable by the depressed individuals themselves (1). Depressed individuals typically conceal their negative emotions and attempt to go about their daily lives. Other warning signs that fall into a similar category include trouble concentrating, changes in sleep patterns, changes in appetite, and in some cases persistent headaches (1). As an individual experiencing these symptoms it is important to seek help in some way and formulate a plan to treat the depression before the symptoms get more severe. Webmd also lists warning signs that an outside observer can notice in a friend or loved one. If these signs are noticed in a friend or loved one it is crucial to reach out to them and encourage them to seek the help they need in order to get better. These signs include loss of interest in activities, lack of energy, isolation from friends and family, and irritability. Every individual is different and some may experience certain symptoms more than others. A person suffering from depression will not likely admit their feelings outright due to fear of being seen as weak. As a result many people who are depressed never receive treatment and able to live their lives to the fullest. Student 3 Left untreated depression infects the mind with feelings of hopelessness, and a lack of self worth that in some cases evolves into suicidal thoughts and acts of self-harm. Statistics gathered by Emory University show that an average of 94 people in the United States commit suicide per day (1). That is over 34 thousand suicide victims annually right here in the United States of America. To put this into perspective consider that each year in the United States only 18 thousand citizens die as a result of homicide (1). That means that each year there are less people that are murdered than there are people with untreated depression who chose to end their own life. The reality of depression is grim but if those who suffer from it can get help then there is still hope. Depression affects every individual in different ways and some cases may be more severe than others. Luckily there are numerous forms of treatment that can be used to either diminish the symptoms of depression or in some cases cure it completely. For those who are experiencing slight symptoms of depression there are self-help resources available on HelpGuide.org. HelpGuide is a free web based organization that provides self-help tools and advice to those seeking help with their depression. The perks of this rout is that it is free and easily accessible, however it may be less effective for treating more severe depression symptoms. The information available on the HelpGuide website could also be useful for a family member or friend of the depressed individual, because it provides information about how to provide comfort and support. If the symptoms of depression are more severe and the afflicted person is experiencing intense suicidal urges, or committing acts of self-harm then more drastic measures should be taken. In cases such as these anti depressant drugs may be necessary in order to cause the symptoms to subside. In an article written by Andrew J. Hvizdos titled Use of Ketamine in The Acute Management of he discussed how a series of experiments revealed that ketamine as Student 4 an antidepressant severely decreased the severity of multiple symptoms of depression including suicidal tendencies (1). A regimen of prescribed antidepressants combined with a series of therapy sessions with a trained psychologist is the most effective method for treating severe depression. As previously stated, each year in the United States reported cases of depression increase by 20%. With the number of diagnosed depressed individuals walking amongst us today the chances are high that a friend, coworker, family member, or peer could be silently suffering. The worst part is that the majority of depressed individuals in the United States neglect to seek help and most never receive any treatment at all. Although it may be difficult to change the circumstances that caused the depression it is important to reach out to anyone who may be suffering and work on formulating a treatment plan which targets the depression itself. let others suffer in silence. (WC:1120) Student 5 Work Cited 1. Andrew J. Hvizdos, PharmD, MBA, The Use of Ketamine in the Acute Management of  U.S. Pharmacist. N.p., 17 Nov. 2016. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. 2.  HelpGuide.org. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. 3. Depression Statistics: Unhappiness by the Numbers  Healthline. Healthline Media, n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. 4. Suicide Statistics. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. 5. Sukel, Kayt. Challenges to Finding A Successful Depression Medication - and Hope with New  GeneSight Blog. N.p., 08 Sept. 2015. Web. 27 Mar. 2017. 6. What Are the Causes and Symptoms of  WebMD. WebMD, n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.