Deautriell 1 Nicolle Deautriell Hannah Lay ENC 1102 10 April 2017 USF Medical Students and The Zoo Going to the zoo can be viewed as one of greatest pastimes. People get to connect with nature and see animals that are commonly found in the wild, such as rhinos and giraffes. However, zoos serve a much greater purpose than just allowing people to see wild animals. Zoos, which have been around since the 1700s, work toward animal conservation (Kawata 188). By practicing animal conservation, zoos are working toward preventing the extinction of animals which is essential for the human species to survive. Animals, for example, aid in the advancement of human medicine, making animals and the medical field interdependent on each other. The University of South Florida, for example, is one of the many colleges where medical students have the ability to research human health and disease, but many USF medical students may not be aware of how important animals are to their field of study (USF Health). Although the University of South Florida medical students are not currently engaged in the topic of animals in the zoo and animal conservation, animals are used for the discovery of life-saving medicines, and therefore, USF students should get involved by joining the USF biology club and/or adopt an animal at the Lowry Park Zoo to support zoos and promote animal conservation. The origins of modern zoos dates back to the monarchs in European countries who housed large, exotic animals as pets that could be viewed by the public (Ritvo 188). According to Harriet Ritvo, author of At the the recognizably modern zoo emerged in Deautriell 2 the 18 th century, and the 19 th century saw the foundation of many of our most distinguished contemporary zoological (188). Due to the advances in transportation, animals could be transported overseas, which allowed zoos to spread globally, and in 1874, the first American Zoo, the Philadelphia Zoo, was opened (Ritvo 188). By zoos could be found in more than 100 cities in the United States alone (Ritvo 188). Although popularity boomed in the mid 20 th century, zoos became controversial. Critics of zoos, such as Ken Kawata, author of Circus Wagons and Imagined Nature: A Review of American Zoo Exhibits, Part states, became a bifocal eclipse, embracing conservation and the almighty U.S. dollar, instead of a single-focal, perfect (360). Kawata is stating that zoos had two main priorities which were to make money and care for the animals (360). This was a cause for concern because critics of zoos believed that the well-being of animals came second to making money. To show that the main priority was the animals, in 1980, the American Association of Zoological Parks and Aquariums (AAZPA) voted that every main priority was to practice animal conservation, or protecting animals that are at risk of becoming endangered or extinct (Kawata 30). Although some still believe that zoos are unethical for animals, zoos use the proper tools to make sure that animals live a long and enjoyable life. One of the main issues that critics of zoos have is that they claim zoos cannot house large animals because there is not enough space for the animals to roam around (Bertram 201). However, zoologist Brian Bertram, author of About states that in the wild, like the zoo, have boundaries they cannot cross, even though it is not the same as animals in (201). Bertram is stating that no matter what environment an animal is in, whether it be a zoo or the wild, it will always have boundaries that cannot be crossed (Bertram 201). Additionally, zoos protect animals from predators, provide veterinary care, and give animals ample environmental conditions so that Deautriell 3 they do not have to worry about the natural causes of suffering that they may be exposed to in the wild (Bertram 202). Essentially, zoos do ethically care for animals and promote the well- being of these creatures. Furthermore, zoos are essential in society because zoos practice animal conservation, which is a key factor in the fight to save the overall declining number of species of animals in the world today. Conservationists ways to protect natural systems and heal the wounds of degraded (Miller et. al 88). So, as conservationists, zoos work to try to save animals and protect their natural environments that are being constantly damaged and destroyed by humans. The human species uses 40% of all net primary productivity and more than half of the renewable fresh (Miller et. al 87). This means that humans are exponentially using resources to meet their needs, and in the process, animals are suffering. Over the last 50 years, the Earth has lost 30% of its forests, 20% of its topsoil, and 20% of its agricultural land (Miller et. 88). In two more generations, the rain forests will only be 5% of their original size, and as a result many animals are at risk of becoming extinct (Miller et. al 88). Thanks to zoos, however, 39 species of animals that are extinct in the wild, are not completely extinct because these species are being housed in zoos (Borell 9). Zoos are not only housing animals at risk of extinction or at risk of becoming endangered in their zoos, but they are also raising money for animal conservation which is essential to the longevity of the animal species (Borell 9). Conservation is important because animals are used to aid in the discovery of life-saving medicines (Woods 150). According to Abigail Woods, author of Health, One Medicine: Reconnecting Humans and Animals Within Medical animals have been used and observed by scientists to help scientists learn about the functions (150). Additionally, animals have been used as a way to find the causes of some diseases, which helped create Deautriell 4 vaccines for humans (Woods 150). For example, insulin, which is used to help control diabetes, was discovered by animal research (NobelPrize). Animal research has also helped aid in the advancements of treatment for HIV/Aids, cancer, asthma, high blood pressure, and in the discovery of certain antibiotics (California Biomedical Research Association). However, at the pace animals are becoming extinct, two-thirds of animal species will disappear in the next four generations (Miller et. al 87). Clearly, without animals, the medical field will suffer because humans will have a more difficult time finding cures for diseases which is essential for the human species to continue to reproduce and survive. Since USF medical students actively research ways to find medicines that can cure diseases, they should become involved in animal conservation by supporting zoos. According to medical school, Morsani College of Medicine has active research programs in basic, transitional, and clinical (USF Health). Their goal to pursue new knowledge in the biomedical sciences, clinical sciences, and healthcare delivery, relevant to human health and (USF Health). Basically, one of goals for its medical students is to aid in the discovery and research of medicines for humans (USF Health). Since animals have been used to aid in the discovery of major advances in medicine, such as insulin for diabetics, if more and more animals become extinct, then medical students will not be able to new knowledge [that is relevant human health and disease (USF Health). Without animals, insulin, which is used to keep diabetics alive, would have not been discovered nor would the vaccines for rabies, anthrax, etc. (Woods 147). As Abigail Woods stated, boundaries of medical history have expanded to incorporate veterinary medicine and the non-human (Woods 148). So, animals and humans are more interdependent on each other than some may think. The medical Deautriell 5 field would not be where it is today without animals, and if animal conservation is not practiced more, then the medical fields and USF medical students will be greatly affected. To practice animals conservation, and therefore supporting zoos, USF medical students can join the biology club. The USF biology mission is to allow students to explore and pursue their curiosity [in and to encourage a positive interest and literacy of biology to the (USF Student Organizations). According to the USF biology club president, Nadim Joudeh, the biology club has become increasingly involved in animals conservation by having conservation biologists come to speak to club members to inform them about the need to practice animal conservation, taking trips to the zoo and aquarium, and by having members of the club take part in animal conservation projects (Joudeh). Learning more about the environment allows people to connect with nature, and as David Sobel, author of states must allow people to connect with nature and love the Earth before we ask them to save (Keulartz 343). By joining the biology club, USF medical students can learn more about nature and the need for conservation while making new friends. Another way to practice animal conservation is for USF medical students to adopt an animal from the Lowry Park Zoo. USF medical students can enlist the help of some of their friends to host a bake sale on campus to raise money to adopt an animal at the Lowry Park Zoo in Tampa, Florida. The Lowry Park Zoo allows people to adopt an animal for as little as 15 dollars (Lowry Park Zoo). By adopting an animal, you will be able to name the animal, receive a fact sheet that educates you about the animal, receive an adoption certificate, and a colored photo of the animal you have adopted (Lowry Park Zoo). As Lowry Park states, symbolic adoption helps to support expert animal care at the Zoo and global conservation (Lowry Park Zoo). Deautriell 6 So, animals are essential to the survival of all humans because of help in the advancement of many life-saving medicines. Since animals are used for life-saving medicines, they play a key role in the medical field, and therefore, a key role in USF medical students lives. Without animals, medicines would be harder to find. Therefore, as a leader in the fight to save animals and animal conservation, zoos are a necessity. Zoos practice animal conservation and make efforts to save the ever- increasing animals that are at risk of becoming extinct or endangered. This is why USF medical students, who are now engaged stakeholders, should adopt an animal at the Lowry Park Zoo or join the USF biology club. By taking part in the fight for animal conservation, USF medical students can make a difference, and in the future, help to prevent more animals from going on the endangered species list. Using this knowledge, in the future, USF medical students can spread the message about the need for animal conservation while taking steps to save animal species. Deautriell 7 Works Cited Bertram, Brian. About Biologist, vol. 51, no.4, pp.199-206, eds.a.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?sid=533c4988-cede- 41c0-8463-254f33b30076%40sessionmgr4007&vid=4&hid=4208. Borrell, James. Reasons Why Zoos are Good for The Biologist, vol.63, No.9, pp.9, eds.a.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer? California Biomedical Research Association. Ca-biomed, http://www.ca-biomed.org/csbr/pdf/fs- whynecessary.pdf. Accessed 31 April 2017. Joudeh, Nadim. Received by Nicolle Deautriell , 4 April 2017. Kawata, Ken. Circus Wagons and Imagined Nature: A Review of American Zoo Exhibits, Part Der Zoologische Garten, vol. 80, no.6, pp.352-365, www.sciencedirect.com .ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/science/article/pii/S0044516911000633. Kawata, Ken. Thoughts on Zoo Animal Collection and Conservation: A Historical Der Zoologische Garten, vol.82, no.1-2, pp.26-39, www.sciencedirect. com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/science/article/pii/S0044516913000178. sid=8328d42d-5109-411d-8548-5159670dd0f6%40sessionmgr4010&vid=5&hid=4208. Keulartz, Jozef. for Conservation? Zoos at Journal of Agricultural and Environmental Ethics, vol. 28, pp.335-351, eds.b.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/ Deautriell 8 eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?sid=51a56ff6-3422-49b2-966b-644ebb70e5eb%40sessionmgr 120&vid=13&hid=113. Lowry Park Zoo. Lowry Park Zoo, www.lowryparkzoo.org/involvement/ adopt/adoption-packages. Accessed 3 April 2017. Nobel Prize. Discovery of Nobel Media AD,www.nobelprize.org/educational/ medicine/insulin/discovery-insulin.html. Accessed 28 March 2017. Miller, Brian, Conway, William, Reading, Richard P., Wemmer, Chris, Wildt, David, Kleiman, Devra, Monfort, Steven, Rabinowitz, Alan, Armstron, Beth, and Hutchins, Micheal. the Conservation Mission of Zoos, Aquariums, Botanical Gardens, and Natural History Biology, vol. 18, no.1, pp. 86-93. www.jstor.org.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/stable/pdf/ 3589120.pdf. Ritvo, Harriet. At the Sigma Xi, The Scientific Research Society, vol.91,no.2, pp.188.www.jstor.org.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/stable/pdf/27858196.pdf. USF Health. USF Health and Information Services, health.usf.edu/medicine/research/index.htm Accessed 31 March 2017. USF Student Organizations. USF, biology.usf.edu/bioadvise/involvement/clubs.aspx. Accessed 31 March 2017. Woods, Abigail. Health, One Medicine: Reconnecting Humans and Animals Within Medical Western Humanities Review, vol. 69, no.3, pp. 148-169. Deautriell 9 www.eds.b.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?sid=e4c51e08- e793-47e0-b2d3-7f3bab5348f2%40sessionmgr101&vid=8&hid=104.