Moir 1 Alexandra Moir Ms. Alison Missler ENC 1102 April 16, 2017 Get Moo-ving Did you pour milk in your cereal this morning? Use half and half in your coffee? You probably aware of the hazardous effects those dairy products may have. Many individuals consume milk and other dairy products because of its high levels of calcium and vitamin D, however, there are numerous negative environmental, economic and health impacts as well. These effects have primarily been felt in Southern Florida, within the Greater Everglades Ecosystem, where dairy farms are prominent. In hopes of educating the public on these issues, the Save the Everglades Association has created the No Dairy to do so. This event begins on April 24 th at select universities, and it promotes alternative dairy products, such as soy and almond, as a way to save the environment and the economy, as well as your health. Dairy farming itself perpetrates harm upon the environment. Lake Okeechobee houses large, diverse populations of fish, including those of largemouth bass, black crappie, catfish, bluegill and redear sunfish and it was estimated that, in 2000, the amount of fishing sales in the surrounding counties was more than $117 million (Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission, 2017). Most of the water that replenishes Lake Okeechobee, 70% to be exact, is received via land runoff and canals from the surrounding counties (Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission, 2017). However, the water received from land runoff contains many chemicals and nutrients that are present on the land, such as any pesticides on crops, manure, etc., and since dairy farmers often keep cow waste in pits, this only feeds the problem. Two of Moir 2 the most common chemicals associated with runoff from agricultural use are nitrogen and phosphorus (Perlman, 2016). When introduced to aquatic ecosystems, such as Lake Okeechobee, these nutrients can cause numerous complications. Excess nutrients can produce toxic algae blooms, which cause a loss of oxygen within the water, killing most aquatic life within it and reducing biodiversity (Carpenter et al., 1998). Within the past thirty years, it has been observed that Lake aquatic condition has declined into a state that is almost eutrophic and due to the over-loading of nutrients (Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission, 2017). When Lake Okeechobee is in danger of overflowing, the water is then drained through St. Lucie and Caloosahatchee Rivers, the Atlantic and Gulf Coast respectively. These waters, which are practically poisonous to marine life, are extremely unattractive to tourists. In 2014, there were 98.9 million tourists who visited the State of Florida (VisitFlorida, 2017). However, because of these discharges, Governor Rick Scott declared a state of emergency for the communities surrounding these rivers, saying that there has been environmental and economic (Guest, 2016). A TV reporter was interviewing a visitor from New Mexico in Fort Myers, who described the water at the beach, brown, it stinks, cold. It look very appealing to get into to go swimming (Guest, 2016). Businesses have already been experiencing the impacts of these discharges, from red tides to dead marine life. If government officials increase the number of these discharges, tourist season within Florida could become a thing of the past. Not only does dairy farming harm the environment, but dairy products harm the human body. Dairy products are high in saturated fats, and a diet rich in these could increase your cholesterol levels and cause artery blockages (Harvard, 2015). Research published by Karl Moir 3 a Swedish Professor, and his colleges, found that individuals who have a high milk intake have a higher mortality rate, along with a higher risk of bone fractures et al., 2014). Another risk that comes with consuming milk is that of ovarian cancer. It was observed that women who consumed greater than four servings of dairy products had a greater risk of ovarian cancer than women who consumed less than two servings (Larsson, 2004). There is currently a declaration, supported by more than two hundred scientists, which you as an individual can sign, stating how you support the treatment, storage, and relocation of water south of Lake Okeechobee as one of the only ways to stop the destructive releases of toxic waters through the rivers (Now or Neverglades Declaration for Individuals, 2016). This also means supporting the flow of clean water throughout the South Florida Watershed, improving the overall health of the Lake Okeechobee ecosystem and saving approximately eight million fresh drinking water (Now or Neverglades Declaration for Individuals, 2016). By doing so, this could solve both economic and environmental degradation. obvious that dairy has numerous consequences, and if signing a declaration is not for you, the No Dairy is still an excellent place to start making a difference. Beginning April 24 th , the Association have representatives present at universities in South Florida, such as University of South Florida and University of Miami, and will provide its participants with numerous coupons for alternative dairy products, such as Soy or Almond Milk, along with daily information booklets about how these alternatives better their health and the environment surrounding them. For example, Soy and Almond Milk have zero cholesterol and 50% more calcium compared to milk (Silk Milk, 2017). The Association is putting this campaign on in hopes to raise awareness of the dangerous effects of dairy. This challenge addresses all Moir 4 portions of the negative effects, by switching to non-dairy, there would be less nutrient run-off, less economic stress from discharges and better human health. Dairy farming has already caused eutrophication in Lake Okeechobee, and released dangerous amounts of toxic water into the Gulf of Mexico and Atlantic Ocean. This damage increases as the amount of runoff does. These products have also caused a great deal economically to the State of Florida, and individually as people consume it. Therefore, the Save the Everglades Association has felt such an inclination to do something. The No Dairy does not entitle any commitment, the only goal of this is to educate you and raise awareness about the negative connotations that dairy farming possess. Moir 5 References Carpenter, S. R., N. F. Caraco, D. L. Correll, R. W. Howarth, A. N. Sharpley, and V. H. Smith. NONPOINT POLLUTION OF SURFACE WATERS WITH PHOSPHORUS AND  Ecological Applications 8.3 (1998): 559-68. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission. Lake  Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission. State of Florida, 2017. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. <http://myfwc.com/fishing/freshwater/sites-forecast/s/lake-okeechobee/>. Harvard Medical School. The truth about fats: the good, the bad, and the  Harvard Health. Harvard Health Publications, Feb. 2015. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Guest, David. South Tourist Season From  Earthjustice. Earthjustice, 02 Mar. 2016. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Larsson, Susanna C., Leif Bergkvist, and Alicja Wolf. Milk and lactose intakes and ovarian cancer risk in the Swedish Mammography  The American Journal of Clinical Nutrition. American Society for Nutrition, 01 Nov. 2004. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Karl, Alicja Wolk, Sophie Samar Basu, Eva Lemming, Melhus, and Liisa Byberg. Milk intake and risk of mortality and fractures in women and men: cohort  BMJ. British Medical Journal Publishing Group, 28 Oct. 2014. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Now or Neverglades Declaration for  Now or Neverglades Declaration. N.p., 3 July 2016. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Perlman, Howard. Runoff (surface water  The USGS Water Science School. U.S. Department of the Interior, 2 Dec. 2016. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Moir 6 Silk vs.  Silk Milk vs. Dairy Milk: Silk beats Milk. WhiteWave Services, Inc., 2017. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Tourism Fast  VisitFlorida. VisitFlorida, 2017. Web. 15 Apr. 2017