Ryan Meaney Professor Dori Davis English 1102 16 April 2017 NRA Call for Action In reality, gun control is polarizing to many. It seems like there is little way around the topic as of late, and everyone has an opinion to throw into the giant melting pot of contention that surrounds this imperative issue. Throughout the media, those who are associated with weaponry in age, whether it be distributers, enthusiasts, or manufacturers, have been attacked both socially and economically due to the harsh reality we as Americans face today. The amount of attacks on American soil via guns is widely reported on in middle and upper class communities, and the media would have you believe that gun related deaths are on the rise. Although tragic, these specific cases found in middle to upper class communities are a mere fraction of all gun related incidents throughout America and yet larger media outlets only cover these incidents. What is the reasoning behind this blatant disregard for the majority of gun related incidents that take place in lower class communities whose primary demographic is largely occupied by minorities? Did the media forget to cover the 30 American citizens who were shot in Chicago the weekend after the Orlando shootings which coincidentally happens to be one of the most restrictive cities in the country on gun control or is there an ulterior motive at place? The truth is gun rights are being threatened now more than ever by a media system whose primary agenda is to increase regulation by any means necessary. This includes the lack of coverage on cases that further the agenda of increasing gun control and only covering cases that prompts for an increase of regulation. Now is the time to fight back against this unfair representation of gun control in America, and instead of unjustly increasing the regulation on gun control, tell your local representative to decrease the regulation of gun control that only increases crime and gun related deaths in overly regulated cities, increase gun control education among Americans showing the unbiased facts about guns in America and demand that we defend the rights guaranteed to us by the constitution and dissuade government overstep. Instead of advancing an unwarranted agenda that takes away from American values via scare tactics, we must promote education and deregulation via facts to create true change. The first way to create change that benefits all Americans no matter what culture, ethnicity, or creed via gun control is to decrease the regulation of gun control in heavily regulated areas. This is incredibly important to the advancement of the United States as a whole due to the outstanding number of crimes committed in heavily regulated areas. Cities such as Chicago, New York, and Los Angeles have some of the strictest gun control laws in the country, yet they also have the highest crime rates in the country as well. Is this just a coincidence or is there something else at play? The past speaks volumes to the state of gun control coverage in America. Media outlets seem to only cover instances that are in middle to upper class areas to attempt to turn heads via scare tactics. The use of scare tactics should not be a leading argument to increase gun regulation especially when cities with heavy gun regulation have the highest crime rates in the country. Chicago has some of the most stringent gun control rights in the country yet it also has some of the highest crime rates in the country. The truth is Gun Control laws dissuade criminals from acquiring weapons such as pistols and Last year over 50,000 weapons were acquired by police and more than half of these weapons came from outside of the city of Chicago. Gun regulation work because according to these statistics criminals will acquire weapons from other means. The only victims of overly regulated cities will be those at the other end of the firearm who cannot defend themselves from these savage attacks. Moving on, another important factor in gun control is to spread unbiased information and facts about guns to help educated those who are not well versed in this contested issue. With a media system that thrives off of spreading information via fear tactics and excluding information in order to promote an agenda, it is imperative that we spread the real statistics on gun control. We as Americans should promote statistics that truly exemplify the benefits of gun control. Statistics such as how crimes such as murder, rape, assault, and robbery, are all significantly higher in states that restrict concealed carry laws or how for every murder committed by guns 293 people use guns in self-defense. We as Americans need to protect a right guaranteed by the constitution with facts, and not allow media outlets to be opportunists in promoting their specific agendas and focus on the real issues. In addition, the most important reason for not allowing unjust and ineffective regulation on guns is to decrease government overstep and defend our right to bear arms guaranteed by the constitution. right of the people to keep and bear arms, shall not be To nullify liberty granted by the constitution is to put into question every other liberty granted. If the government starts federally regulating a right granted by the bill of rights it will increase the influx of power of the government. A government with the ability to take away these rights will only increase said governments ability to disregard other rights as said government sees fit. The Wayne LaPierre says, if you look at why our Founding Fathers put it [the Second there, they had lived under the tyranny of King George and they wanted to make sure that these free people in this new country would never be subjugated again and have to live under  A study done by Pew Research found that 57% of people believe that gun control regulation would too much power to the government over the There is a reason why gun control is one of the most hotly contested topics in the country right now. There is a definite scheme at place to increase regulation of weaponry due to scare tactics and statistics that tell the whole picture of gun control in America. Thankfully, there is a solution to this massive lack of representation. We must deregulate cities with excessive regulation and fight to not allow the government to increase regulations federally, we also must increase education on guns and not merely use scare tactics to persuade the general population, we must also not allow the government to overstep their bounds when it comes to gun control and any other right granted by the constitution. Gun control is not only an issue citizens should be informed about due to gun regulations but it is a stepping stone for the government to turn from a democracy to a tyranny. Works Cited Gun Control -  Should More Gun Control Laws Be Enacted in the United States? N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. <http://gun-control.procon.org/>. Staff, LII. Second  LII / Legal Information Institute. N.p., 05 Feb. 2010. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Bryan, Miles. Gun Deaths In Chicago Reach Startling Number As Year  NPR. NPR, 28 Dec. 2016. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. <http://www.npr.org/2016/12/28/506505382/gun-deaths- in-chicago-reach-startling-number-as-year-closes>. Mic. This Is How Chicago Gets Flooded With Illegal  Mic. Mic Network Inc., 03 Nov. 2015. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. <https://mic.com/articles/127842/this-is-how-chicago-gets- flooded-with-illegal-guns>.