Student Kimber Wiggs ENC1101 4/16/2017 Project 3 intermediate The penny has become a big topic for economists as it becomes less and less valuable. People have been talking about how producing the penny has been hurting the government as the price of zinc has increased. Others have been arguing the importance of it being in the economy. Even though the penny has been become more and more expensive to make, it is still a key part to the U.S economy and should remain in circulation. It is important for the penny to remain in circulation due to several factors that may harm the economy if it was to be removed. One of the biggest factors is that there would be a rounding effect. This means that every transaction using paper money would be rounded to the nearest nickel. Companies could then adjust their prices so that in the end the price would round up causing the consumers to lose money after every transaction. Even though most transactions today are done via credit or debit cards, the people still using paper will suffer the most from this. Lombra, a well-known economist, ran experiments to see the average amount of money lost by the consumers the effect would have. He estimated it to be about $598 million dollars a year. (Lombra, 434) The rounding effect seems like it would hurt people with less money the most middle class consumers use debit/credit cards. If removing the penny would cause this much loss in money to the consumers I believe that it worth removing it. Companies would be able to further squeeze more money out of us because they could carefully reprice their items. The rounding effect would also cause an increase in the price level over time due to the rounding tax. If the price level slowly increases due to the removal of the penny then it could prove to be even more detrimental as the value of the dollar would go down. Some people argue that the penny is costing the government and the people time and money. Jeff Gore states that U.S mint calculates that for the last eight years, it has cost more than a penny to make a Though this seems true on paper due to seigniorage, the money the government makes off producing a coin, the U.S is making a small profit for producing the penny. As the penny goes in circulation it ends up being profitable for the government. This is a factor that many people who write about this topic realize, many just see the face value of the coin against the production cost and state whether the government is losing money from it there. Multiple other countries such as Canada, New Zealand, and France have removed their lowest denomination coin in recent years. This has led some such as Gore to believe that the U.S should follow in their footsteps. Those countries shown any decrease to their economies in recent years however there been and specific research done to find out about the effects. I believe that the penny may have shown a slight decrease to the economy but it was so small that its negligible. Lombra Stated an approach strikes me as a weak platform on which to base a significant change in our coinage (Lombra, 440) Every economy also runs differently so a change like this in France may not cause much change while a change in the U.S may cause a bigger change. Compared to other countries that removed the penny the U.S has a much larger population and I believe that is an important factor to look at when comparing economies. It would lead to more people being effected by rounding to the nearest nickel which would result in a larger loss in money than the other countries mentioned. Executive director for Americans for common cents Mark Weller stated that the penny should stay as well. He stated that polls have shown that there is a strong public support to keep the pennies in circulation. If most people want to keep the penny and the government losing money by producing each one why is the penny a problem at all. He goes on to say that if you want your pennies you can donate it to one of the many Charites that collect them to help feed the hungry among other things. I agree as many Charites have penny drives where they turn unwanted pennies into food for the homeless or for research on a cure for a disease. (Weller, 23) Removing the penny may hurt some of these charities as they raise enough money. Gore finally says pennies, need to mint more nickels. But it costs almost a dime to make a nickel today. hard to see how the government would save money by making more It is true that the nickel is costing more to produce than what worth. Removing the penny would cause for the government to produce more nickels overall which would then continue to hurt them. If removing the penny would only make the problem worse why would people want it gone. The safest thing for the government to do would be to continue to produce pennies because the alternatives show that it would be even less profitable to produce something else. Though some arguments for removing the penny seem logical, the effects that it would cause would be to detrimental to the economy and the consumers to go on with. The rounding effect is cause for a lot of concern about how paper transactions would go when rounding to the nearest nickel. Other countries similar enough population wise to compare them removing their one cent coin to the U.S removing theirs, and the nickel has a bigger problem than the penny. If the penny is removed the production of the nickel would increase. It is important that the penny remains in the U.S economy. Gore, Jeff, and Weller, Mark. It Time to Ditch the New York Times Upfront, vol.147, no. 6, 2014, pp 22-23., Academic Search premier, web, 01/22/2017 Lombra, Raymond E. the Penny from the U. S. Coinage System: An Economic Eastern Economic Journal, vol. 27, no. 4, 2001, pp. , Academic Search Premier, web, 01/22/2017