Alvarez 1 Gabriela Alvarez Professor Spencer ENC 1102 15 April 2017 Sexual Broad and Exclusive Nature Sex. A word that can cause many to feel uncomfortable even though society has tried its best to progress and make the term part of a normative topic. The word is still regarded as and still carries a negative connotation which prevents it from being accepted by many adults and children alike. Due to this, children are unable to access proper sexual education courses that would allow them to fully understand what sex is and how to practice it safely. The schoolboard has not entirely developed sexual education courses to where they can fully inform all students, thus posing a risk to their education (Doyle 26). Some students, such as those with learning disabilities, are left out and cannot reach this information as easily as their classmates. They require a more detailed and interactive experience in order to grasp all of the concepts presented to them. The University of South group Fighters for Students Equality (FSE) recognizes this issue and aims to inform educators and the schoolboard of this flaw in the sexual education curriculum. First, the FSE is not saying that the schoolboard has not done their jobs in creating good educational courses, that is not the case at all. The goal they are trying to achieve is that of informing the schoolboard and the public of the flaws that are preventing the courses from being inclusive and informative. Being that the topic of sex has forever been an topic, bringing it into the field of education has been a rough process. The courses are often vague and broad to avoid conflict with views on what is appropriate to teach. The story or of the birds and the bees has served as a simple way of discussing sex with children instead of Alvarez 2 going into too many details. Schools do not go into detail with the subject because current legislation, schools only have to teach the biological aspects of (Doyle 27). The negative aspect of this is that it leaves students confused and ill-informed as to what sex is in its entirety along with how sexual relationships and emotions should be established. The lack of information is what sparks the risks of teen pregnancy, the chances of obtaining sexually transmitted diseases, and other issues. In addition to such issues, many people still do not let go of the various myths that are associated with children with disabilities. Some not acknowledge that experience sexual feelings, needs, and desires, regardless of their abilities; receive little or no formal sexual health (Szydlowski 1). Being that they assume this, the courses do not go the extra mile to help them understand the material, thus excluding them from learning about this natural interaction. There is no push to ensure that they receive the same education as their classmates which leaves them in the dark to face negative outcomes. They believe that if they are not informed on the topic then they will not practice it (Doyle 26). This is ignorant being that educators do not think this way when it comes to helping students with disabilities in other courses such as math or English. Why is sexual education any different? The schoolboard should enforce its mission of ensuring that all students have the same rights and forms of obtaining knowledge, no matter the circumstances or the information being obtained. The reasons why this is important is because the lack of sexual education for those with learning disabilities could lead to issues with self-esteem, relationships, appropriate behavior, and their roles in society (Yildiz 17). In fact, studies have shown that those who have had negative sexual learning experiences tend to experience sexual and social anxiety (Hannah 10). All children, including those with learning disabilities, need to receive appropriate teaching in Alvarez 3 order to develop fully and act effectively on what they have learned. If they are left questioning what they have learned how could they practice sex safely? Not only would they have difficulties with sexual relationships, they would have trouble establishing normative behaviors with any social relationships. Also, they would have more chances of encountering negative situations such as illnesses or even abuse (Doyle 26). A lot has to be done to ensure that sexual education improves to be more in-depth and inclusive to all students to ensure safe and healthy sexual relationships. It is clear that the structure of the sexual education curriculum is not yet fully developed and has various flaws that are affecting specifically those with learning disabilities, ability to learn about sex and carry it out safely. Although the schoolboard has yet to implement any changes: is overwhelming support for the of personal, social and sexual education programmes to provide young people with the knowledge and skills they need to clarify their values and attitudes, develop self-esteem healthy and practice safer sex when they are ready to engage in sexual (Doyle 27). These programmes would help the students but there is a need for more than just personal and social education on the subject. The teaching methods and structure overall need to change as well. A study done by psychology department found that the method in which the courses were taught impacted greatly the efficacy of learning and understanding, especially in those with learning disabilities (Health Psychology 1). Not only would the curriculum have to become more in-depth and gradual, it would have to become more visually stimulating and hands on to create a more well-rounded course. This could be done through workbook activities, videos, group projects, and more. The only ways to convince the schoolboard of implementing Alvarez 4 these changes are if everyone comes together and writes to the schoolboard, joins in the events, signs the petitions, or even help spare some money for the funding of such course changes. Adults and children must come together to help lead the movement for a more informative and inclusive sexual education course. Sexual education has, for decades, been an topic for most until recent years. Society has slowly become more accepting of the topic and has become open to teaching children about the natural act in hopes that they can practice it safely. The issue with this is that the curriculum has not become fully developed enough to ensure that children understand the concept completely; this understanding is even worse for children with learning disabilities. This is an issue because these children then are unable to carry out normal sexual relationships and may even run into such issues as teen pregnancy and sexually transmitted diseases. The only way to prevent this is if the schoolboard changes the curriculum into a more informative, gradual, and interactive course. This needs to be carried out being that and skill practice are key to promoting healthy and mutually respectful behavior, regardless of the young (Szydlowski 1). This way it could cater to all students and create an inclusive and detailed method of teaching about sex. Everyone, who is willing to join, has the power to persuade the schoolboard into fixing these issues whether it be through petitions, letters to educators, or joining in informative demonstrations. Together, the FSE and its followers can help make sexual education inclusive and detailed for all students no matter the circumstances. Alvarez 5 Works Cited Doyle, Joanna. sexual health education for young people with learning Pediatric Nursing. May 2008. Vol. 20. Issue 4. p26-28. PDF. Accessed 15 Apr. 2017. Hannah, Laura. of Autism & Developmental Dec. 2016. Vol. 46. Issue 12. p3678-3687. Web. Accessed 15 Apr. 2017. < http://eds.a.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/detail/detail?sid=2a833998-4ade- 44af-bcc1- a050185fd7a1@sessionmgr4006&vid=1&hid=4205&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWRzLWxpdm U=#AN=119478745&db=eue> Health Psychology. Vol 34. Issue 4. Apr. 2015. Special Issue: Qualitative Research in Health Psychology. pp. 328-338. Szydlowski, Mary Beth. Sexual Health Education for Young People with Disabilities Research and Resources for  Advocates for Youth. School Health Equity Advocates for Youth, Feb. 2016. Web. Accessed 28 Jan. 2017. <http://www.advocatesforyouth.org/publications/publications-a-z/2559>. Yildiz, Gizem. & Mar 2017. Vol. 35. Issue 1. p 3-19. Web. Accessed 15 Apr. 2017. < https://link-springer-com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/article/10.1007/s11195-016-9465-5>