Justin Cox Families across America are losing their homes due to government officials and many individuals need to communities by conforming many areas of low-income to middle class taste. Gentrification is a method used to urban areas by replacing low-income residents with more wealthier ones. Right to the City was founded in 2007 with the purpose of combating the displacement of low-income families. Since 2007, Right to the City has funded multiple programs and organized peaceful protest across the Nation in efforts to diminish the unfortunate effects of gentrification. With your help, we can ensure every family threatened by gentrification has a place to call home. Help keep low-income families housed by donating a fraction of your time or funds towards the Right to the City movement. Cities across America are currently in the process of due to the effects of gentrification. Landlords are raising rent rates in order to attract a new demographic of residents, in turn forcing the current tenants out. According to Larry Schwartz, almost 8% of neighborhoods Nationwide have experienced gentrification (Schwartz, 5 Surprising Cities Where Gentrification is Displacing the That equates to millions of families being forced out of their homes and left with no place to live. Cities such as Portland, Nashville and Charleston are experiencing some of our worse cases of gentrification. In Portland, 60% of low-income neighborhoods have experienced gentrification. Similar to Nashville, where 50% of black residents have been driven out of their homes due to an increase in rent rates. Charlestons case is the most alarming; for the first time in 6 decades the town is majority white (Schwartz, 5 Surprising Cities Where Gentrification is Displacing the Gentrification has caused many low-income to lose the place they call home. Forcing them to relocate to worse neighborhoods or reach out to relatives or friends for a temporary place to stay. Phylissa Bilal, a 33 year-old mother of three, is experiencing the harsh reality of gentrification. She currently lives in an apartment complex in Washington D.C. which has recently seen rent increases, already forcing several of her neighbors to find other places to live. Support the Right to the City organization by volunteering a fraction of your time or donating any amount of money. Right to the City is constantly looking for passionate individuals to spread and build the network of those who share their same principles. If you are great at networking and meeting new people, I encourage you to volunteer as a recruitment driver for RTTC. If that sound like you, there are also opportunities to volunteer as an event organizer and media makers. There are various ways to support the fight against gentrification and there is sure to be one that fits your interest in financial capabilities. Any amount of time and dollar amount helps prevent families from losing their homes. It is our moral obligation to help those who are unable to help themselves. Low-income families are unable to defend their rights because of the lack of funds or knowledge necessary to do so. But with your help, we can reduce the risk of low-income families losing their homes to the effects of gentrification and ensure every family has a place to call home. Join the fight with Right to the City and take a stand against gentrification. Sources: Schwartz, 5 Surprising Cities Where Gentrification is Displacing the Salon Online Article. Friday, June 17, 2016 Florida, Richard. Complicated Link Between Gentrification and The Atlantic, City Lab. Online Article. Sep 8, 2015 Valoy, Patricia. Reasons Why Gentrification Hurts Communities of Everyday Feminism. Magazine Article. September 12, 2014 Phillips, Dawn, and Mark Swier Right to the City. N.p., Jan. 2007. Web. 29 2017.