Bello 1 Pulcherie Bello Professor Karen Hanson Composition II 19 April 2017 Project 3 Intermediate draft The World Food Program found that 795 million people in the world do not have enough food to lead a healthy active life. about one in nine people on . World hunger, for decades now, has been a big issue that we have wanted to eradicate. The international community, without success, tried multiple approaches in order to resolve this issue, consequently the United Nations (UN) adopted The Sustainable Development Goals ( Sustainable Development Goals). Multiple organizations such as Greenpeace and Monsanto tried alternative solutions, however the results are yet to be observed. World hunger is a problem of a big scale that could be eradicate starting on a small scale. Feeding the world is not an easy task when we do not always know who is responsible for the world as a whole, as we do know for a country or company. As Neil Armstrong once said, one small step for man, one giant leap for (Brian Dunbar). The same way a small gesture on a local scale could influence the whole world. The issue of world hunger has to be eradicate and it is only together that we can eradicate it by being involved locally and being a global citizen. population is growing, our climate is changing, and we must take those are the words of Gabriela Burian, Monsanto sustainable Ag ecosystems lead. We have a population that is not stopping to grow. With our population growing, the lack of balanced meals is also growing. The need for food is growing. In order for us to end world hunger, we have to have a system of sustainable agriculture and be able to provide balanced meals. Some argue that food is caused by overpopulation, Bello 2 others argue that it is because of the distribution of the resources, there inequity. Either way hunger stay a big issue to fight. Hunger only about not having food on the table, it is also chronic undernutrition (less protein and calories consumed), malnutrition (deficiency or excess of specific nutriment), malabsorptive hunger(malnutrition and undernutrition combined), seasonal hunger(in some region it occurs before each harvest), food insecurity and famine (widespread lack of food.)(Earl Conteh-Morgan ). There are also some myths about the hunger problem that we need to debunk in order for us to find a solution to world hunger, we should be able to know the truth. We have to debunk them to better understand the problem, to be better prepared. We are taught that there is a world hunger because there is not enough food and we have to produce more, but the truth is that there is inequality in the distribution of the ressources. We are also taught or told that famine is because of nature, too many people to feed, that the efforts toward feeding the hungry are causing environmental , that we need large farms, or that free market is the answer to world hunger. The truth to all that is that world hunger is not a nature problem but a human problem, efforts toward helping the hungry is not a cause for environmental problems, larges corporations are, we large farm, we need them to be redistributed, and finally, free trade be answer to the problem since it has participated at being the problem in the third world.(Earl Conteh-Morgan ) We have to understand world hunger and what it is really about before making up our minds and engaging ourselves toward this issue. World hunger is not only about the lack of food it is so much more about it and as citizen of this world we should care about this issue that affects us in some ways or other. Why we should we care about world hunger? As it was stated earlier ninth people in the world do not have enough to Meaning that while each day we have the privilege to skip breakfast, lunch or dinner, some have this privilege because in order for them to have it they need Bello 3 a certain regularity of presence of food on their table, but they just When we talk about world hunger, some feel concerned because they experience it so why care? As long as things affect us everything is okay, the rest of the world is okay too. But we should, sometimes imagine a life where we have to eat once a day if lucky, a life where we have no toy and barely eat and have to sacrifice things such as childhood. A life we have to find a way to survive whatever the price is. Imagine a life where we have to grew up without a good education or we have to give up education to help the parents get enough food to feed the family. imagine a life where we either go to school and starve or give up school and survive in a world where education is the key to everything, to even a better life., Imagine a life where we have to go through days without anything to eat or are so hungry that we have to start looking in the trash with hope. It will be terrible to actually live like this.This is the case of so many children across the world, especially in developing countries or countries in crisis. Some hungry children are maybe able to go to school but with an empty stomach and in this case hunger still is a problem because children experiencing hunger are more likely to have problems with memory and concentration because they do not have the energy to carry out these Effects of Hunger) . The children are our future. And on adults the sacrifices for food are even more and the consequences of hunger Depression, anxiety, mood swings Irritability, anger, apathy Hygiene neglect Psychotic symptoms Overberg). This is terrible. Children should worry about what they want to become later, what they are going to study instead of worrying if they will have food the next day. People of my age are looking for food now instead of being at school, starting to build a future. How sad. Everyday when we eat and then throw away an untouched meal half a meal because we or that well a child somewhere would have done everything to have this food. Not everyone has the privilege to wake up with food on table or in the fridge. Not everybody Bello 4 have a balanced meal to survive and grow up to have a future. World hunger concern the hungry only, it concerns all of us and it is by working together that we can make a change. World hunger could be eradicate by small gesture, by free gestures. Mahatma Gandhi once said must be the change you wish to see in the Gandhi ).We want to see a change in the world, we want world hunger to disappear, we have to do something about it. We have to act. In multiple ways we can end this issue that have been devastating families and destroying children future. We can fight this flea at a small scale local. A way to fight world hunger would be through volunteering. If a few people in every state of the US decided to be involved locally, the rate of hunger would decrease and it is only by starting small that we can reach a big goal. We can start to be involved locally by volunteering at the local soup kitchen to feed the hungry during the week, weekend or holidays. Students can join organization chapters such as Feed America to feed the hungry or participate in activities that goes toward the same goal. There are options of being involved nationally or internationally by volunteering abroad in other countries. There is also the option of being an advocate by raising awareness around us about the issue so more people could be involved and participate in the change. Another alternatives for the problem would also be signing a petition, it cost anything to put our voice out there to end world hunger. Donating food at food drives is also a good action toward the goal. For those who want to also participate financially there the option of donating money to an organization that one may think is a true advocate of the hungry such as maybe Feeding America, WFO, or other organizations. Another way to show support and participate would be participation in the 40 hours challenge consisting of giving up something( a food) for 40 hours and if the goal is reached parents or friends can give money that would go toward a charity or organization that is against world hunger and is fighting it. To farmers who want to make a change there is also a way, Bello 5 agroecology and GMOs, science proved that together those techniques could provide sustainable agriculture to feed the world population( Pamela Ronald). There are multiple possibilities to end this issue, start making this change. World hunger is a flea that should be eradicate. Hunger in the world is not only about having it is also having food security and balanced meals. No child should go to school hungry or sacrifice their education for food. No one should go through hunger. As a united population of the world we should react to this global issue and start being involved at a small scale so this global problem disappear.We can end world hunger but only united and together so do it by being involved or adopting an alternative that would insure the disappearance of this problem and the well-being of world population. Bello 6 Works Cited Burian, Gabriela. Helping Agriculture and the Food Sector Deliver Sustainable  Discover Monsanto . N.p., 24 Jan. 2017. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Conteh-Morgan, Earl. International issues and actors. 2016.University of South Florida. Dunbar, Brian. July 20, 1969: One Giant Leap For  NASA . NASA, 19 Feb. 2015. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Effects of Hunger on  The Borgen Project . N.p., 16 Feb. 2016. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Hunger  Hunger Statistics WFP United Nations World Food Programme - Fighting Hunger Worldwide . N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Mahatma Gandhi  BrainyQuote . Xplore, n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Overberger, Rhonda. Effects of Starvation University of Minnesota Starvation Study, Dr. Ancel Keys,  Rhondahelp . N.p., n.d. Web. 10 Apr. 2017. Ronald, Pamela. Genetics, Sustainable Agriculture and Global Food Ed. J. Rine. Genetics 188.1 (2011): PMC. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 Sustainable Development  UNDP . N.p., n.d. Web. 10 Apr. 2017.