Shackleford 1 Schea Shackleford Dr. K. Hanson ENC1102 16 April 2017 Save the Whales Imagine being confined to a small room with limited space to move freely and the only time you are taken out of the room is when you have to provide entertainment for people. This sounds like a cross between a prison and a circus, however this is exactly how the whales at SeaWorld parks live. Orcas can be classified amongst the most intelligent animals on the planet as they exhibit complex behaviours such as social intelligence, however this is easily concealed by captivity (Anderson, Waayers and Knight). Since SeaWorld is holding the whales in a captive environment, we must join with SeaWorld of Hurt and the People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) and sign a petition regarding the release of the whales to a sea sanctuary. The issue at hand stems from the poor treatment of whales at SeaWorld parks across the United States. One example of poor treatment of the whales is that the whales are known to be kept in small concrete tanks and are either isolated or have tank mates that are highly incompatible resulting in the whales being drugged to avoid aggressive behaviours and depression People often forget that these animals are not meant to be confined to such environments whilst visiting these marine parks. Another example is that, of these animals were violently captured and torn away from their homes in the wild, and many are forced to learn and perform circus-style tricks. According to whistleblower tips from trainers, withholding food from animals who refuse to perform is a common training method, and because of the intense boredom and aggression caused Shackleford 2 by captivity, orcas gnaw on the metal gates and concrete corners of the tanks and damage their Urge Sea This is explaining that the behaviours are only products of their environment where due to being taken from their natural habitat, placed into small cages or tanks and isolated from other animals, they exhibit behaviours that are destructive to themselves and others. This is the only way they know how to cope with their aggression and depression. In truth and in fact, the whales only display such behaviours because of one thing, which is the lack of being in their natural habitat. Whales in their natural habitats travel in groups called pods which consists of about 5 to 30 whales at a time, working together to hunt and communicate with a unique and complex dialect per pod Facts About At SeaWorld, the orca whales are all separated from each other and are isolated into small tanks. They are fed using a time constraint and by portion control. The whales are also trained to perform tricks for profit and if they do not cooperate, their food gets withheld from them. These animals have been robbed of the chance to travel in pods, hunt naturally and develop a complex communication dialect. Compare it to being held in a prison, where you are confined to a small jail cell, being told when to eat and being let out when others feel like you need to be let out to stretch your legs. These whales also show signs of low longevity whilst compared to whales found in the wild. For example, factored in at birth, the average life expectancy of southern and northern resident killer whales is about 29 years for females and 17 years for males. if a killer whale survives the first six months, a average life expectancy is within the range of 46 to 50 years and a is 30 to 38 & Causes of Shackleford 3 However, the whales that are under the care of SeaWorld 38 whales have died at the average age of 13 years The People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) have been campaigning long and hard against SeaWorld Entertainment in order to better the lives of the animals in which they represent. There has been a step to sign a petition against the use of marine animals in parks and to move them to sea sanctuaries where they would get to know how the whales in the open ocean live and adapt to that lifestyle Urge The petition should be signed as it will bring forth more strength against the inhumane treatment of whales and help The People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) to speed up the process of saving these animals from the destructive behaviours display to the world and on themselves. Finally, people do not realize that whales are intellectual animals that do not survive well in confined environments that restrict their natural instincts. They are meant for the wild and not for the entertainment of the public. However, there are a few people who realize this and stand for the ethical treatments for these animals. The best solution for this issue at hand is to join with these people who stand for the rights of animals and sign the petition that they drafted. Shackleford 4 Works Cited Anderson, Robert, Robyn Waayers and Andrew Knight. Orca Behaviour and Subsequent Aggression Associated with Oceanarium  Animals 6.8 (2016): 1-21. Campaign Against . n.d. 16 April 2017. <http://www.seaworldofhurt.com/about/>. Basic Facts About . n.d. 16 April 2017. <http://www.defenders.org/orca/basic-facts>. Longetivity & Causes of . n.d. 16 April 2017. <https://seaworld.org/en/animal- info/animal-infobooks/killer-whale/longevity-and-causes-of-death>. UPDATE: Urge SeaWorld to Send Orcas to Sea Sanctuaries and Stop the Use of All  n.d. 16 April 2017. <https://secure.peta.org/site/Advocacy?cmd=display&page=UserAction&id=2945>.