Daffner 1 Marcus Daffner Composition II Professor Spring 2017 Immigration a Privilege...or a Right? When she was only four years old, Anastasia and her family moved from England to the United States. They decided that they wanted to live in paradise so they chose the beautiful Marco Island in the sunny southwest of the sunshine state. Her family had difficulty applying to be residents so they applied for a business visa and started their own pool cleaning business on an island where almost every single home, hotel, motel, and resort had a pool that needed cleaning. It was a great idea. Now almost 15 years later Anastasia is freshman in college trying to make something out of her life just like so many other young adults in the US. Unfortunately, Ana may never get to finish her degree in the US because there is no path to citizenship for her (unless she gets married), and her visa runs out when be turning 21 in the middle of her junior year. At that time Anastasia will be forced to leave the country. story may not be like many other people today who fear being forced to leave the country but her story means a lot to me because she and I have been together for almost two years. I believe that the Immigration Policies of the United States should be reformed in favor of making a clearer path to citizenship for all. In the past years immigrants and undocumented immigrants have been living in fear with the rise popularity surrounding Donald Trump. Organizations like the the Fair Immigration Reform Movement (FIRM) have been fighting for undocumented as well as documented rights at the local, state, and federal level all across the U.S. since 2000 (FIRM). Daffner 2 FIRM has been diligently been fighting racism, nationalism, and isolationism within our country hoping to eventually create a more open and accepting border. With the Trump recent rise to power many people across the U.S. fear for immigrants. In an interview with 60 minutes Trump stated we are going to do is get the people that are criminal and have criminal records, gang members, drug dealers, where a lot of these people, probably two million it could be even three million we are getting them out of the country or we are going to (Garcia). Statements like these strike fear in the hearts of immigrants because according to the U.S. Immigration and Customs (ICE) Website 240,225 were removed from the U.S. to be deported to their own respective countries. Jumping from 240,225 deportations in 2016 to 3 million in 2017 would be a 1148.8% increase in deportations! This is not the route that should be taken. One of the many questions that undocumented parents ask themselves is would happen to my children if I/we were to be In an article written by contact reporter, Colleen Shalby, of the LA Times the reality of the situation is exposed; the United States, there are roughly 5 million children under the age of 18 with at least one parent living in the country illegally. About 79% of those adolescents are U.S. citizens, according to the Migration Policy (Shalby). Shalby goes on to explain that the Trump administration has not been very clear on the specifics of how these deportations will go down so the fate of undocumented children is still up in the air (Shalby). Many organizations are taking steps to educate undocumented immigrants on their rights and try to protect them from the government (Shalby). Shalby explains how the for Humane Immigrant Rights of Los Angeles (CHIRLA) and the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) have begun distributing papers Daffner 3 known as for undocumented parents whose children are american citizens in anticipation for the parents to be deported. These allow the parents to designate whom they want their children to be cared for when and if they are deported by ICE (Shalby). Situations like this are incredibly unfortunate as well as scary to see happening in the modern times that we live in. there be a more humane and forgiving way to rectify the situation rather than uprooting entire home and life then throwing them into a country where they were simply born? Many groups and organizations around the U.S. like the for American Immigration Reform (FAIR) fight for a more closed or more restricted border. According to their website, Federation for American Immigration Reform is a non-profit, non-partisan organization of concerned individuals who believe that our immigration laws must be reformed to better serve the needs of current and future (FAIR). FAIR seeks to educate the public about the current and pressing issues that surround the controversial topic of immigration, create their own solutions and present them to the public, and ensure that the voice of the public is heard by our leaders ( FAIR). ultimate goal is to limit immigration to a manageable number within the ballpark of about 300,000 immigrants each year, which would give time for the U.S. to adjust accordingly to population growth. Organizations like FAIR do not see the true potential and gain the U.S. economy receives from immigrants entering and staying. A writer for Venngage with a degree in international business and economics from the University of Arkansas by the name of Ryan MCcready, reinforces the idea that immigration is exponentially good for the U.S. and economy. One of his main points is that without immigrants the U.S. have 51% of its unicorns. What is a Daffner 4 unicorn you may ask? A unicorn is a company that is worth $1 billion or more, examples of unicorns would be: Paypal, Uber, or Tesla ( MCcready). An argument against this fact may be that not all immigrants entering the U.S. are going to create billion dollar companies but it is a fact that immigrants are more likely to go on to start their own businesses. In fact immigrants are 200% more likely to start a new business than U.S. born citizen and are responsible for 25% of new business growth in the U.S. ( MCcready). Even immigrants who are migrants workers significantly improve the U.S. economy. According to MCcready, the U.S. is currently seeing a shortage in workers who would normally perform manual labor, jobs like these can easily be filled by immigrants. every farm job held by an immigrant, three more jobs will be created in related (MCcready). Daffner 5 After careful consideration it can easily be seen that immigration brings very positive benefits to the U.S. The current popularity for the persecution of immigrants in the U.S. is uncalled for and stands on no reasonable grounds. If you agree and care for the people who rightfully deserve to be able to enter the United States, work to support their families which in turn helps boosts our economy, and if they want become United States Citizens, then you should make the conscious effort to become a member of an organization like the Fair Immigration Reform Movement (FIRM). As a member of FIRM you can take part in so many of their events like Keeping Families Together Activities and Rallies across the country. Another campaign you can be apart of is the Change Takes Courage campaign that aims the deportations of parents of citizen children, DREAM-eligible youth and military veterans; by Discontinuing ICE programs that undermine the public safety of all communities, strengthening protections for all workers ,strengthening protections for all ( FIRM). If you do not feel like joining such a large organization you can make a big impact on campus by joining the student organization on Bullsync. Due to it being the end of the year there are not many events going on in the organization but in the past month there were three very exciting events held by the organization. On March 29th UndocUnited had a table at the Bull Market spreading awareness of the issue of immigration and spreading knowledge of the positive impact documented and undocumented immigrants have on campus, community, and country. On April 4th they held a general body meeting to plan Here to Stay Rally on Campus which happened on April 11th where most of the organization got together to spread awareness and a positive message to USF. Daffner 6 If you care deeply about the issue of immigration it is highly suggested that you join one of these two great organizations. Both aim to create a better and more accepting world for immigrants whether they be documented or undocumented. Hopefully in the near future we will see a United States with a more open border and a clear cut path citizenship for all. Daffner 7 Works Cited FY 2016 ICE Immigration  Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Garcia, Feliks . Donald Trump Says Going to Deport up to Three Million Undocumented Immigrants  Independent Digital News and Media, 13 Nov. 2016. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. MCcready, 15 Charts Explaining Why Immigration Is Good For  30 Mar. 2017. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Shalby, Parents Ask: What Happens to My Child If  Angeles Los Angeles Times. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Stand with  Immigration Reform Web. 16 Apr. 2017.