Al Wahaibi 1 Rawan Al-wahaibi Theodore Murray ENC 1102 16 April 2017 IQ Test do not Show the Actual Intelligence of People The most common means of measuring intelligence by psychologists is the use of the intelligence quotient tests also known as the IQ tests. Even though the discovery of the method has been used for long and is arguably among the biggest discoveries in the field of psychology, it has been seen to be unfair and inaccurate based on several studies. The test has been used for more than a century to estimate how clever people are and their fitness to perform some tasks and even join some carriers such as the army. The tests have also been used to tell which people are mentally disabled and separating them from the rest. However, studies have dismissed the tests as based on unfair myths. Based on the findings of new research, intelligence builds on a diverse set of circuits in the brain that cannot be tested using only three tests as done by psychologists in the IQ tests (Bhootrani and Jamil 108). Therefore, separate tests should be used to measure memory, the verbal skills of the participants, the reasoning and the ability of the people to communicate. The IQ tests are calculated by getting a total score gotten from several standardized tests that psychologists think measure aspects of human intelligence. A psychologist William Stern formulated the term IQ. The term IQ was first used to mean Intelligenzquotient. It was first published in 1912 by the same psychologist. In essence, the IQ was initially gotten by dividing the mental age score by the chronological age of the person. The mental age score of Al Wahaibi 2 a person was calculated by giving a test for intelligence. The mental age score, as well as the chronological age, were both expressed in years and months. The score of the division is then multiplied by a hundred to get the final IQ score. Currently, the method involves the use of the raw score which is now called IQ 100. Scores up as well as down are called 15 IQ less and greater (Pietschnig and Martin 284). The IQ tests do not consider outside factors that may affect the ability to take the IQ tests at the particular time when they are offered. Currently, the IQ tests are applied in areas such as the employment of people in various areas and placement of people in educational institutions. Also, IQ tests are used in telling the people suffering from a condition called intellectual disability. There are several reasons why IQ test should not be used as a factor in employment and also education or anywhere else. Three clear contentions are evident. First, IQ tests are done without considering factors that may affect the people taking the tests. Second, the tests suggest that intelligence is inherited and therefore fixed among groups of related people. Third, the tests that are used to check the intelligence of individuals include tasks that can be enhanced by increased skills. IQ tests require subjects to sit down to accomplish like written exams in schools. Such tests as widely known are affected by environmental factors, physiological and behavioral factors (Aronowitzet al 95). Therefore, in case one sits for the trial on a day that has not gone very well for them, they are bound to fail and therefore be considered as less clever as compared to those who have not been affected by the same factors. Several factors typically influence the ability of people to pass exams the factors include the health of the persons, the emotions of the people, familiarity with the environment and other factors. IQ tests do not consider the factors. Al Wahaibi 3 Instead, the tests only include exams that measure the abilities without standardizing the environments as the tests are standard. Therefore, IQ tests are not fair and valid. Second, IQ tests assume that the factors that affect intelligence are fixed and therefore inherited. Hence, according to the theories that influence the method of testing intelligence, related people are more likely to be similarly intelligent as compared to individuals who are not related. Therefore, the tests have been involved discriminatory practices that are racial and other ways in nature (Topaz and Shilad). According to some scholars, the IQ tests have been used to discriminate against the minority people in the USA and other places like South Africa (Unnever, Francis and Barnes). As a result, individuals who have been considered of lower races have been said to have low IQs and therefore been condemned to low social statuses and classes. The idea that intelligence is inherited supports the idea that some people belong to particular classes by birth and therefore should retain their positions. Such methods that are based on bias and support similarly discriminative movements like the eugenics should not be tolerated. Better and more sensitive methods that are not based on misunderstood biological principles should be applied for more accurate and fair results. The use of tasks such as memory games as well as solving mathematical problems makes the tests invalid and not universal. The tests can be improved with time. People get better at calculating with experience as the skills improve. Also, the memories of individuals improved with exposure to the need to remember things. Memory is also affected by factors such as the interest of the different people. Therefore, the use of such tools makes the tests invalid because the same individual may score differently on the different test as they improve their skills of performing the tests (Pietschnig 412). Also, one can easily cheat the test by practicing and enhancing their skills. According to studies, intelligence is determined by several pathways in Al Wahaibi 4 the brains of people and therefore a wider variety of tests is required so as to come up with accurate means of finding the cleverness of individuals. The research is supported by the fact that geniuses are only good in particular areas while not similarly good in other areas. People should, therefore, resist being judged using methods that have tendencies to be discriminative and supportive of stereotypes (Topaz and Shilad). Even though the psychologists justify their use of IQ tests for distinguishing the abilities of different people, the identified points are quite serious and therefore should not be ignored. People should put pressure on psychologists to come up with more comprehensive means of estimating the intelligence of individuals if they have to. Psychologists as scientists should only apply methods that can be replicated in various factors or find a way to neutralize the factors that affect the tests if they have to measure intelligence as measuring intelligence is also contentious in itself (Baker 80). Unless methods that consider the genetic, as well as the environmental contributions to the intelligence of the people, are used, then the use of IQ should not just be used for lack of a better alternative. The use of IQ tests by psychologists is hypocritical as intelligence just like most other traits of humans and other living things exists in an imperfect world that changes time and again. In conclusion, IQ tests have survived for over a century despite the fact that the tests are biased and contribute to discrimination against people in school enrollment, hiring and establishment of mental health of people. Scholars should either find methods that can be replicated in all cases or sense to use the tests of intelligence totally. People should not just be judged as insane or not good enough based on three tests that are done a single time. Al Wahaibi 5 Works Cited Aronowitz, Stanley et al. Andrews, Cecile. Slow Is Beautiful: New Visions of Community, Leisure, and Joie de Vivre. Gabriola Island, BC: New Society Publishers, 2006. Andrews, Geoff. The Slow Food Story: Politics and Pleasure. Montreal & Kingston: McGill- University Press,  Slow Professor: Challenging the Culture of Speed in the Academy 38 (2016): 95. Baker, Crystal A., et al. Eyes and IQ: A meta-analysis of the relationship between intelligence and the Mind in the  Intelligence 44 (2014): 78-92. Bhootrani, Mohan Lal, and Jamil Junejo. Emotional Intelligence is a Key to  (2016): 108-109. Pietschnig, Jakob, and Martin Voracek. One century of global IQ gains: A formal meta-analysis of the Flynn effect  Perspectives on Psychological Science 10.3 (2015): 282-306. Pietschnig, Jakob et al. Meta-analysis of associations between human brain volume and intelligence differences: How strong are they and what do they  Neuroscience & Biobehavioral Reviews 57 (2015): 411-432. Topaz, Chad M., and Shilad Sen. Gender Representation on Journal Editorial Boards in the Mathematical  PloS one 11.8 (2016): e0161357. Unnever, James D., Francis T. Cullen, and J. C. Barnes. Racial discrimination and pathways to delinquency testing a theory of African American  Race and justice (2016): 2153368716658768.