Juliana Rocha Cardoso ENC 1102 Professor Erica Staiger 16 April 2017 Global Warming Awareness The greenhouse effect is a natural phenomenon and enables human life on Earth. Part of the solar energy that comes to the planet is reflected directly back into space, reaching the top of the atmosphere - and part is absorbed by the oceans and the surface, promoting its heating. A portion of this heat is radiated back into space, but is blocked by the presence of greenhouse gases that, despite passing energy from the Sun (emitted at shorter wavelengths), are opaque to terrestrial radiation emitted in larger Wavelengths. This difference in wavelengths is due to differences in the temperatures of the Sun and the surface. Global warming is the continual increase in the temperature of the earth, produced by the gases that accumulate in the atmosphere. These gases, such as carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide and others, are the factors that produce the greenhouse effect. They are produced by companies and by the high consumption of petrol and diesel vehicles. The consequences of this phenomenon are very dangerous and include, for example, the rising ocean level that can flood cities and also the spread of diseases such as dengue fever, malaria and fever. These factors can have major consequences for the population. Other consequences, such as climate change, bring losses such as flooding and drying. The fight against toxic waste and industrial waste is essential to combat global warming. Many authorities say that companies are responsible for the ill treatment of land and for environmental damage. Others, however, have a different view and believe that business is a good way to create measures to counter the consequences of global warming. When there is a balance between the incident solar energy and the energy reflected in the form of heat by the surface, the climate remains practically unchanged. However, the energy balance can be altered in several ways: (1) by the change in the amount of energy that reaches the surface; (2) by the change in the orbit or the Sun itself; (3) the change in the amount of energy that reaches the surface and is reflected back into space, due to the presence of clouds or particles in the atmosphere (also called aerosols, resulting from burnings, for example); And finally (4) thanks to the change in the amount of energy of larger wavelengths reflected back into space due to changes in the concentration of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere. These changes in the concentration of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere are occurring due to the unsustainable increase of the anthropogenic emissions of these gases. Greenhouse gas emissions occur practically in all human activities and sectors of the economy: in agriculture, through the preparation of land for planting and fertilizer application; In livestock, through the treatment of animal wastes and the enteric fermentation of cattle; In transportation, through the use of fossil fuels such as gasoline and natural gas; In the treatment of solid waste, by the way the waste is treated and disposed of; In forests, by deforestation and forest degradation; And in industries, by the production processes such as cement, aluminum, iron and steel, for example. Greenhouse gases There are four main greenhouse gases (GHG), plus two families of gases, regulated by the Kyoto Protocol: - Carbon dioxide (CO2 ) is the most abundant of GHG, emitted as a result of innumerable human activities, for example through the use of fossil fuels (oil, coal and natural gas) and also land use. The amount of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere has increased by 35% since the industrial era, and this increase is due to human activities, mainly by burning fossil fuels and clearing forests. CO 2 is used as a reference to classify the global warming power of other greenhouse gases; - Methane gas (CH 4 ) is produced by the decomposition of organic matter, and is generally found in landfills, dumps and reservoirs of hydroelectric plants (to a greater or lesser extent, depending on land use prior to reservoir construction) Livestock and rice cultivation. With global warming power 21 times greater than carbon dioxide; - Nitrous oxide (N 2 O), whose emissions result from, among others, the treatment of animal wastes, the use of fertilizers, the burning of fossil fuels and some industrial processes, has a global warming potential 310 times higher than CO 2 ; - Sulfur hexafluoride (SF 6 ) is mainly used as thermal insulation and heat conductor; Gas with the highest heating power, is 23,900 times more active in the greenhouse effect than CO 2 ; - Hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), used as replacements for chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) in aerosols and refrigerators; Do not harm the ozone layer but generally have a high global warming potential (ranging from 140 to 11,700); - Perfluorocarbons (PFCs) are used as refrigerant gases, solvents, propellants, foam and aerosols and have global warming potential ranging from 6,500 to 9,200. Hydrofluorocarbons and perfluorocarbons belong to the halocarbon family, all of which are produced primarily by anthropogenic activities. Global warming Although the climate has undergone changes throughout history, at all time scales, it is perceived that the current change presents some distinct aspects. For example, the concentration of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere observed in 2005 far exceeded the natural variation of the last 650,000 years, reaching a record. Another distinctive aspect of current climate change is its origin: while past climate changes have stemmed from natural phenomena, most of the current climate change, particularly in the last 50 years, is attributed to human activities. The main evidence of this current climate change is global warming, which has been detected in the increase in the global temperature of the air and oceans, the widespread melting of snow and ice, and rising sea levels can no longer be denied. Currently, average global surface temperatures are the highest in the last five centuries at least. As Glen Peters cited in his article, the average global surface temperature has risen by about 0.74 C in the last hundred years. If this heating is not significantly affected, it is expected that in this century there will be a very unusual climate, for example, the average temperature increase of to (Peters, Glen). The scientific basis of climate change studies regards global warming as an unequivocal phenomenon and most likely caused by human activities. The scientific community has played an important role in supporting countries in their decision-making, providing projections of climate change under different scenarios, within acceptable ranges of error, indicating challenges and pointing to opportunities. Divergence aside, it is important to consider that global warming is not the only consequence of aggression to the environment. Faced with this, even critics of global warming admit the importance of conserving natural resources, and especially the elements of the biosphere, vital to the quality of life of societies. Work Cited Cox, Peter M., Richard A. Betts, Chris D. Jones, Steven A. Spall, and Ian J. Totterdell. Acceleration of global warming due to carbon-cycle feedbacks in a coupled climate  Nature News. Nature Publishing Group, 09 Nov. 2000. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. <http://www.nature.com/nature/journal/v408/n6809/abs/408184a0.html>. Freije A, Hussain T, Salman E. Global warming awareness among the University of Bahrain science students. Journal Of The Association Of Arab Universities For Basic & Applied Sciences [serial February 2017;22:9-16. Available from: Applied Science & Technology Source, Ipswich, MA. Accessed April 16, 2017. Karmalkar A, Bradley R. Consequences of Global Warming of 1.5 and 2 for Regional Temperature and Precipitation Changes in the Contiguous United States. Plos ONE [serial January 11, 2017;12(1):1-17. Available from: Academic Search Premier, Ipswich, MA. Accessed April 16, 2017. Peters, Glen P., Robbie M. Andrew, Tom Boden, Josep G. Canadell, Philippe Ciais, Corinne Le Gregg Marland, Michael R. Raupach, and Charlie Wilson. The challenge to keep global warming below 2  Nature News. Nature Publishing Group, 02 Dec. 2012. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. <http://www.nature.com/nclimate/journal/v3/n1/abs/nclimate1783.html>.