Student 1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Why Music Education Matters When asked about government spending in the United States, some might say the federal budget should focus on national security, healthcare, and so forth. Most people probably do not consider entitlement programs such as the National Endowment for the Arts, a primary source of funding for many of the music arts education programs in the United States. The current government administration is planning to defund many of these entitlement programs to make more room in the federal budget for improved national defenses (Parlapiano). Although some have stated the cost of quality music education does not outweigh the benefits, several studies have demonstrated that music education improves academic achievement, increases spatial- temporal reasoning in children, and is not as expensive as it may initially seem. (Brown) Looking at many organizations such as the National Endowment for the Arts and the National Association for Music Education, there have been many fundraisers and support programs given to help music education programs develop. Every year, through the National Endowment for the Arts, close to $10 million is given to support art education projects with the intentions to Americans of all ages have opportunities to learn, create, and Endowment for the Also, the National Association for Music Education gets involved at the state level by recruiting young volunteers to participate in legislation educate elected officials and other key decision makers about the impact and importance of music education To the individuals who support the causes of these Student 2 and understand the benefits of music education, the issue is apparent. Defunding the musical arts will inevitably force these programs out of schools and incite a change that most people would not want. vs. Looking at the reasoning for cutting entitlement programs from the 2017 fiscal year, there seems to be an urgency in building national defenses. The plan that president administration intends to use for creating the federal budget, proposed by The Heritage Foundation, is known as Blueprint for (Boccia). It is stated in the first paragraph of the plan that needs to drive down spending including through reform of entitlement programs - to a balanced budget, while maintaining a strong national defense, and without raising Essentially, the plan values a stronger national defense over a stronger educational system. While national security is a very important area of any country and should not be neglected, the United States already has one of the strongest militaries in the world. According to Daniel Kearns, a former paratrooper with the 82 nd Airborne Division, other military or combination of militaries could even begin to inflict the slightest numbers of casualties on the United States military in a conventional And the numbers backup his statement. In 2014, the United States spent $609.9 billion on its military. In comparison, the budget of China and Russia combined would barely make up half of that (Shaw). Keeping the musical arts in schools is crucial to maintaining high standards of education in the United States. Several studies have been conducted which concluded that music education has a direct correlation with academic achievement. One study was looking at the differences between good and bad music programs and the resulting math and reading scores. Christopher Johnson, professor of music education and music therapy at the University of Kansas, conducted the research and found out differences were somewhat The differences in test Student 3 scores ranged upwards of 23 percent (Curtis-Dierks). Another important benefit that music education offers is an apparent increase in spatial-temporal reasoning in children. To elaborate, there are two types of reasoning, language-analytic and spatial-temporal. Language-analytic reasoning is involved with how humans think about quantitative information, like solving equations in mathematics. Spatial-temporal reasoning is what gives humans the abilities to reason with information regarding subjects like chess, music, and engineering. Through According to Kyle Pruett, a clinical professor of child psychiatry at Yale School of medicine and co-founder of the Performing Arts Medicine Association, have some pretty good data that music instruction does reliably improve spatial-temporal skills in children over (Brown). This increase in spatial-temporal skills allows kids to approach problems in a different manner, enhancing their creativity. Lastly, music education is not nearly as expensive as some may be led to believe. A study funded by the National Association of Music Merchants foundation in 2010 calculated the average cost for music education per student annually to be $187. The study further analyzed a school district which served over 70,000 students with a budget of $853 million. From that, $13.9 million or 1.6% of the total budget was used for music education. First to Looking at these studies, it would be difficult to find a good reason the federal government should not be able to maintain funding for music education programs throughout the United States. One case of music positive impact can be seen with Florida mother Kerissa Blue and her 12-year-old son. She credits music with instilling many positive traits in her son, including respect, teamwork, patience, and discipline. She also adds to have observed an increase in his reading comprehension (Cerbasi). Another instance in New Jersey, music teacher Kelly Dent claims experience can be as simple as performing a hand clapping game with a Student 4 partner, or as complex as a four-part canon, but the result is the same- an improvement in emotional well-being and enhanced sensitivity to the needs of (Cerbasi) These stories, and many others, stand as a platform for understanding that the effects of music education are not just a list of facts and numbers, but rather tangible differences that can be observed in every student who is given the proper music education. The goal as educated individuals should now be to get involved however possible. Understanding the facts and knowing that the decisions made today will impact the lives of tomorrow is the first step. Once this understanding has been established, it is important to participate in a cause. Whether it be something as simple as telling your family and friends, or through volunteer opportunities with organizations such as the National Association for Musical Education and the National Endowment for the Arts. If a person was interested in going the extra mile, there are ways to participate in legislation through contacting a local representative to enact. To answer the question of why music education matters, the evidence is available in abundance. There are studies that show several correlations between music education and academic achievement as well as psychological improvements. The musical arts are an integral part not only to education, but also to society. Regardless of what happens with music education, the musical arts will always be around. We just need to take it one note at a time. (WC: 1136) Student 5 Works Cited 20 Important Benefits of Music in Our . Degree, 10 Mar. 2011, Web. 16 Apr. 2017. www.bachelorsdegree.org/2011/03/10/20-important-benefits-of-music-in-our- schools/ The Heritage Foundation, 2017. Web, 4 Mar. 2017. www.heritage.org/about- heritage/mission/. National Association for Music Education, Web, 9 Apr. 2017. www.nafme.org/advocacy. for Balance: A federal Budget for The Heritage Foundation, 2016. thf- reports.s3.amazonaws.com/2016/BlueprintforBalance.pdf Boccia, Romina. Has the Blueprints to Build a Better, On-budget TheHill, 20 Jan. 2017. Web. 9 Apr. 2017. thehill.com/blogs/pundits-blog/the-administration/315318- trump-has-the-blueprints-to-build-a-better-on-budget Brown, Laura. Benefits of Music Public Broadcasting Service, Web, 15 Apr. 2017. http://www.pbs.org/parents/education/music-arts/the-benefits-of-music-education/ Cerbasi, Jennifer. important is music education in Fox News Network, 28 Mar. 2012, 16 Apr. 2017. Curtis-Dierks, Erin. KU Professor Finds Link Between Music Programs, Academic . 2017. Web. 9 Apr. 2017. archive.news.ku.edu/2007/june/28/music.shtml Through The Richards Institute of Education, Web. 15 Apr. 2017. richardsinstitute.org/Default.aspx?pg=48 Student 6 Goldsmith, Melissa. Solutions to Cuts in Art & Music Programs in Public . 21 June 2013. Web. 9 Apr. 2017 education.seattlepi.com/solutions-cuts-art-music-programs- public-schools-1814.html Kearns, Daniel. much stronger is the US military compared with the next strongest Military1, 30 Jan. 2014, Web. 15 Apr. 2017. www..military1.com/all/article/402211-how-much-stronger-is-the-us-military-compared- with-the-next-strongest-power/ Kennedy, Randy. Guggenheim Study Suggests Arts Education Benefits Literacy . The New York Times, 27 Jul. 2006, Web. 9 Apr. 2017. National Endowment for the National Endowment for the Arts, Web. 05 Mar. 2017. www.arts.gov/. Parlapiano, Alicia. Wins and Loses in Proposed The New York Times, 16 Mar. 2016, Web. 15 Apr. 2017. www.nytimes.com/interactive/2017/03/15/us/politics/trump-budget-proposal.html Shaw, Jessica. military the No. 1 fighting force in the world or MarketWatch Inc., 12 Mar. 2016, Web. 15 Apr. 2017. www.marketwatch.com/story/is- america-the-no-1-military-in-the-world-or-not-2016-02-20 vs. STEAM: Why The Makes a Edudemic, 21 Jan. 2015, Web. 9 Apr. 2017. www.edudemic.com/stem-vs-steam-why-the-a-makes-all-the-difference/. First to Detail the Costs of Comprehensive Music National Association of Music Merchants, 28 Aug. 2012, Web 15 Apr. 2017. www.namm.org/news/press- releases/study-first-detail-costs-comprehensive-music Student 7