Dominic Behn Mr. Spencer ENC. 1102 16 April 2017 Make a Difference J.R.R. Tolkien once said, that live deserve death. And some that die deserve life. Can you give it to them? Then do not be too eager to deal out death in (The Fellowship of the Ring, 85). In America, that is exactly what we are doing by implementing the death penalty. It is a cruel and inhumane act of justice, and frankly it is not doing our country much justice at all. The recently established organization, Penalty (DPE) has taken it upon themselves to abolish the terrible form of capital punishment once and for all. Through education, empowerment, and engagement they will be able to unite the majority of American citizens to work as one power to fight against these executions. time to make a difference and join the DPE and take the death penalty out for good! Since 1976 the death penalty has been very much alive and well. Since then 19 states have exempted from using it, but the rest of America still strongly believes in it. It is one of the most controversial topics in the country and has been for many years. One of the biggest reasons for its controversy comes down to the fact that a society we run the risk of executing an innocent person as long as the death penalty is in Penalty Semanchik). It has happened plenty of times and the fact that our country can live with it still being implemented is absolutely insane. There are so many societies and organizations that have taken sides and are trying to convince people to support their position on the issue, but which side is the right side? More and more people are realizing how many negatives truly outweigh the Behn 2 positives and are deciding to be but they do anything about it. A couple of years ago an organization called, National Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty tried to change that. Their is to abolish the death penalty in the United States and support efforts to abolish the death penalty They have had some success, and they even helped contribute to those 19 states exempting from implementing the death penalty. Though they have done well, the recently established organization, DPE is on track to double success and abolish the death penalty for good. DPE follows a lot of the same organizational structure of the NCADP, but with their modern and inspiring campaign, as well as their aggressive tactics, DPE will be able to put the death penalty into extinction. The issue is many people wonder why it concerns them, which is why DPE focused a large chunk of their campaign on engaging the audience, and making the citizens of America truly care about the issue. Many people decide that the death penalty concern them, but after looking at the morality and economic standpoint of it, they might disagree. In fact, has spent more than $4 billion administering the death penalty since 1978, or more than $300 million per person for each of the 13 people who have been executed since the death penalty was reinstated. Conversely, it costs approximately $200,000 to $300,000 to convict and sentence an individual to life without the possibility of Penalty Semanchik). After looking at that you realize that it is over 1,000 times more expensive to sentence someone to the death penalty then sentence them to life without parole. That money can be used for so many other resources. Just think about all of the tax money being used. The DPE realizes all of those financial issues and continues to fight for money and the well-being of the society. Not only that, but does killing that criminal really crime like said to do any more than Behn 3 giving that person life in prison without parole? The answer is no, study led by the University of Colorado researcher found that 88 percent of the leading criminologists do not see the death penalty as an effective deterrent, while 78 percent of those surveyed also say that murder rates are not lower in states with the death Penalty Zakeri). All of the facts lead straight to the inhumanity of the death penalty. For example, why do we kill people who kill people to show killing people is wrong? According to DPE, that makes no sense or productivity at all. Not only does DPE now appeal to all American citizens, but especially the religious ones. There have been several issues between the death penalty and religion over the years that are still occurring today. The main appeal is the ideal that as American citizens we are playing God himself when committing an execution. Believe it or not an immense portion of Americans believe in God, and therefore are very offended by the death penalty and speak up to make a difference. time to realize the possible difference that can be made by becoming an active member of DPE and join. DPE is taking members left and right to abolish the death penalty for good and about time you joined and made it happen. You can easily visit their website at https://dbehn2.wixsite.com/website-1, then scroll to the bottom of the home page to Contact the organization. Once completed you will officially become a part of DPE, and will receive emails on events and activities that you can do to help the cause. even able to choose to receive text messages, or follow DPE on Instagram, or Twitter. When visiting the site, you may notice the odd color combination of yellow, green and orange, but DPE lives by the meaning behind these colors. According to Gregory Ciotti, yellow stands for optimism, green stands for peace, and orange stands for friendship in DPE wants its followers to feel these colors and live by them when joining the fight against the death penalty. They also want to show Behn 4 the sites viewers how much this controversial topic means to them. By appealing to what should be the entire country, and understanding all of the possible standpoints of others, the DPE is on track to become the largest organization of any type in the country. Once large enough they plan on aggressively acting on the sentence and putting the death penalty to extinction in only 5 years. If you want to be a part of that historical moment, then join now and make that difference. DPE cares about America and desires the justice system to finally be just and humane, and they believe that by abolishing the death penalty for good, everyone will be satisfied. Between the negatives outweighing the positives, the DPE being as powerful as it is becoming, and the financial downfall that the death penalty causes, it has no chance of survival with your help. By just imagining a family member being sentenced to death and knowing that innocent is enough for anyone to join. So after educating, engaging, and empowering their followers, the DPE is ready to take on this monstrous task. unite as a country, and join DPE to put the death penalty to extinction and revive the justice system for good! Behn 5 Works Cited NCADP. About  National Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 April 2017. <http://www.ncadp.org/>. Ciotti, Gregory. The Psychology of Color in Marketing and  Help Scout Blog. N.p., 17 May 2016. Web. 16 April 2017. Color Emotion Guide Zakeri, Kourosh. Death penalty proves to be an inhumane act of moral  The Daily Cougar. N.p., 16 June 2014. Web. 16 April 2017. <http://thedailycougar.com/2014/06/09/death-penalty-proves-inhuman-act-moral- justice/>. Tolkien, J. R. R. Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring. Boston: BMariner /Houghton Mifflin Harcourt, 2012. Print. Chapter 2, Pg 85. Semanchik, M. Death Penalty Death Penalty Issues  California Innocence Project. N.p., 2016. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. <https://californiainnocenceproject.org/issues-we-face/death- penalty/>. Behn 6