Obisanya 1 Adefemi Obisanya Professor Aranda Feb. 22, 2017 ENC 1102 Project 1 Final Standardized Testing: Which way to go? In American society, education is one of the utmost importance in regards to the knowledge we aim to give to our children while stressing the narrative of how being educated can take you to very exciting places. This has always been the memo and the way for students in America, but it has been seen that there are many different ways to achieve such academic goals. The College Board, a not-for-profit organization, has been helping students pursue their educational goals. students to college success and (per their mission statement) since their inception in December 1899, College Board has been using their method of involving the use of standardized tests that gauge where the student is compared to his or her peers around the country. Now this angers many people including FairTest, an organization that is openly against standardized testing of all kind, while simultaneously the quality education and equal opportunity by promoting fair, open, valid and educationally beneficial evaluations of students, teachers and schools (FairTest.Org). These organizations both see the significance in education and progressing the overall awareness and culture of having more kids go to college and achieving their goals and dream through education. College Board and FairTest were to collaborate together on making an optional authentic and fair test that highlights the abilities and overall learning potential, it will lead to the betterment of education across the nation. Obisanya 2 The College Board preaches in its mission statement and advertisements about the importance of schooling and what doors it could open up for just about anybody if they so choose to use it. This not-for-profit organization progresses learning and opportunities for stateside and international students by getting them ready for the college they desire to attend through their methods of advanced placement (AP) classes and standardized testing platforms. With AP classes, College Board guarantees you a worthwhile experience that will prepare students with the rigors of a college level course (College Board.com) while at the same time gaining new experiences and learning new things about themselves that relate to achieving goals one probably thought he or she could not do. The main event however that College Board promotes is their standardized testing being their SAT and PSAT assessments which exists to evaluate the student understanding of all that was taught to him or her during their high school career and to be shown off to the student desired colleges so that they can decide whether or not to admit that individual. College Board charge students $43 to take the SAT while charging an additional $11 to include the essay portion, which most colleges want (CollegeBoard.com). They also teamed up with another competing non-profit educational organization in Khan Academy to allow students to get the inside scoop on the SAT for free. This in turn allowed them to get practice videos, tailored practice plans, and instant and constant which better prepared students for the SAT (Khan Academy.com). To add to it, the Testing scholar Richard P. Phelps completed a 100-year testing research that revealed of studies on student testing, including the use of large-scale and high-stakes standardized tests, found a positive  on student Obisanya 3 While this is all progressive and bettering the success for student beginning to enter college, this presents the issues of students having to suppress the anxiety of taking a test of this magnitude and performing well on it the first time. This also causes parents to purchase extensive SAT, PSAT, ACT prep courses that run over five or six hundred dollars so that their child can perform well on that one day of testing(KaplanTestPrep.com). Add in the disappointment of scores and the wanting to retake the exams and a student is looking at spending well over a thousand dollars just to look applicable to their desired college. Enter stage left FairTest. FairTest.org is a non-profit organization that aims to end all testing and end all misuses and flawed testing that obstruct the natural learning process in schools. On the FairTest website, their plan of actions or projects they are doing to eliminate standardized testing are: college admissions programs, including our listing of more than 800 such the use of authentic, performance-based assessments and classroom/school-based evidence gathered over time to improve teaching and learning and inform the bias, misuses and coachability of the SAT, ACT and similar college entrance They use these goals and aspirations to further dispel the notions and mindset around the country that test scores actually equal merit and with most of their plans, they actually coincide with what is dangerous about standardized testing. For example, according to a five year study Obisanya 4 conducted by the University of Maryland in 2007, found that teachers were getting pressured to get students to perform well on tests and in turn causing them to to the and lead to a in thinking, in the amount of time spent on complex assignments, and in the actual amount of high cognitive content in the  This affected student achievement across the nation as the US slipped from 18th in math on the Programme for International Student Assessment in 2002 to 31st in 2009 after the No Child Left Behind passed (Standardizedtests.procon.org). Now as it is being displayed and presented for all to see, both stakeholders obviously have the care and intent to make education the number one priority for all children and will stop at nothing to reach as many children minds as possible. My compromise for College Board and FairTest would be both corporations to collaborate on creating a fair and optional (all languages included) test that will highlight not only the academic success but the student other abilities and overall learning potential that would not hinder the creative and constructive teaching experience that the teacher is trying to cultivate. After successfully creating this assessment, they should market it to all of the universities they have on tabs such as the near 6,000 College Board have on their membership and the 800 that FairTest has for their optional testing. With this compromise, one can foresee and a more creative and less confusing educational future for the next generation of young Americans. Works Cited About  FairTest FairTest . N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. Obisanya 5 Get the Most out of Your  AP Experience Explore AP The College Board . N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. Khan  Academy . N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. SAT Test  SAT Prep Kaplan Test Prep . N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. Standardized Tests -  Headlines . N.p., 31 Jan. 2017. Web. 05 Feb. 2017.