Student 1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 April 14 th , 2017 Why should be used in the real world Imagine a technique that could save a child in Africa from starving, provide economical gain to a farmer living in the middle east in a drought, and support the life of a child who has a genetic disorder that can cause them to go into shock and die if it gets out of hand. Sound a little bit too good to be true? Not anymore with the usage of genetically modified organisms, essentially just organisms with a different genetic makeup than what occurs naturally. The use of these organisms means that people around the world can breathe a sigh of relief, as people are fed, crops are grown, and disease becomes much easier to cure. These organisms are important, and should be used in ways to help the global population, and look out for mankind in the future. The usage of should occur because it feeds millions, it can help prevent disease, and is a safe way to produce many crops effectively. A major use of is the feeding of millions. A point missed by many adversaries of GMO use is that many crops nowadays are GMO, as farmers have bred the best and most plentiful plants in order to produce the most food, and millions of Americans already eat in there everyday diet (JUST, FOODS FROM GM CROPS ARE., indeed, most Americans do eat GMOs every ). as they sit now are a way for the worlds increasing population to feed itself, and have a much greater impact to feed the population than any other solution. Tomatoes that can stay fresher longer, thus providing more food to people who need it, and keeping it able to be consumed much longer. Student 2 While many people believe that are unsafe, it is not true in the slightest. An open forum discussing talks about how people trust the companies producing since the corporations could almost buy scientific facts, and that studies are not as true as they come off to be (Gryka, yourself a big helping of People feel that since the are modified, it means that they are not as pure or safe as natural, non-modified crops. A massive trillion meal study, conducted by numerous organizations, found this is simply not true. The study focused on animal feed and how it affected farm growth and development. The massive study showed that GM feed is safe and nutritionally equivalent to non-GMO (Entine, Jon. The debate about GMO safety is over, thanks to a new trillion-meal study.). This seems to prove once and for all that are safe, as well as that they can feed people. Even though it was used to feed farm animals, the GMO feed did not affect the animals at all, and matched the feed that was non-GMO, and was tested for trillions of meals in livestock. The simple reason that people seem to agree with is because of the unknown and whether they are unsafe, which has been disproved countless times. Children across the globe are forced to starve as people debate whether or not these organisms are safe, while studies across the globe report time and time again that they are safe. While are safe to eat, they are also the perfect way to help out the population. Another reason for the usage of is helping prevent disease. Disease can take many forms, but one of the most common areas that can be helped is the usage of insulin grown in E. coli cells that can help in the treatment of type 1,2, or 3 diabetes. save lives, and it is as simple as that. Before, horses and pigs were used for the harvesting of insulin, but nowadays a much more compatible insulin is produced with the usage of They are also Student 3 used in a number of other medicinal avenues, and as such save dozens of lives. are a life saver for many people, and should be further used. The medical aspects of far outweigh any risks that may have been misconstrued about them. Many of the current drugs and treatments contain some sort of GMO product, and many different drugs are researched using Cancer treatments are produced using organisms that have been genetically modified, and as such should be welcomed. While one of the biggest uses is penicillin, many other drugs are used to treat diseases and conditions, and as such can be used to better the quality of life in the world. With all this talk of food and medicine, many people think about whether or not they provide any gain in production of crops. A final perfect reason for the usage of is because of the almost impossible number of crops that can be grown using them. Whether it be soybeans that are drought resistant, to cherries that produce their own insecticide, it is important for people to recognize the usage of the and see that they can be used a number of different reasons, and produce large volumes of product that can be sold. People who can grow drought resistant plants in the dessert can feed their populations, no matter what the conditions of the dessert are. Massive amounts people can benefit from both the economical and agricultural aspects of plants that can resist harsh conditions, and benefit the population as a whole. Since people can grow crops effectively, it allows regions that have very little produce to feed themselves, and help build up their society with the use of agriculture. This can bring in additional economic benefits, since the crops can grow in the bad conditions, and be sold to other countries and bring additional economical advantages to a country. It also can help solve climate change in countries, as a report suggests. Basically, the crops resist the changes in the climate, making them much more resistant to climate change (Heikkinen, Niina, and ClimateWire. Student 4 Genetically Engineered Crops Are Safe and Possibly Good for Climate  ) This means that they can be grown almost anywhere, in almost any condition, and provide the nutrients that the population of the word needs to survive. The perfect solution to many of the words problems can be solved with the usage of since they feed millions, benefit medicine, and grow crops effectively. The simple truth that could make life significantly better shows that they should be trusted, as well as the numerous reports and papers written attesting to that. The genetic modifying of organisms means that the population has almost limitless power at manipulating nature, and provide a solution for beating nature itself. Student 5 Works Cited Answers, GMO. Yes, GMOs Are Safe (Another Major Study  Forbes. Forbes Magazine, 26 May 2016. Web. 02 Apr. 2017. Entine, Jon. The debate about GMO safety is over, thanks to a new trillion-meal  Science and Technology, Forbes, http://www. forbes. com/sites/jonentine/2014/09/17/the-debate- about-gmo-safety-is-over-thanks-to-a-new-trillion-meal-study (2014). Heikkinen, Niina, and ClimateWire. Genetically Engineered Crops Are Safe and Possibly Good for Climate  Scientific American. N.p., 18 May 2016. Web. 02 Apr. 2017. Gryka, Have Yourself a Big Helping of  USA Today, n.d. EBSCOhost, search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=aph&AN=J0E284416798516&site=eh ost-live. JUST, FOODS FROM GM CROPS ARE. Yes indeed, most Americans do eat GMOs every  (2014).