Student 1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Medication for Alleviation from Depression Have you ever felt depressed or known anyone who has struggled with depression? Depression is a mental illness, a disease and it continues to rise in occurrence. Depression cannot be cured, but it can be treated. It can be treated a number of ways such as through therapy and/or medication. A prevalent issue, however, is the use of antidepressants to treat clinical depression. An antidepressant can be defined as drug used to treat psychological Antidepressants are seen as ineffective and dangerous because of their side effects; however, this is not the case. Without action, many people suffering from depression will be unaware that antidepressants are an effective treatment as seen through research, that therapy and other approaches alone may not be enough and that their benefits outweigh their disadvantages. In order to solve this issue, men and women can get involved by volunteering and donating to organizations that promote the use of antidepressants and by educating their peers on the option of antidepressants. Though depression has been around long before anyone knew what it was, it is not something that has been seen as relevant until more recently. According to the Anxiety and Depression Association of America, is one of the most common mental disorders in the United as about 6.7% of adults have it As depression has become more widely prevalent, there are numbers of different treatments that are available to anyone that is clinically depressed. Of these option of treatment, the most controversial is antidepressants. Student 2 Since it is so controversial and not widely accepted, many people are unaware and uneducated about this type of treatment for depression. This issue is a public concern because people suffering from depression should be aware and educated about all of their options rather than just told which ones are used the most. The effectiveness of each treatment varies by each person and their depression, however antidepressants have shown to be effective forms of treatment. Many stakeholders scare people from using antidepressants as they describe antidepressants in a negative light because of possible side effects or ignore this option all together and do not inform people of it. Many stakeholders that oppose the use of antidepressants as a treatment for depression propose that therapy and more holistic approaches are more effective as antidepressants present many negative side effects and dependency. They hold the idea that depression can be treated effectively through therapy and holistic approaches alone. Some stakeholders such as the Massachusetts General Hospital explain that it is important that people know more holistic approaches to treating depression first and foremost as the side effects of antidepressants are serious and dangerous Your Other stakeholders also further this by stating that self-help found to be the most acceptable and preferred treatment while found to be the least acceptable treatments, with antidepressants rated as the most likely to have side (Hanson). Though some antidepressants may have side effects, it is important that people are aware that these side effects may not always occur, they may not be as detrimental as they are made out to be, and that they may still feel better overall even with the side effects versus not taking any medication. An important point that stakeholders supporting the position of antidepressants use is that research shows that antidepressants effectively aid people suffering from depression. In an article Student 3 that summarizes the ideas within Ordinarily Well, Jonathan Rosen references work as he states that all the time, and not for all people, but in lots of ways for lots of regardless of their side effects (Rosen). Another main point used by stakeholders is that not all people can recover from depression only through therapy. It is evident that they need more than just that to feel better. In a TED talk from 2016, Dr. Rebecca Brachman speaks about how depression is leading cause of disability and that are no known (Brachman). She references the use of antidepressants as depression is a mental illness, a disease and a cannot be treated without medication (Brachman). Most importantly, it is wise to consider that the benefits of antidepressants outweigh the disadvantages (side effects) that may come with them. In an article written by Therese Borchard, she talks about how risks of toughing it without meds outweigh the risks of taking when depressed (Borchard). Borchard herself takes antidepressants as she feels this is what is most effective for herself. The victims of this issue are those who are clinically depressed. A doctor named Doris Iarovici conducted a study on one of her patients suffering from depression in which she advised her patient to stop taking her antidepressants (which she had been taking for seven years) (Iarovici). This patient had been clinically diagnosed with depression and put on leave but improved after being placed on antidepressants (Iarovici). By advising her patient to stop taking her medication, Dr. Iarovici is promoting the use of other treatments over the use of antidepressants though she does not know what works best for her patient specifically. When this patient stopped taking her antidepressants, she found that was having emotional reactions, including tearfulness, more then she would have been on her medication (Iarovici). The patient felt overall better when taking her medication versus not taking them as seen through the evidence presented by Dr. Iarovici. This story may impact other who may find themselves in the Student 4 same position as many people such as Dr. Iarovici do not promote the use of antidepressants even though they do show to be an effective form of treatment for depressed individuals. Concerned individuals may get involved in a number of organizations (such as the National Institute of Mental Health) that promote the use of medication as a way of treating depression. Individuals have a variety of ways in which they can get involved such as by showing their support by volunteering with or donating to associations that promote the use of antidepressants or even show their support by writing academic articles and doing case studies. By volunteering or donating, individuals are contributing to furthering research about different antidepressants and their effects and possible side effects. They are also aiding in the educating of individuals who may not know all of their options or know much about antidepressants in general. Within their community, concerned individuals may talk to their friends and family members who may be suffering from depression and help educate them on their knowledge of antidepressants and how to access them if they decide to try that form of treatment. In summation, antidepressants are seen as an ineffective form of treatment for depression and is ignored or expressed negatively by most stakeholders. This is not the case as research shows that antidepressants are effective, therapy alone may not be enough for most patients, and that the benefits posed by antidepressants outweigh their disadvantages. With action, many people suffering from depression will no longer needlessly suffer as they will know that they have the option to take a treatment that will actually benefit how they feel. If more people are able to treat their depression and feel better, then that could affect the community and the world in a variety of unimaginable ways. (Word Count: 1,224) Student 5 Words Cited  Merriam-Webster. Merriam-Webster, n.d. Web. 07 Apr. 2017.  Anxiety and Depression Association of America, ADAA. N.p., n.d. Web. 04 Mar. 2017. <https://www.adaa.org/understanding-anxiety/depression>. Increase Your Happiness without Antidepressant Medications: Natural Options May Help Ease Depression without Side  Mind, Mood & Memory, no. 1, 2013, p. 3. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ed sgao&AN=edsgcl.316317977&site=eds-live. Borchard, Therese. In Defense of  Thereseborchard.com. N.p., 22 Nov. 2012. Web. 01 Apr. 2017. Brachman, Rebecca. Could a drug prevent depression and  Rebecca Brachman: Could a drug prevent depression and PTSD? TED Talk TED.com. N.p., Sept. 2016. Web. 01 Apr. 2017. Hanson, Katie, et al. Attitudes and Preferences Towards Self-Help Treatments for Depression in Comparison to Psychotherapy and Antidepressant  Behavioural & Cognitive Psychotherapy, vol. 44, no. 2, Mar. 2016, pp. 129-139. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1017/S1352465815000041. Iarovici, Doris. The Antidepressant  The New York Times. The New York Times, 17 Apr. 2014. Web. 01 Apr. 2017. Rosen, Jonathan. The Assault on  The Atlantic. Atlantic Media Company, 21 June 2016. Web. 01 Apr. 2017.