Boward 1 Mark Boward Seth Spencer English Composition II 16 April 2017 The Saving Wilbur Foundation The Saving Wilbur Foundation or SWF for short is a foundation founded in 2001 that emphasizes the rights and liberties of animals and puts a spot light on companies and corporations that abuse and neglect those very rights. The Saving Wilbur Foundations is a non- profit organization dedicated to empowering rights in hopes of passing legislation to prevent large corporations from abusing these rights. The largest problem now of days with most companies and their treatment of animals are the inhumane ways in which they decide to slaughter the animals and the living conditions that they expose these poor animals to prior to slaughter. Where The People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals or PETA for short its attention on the four areas in which the largest numbers of animals suffer the most intensely for the longest periods of time: in the food industry, in the clothing trade, in laboratories, and in the entertainment (About PETA, par. 1), we too focus mainly on these four areas of animals abuse as well as smaller more local cases within your community. Animal abuse is on the rise and animals than ever before are being abused as the number of convictions for animal cruelty falls, new figures by the RSPCA (Rose Troup Buchanan par.1). The only way to combat this maltreatment of animals is to come together as a community of people concerned for the wellbeing of animals local and abroad. But you must act now for with every Boward 2 passing second one more animal loses its rights and liberties to a large corporation or an abusive owner. The Saving Wilbur Foundation has played a large role in global issues as well as those within your community all in hopes of protecting animals from maltreatment. SWF not only exposes companies for who they really are via social media and the internet, they too are actively involved in lawsuits against these companies for violating animals simplest of liberties, the right to not be maltreated. SWF has a reach the stretches beyond the Americas into a more global perspective with over 500 million volunteers and supporters this global non-profit organization protects millions of animals on a daily basis. But why should you care, right? Would you treat your pets harshly? Most of you probably answered no to that question although if you did answer yes then I suggest you find a good therapist as you may be a serial murder in the making. If you abuse your pets at home, why should it be okay for large corporations or for other people to abuse and maltreat their animals? Large corporations think it is okay to do so because they see these animals as prepackaged meat that will make them a profit in the long run. Animals are not meant to be used for our own selfish purposes they too deserve to live their life freely and without fear of being abused or inhumanely treated via the slaughter houses. Corporations such as Tyson Inc. are more concerned with their profit margins than with the health and treatment of the animals they choose to slaughter, which should spark a fire in your soul as maltreating animals is utterly wrong and with this being said the SWF works hard to uncover and expose these companies. Tyson is leading producer of (Tyson Inc. About us) and has been apprehended in the past for animal abuse. SWF keeps tabs on such companies and monitors their activities and how they treat their animals. It was found recently that for animals called on the largest poultry producer to implement welfare Boward 3 standards after undercover investigation showed birds suffering from disease and crippling leg Foods Slammed Again by Mercy for Hidden-Camera Video Exposing Sickening Animal  par.1). The Saving Wilbur Foundation makes its mark on the world thought protecting and empowering abused and mistreated animals and empowers these animals through means of undercover investigation, legal advocacy, and corporate outreach and by educating society to what is really happening behind the scenes of large and small scale slaughter houses or large scale pet breeders. Beginning with undercover investigation the SWF silently installs its own personnel within farms and slaughterhouses expose the brutal realities of this violent and cruel (Mercy for Animals par. 2). With our very own personnel within the interior of such large companies we can either expose that company for their cruel and abusive acts towards animals or provide praise for being humane depending on our findings. Once these companies have been exposed the SWF works by legal means to provide justice for any and all abused animals. The SWF works efficiently with local law enforcement to ensure that those companies who are violating animal cruelty statutes are diligently prosecuted to the full extent of the law and then some. Along with providing justice for these abused animals the Saving Wilbur Foundation also works with lawmakers to pass new animal protection laws. The third and fourth steps in our efforts to make a safer and more humane world for animals includes the topics of corporate outreach and education of local communities to ensure the safety and correct treatment of animals abroad. When considering corporate outreach the SWF works with small and large corporations in order to pass new corporate animal welfare reforms to change the lives of millions if not billions of animals. Our goal here is to change the outlook on animals to make them see that they are more than just commodities but Boward 4 are living breathing things that deserve to be treated humanely. Last but not least the fourth and final step that the SWF incorporates into its plan to provide safe and un-abusive living environments for animals is that we educate local communities and communities abroad about the maltreatment and harsh conditions that animals experience on a day to day basis when under the care of corporate companies or abusive breeders. Our goal here is to educate communities about exactly what is going on behind the scenes and hopefully to inspire those people to find it in themselves to want to help and protect these abused animals. You too can act now and help to protect these abused and maltreated animals and all you have to do is follow these few steps that anyone can take to help us accomplish our goals and aspirations in protecting and empowering these abused animals. The first of these steps being to volunteer at our local seminars to help educate others about the delicacy of the matter and how they too can help in our efforts to protect animals and their well-being. Secondly by visiting our website at www.savingwilburfoundation.com you can donate up to twenty five dollars to support us and provide funding for our legal team and other expenditures. And lastly by sharing and exposing our foundation to the world you can help to ensure and protect these animals because the more people know about what is happening in these large corporate companies the more people will want to help which is exactly what our foundation runs off of the people and their good intentions and desire to help. Boward 5 Works Cited Buchanan Rose. cruelty on the rise, RSPCA The Independent. Independent Digital News and Media, 22 April 2015.Web.15 April 2017. http://www.independent.co.uk/news/animal-cruelty-on-the-rise-rspca-claims- 10194095.html the World for Farmed for Animals.Mercy for Animals, 31 March 2015.web.15 April 2017. http://www.mercyforanimals.org/what-we- do?gclid=CNfHyfbJptMCFUo7gQod8sQA3Q People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals. for the Ethical Treatment of PETA. 26 Feb. 2017. www.peta.org Tyson Foods Inc. Foods: Our Tyson Foods Inc. 29 Jan. 2017. http://www.tysonfoods.com/our-story Tyson Foods Slammed Again by Mercy for Hidden-Camera Video Exposing Sickening Animal  PR Newswire, 2016. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ed sgao&AN=edsgcl.453279534&site=eds-live.