Bryan 1 Erin Bryan Instructor Brendon Jackson ENC 1101 4/08/17 The Physical and Psychological Damage of Human Trafficking As the epidemic of human trafficking grows, so do the statistics and research on both the physical and psychological damage that it imposes on its victims. Now a 13-billion-dollar industry, trafficking is more prevalent now than ever (Tran, 2007). While in captivity, captors often force them into submission, using both mental and physical abuse to enforce authority and instill fear. In cases that victims are able to become survivors, both forms of abuse inevitably cause extreme damage that is often irreversible. This damage includes but is not limited to depression, PTSD, stress and adjustment disorders, extreme bodily injuries, and more severely, death. With this being said, there are different methods provided to help victims cope with damage they experience. Seeing as places dedicated specifically for the counseling of trafficking are commonly not available, it is noted that this help can often be received from refugee assistance programs or domestic violence shelters (Yakushko, 2009). Though these programs are tailored to help coping, they are not a permanent resolution. Having said so, the severe psychological and physical trauma that human trafficking victims experience often leaves irreversible and everlasting damage. Psychological damage in trafficking victims is a very common and almost expected repercussion, as the traumatic events they experience leave deep wounds in the minds of those inflicted. Within victims worldwide, the most prevalent mental disorders are anxiety, depression, Bryan 2 and PTSD (posttraumatic stress disorder). It is reported that victims that were mentally tortured experience the aftermath via psychosomatic reactions, psychoactive substance abuse and dependence, or psychological reactions (Ottisova, 2017). As stated before, trafficking captors often force their victims into submission using not only physical abuse, but mental abuse as well. Captors often threaten victims with their lives of their lives held against them, leading them to stay under their control. Often, many offenders use a false sense of trust to lure in or abduct victims through fake job advertisements or promises of moving to a new country. Ultimately, these leads to trust issues in victims. Regarding human psychological affects, many of them have an everlasting hold on victims. With a combination of mental abuse (threatening, intimidation, humiliating) and physical abuse (beating, rape, captivity) victims are scarred. As a result, victims may also be extremely receptive and submissive to authority, unresponsive in social situations, or even a loss of personal motivation or self-worth (Yakushko, 2009). Though people of each age-range and gender are affected by trafficking, 50% of these statistics are minors. Within trafficked children, it is found that the most prevalent mental disorders are PTSD, affective disorders, and stress and adjustment disorders (Vejar, 2015). Even through counseling and therapy, many mental disorders are irreversible. PTSD, one of the most common mental disorders stemming from human trafficking, does not have a cure. Like many other stress-caused disorders, therapy sessions with trained professionals may assist in coping, but not curing. Many may believe that through therapy and time to adjust back to normal life, trafficking victims may be released from their psychological trauma. It may seem that once help is sought after, victims may begin to recuperate and live past the psychological trauma they experienced. Researcher Oksana Yakushko even notes that more often than not, victims report that they would Bryan 3 like to receive counseling in attempt to work towards a healthier mental state (Yakushko, 2009). Having said so, this is not always the case. Some trafficking survivors may seem to be sane once returned from captivity, but mental affects may later set in. In Moldova, 55% of documented cases of trafficked women experienced mental disorders averaging after 6 months of their return (Ottisova, 2017). Needless to say, physical abuse plays a large role in the scheme human trafficking. Under captivity, victims are often severely beaten by the captors for various reasons. Prostitution, induced by sex trafficking, is also a large pin-point for abuse within the trafficking industry. 87% of slaves trafficked to another country are women forced into prostitution (Tran, 2007). While being sex-trafficked, victims are treated like property and raped or forced to have sex for minimal wages. To add to the physical abuse, they are worked for long and strenuous hours, and live in extremely poor and cramped conditions (Vejar, 2015). physical effects are often irreversible in lives. To cope with the trauma educed by trafficking, victims often turn to substance abuse/dependence or self-harm. Both of these factors are detrimental to health. Among a study of 378 underage victims, 12% of the victims had tried to harm or kill themselves preceding trafficking (Shelley, 2010). Though psychological rehabilitation is recommended in these cases, often times, the damage has already been done on the body. Along with affecting mental health, heavy drugs also take an intense toll on the physical health of all abusers. If left without help, traffickers who abuse drugs can continue to deteriorate and damage their health, which often-times does not have a cure. Though some wounds may heal, some left from trafficking may not. Many people may be under the assumption that victims are able to receive medical attention after escaping trafficking, Bryan 4 and resume life normally after healing. Unfortunately, this is not the case. Many victims cannot receive medical attention, as they have entered the country illegally. Under false pretenses of bountiful employment opportunities or the chance to start a new life abroad, they are lured out of their native country and are illegally smuggled into a new one. Receiving medical care for injuries is no longer an option for them. In addition, sexually transmitted diseases are very prevalent within sex trafficking, and are often life-long repercussions. In Indonesia, the rate of HIV within survivors is around 19.4% (Shelley, 2010). Diseases such as HIV do not have a cure or quick-fix, and can lead to death if left untreated. Overall, it is quite apparent that human trafficking has irreversible and everlasting damage. With the brutal conditions captors live in, the psychological torment they receive from their captors, and the physical abuse brought upon them, it is inevitable that they will be negatively affected in the long run. Though the amount of options for treatment and therapy are growing, there are both mental and physical factors that cannot be cured, and will forever haunt the victims of trafficking. PTSD, depression, and the effects of drug abuse are just a few of the irreversible trauma that these survivors experience. Looking at the bigger picture, it is important to remember that there is not always a quick-fix for mental illness. Keeping that in mind, as a society, we must work with people suffering from mental illness, rather than working around them. Bryan 5 Works Cited Omole, Christina. Human Trafficking: The Health of Men Forced into Labor Trafficking in the United  Thesis. ProQuest Information & Learning, n.d. Dissertation Abstracts International: Section B: The Sciences and Engineering 77.6-B(E) (2016): n. pag. PsycINFO. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Ottisova, L., S. Hemmings, L. M. Howard, C. Zimmerman, and S. Oram. Prevalence and Risk of Violence and the Mental, Physical and Sexual Health Problems Associated with Human Trafficking: An Updated Systematic  Epidemiology and Psychiatric Sciences 25.4 (2016): 317-41. PsycINFO. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Shelley, Louise I. Human Trafficking : A Global Perspective.. Cambridge ; New York : Cambridge UP, 2010., 2010. Cat00847a. Web. 4 Feb. 2017. Tran, Cat Ngac Jonathan. Sold into Slavery: The Scourge of Human  The Christian Century 124.24 (2007): 22-26. ATLA Religion Database with ATLASerials. Web. 18 Feb. 2017. Yakushko, Oksana. Human Trafficking: A Review for Mental Health  International Journal for the Advancement of Counselling 31.3 (2009): 158-67. PsycINFO. Web. 18 Feb. 2017.