Bricker 1 Madeline Bricker Professor Hanson Composition II 16 April 2017 Immigration Taxation Immigrants are often questioned on whether they pay enough in taxes. In reality, immigrants make a significant contribution to the American economy in taxation. Their payments in property, sales and income tax added up to billions of dollars each year. Immigrants also contribute to America in other ways by bringing new ideas, business and work into the country, stimulating the economy. To begin, there are a plethora of ways immigrants are contributing to America in taxes. They automatically pay three different types of taxes: property tax, income tax, and sales tax. All immigrants are required to pay property taxes, even if they are only renting the space. In addition, an income tax is automatically deducted from their paychecks. Lastly, every time they purchase something, they are charged a sales tax. According to a study from 2016 that was posted by the Institution on Taxation and Economic Policy, it is estimated that immigrants pay 11.6 billion dollars in taxes annually. Meanwhile, it is important to recognize how other factors of immigration affect the country to decide how much tax revenue from immigrants is The less money immigrants make, the less income they receive, the less income tax they pay. Not to mention, if an income was raised, they would be able to make larger purchases. These big expenditures would result in higher sales tax paid. These scenarios are not as common due to the imbalance in wages. According to the University of Southern Bricker 2 Manuel Pastor estimated that wages increase eight to twelve percent after naturalization, when citizenship to the United States is granted. This ongoing disadvantage to immigrants harms them as well as the American economy. There is a question of whether immigrants receive more benefits that they are paying for. For example, some citizens express concerns on if the costs of Social Security or Medicare for immigrants exceeds tax revenue. This is a valid concern, however can be determined an unnecessary one. According to demographers James P. Smith and Barry Edmonston, immigrants receive less in Social Security and Medicare benefits than the generation before them. Also, an analysis of the 2012 Current Population Survey shows that the immigrants who receive Social Security get less in benefits than native-born recipients. Not only do immigrants make less income, they receive less benefits than natural-born citizens of the United States. Despite all of this, they are still taxed billions of dollars yearly. Oftentimes mindset is focused on monetary matters, rather than for the sake of humanity and community. There are plenty of immigrants who have done great things for America such as Albert Einstein, Andrew Carnegie, Joseph Pulitzer, etc. In fact, America was founded on immigrants. The history of America becoming a country began when British citizens left the country and decided to make their own. America was known as a place where people around the world could immigrate to and start a new life. It was the land of opportunity where anyone could live the Now, America is not as welcoming. Also, if someone was born in America, they are automatically granted citizenship, however if someone immigrated to the United States there is a long process and test on their knowledge of America. Bricker 3 Does it make sense for someone to be required to learn history and facts, when natural-born citizens are not required to know or learn that information specifically? The United States of America was once visioned as a melting pot. It has a diverse population, which allows people to live and learn about a number of different cultures. Despite this atmosphere, there is discrimination against immigrants that can often isolate them socially, politically and economically. Most families have mixed legal status and many of the immigrants were brought to America as children by their parents. Deporting, taxing and discriminating these people can tear families apart and can negatively affect everyone, including the children who are innocent in the matter and do not have any control over their situation. Whether you are an American citizen, an immigrant, or a foreign observer, it is important to recognize the fiscal challenges immigrants are facing in America. Immigrants pay their fair share in taxes. Without them, many cultures, ideas, businesses and services would not be available to Americans. The idea of raising taxes for immigrants is to discourage them from coming to America. Not only would this hurt immigrants families, the American culture and economy, it also would defeat one of the goals America had when it was founded. If there is an event in your life where you witness immigrants being accused of not contributing to America, I encourage you to speak up. Stand up for immigrants and let their side be heard. Spread the word on how they positively impact America and mention the changes they have made to the country as a whole. Bricker 4 Works Cited Through Website for Department of Homeland Security. Web. Jan 22, 2013. Fitz, Marshall Not for American Web. Feb 08, 2013. Gee, Lisa C. State & Local Tax Institute on Taxation Economic Feb 2016. Lash, Kurt. Fourteenth Amendment and the Privileges and Immunities of American York : Cambridge University 2014. eBook. 2014. LeMay, Giseli. Paying Taxes for the Chance of Legal Immigration Status of Thomas Law Summer vol. 27, no. 2, 2015, pp. 22, 309.