Kaamera Harding Instructor Brandon Jackson April 9, 2017 Project 3 An issue that has sparked debate in recent years is the care of wild animals in captivity. Peoples main concerns align with the belief that wild animals belong in their natural habitat not confined to cages. To ease civil unrest, the Association of Zoos and Aquariums (AZA) was created to hold Zoos accountable for the care of their animals by requiring them to develop enrichment programs to simulate the natural environment of animals that cannot be released back into the wild. Although polices have been put in place to protect the welfare of captive animals there is evidence that proves that the social and biological behaviors of wild animals are altered due to captivity. In a study conducted by a group of post graduate students at The Autonomous University of Barcelona; evidence linking captivity to biological changes in wild animals has become available. In this particular study the researchers were focusing on the stress levels on different groups Gazella Dorcas; a species of antelope (Salas, et al. 2016). They were organized in four groups (with four individuals each); one all male group, one all-female group, one with on male and the rest female and the last was vice versa. Within the four groups the males were more likely to partake in more negative interactions then positive. In groups with more than one male, researchers found that each subject was prone to excessive amounts of Cortisol, a hormone associated with high levels chronic stress (Salas, et al. 2016). In the wild the density of gazelle in a region determines the number of males there are in a group. In a region with a low gazelle density; like the groups the researchers are focusing on, there is typically one male and 1-5 females in a group accompanied by a satellite groups of immature males (Lawes 1993). Given this information safe to say that the spike Cortisol levels is linked to the concentration and proximity of male antelopes within a confined space. The males in the groups with other males were liable to engage in a power struggle because there was a lack of space and a low density of other gazelles, causing copious amounts of Cortisol to be produced. Despite abundance of articles and research stating that captivity does indeed effect the biological and social behaviors of wild animals there are still some people that claim the opposite. The arguments that encourage the placement of wild animals in captivity necessarily talk about behavior. Their defense centers around how zoos and other places that house captive animals are important places to teach the public about wildlife conservation and rehabilitating animals to release back into the wild (Lin 2017). They believe that as long as these places follow AZA regulations that call for enrichment programs and maintenance techniques that closely mimics how should be in the wild (Lin 2017). However, this solution does not negate the fact that captivity alters the social and biological behaviors of wild animals. In a study conducted by M Elsbeth McPhee; a conservation biologist, researchers were looking at the long term effects that captivity had on a whole species (Mcphee 2004). They removed groups of wild rats from the national Ocala forest. One group was 35 generations removed from the wild, another 14 generations removed, and the last group was 2 generations removed (Mcphee 2004). They discovered that there was a gradual loss of behaviors across generations. They lost certain reproductive behaviors, also when captive animals were reintroduced to the wild they often died due to behavioral deficiencies (Mcphee 2004). In conclusion captivity has adverse effects on the social and biological behaviors of wild animals. Even though public outcry has encouraged increased polices to regulate the welfare of animals in captivity, their behaviors will still be altered from their wild state. Work Cited Lawes, M.j., and R.f. Nanni. Density, Habitat Use and Social Organisation of Dorcas Gazelles (Gazella Dorcas) in Makhtesh Ramon, Negev Desert, Journal of Arid Environments, vol. 24, no. 2, 1993, pp. doi:10.1006/jare.1993.1016. Salas, Marina, et al. Behavior and Hair Cortisol Levels in Captive Dorcas Gazelles (Gazella Dorcas) as Animal-Based Welfare Zoo Biology, vol. 35, no. 6, 2016, pp. doi:10.1002/zoo.21323. Lin, Doris. Zoos Still Have a Place in the ThoughtCo, 30 Mar. 2017, www.thoughtco.com/arguments-for-and-against-zoos-127639. Accessed 9 Apr. 2017. Mcphee, M Elsbeth. in Captivity Increases Behavioral Variance: Considerations for Captive Breeding and Reintroduction Biological Conservation, vol. 115, no. 1, 2004, pp. doi:10.1016/s0006-3207(03)00095-8.