Student 1 Student Professor Thornton ENC 1102 11 April 2017 The Fight Against Our Own Minds Although there are many controversies surrounding the topic of depression, the reality is that it is, illness of how you (TED 2013). One of the most viral and record common mental illnesses that fall under this category, depression is the constant feeling of hopelessness and no motivation to want to continue to thrive. Since depression affects such a huge portion of the population, many treatment options have been developed, some better than others, and there have been significant reductions of depression in the most serious of cases. Treatments for depression should be readily available to and accepted by the public because of illnesses ability to make people feel like they worth anything, capability to happen to anyone at any time as well as the symptoms of the illness that could eventually end life. While society has created an overall stigma for depression and what it is, there is more to the simple definition of it being defined as a mental illness. Depression has the ability to make everything feel pointless whereas other mental illnesses are defined as disorders, year, more than 100 million people the world over are diagnosed as suffering from depression, and depressive disorders are ten times as frequent as (Wolman 1990). Depression can completely change how someone acts and how they treat others but the majority of those who have someone of this ailment in their life see it as an illness but as a personal attack. This is not the case considering this illness has proven to be a chemical imbalance as well as a psychological disparity that can affect emotions and thought processes. Student 2 Depression is a medical subject that should not be defined as an excuse for negative behaviors and actions but as a silent and deadly influencer of everyday activities, felt like too much (TED 2013). This came from a man who had the unfortunate experience of developing depression in the middle of his life. There was no background for why it had occurred but it came upon him quickly and he was unable to functions for months on end. There was no need, in his mind, to get up and have a bite to eat or use the restroom. Depression leads the mind into a dark whole that is in constant repetition of bleakness and negativity about the purpose of life and living without warning. This mental illness is important to understand because even the most loyal of family and companions will lie about admitting they have depression or something is bothering them since the word can be taken to extremes. Even though there are some over the top treatments regarding the cure for depression, a majority are there for the benefit of the depressed to feel better about this somewhat semi-permanent situation. Taking a bigger look at what it means to be depressed or trying to understand someone else who suffers from a mental illness, there are a lot of ways in which people act and treat the situations. Simply understanding the signs of depression and dealing with it as soon as possible is the best way to avoid from it getting any worse; which it can. Depression is easier to slip into rather than to get rid of so it is important to have the right support and treatment options. This is proven so through a particular study where, were, however, more willing to see mental health professionals if they were first referred by a clergy member or primary care (Kitchen 2013). People are more likely to get help and be open towards feelings with the encouragement of others and the ability to connect and understand that it is ok to feel this way. The knowledge on depression, mental illness and the many treatments that can follow are Student 3 helpful in the long run in the case that if you, a loved one or even a peer develops one of the many mental illnesses and is searching for support. One of the main anticipations of having depression is the treatments that one must endure in hope of developing positive responses in the attempt of getting rid of the feeling of despair. The most common treatment methods can include psychotherapy, family therapy, drug use, and, in more serious cases, electroshock therapy; but it is vital to understand that, way in which treatment is conducted is a more important factor than the treatment (Wolman 493). For someone who is depressed, their ability to feel important is nonexistent and, without the support of someone else, loneliness can take control and lead the situation to the worst possible outcomes of attempting suicide or even death. For example, this is what occurred for a young man named Evan Scott Perry who was only five when he began to exhibit bipolar-like tendencies and only fifteen when he committed suicide after falling into depression of how the disorder made him act and feel (Boy Interrupted 2009). His family chose to document his story in order for more people to understand the importance of understanding the signs and receiving help as soon as possible before it is too late and someone who has not begun their life is already gone. To be able to contribute to this issue of communication regarding depression and other mental illnesses, society must accept that depression is a reaction in the body to major events, a loved one, getting fired from a job, going through a divorce, and other difficult situations can lead a person to feel sad, lonely, scared, nervous, or anxious. These feelings are normal reactions to (ADAA 2016). This is something that can happen to anyone at any time and, when it does, it is a scary situation to be in at any stage in life. Numerous amounts of research necessary nor are the facts; it is rather more important to stay alert, Student 4 ask questions and be open to the concept of other people feeling different emotions. Also, treatment is more of a group process rather than an individual one because of its ability to make one feel needless, support is necessary to help someone to get back on their feet, for depression works in many ways emotional support, problem solving, examining and changing thinking styles, checking basic needs are met, looking at behavior, teaching social and other skills and so (Tyrell 54). Mental illness is not contagious so it is not obligatory to be afraid of it just because it holds the label of a mental illness. Everyone has their own internal issues, some worse than others, but the important thing is to understand that this is the case and everyone is human. The topic of depression and the treatments that follow suit remain to be a debated illness in much of the eyes of the population but that does not mean it affecting millions of lives each day. To have the ability to understand that it is affecting lives and requires as much support as possible is all that one needs to know about the illness in order to contribute to the lack of support and communication surrounding the subject. Depression will continue to develop in all lives, new and old but can be assisted and prevented through the support of everyday individuals. (Word Count: 1227) Student 5 Works Cited Cassiday, Karen L. Anxiety and Depression Association of America. N.p., 2010. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Boy Interrupted. Dir. Dana Heinz Perry. Perf. Evan Scott Perry, Dana Heinz Perry, Hart Perry. HBO Films, 2009. Television Documentary. Boy Interrupted. HBO Films. Web. 1 Apr. 2017. Kitchen Andren, Katherine A., et al. Depression Treatment among Rural Older Adults: Preferences and Factors Influencing Future Service  Clinical Gerontologist, vol. 36, no. 3, 01 May 2013, pp. 241-259. EBSCOhost Ted. 4 TED Talks on overcoming  Overcoming depression Playlist TED.com. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Apr. 2017. Tyrrell, Mike, and Rodger Elliot. The Depression Learning Path. N.p.: Uncommon Knowledge, 2013. Clinical-depression.co.uk. Uncommon Knowledge, 2013. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <http://www.clinical- depression.co.uk/sites/clinical-depression.co.uk/files/Depression- Learning-Path-Free.pdf. Wolman , Benjamin B., and George Stricker. Depressive Disorders Facts Theories and Treatments. N.p.: n.p., n.d. Free ebooks. International Psychotherapy Institute E- Books, 1990. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.<file:///C:/Users/Owner/Downloads/depressivedisorders.pdf>.