Ahmed Alashwal Prof. Sarah Roth ENC 1101 April 6, 2017 Forming Relationships through the Internet There has been controversial opinions about circulating about online relationships, whether it is an intimate, or just some casual one. One side sees that the fears of cyber crimes, ones like phishing, stealing identities, hacking private cloud storages and privacy invasion has been reasons for parents to discourage their kids not to meet or talk to anyone on the internet. While on the other side of the argument, many studies and people of this generation believe that having a socially mutual relationship online through means of either text, video or voice, or all of them, can help a person stay in touch easily, since the internet made it easier for people to interact with each other, be it in the same apartment building, to talking with your european friend from your comfy house in California. Both sides have compelling arguments and evidence to prove their points, the question is, is it normal, or better, to form relationships through the internet? Or can we just stick to the old fashion real life relationships? As with the technological advancements came more accessible ways to communicate with each other. At a time when sending a letter that took days or weeks, now takes less than a second to send a text or an e-mail. Calling is also more became easy, while using telephones came a long time ago, it was still hard to call others. Yet in our time now, applications and services like skype became prominent since we can use it literally from anywhere in the world with a decent internet connection. These technological advancements have spread like wild fire, now people make friends all the time through the internet, and even go a day without using their phones to talk to someone, one of these people are teenagers. According to statistics by Pew Research Center, nearly 57% of teens between the age of 13 to 17 have at least one friend that they met online, with the mass majority of them that prefer texting instead of going out (Lenhart). However, as with everything, the internet has its positives and negatives, and with the rise of internet, cyber crime rate skyrocketed. Stalking, phishing - basically stealing important info like a credit card number, identity theft, hacking and the works, all became more common, and danger that teens face with the digital age. Parents fear that social network websites can be of great danger to their teen sons and daughters, as it became easy to invade the privacy of anyone with a Facebook or Twitter account. While sure, most people use it with the intention of getting themselves out there, many people, including me, would agree that this is a bit reckless as the internet got to the stage where it is basically a lawless wasteland, where it is easy for anyone to you. There has been recent cases where a person would call the police requesting SWAT teams on innocent people as a known as not to mention other kind of crimes that happen online. However, the internet is still a legit place where anybody can communicate and interact with each other, and as much as people would use it for sinister plans, the positives of it outweighs the negatives. In an instance, people can talk or type to each other, check on how our friends and family doing, in addition to even creating new online friends. There is also a little thing called video games, which has a very huge community that can be really friendly. have a favourite video game? Then there is a high possibility of a subreddit existed for it where you can meet and talk to people there. In the end, the online world is, virtually, a big land where people would interact with one another. However, the internet can also be an unforgivable and fertile land for the corrupt and the vile. Cited Works Broadbent, Stefana. Digital TED. July. 2009. Lecture. Crawford, Garry. Gaming in Context: The Social and Cultural Significance of Online Eds. Victoria K. Gosling and Ben Light. New York: Routledge 2011. Book. Lenhart, Amanda. technology and Pew Research Center: Internet, Science & Tech, 6 Aug. 2015. Web. 17 Feb. 2017. TMW Media. of Social 2005. Video.