Student 1 Student Instructor Lewis ENC 1102 16 April 2017 The Future with Electric Vehicles Since one is little, one usually imagines how the world will be in the future. Some said there would be time travel, some predicted a human civilization in space, and others said there would be flying cars. Unfortunately, currently none of these theoretical and factionary stories have come true. However, humans have created a invention which is that of a car running solely on electricity. Tesla has been able to nearly perfect the electric car and has started the mass production of these environmental friendly and relatively cheap cars. Since the industrial age, the world has seen an increase of pollution due to the waste of fossil fuels. This contamination has come from factories, trains, boats, and cars. Today the largest industries are looking at diverse ways and energy sources to help reduce the pollution levels and reverse the damages already done by past actions. Because many experts have argued that gasoline powered cars cause a significant impact on the pollution, daily commuters should consider making the switch to electric vehicles to decrease the pollution levels and cause a positive impact on the planet. It is estimated that it 1999 there were about 39 million cars produced. (Worldometers) It is also estimated that in 2012 that number surpassed the 60 million mark. (Worldometers) According to UCSUSA, about one-fifth of all US emissions are caused collectively by cars and trucks (UCSUSA). It is clear how much damage gasoline powered vehicles actually cause on the world. It is scary to think how the levels of pollution are currently affecting so many people in Student 2 the world. According to the American Lung Association, nearly half of all Americans are currently living in unhealthy levels of air pollution (Lung). This is a serious problem that can be fought in a simple way. It is clear that solutions have to be created in order for this problem to be resolved. It is also clear that there are companies out there who are making the effort and gaining ground on these solutions. Every gasoline powered car that is taken off of the road is a step forward in the right direction. Gasoline powered cars of course are not complete destroyers of the Earth. There are many people who argue that the cost of having an electric vehicle can even be higher than that of a gasoline powered one. There are people who argue that the electricity that the electric vehicles use causes pollution either way. Currently it is cheaper to buy a gasoline running car, having the option to buy used cars as low as anyone can think that run fine and get the user from one place to the other which is ultimately the end goal of using a car, to get from one place to another. The downside to these vehicles is that they produce even more emissions than current gas powered cars. Solutions such as hybrid vehicles that use both electricity and gasoline have tried to make an appearance in the past but never made enough of an impact and have slowly died off. Since the cheaper solution continues to produce the same or even more levels of pollution, it is not a wise choice since the ultimate goal is to reduce the levels of emissions and reverse the damage already caused in the past by these vehicles. Tesla and its electric cars has been very keen in showing consumers that not only do their vehicles help the environment but they also can help consumers save money in the long run while still having prices which can compete against main car companies. On website, there is a cost calculator which, when inserting the needs, can give an estimate of how much money one can actually save monthly on gas when operating their Model S (Model Student 3 S). To calculate these savings, it takes information such as how many miles are driven daily and which type of charger the consumer could use. Not only is it convenient to plug in a car at night and have it ready to go by morning, but on average it would cost less to charge than filling up at a gas station. In addition to this, electric vehicles are praised for being more energy efficient than gasoline powered vehicles. Tesla vehicles, according to their website, their vehicles produce zero emissions (About Us) which is absolutely better than that of the gasoline powered cars which produce one-fifth of all US emissions (UCSUSA). In addition to this, according to 2015 study, the average cost of a vehicle, apart from the cost of the car itself is estimated at about $725 a month (Nerd Wallet). This includes maintenance costs which can be oil changes and other fluids which are necessary in a gasoline powered engine. Since engines require no moving parts, these extra maintenance costs do not add up. It can be difficult to find a specific credible victim of the problem of gasoline powered cars since so many people around the world use vehicles and depend on them to get from one place to another. It can be said that everyone is a victim because of the facts around the comparison of these two vehicle types. The victims of this problem are the working class who can afford new vehicles and pay for the luxury of having their cars. These people can save a lot of money on monthly costs by switching to an electric vehicle and at the same time bring change to the earth by eliminating the emissions of their cars completely. In addition to these people, it is necessary to take into consideration the entire population of earth who have to suffer the consequences of pollution. Many citizens around the world even operate vehicles and live but have to suffer the results of years of polluting that the industrial ages have brought forth. There are many ways one can help with the clean-up of the world. Emission have had a great impact on Earth and will continue to do so if actions are not taken. One way to take action Student 4 on this problem is to take an immense step and switch out gasoline powered vehicle for an electric car. This of course is a costly step but in the long-haul both the user and the environment will benefit by providing zero-emissions, comfort with home charging and fuel cost savings. However, this is not the only way to contribute to the problem of gasoline powered vehicle emissions. One can also participate actively in recycling which will help reduce excess waste and provide companies and organizations such as Management Recycle and Plastics to recycle and reuse the waste that permits this. People can also volunteer at many local organizations to help clean up their city. By doing this they will reduce wastes on the streets, help marine life that get caught in human waste, and make the city have a nicer appeal. It is just a matter of wanting to help and change can be easily presented. In order to help clean up the environment, everyone must take a part by doing anything each individual can. Whether it be making the switch from gasoline powered automobile to an electric vehicle either by Tesla or another maker, or simply by taking part of recycling in own home, it is simple to make a difference and improve the world that humans live in. Supporting this cause required dedication by most if not all of the world since all humans contribute to the future of the earth. It is each individuals choice to either contribute in a positive way or to do nothing, keep living the way they do and continue the horrible cycle the world is in. (WC:1304) Student 5 Work Cited About Tesla, https://www.tesla.com/about. Accessed 15 Apr. 2017. Lung, http://www.lung.org/about-us/media/press-releases/2016-state-of-the-air.html. Accessed 15 Apr. 2017 Model S, https://www.tesla.com/models. Accessed 13 Apr. 2017. Nerdwallet, https://www.nerdwallet.com/blog/loans/total-cost-owning-car/. Accessed 14 Apr. 2017 UCSUSA, http://www.ucsusa.org/clean-vehicles/car-emissions-and-global- warming#.WPQQpoWcHE0. Accessed 15 Apr. 2017 Tesla, https://www.tesla.com. Accessed 12 Apr. 2017. Worldometers, http://www.worldometers.info/cars. Accessed 13 Apr. 2017