Perez 1 Naheed Perez ENC 1102 Professor Aranda February 5, 2017 Nuclear Energy Alternative sources of energy have always been a controversial topic. Users of alternative sources of energy see that it has positive outcomes on the Earth such as conserving oil, but the negative outcomes can include disturbing ecosystems. Nuclear energy maybe the most problematic in this umbrella of renewable energy. Companies such as the Nuclear Energy Institute (NEI) and Greenpeace are considered stakeholders in this topic. NEI makes nuclear energy all around the country in partnership with many safety organizations. They try to and encourage the continued safe utilization and development of nuclear energy and technologies in order to meet the energy, environmental, and economic goals and to serve and support the commercial nuclear (NEI.org). On the other hand, Greenpeace is a company that tries to save the planet through protest and spreading awareness. They consider power is dirty, dangerous, and expensive. Say no to (Greenpeace.com). Both companies consider the safety of people and the Earth however they are still at odds. A solution that could make both organizations compromise is to regulate safety policies and waste from the nuclear energy. The Nuclear Energy Institute is an American based organization that has represented many companies worldwide that participate in nuclear energy since March of 1994. It is a private non-profit organization that promotes nuclear safety to the public and regulates polices. For some background on its production, nuclear energy is made from splitting the atoms of uranium and Perez 2 controlling the isotopes into making electricity while being cooled down by water running. Creating energy through this process is good because it does not create any carbon emissions. This is important because there has been research that carbon emissions speed up the process of global warming and the decay of the ozone layer. In the article Dioxide Emissions and Carbonation  written by Dr. Demirbas, he writes dioxide (CO2) is the main greenhouse gas associated with global climate change. At the present time, coal is responsible for of world CO2 emissions from fossil (Demirbas 70-78). Because coal is not being used to create this energy, we are saving the world from 30-40% of carbon emissions. With research, such as this in hand, NEI can support nuclear energy. Nuclear energy even has a positive impact in the medical world, especially with cancer. According to a study done by Guozi Yang, a doctor at the Department of Radiation-Oncology at The First Hospital of Jilin University in China, and many others, it was concluded that low doses of radiation was beneficial to reactivating the healing process thus reversing cancer. Benefits like these show that nuclear practices can advance the well-being of humans (Yang International Organization of Cancer). A report done by the U.S Energy Information Administration states that that in the years 2011, 2012, and 2013, 64.511 to 66.849 billion kilowatt-hours were produced by the production of nuclear energy (Academic Search Alumni). These two articles support the standing view of the Nuclear Energy Institute by proving that nuclear energy is an important resource in our society. The compromise would benefit them because they would still be able to create nuclear energy but with better policies which can create a safer environment. Greenpeace is an international activist organization funded by contributions from members of the organization. The first protest that the organization carried out was in 1971 against the nuclear testing off the coast of Alaska. Since then they have continued the goal of Perez 3 nuclear proliferation and working for peaceful (Bily Greenpeace.com). The problem that nuclear energy brings to the world is that it can be considered as a weapon when used with a war mentality. When the nuclear energy is being used to produce renewable energy, the waste that is left behind is dumped in another place of the world and not correctly. Some of the waste goes into the sea and then some of it goes into the air. The nuclear waste is radioactive and takes a very long time to deteriorate. Because of the radiation that nuclear energy contains, it contaminates the water supply of hundreds of people and makes the air around the plant dangerous to breathe. Greenpeace is also involved in the campaign of the explosion in Fukushima, Japan. In March 2011, during the earthquake in Japan, a local nuclear reactor lost power and the water that was cooling the plant, was no longer running through the plant. This resulted with the plant overheating and causing a sort of explosion. The people that lived around the plant were forced to move from the homes in fear of serious consequences to the health of people and the exposure of radiation in food. Jean-Francois Julliard, an executive director of Greenpeace France, was one of many leaders that visited the sight and talked to the victims. During an interview with Greenpeace he says, heard many times on the tour in Fukushima people saying: Before the disaster we did not believe it could happen. We were told nuclear technology was 100% safe, and we did not have to worry about  (Julliard Greenpeace.com). With events like these, Greenpeace has a strong stance against nuclear energy. The compromise is important to this organization because it allows them to reach their goal of cleaning up the Earth and making it safer to live in. When comparing the two organizations, they agree that the safety of our communities and the people in them need to be preserved. To achieve this, the NEI works together with the US Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) to limits to the amount of radiation that workers Perez 4 can be exposed to (NEI Operational Safety). What they see eye to eye is mostly the waste management that nuclear energy makes. The NEI clearly states that while they put the waste into the sea and air, the small amounts of radiation exposure in the waste are not harmful to people that are exposed. However, Greenpeace uses the incident that happen in Fukushima to show the dark side of nuclear energy. They look at the after effects of nuclear energy to conclude that it is too dangerous to be produced. These opinions become conflicts of interest that prevent the organizations from agreeing with each other. For the solution to work, there needs to be a better way to dispose of the waste that the nuclear energy we make produces. As of right now, it is not concentrated in a way that we can tell how much is being disposed of per day. That is why there should be a regulation that mandates by each nuclear plant there should be containers that are built to hold the radiation that is produced. This will lower the exposure to the Earth and to the people that drink the water where the waste is dumped. It would also lower the exposure that the air hold in radiation. Workers that are certified and have knowledge in what would be the best amount of nuclear waste in the container would monitor them. Because this may be too cost effective, another solution maybe to have a designated place to hold all the waste. This designated area can prevent the spreading of radiation and regulate the amount of waste that is made. One option is hold it underground where minerals that make nuclear energy are already found. Overall, the controversy of nuclear energy can be solved by having a middle ground between the two organizations. This compromise can save many lives and protect the Earth from future problems. The companies are also both sacrificing some things to come to this conclusion so they should come to conclusion well. Because of that the organizations should be able to agree with these options. Perez 5 Works Cited Bily, Cynthia A.  Salem Press Encyclopedia of Science (2015): Research Starters. Web. 3 Feb. 2017. Demirbas, A.1, ayhandemirbas@hotmail.com. Carbon Dioxide Emissions And Carbonation  Energy Sources Part A: Recovery, Utilization & Environmental Effects 30.1 (2008): 70-78. Applied Science & Technology Source. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Fukushima:  Greenpeace International. Greenpeace, n.d. Web. 04 Feb. 2017. Is Nuclear Power Safe for Humans and the Environment? - Alternative  ProConorg Headlines. ProCon.org, 26 Apr. 2012. Web. 04 Feb. 2017. Mission &  Mission & Activities - Nuclear Energy Institute. NEI, n.d. Web. 04 Feb. 2017. Nuclear  Monthly Energy Review (2013): 113-116. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 4 Feb. 2017. Operational  Operational Safety - Nuclear Energy Institute. NEI, n.d. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. Radioactive Waste  Radioactive Waste Management Nuclear Waste Disposal - World Nuclear Association. N.p., Oct. 2016. Web. 04 Feb. 2017. Stewart, Dion C. Nuclear Energy Institute  Salem Press Encyclopedia Of Science (2016): Research Starters. Web. 4 Feb. 2017. Yang, Guozi, et al. Low-Dose Radiation May Be A Novel Approach To Enhance The Effectiveness Of Cancer  International Journal Of Cancer 10 (2016): 2157. Academic OneFile. Web. 4 Feb. 2017.