Lutz 1 Tyler Lutz Professor Rouisse ENC 1102 11 April 2017 Support Free College Education for Everyone College education has been paid for through tuition in the United States for many years. College is often paid for in full or through various scholarships a student can receive. Many of these scholarships include a certain amount of money that does not all the time pay most of tuition. It is not usual that students will be able to get full-ride scholarships that pay for college in full. A common topic when describing college tuition is the idea of whether college education should be free or not. One such organization, Free College Now, believes that economy requires the country to make higher education affordable for everyone if we are going to have a workforce with the skills needed for us to compete in the global Free College Now argues that college education should be free because it is a right not a privilege. The United States can further improve the workforce if everyone receives a college education. Thus, it is vital that middle to upper-aged adults with no college education become active in this issue so that people can become aware of how beneficial it is that the nation has free college education we The main argument in this topic is that people believe that if the U.S. wants a more efficient and skilled workforce, having free college tuition is the key to success. Countries outside the U.S. such as Finland, Norway, and Sweden have free college education. They are doing well with this system and this proves that the U.S. can as well. When college tuition is Lutz 2 free, they argue that the lower class citizens of the U.S. have a better chance of getting an education after high school. Adding more of the lower class to the workforce as skilled workers, would boost the economy by adding more jobs and revenue When the U.S. contains more skilled workers, the economy can often gain momentum. When this happens, everything including the housing market and various businesses gain from the economy doing well. There are students in high school that may have the talent to change the world, but they do not have the funds to support their college education. There are also students that may not receive all the scholarships they need to go to college. In these cases without free college education, the U.S. can miss out on opportunities of young students that can further develop the U.S. as a whole the A huge problem with many college students in the U.S. is college debt. Many students come into college and have to take out student loans because they do not have the money to pay for housing or classes. After students graduate from college, they have to worry about paying off debt built up in their days of college. Most recent reports show that the student debt in the U.S. is about 1.41 trillion dollars. About 44.2 million Americans deal with student debt. The debt from students going to graduate school is anywhere from $40,000 to $160,000 dollars. These statistics show how much money many incoming students or current college students have to take out in loans each school year. If college was free of cost, students would not have to worry about taking out loans. Students could graduate college and start a life that includes having a family and working without worrying about paying off debt. Most Americans pay off their debt anywhere from the first 10 years of work to 30 years of work. Most students then struggle to become financially stable because they are constantly having to pay off student debt. Even when one Lutz 3 receives a promotion, they still may be financially unstable because of the debt they still contain Student Loan Debt Statistics for A common theme throughout the years in the U.S. is that there is a certain percentage of Americans that do not receive a college education or drop out. Most of these Americans then struggle to find jobs without a college education and end up working lower class paying jobs that barely can support a family. These days, to make a good living everyone needs at least a four year degree depending on degree. A statistic shows that 75% of students required to take remedial classes never graduate. Another statistic shows that 40% of college dropouts have parents with nothing beyond a high school diploma (Beckstead, Rachel). These statistics are the key to understanding how to solve this topic. A way to solve this topic is to have middle to upper age adults that never went to college or finished college do a television advertisement. In this advertisement, the adults can express the importance of going to college and how everyone should receive a college education. They should also say that college is a right and not a privilege as a punch line to get the attention. This is the best way to persuade Americans that college should be free and everyone should get an equal opportunity. College education has had a price tag for many years, but that can change with support from many people in America. There are Americans today that have the opportunity to make a difference for this country but may not have the money to go to college. Other countries such as Finland, Norway, and Sweden have shown that free college education is possible and it works. High school education is free so college education can be free as well. College debt is also very prevalent in America because of college tuition being so high. Most room and board for most universities is very expensive and most times scholarships will help that cost but not all of it. Statistics show how much debt many students are seeing throughout America. Other statistics Lutz 4 show how many students are dropping out of college and working low paying jobs. By having a television advertisement showing middle to upper age adults expressing the importance on getting a college education, it will persuade Americans to support this topic. All of these facts and statistics can be corrected by having free college education. This will happen if everyone in America comes together on this issue. Word count: 1035 Lutz 5 Work Cited Beckstead, Racehl. of College Online Colleges and Degrees College Atlas. N.p., 13 Mar. 2017. Web. 12 Apr. 2017. the Issues: Time to Make College Tuition Free and Debt Bernie Sanders. N..p., n.d. Web. 11 Apr. 2017. Should College Education Be  Debate.org. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Student Loan Debt Statistics for Student Loan Hero. N.p., 2012. Web. 11 Apr. 2017. Who We  Campaign for Free College Tuition. N.p., n.d. Web. 22 Feb. 2017.