Student 1 Student Professor Thornton ENC 1102 16 April 2017 GMOs: How They Affect You time for more people to become more involved in the discussion of Genetically Modified Organisms (GMOs). For those who are unaware of what GMOs are, a GMO is a plant, animal, microorganism or other organism whose genetic makeup has been modified using recombinant DNA methods (also called gene splicing), gene modification or transgenic technology is A The problem that needs to be confronted is the consumption and safety of GMOs. They are unsafe for consumption and should not be in the food supply. If a person think the topic is important, the prospect of GMOs affect everyone in everyday life. GMOs have been shown to have a negative impact on our health and the well-being of the environment. Everyone should be concerned with what they are eating and the well-being of the environment. GMOs should not be in the food supply as they negatively impact our health; they lead to the use of toxic herbicides; and the companies that manufacture GMO seeds work to suppress outside independent research on GMOs. First, some relatively recent information. One example of a past attempt at a temporary solution to GMOs was outlined by Karen Batra in her Calls for to GMO Labeling article. The proposed bipartisan Safe and Accurate Food Labeling Act drafted by representatives Mike Pompeo (R-Kan.) and G. K. Butterfield (D-N.C.) would a federal standard for the safety and labeling of foods made with genetically modified ingredients (GMOs), eliminating confusion, providing consistency in food labeling while Student 2 keeping food costs (Batra). This legislation was a step in the right direction but did not have punishments for companies that mislabeled their food or provided misleading information on labels (the absence of punishment was a point backed by pro-GMO lobbyists). As a result, we consumers rarely see verified GMO products on grocery shelves. Another interesting tidbit of information can be found in the journal entry Herbicides, and Public written by Philip J. Landrigan and Charles Benbrook. They researched the fact that companies such as Monsanto and organizations such as the Joint Glyphosate Task Force funded their own research and presented it to the EPA in order to obtain passing grades on GMO crops and resultant herbicides (Landrigan and Benbrook). In contrast, Megan L. Norris authored an article on the Harvard University Graduate School of Arts and Sciences webpage that contains information such as the conclusions from the American Medical Association and World Health Organization that genetically modified foods are safe for consumers based on the study of research from mostly independent groups worldwide (Norris). However, she omitted the fact that these studies were conducted with set stipulations by Monsanto instead of giving the researchers full freedom to conduct their research Blocks Research on GMO Instead of funding outside independent research, these companies and organizations presented their own biased research to the EPA. Monsanto has also blocked independent research on their GMO seeds to avoid other scientists from finding potential negative attributes of the seeds Blocks Research on GMO As stated by Christian Krupke, a Purdue University entomologist, in the article, truly independent research can be legally conducted on many critical questions involving these crops. Industry is completely driving the Blocks Research on GMO This is not how science should operate. These Student 3 companies act as gatekeepers, choosing who conducts the research and what topics are studied. The companies that produce the seeds claim that genetically engineered crops are safe and are better than traditional crops in a range of ways. If their crops were truly 100% safe, they let independent research take its course? Many countries such as Germany, France, Scotland, France, Italy, Austria, Greece, Poland, and Belgium have already banned the cultivation of GMO crops and their resultant pesticides due to their hazardous effects on our health GMOs There are multiple reasons why these countries took these steps. First, animal testing. As mentioned in the journal entry study: long-Term toxicity of a Roundup herbicide and a Roundup- Tolerantgenetically modified written by Emilie Clark (and others), more studies are linking GMOs to health hazards in lab animals which humans have traditionally based a products effectiveness on (Clark et al). In general, if a product were to damage animals in testing then it would not be approved for human use. Furthermore, John Glynn in his of journal entry lists studies such as the increase in cancer risks in consumers who eat GMOs and the negative effects of on honeybee populations (Glynn). In contrast, an article in the Journal of the Royal Society of Medicine authored by Suzie Key, Julian K-C Ma, and Pascal MW Drake includes statistics such as the increase in food production due to and the fact that studies have not yet explicitly determined that GMO crops are toxic to the human body (Key et al.). They used the term to give murky results on the tests. In reality, the scientists who conducted the studies (listed in both journal entries above) reinforced the sentiments previously voiced by a number of well-versed epidemiological and molecular researchers (Glynn). Substantial evidence was provided showing that certain pesticides used in agricultural and commercial applications were Student 4 associated with an increased risk in various cancers (Glynn). In this study, the epidemiological, molecular, biological, and toxicological evidence appeared to reinforce the findings of recent literature (Glynn). After assessing the link between specific pesticides and several cancers, prostate cancer, non-Hodgkin lymphoma, leukemia, multiple myeloma, and breast cancer included, the findings suggested that health problems posed by GMOs and pesticides are very real and not as some people would say. There is also information about chlorpyrifos, a harmful pesticide in the family of chemicals used as neurotoxins in World War II produced by Dow Chemicals. Long-term studies sponsored by the EPA and NIH have established that when pregnant women are exposed to chlorpyrifos and other organophosphate insecticides, resulting in fetal exposure, their children grow up to have lower IQ scores, increased rates of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), and poorer mental development than unexposed children GE Food and Your The pesticide was scheduled to be banned until President new EPA, now headed by Scott Pruitt, reversed the proposed ban after a successful lobby from Dow Chemicals. Pruitt, a man who has been opposed to the idea of the EPA and has filed 14 lawsuits against the EPA (https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/politics/2017/01/18/epa-nominee-scott-pruitt- confirmation-hearing/96679106/), was given the ability to make an executive decision on not banning a pesticide that affects children. When people hear about children being negatively affected by something, the subject seems to immediately grab their attention. Therefore, people should examine the present negative effects, and possible future negative effects, that GMOs and their resultant pesticides have on our children. Our health and well-being are the most important things in our lives which is why everyone should take the time to act. The process of that companies simply label Student 5 GMO foods has not been enough. If this paper has piqued interest at all, please search for groups in nearby areas and become actively involved to inspire more widespread discussion on the issue instead of simply signing a petition. Join a group, call local leaders, and voice opinions on the subject in order to push anti-GMO laws through Congress. It may seem but joining groups and expressing your opinion on subjects in a civilized and respectful manner has been a key for change in many social issues in the past. GMOs are not healthy for human consumption and their use (as well as their resultant herbicides) should come to a halt. This paper has utilized facts and studies that correlate to the argument and help strengthen it. This paper does not include any pseudo-science and has not been influenced my personal opinions on the subject to present distorted facts. Everything in this paper is accurate and has been researched. Please, if anyone is interested on this subject at all, just educate yourself on GMOs and decide if they do indeed negatively affect your health and overall well-being. If more civilized discussion can result in more awareness on the subject of GMOs then maybe we can look ahead to a brighter future (WC: 1379). Student 6 Works Cited GMOs Living Non-GMO, The Non-GMO Project, livingnongmo.org/learn/gmo- faq/. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Armenakas, Sophia, and Macrene Alexiades-Armenakas. Genetically-Modified Organisms in United States Agriculture: Mandate for Food  Scientific Research 4.8 (2013): 1. Scientific Research. Scientific Research Publishing Inc., Aug. 2013. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <https://www.scirp.org/journal/PaperInformation.aspx?PaperID=35189>. Batra, Karen. Calls for to GMO Labeling Biotechnology Innovation Organization, Biotechnology Innovation Organization, 25 Mar. 2015, www.bio.org/media/press-release/bio-calls-%E2%80%9Cnational- solution%E2%80%9D-gmo-labeling-debate. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Claire, Emilie, et al. study: long-Term toxicity of a Roundup herbicide and a Roundup-Tolerantgenetically modified Environmental Sciences Europe, 22 Mar. 2014, doi:10.1186/s12302-014-0014-5. Accessed 9 Apr. 2017. GE Food and Your  Center for Food Safety. Center for Food Safety, n.d. Web. 2 Apr. 2017. <http://www.centerforfoodsafety.org/issues/311/ge-foods/ge-food-and-your- health>. Glynn, John. of Journal of Nutrition and Food Sciences, vol. 6, no. 1, 18 Jan. 2016, pp. doi:10.4172/2155-9600.1000458. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Key, Suzie, Julian K-C Ma, and Pascal MW Drake. modified plants and human Journal of the Royal Society of Medicine, vol. 101, no. 6, pp. National Institute of Health, doi:https://dx.doi.org/10.1258%2Fjrsm.2008.070372. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Student 7 Landrigan, Philip J, and Charles Benbrook. Herbicides, and Public The New England Journal of Medicine, Massachusetts Medical Society , 20 Aug. 2015, www.nejm.org/doi/full/10.1056/NEJMp1505660#t=article. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Living Non-GMO, The Non-GMO Project, livingnongmo.org/. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Blocks Research on GMO Redgreenandblue, Http://www.importantmedia.org/, Sustainable Enterprises Media, Inc. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. Norris, Megan L. GMOs Hurt My Body? The Concerns and How Scientists Have Addressed Science in the News, Harvard Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, 10 Aug. 2015, sitn.hms.harvard.edu/flash/2015/will-gmos-hurt-my-body/. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. is A The Non-GMO Project, The Non-GMO Project, www.nongmoproject.org/gmo-facts/what-is-gmo/. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017.