Student 1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Eating Organic is the Healthiest Option In our world today people do not pay attention to what we eat, which can sometimes be a concern in regards to our health. Those people, who are regular shoppers at local grocery stores, are not aware of what is actually in their food. This concern can be drawn back to the need of labeling products as genetically modified. An organization called the Organic Consumers Association (Organic Consumers Association) strives to campaign for health, justice, and sustainability of all safety issues regarding food (Organic Consumers Association). With this, eating organically and naturally grown foods is the best option for consumption because there is a risk of chemicals from genetically modified organisms potentially harming the body. With the population becoming more aware now that genetically modified organisms are in their foods, local grocery shoppers may learn to steer clear of products that are labeled as genetically modified. A problem arises, however, of people not knowing exactly what genetically modified organisms (GMOs) are. Melissa Diane Smith, who has a diploma in nutrition portrays GMOs as, and seeds created in a engineers insert genes from bacteria, viruses, and animals or humans into the DNA of food crops that would not grow in (Smith). Most grocery shoppers do not know that the substances within the products they are buying can be potentially hazardous if the chemicals do not have a compatibility with the body. Student 2 Likewise, foods have always been grown organically until recently with the use of genetically modified organisms as a substitute (Great Neck Publishing). If people have been successfully living for many centuries without the need for genetically modified organisms (GMOs), there should clearly be no need to begin using GMOs now because no one may really know what chemicals are imputed into the genetically modified products. With the advancement of technology, there may be a need to make improvements with the growing knowledge of our society, but that idea seems completely irrational and unnecessary. It has only been as recently as the 1990s that genetically modified organisms have been researched, so without enough evidence, potential issues such as use of radiation and food-borne illnesses may arise without proper studies taking place (Great Neck Publishing). In addition, alternatives to organic foods are taking place to accommodate the needs of those who do not eat enough organic food. In most cases, the general public does not pay attention to what they eat and it is most likely not organic food. Robert Craven, the CEO of MegaFood, states, 90% of supplements found in a CVS or Costco come directly from labs, so they are genetically modified, but what I provide is food based supplements in the form of a powder to meet the demands of those who desire the (Craven). Craven feels it is logically more ideal to use his products because it is all organic with no harmful substances embedded that could potentially hurt an unaware consumer. An issue that does raise concern is that grocery shoppers do need to become more aware of what products they are purchasing and what is inside those specific products. Furthermore, the transition into solely organic foods will save thousands of lives. Ken Roseboro, editor of the Organic and Non-GMO report, created an article stating that foods that were labeled and are increasing not only in natural food stores, Student 3 but in mainstream supermarkets (Roseboro 1). This is because products are sold within these stores with pictures of innocent animals. On the product, the name says, Species and 10% of these purchases go to non-profitable organizations that try to end animal testing on genetically modified substances (Roseboro 2). This labeling should help reduce testing on animals with more people becoming aware of what goes on with their food before it is shipped to local grocery stores. However, some non-engaged shoppers may not realize that there is testing of these substances on innocent animals, and they need to change their perspective on certain products that they can and cannot purchase. The shoppers need to pay more attention to what they are purchasing as well. With this, some consumers are now aware of what they are purchasing and feel their health is at risk if there are not proper labels on their food products. The article, Substitutes or Complements, can confirm that food labeling is becoming a vital part of adding value to a product when a customer is weighing between two products (Meas et al). Labels clearly displaying what is in the specific foods will give local shoppers a sense of relief that there will be a guarantee of the food they are purchasing is deemed safe to eat. After collecting information from a variety of shoppers, consumers prefer to buy food with a commitment to value, safety, and production (Meas et al). From this information, it can be stated that organic foods are gaining more popularity with each passing year. Shoppers are really becoming more aware of what is inside the food they purchase because they do not want to consume any potentially dangerous substances that could harm them or any other person that eats the food they buy. If people are not convinced that eating organically should be the only route to go, studies have shown that those with high exposures to pesticides such as farm workers Student 4 have higher instances of (Shan). There should not be a risk in buying foods at grocery stores just for the sake of trying to eat with a healthier lifestyle. A healthier lifestyle is difficult to follow through because some products do have false labeling (Smith). Nutritionist Diane Smith states, modified ingredients are found in at least 75 percent of all nonorganic U.S. processed foods, including products labeled as or (Smith). She claims the only non-suspicious products to buy are foods labeled as organic. Some foods naturally grown can be genetically modified, so the only safe bet seems to be food that is grown organically. It is certain that organic products will not contain genetically modified organisms because farmers are not allowed to plant GM [genetically seeds nor use GM crop (Smith). Some people do not really know what organic food actually is. Certified medical herbalist, Yaso Shan, illustrates organic food as, and stored without the use of pesticides, and artificial (Shan). Keeping a proper diet can be difficult, but as long as something is labeled organic, then there is a safe bet that there are no genetically modified organisms within the product and the item can be deemed healthy to eat. Some people may contract an illness, and then point to the foods they buy, but rise of the illnesses may well be due to a lack of a well-balanced (Shan). Staying healthy can be difficult, and eating healthy, organic foods can be an easy way to help maintain healthy living. Genetically modified food can contain a range of chemicals, so this can be a major contributor to contracting various illnesses due to not knowing what is actually inside of these food products. Overall, regular shoppers at local grocery stores need to become more aware of the products they are purchasing. They need to meticulously read labels with detail to make sure they are buying the proper products. If shoppers want the heathiest lifestyle of dieting or eating Student 5 in general, then they should only eat organic foods in comparison to foods that are genetically modified. No shoppers really know what can be in genetically modified products, so the safest bet is to eat foods that are only grown organically. (WC: 1275) http://keithviceagainstgmos.weebly.com Student 6 Works Cited Craven, Robert. Benefits of Organic Food Based The Benefits of Organic Food Based Vitamins, Live to 110, 2016, liveto110.com/transcript-89-the-benefits-of-organic- food-based-vitamins-robert-craven/. Accessed 7 Apr. 2017. Great Neck Publishing. Organic Food Debate. Salem Press Encyclopedia of ScienceSalem Press Encyclopedia, Jan. 2016, eds.a.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/detail/detail?sid. Accessed 2 Apr. 2017. Meas, Thong, et al. or Substitutes or Complements, American Journal of Agricultural Economics, July 2015, eds.a.ebscohost.com/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer. Accessed 2 Apr. 2017. Organic Consumers Association. Organic Transitions, 1998, www.organicconsumers.org/campaigns/organic-transitions. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Roseboro, Ken. Certified!, Prepared Foods, June 2016, eds.a.ebscohost.com. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Shan, Yaso. Organic -- Is It Nutritionally Going Organic -- Is It Nutritionally Better?, Royal College of Nursing Publishing, Apr. 2006, eds.a.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/pdfviewer. Accessed 2 Apr. 2017. Smith, Melissa Diane. & Wholesome & Delicious, Active Interest Media, Aug. 2015, eds.a.ebscohost.com/eds/detail/detail. Accessed 2 Apr. 2017. ---. REALITY GMO REALITY CHECK, Better Nutrition, Aug. 2012, eds.a.ebscohost.com. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017