Student 1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 April 9, 2017 The Benefits of Keeping the Arts in Schools around the U.S. Throughout the years the topic of the arts and its involvement in the United States Education has become a grave social concern. Schools around the nation struggle to keep the arts in schools, government officials dim it as unimportant compared to other subjects and extracurricular activities. Public schools keep removing the arts as a class and basis of education because of the lack of funding by the government. However as time passes newly information start showing the benefits that the arts bring to students, including their academic performance and even helps them in their professional life after school. According to Britannica the arts, or as its also called, the fine arts, is the of expression that use skill or imagination in the creation of aesthetic objects, environments, or experiences that can be shared with (Brittanica.com). It is important for people to believe that a good education not just includes three basic subjects, it goes beyond that, where the arts enhances creativity, an important component for personal growth. The arts in public schools should be kept and protected because As stated before for centuries the arts has been branded as distractive and a non- essential subject for human development, more and more schools remove their arts program, branding them as extracurricular and not an actual subject. Nevertheless, different foundations and stakeholders disagree and makes their mission to show otherwise. The Americans for the Arts foundation believes the power of Student 2 the whose mission is to advance, and lead the network of organizations and individuals who cultivate, promote, sustain, and support the arts in for the They also believe in the arts and its economical, social, and educational benefits for people all around America. Another main point this organization states is their belief of the arts as to our (Cohen 1), once again enhancing creativity and straightening students academic performance. Randy Cohen from the American for the Arts foundation wrote how students who are engaged in some type of arts education attain higher and SAT scores, also having the lowest drop out rates (Cohen 1). Another academic statistic explains how percent of Americans believe that arts are part of a well-rounded K-12 (Cohen 1). This shows just how peoples support of the arts place it on a very important academic level, where they believe it can shape a academic life. Just as the arts benefits academic performance it benefits society economically as well. The U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis stated that arts and culture sector is a $730 billion industry, which represents 4.2 percent of the which represents a bigger share of the economy than any other area like transportation, agriculture and lastly, tourism (Cohen 1). With this it can be concluded that the arts plays a very important part on the economy and not just any other unrecognizable aspect of society. Following the economical benefit of the arts comes the social benefits. Randy Cohen estates how 67 percent of Americans believe arts unify our communities regardless of age, race, and and 62 percent agree that the arts me understand other cultures perspective observed across all demographic and economic (Cohen 1). With this it can be seen how most Student 3 societies around the united sates are aware of the cultural benefits of the arts as a social helper for better understanding along people, making it another reason why arts should be taught all around. Edward Warburton supports all of this on his article to Arts beyond High School: Issues of Demand and Availability in American Higher , where he expresses how the art programs have increased performance, reduce absenteeism, develop thinking and social skills, improve social 1), and also how it improves connections in the outside world, far away from school, showing once more how people benefit from the arts in every aspect of their life, going beyond just school. Having the arts in schools affects even the least expected. Research has found that Performing arts education has helped and extremely important to student with learning differences. Newswire shows us a New York City school from pre-school all the way to middle school who treats students with learning disabilities. In the video presented these students are seen participating in the performing arts and while doing this they experience what could be called transformative and life changing. The head of School Dr. Scott Gaynor expresses how the arts have shown to expressive and receptive language skills, comprehension skills in reading as well as math (Newswire 1). Through this it can be shown that people as special as kids with disabilities can be affected by the arts, building their self confidence and allowing them as people of their societies to become more confident, just as any other person would. It makes them feel good about something and build for something bigger than themselves. Student 4 People should care about this topic of the arts as part of education because as stated before, the arts not only improve creativity but it improves academic, social, and economical factors of peoples lives, which are important in their day to day activities. In the past schools all around have tried to get funding from sponsor around their community in a search for more support in the arts program as a whole but most fail to do so, still lacking the necessary amount needed to maintain the arts. If this problem stays students will grow up and go through their academic life without thinking of the arts as an important pillar of their education, also believing that creativity part of their future. This is why people need to take action on the matter by starting foundations like The Americans for the Arts foundation which strive for the bettering of people though the arts and that advocate for real life factors that the arts helps improve. This will get people involved and start seeing the arts differently, making them want to make that change and advocate for the arts on everyday education. These can create a chain in which people communicate with others around them and see what they can do to help around their own communities starting with helping with schools funding so the arts programs get to stay in schools and students get the necessary benefits from it. In conclusion the arts should be kept in schools for various reasons. These include the various social, economical and most of all academic benefits that shape the student life though their first years all the way though their professional one, shaping them as a person and building them for society. Additionally, the arts help improve the education of some unexpected but more than special people, kids with disabilities, who with the help of the arts find themselves transforming, improving in their skills and building their confidence for them to get out to the world and be like anyone else. The arts are in Student 5 everything, living in the surrounding, helping everyone and leaving them with a positive impact in their lives. As more than n extracurricular activity the arts are a pillar of education that with the help of societies it can finally be seen as the educational enhancer it truly is. (WC: 1237) Student 6 Work Cited Americans for the  Americans for the Arts. N.p., http://www.americansforthearts.org/. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. Cohen, Randy I. 10 Reasons to Support the Arts in  ARTS Blog. Americans for the Arts, 4 Mar. 2016. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. <http://blog.americansforthearts.org/2016/03/04/10-reasons-to-support-the-arts- in-2016>. PR, Newswire. In a New Video, Stephen Gaynor School Shares the Benefits of a Performing Arts Education for Students with Learning  PR Newswire US, 16 Dec. 2016. EBSCOhost,ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx ?direct=true&db=bwh&AN=201612160900PR.NEWS.USPR.NY71796&site=ed s-live. The Editors of Britannica. The  Britannica. Britannica, Inc., 09 July 2008. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. <https://www.britannica.com/topic/the-arts>. Warburton, Edward C. Access to Arts beyond High School: Issues of Demand and Availability in American Higher  Arts Education Policy Review, vol. 107, no. 6, Jul/Aug2006, pp. 11-16. EBSCOhost,ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx ?direct=true&db=ap h&AN=23317134&site=eds-live. Vancouver/ICMJE References Warburton E. Access to Arts Beyond High School: Issues of Demand and Availability in American Higher Education. Arts Education Policy Review Student 7 [serial on the (2006, July), [cited February 26, 107(6): 11-16. Available from: Academic Search Premier.