Rodriguez 1 Genevieve Rodriguez Professor Aranda ENC1102 February 5, 2017 Animals do it Alone recent years bees and other pollinators have been disappearing at alarming rates, causing widespread concern that these important species could be wiped out (defenders.org). This is one example of how lives are being effected negatively by humans. Humans should be using their talents and skills to protect this lovely planet and not further destroy it. Of course species die off and no longer exist through natural selection but as human interaction increases, the world becomes a smaller place for its inhabitants. Organizations like People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) and Defenders of Wildlife (DW) seek to stop or slow down the process of the ever growing endangered species list. These two stakeholder organizations have different ideas as to how they want to save the Earth. DW works a lot with trying to pass laws to save habitats while PETA uses pathos to entice people to protect all animals. These two stakeholders can work together and create a social campaign that can reach places effecting nature in a negative way. With social media presence and strategic planning and proposing laws they can work together to help those animals in need. Blasted across social media PETA uses graphic images of animals in pain. Guy Bergstorm, a seasoned reporter of political controversies, states in the article is PETA and How do They Target a Global that there are four audiences that PETA goes for when sending out a brutal message of a slaughter house ; everyday people, businesses, lawmakers, and mass media. When these audiences react PETA can accomplish the amazing. Animals are no longer tested on for beauty products due to this method (Bergstorm page 1). strong Rodriguez 2 social media presence allows them to showcase their mission statement loud and proud. focuses its attention on the four areas in which the largest numbers of animals suffer the most intensely for the longest periods of time: in the food industry, in the clothing trade, in laboratories, and in the entertainment (PETA.org) This stakeholder has been around since 1980 in Norfolk, Virginia in the hopes of ending animal cruelty as well as endangerment. At PETA they are not afraid to be the unpopular opinion or be the voice for the innocent. That is what makes them such a memorable force in social media. They use a very narrow focus in their media outputs to really get their point across which can really aid the compromise. PETA can help leave a long lasting impact that will put viewers into action for the protection of endangered animals. PETA does claim to be all serving to animals but a lot of the time it forgets those animals in the wild who need help too. That is where the Defenders of Wildlife (DW) come in. DW is to the protection of all native animals and plants in their natural (defenders.org) DW works with lawmakers to make sure habitats are preserved. They constantly make strides to adding animals to the endangered species list so that big companies turn a blind eye on helpless animals. (defenders.org) There is a recent article that showcased how DW used their activism to make wolverine habitats protected in 2013! Recently, J. Weston Phippen an ASU Journalism degree graduate of 5 years, wrote an article in the Atlantic about how wolverines are making a comeback once again in the United States. These two stakeholders can work perfectly together for the better of animals around the world. With strong social media presence and DW strong presence with law makers, they can make a global campaign to raise awareness for endangered animals. It would benefit PETA because it would show a partnership with another organization that they are not already Rodriguez 3 affiliated with and DW will help PETA to be taken more seriously with law makers. DW will benefit because there will be more of a media presence with the help of PETA. This campaign will help not only these stakeholders but also the animals that are affected daily. Raising awareness through social media is such a strong tool in advocacy in the modern age. In an academic journal written by Jieun Lee and Ilyoo B. Hong they say herd behavior, a construct of informational social influence, denotes the tendency for individuals to mimic the actions, whether rational or irrational, of a larger (section 2). This means that the opinions and posts of close friends have some sort of influence on each other. So when this campaign starts, social media through friends will increase awareness of the cause. These two stakeholders have so much to give. Spreading the message to save the animals is the first step to actually saving the animals. PETA and Defenders of Wildlife both can make this proposal happen! Look out on social media for the do it campaign near you. Rodriguez 4 Work Cited Phippen, J. Weston. Great News For Wolverines, and a Lashing For U.S. Fish and  The Atlantic. Atlantic Media Company, 8 Apr. 2016. Web. 02 Feb. 2017. Lee, Jieun, and Ilyoo B. Hong. Predicting Positive User Responses To Social Media Advertising: The Roles Of Emotional Appeal, Informativeness, And  International Journal Of Information Management 36.(2016): 360-373. ScienceDirect. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA): The Animal Rights  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. Bergstrom, Guy. What Is PETA and How Do They Target A Global  The Balance. N.p., 6 Aug. 2016. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. Mission and  Defenders of Wildlife. N.p., 27 Dec. 2016. Web. 5 Feb. 2017.