Pierre 1 Jude Pierre Professor Aranda ENC 1102 02/22/2017 Should Marijuana be allowed for Pain Relief in Professional American Football? The National Football League founded in 1920 in Canton, Ohio is by far one of the largest stakeholder organizations in the modern day era American Football itself is one of the most popular and most watched sport in the United States and worldwide. According to Sports Video Group the primetime side, Night Football had its most-watched season ever with an average of 22.5 million viewers per However, although American Football is such fun to watch, it is also exceptionally dangerous. The hard hitting, explosive burst of speed, strength and hours of preparation needed to play at this level can wear on the body overtime. Rehab, however, is not always enough. A pain reliever without the side effects of kidney deterioration and long term addiction is the use of medical marijuana, usually in a hospital setting. However, the use of marijuana is on prohibited substance list and failure to comply to the rules can result in a suspension. It is important for not just the owners of NFL teams to have a say in what rules are in place, but also important for the players to have a say in these decisions as well. An organization was needed where the players had a voice and power in league decisions stopping the NFL from having absolute power ,which is where the NFLPA or National Football League Players Association comes in. The NFLPA, founded in November 1960, is an stakeholder organization devoted to the safety of players and ensure players of the league are being treated fairly. The NFLPA fabricated a proposition and is Pierre 2 pushing to allow marijuana to be used for pain relief , although the NFL fears it could be a detrimental look for the business and can lead to an unfair advantages. These two stakeholders will come to a compromise if they allow the use of marijuana in the NFL. However, the lift of the marijuana ban must come with limitations and regulations. A proper solution and compromise for both these stakeholder organizations would be to allow the use of medical marijuana for pain relieving purposes, but only for certain injuries, it can only be used over the offseason and not only the team physician, but an independent NFL physician as well, deems it all right. Also, to go with the use of medical marijuana being heavily supervised by medical doctors, unless given a special permit as well to go along with two authorizations from physicians, the medical marijuana can only be used during the offseason and during the BYE week. The reason this is a fair and reasonable compromise for both stakeholder organization is because the NFLPA or National Football League players Association will have their thoughts and wishes heard and have the prohibition on marijuana changed or reversed and players will be able to fight aches and pain with the use of Cannabis. This will help players steer away from the heavy reliance on pills to reduce pain caused by inflammation, injuries or extreme soreness. The NFL or National Football League Association will benefit from this compromise because although the use of marijuana is now allowed for pain relief purposes, there are strict regulation and limitations to the use. This will reduce the chance of a player having an unfair advantage or reduce the risk of a player going into a game or even leaving a game in the wrong state of mind. This not only helps maintain the integrity and spirit of the game, but also helps the players stay safe. besides their differences, both organizations want the safety of their players to come first. Pierre 3 The NFL is an organization that prides itself on its integrity and fairness for all players. This involves prohibiting and discouraging the use of during the season and during the off season..This is done to avoid any player having an unfair advantage over any other player. The drugs prohibited in the NFL include cocaine,opiates MDMA , PCP and of course marijuana. The National Institute on Drug Abuse is an organization that studies the effects of many different drugs. This organization stated that marijuana is a plant that when commonly smoked can senses, alter sense of time, change mood, impair body movement and impair With these effects one can see why the NFL dreads even the thought of players smoking or intaking marijuana in any form before games or even during games. The game is dangerous enough as it is, if a player is in a state of euphoria while playing because it is allowed, lawsuits, complications and fatal injuries could occur. Marijuana being prohibited in sports is common.In fact, the USADA or U.S Anti Doping Agency, which works to keep the game fair in all sports by discouraging use of drugs to gain a competitive advantage stated has the potential to enhance or enhances sport performance,It represents an actual or potential health risk to the athlete, It violates the spirit of sport (usada.org). Prohibition of marijuana is not just common in football it is common in all of sports. This is important because the NFL is not alone on this ban, making a compromise more difficult to come to when there is no organization to look up to. The NFL can question if other sports are not lifting this ban why should we? Pierre 4 The NFLPA is an organization whose only duty and priority is to make players of the NFL voice heard and protect them while in the NFL and after their NFL careers are over. The use of painkillers in pill form is a common treatment in the NFL for aches and pains, but without self control can become addictive. Excessive consumption of even over the counter pain relievers can result in complications in the body. The National Kidney Foundation (NKF) is an organization with the foundation of studies and research on the kidneys and what can affect or harm the kidneys in anyway. The NKF states that or long-term use of some of these medicines, such as ibuprofen, naproxen, and higher dose aspirin, can cause chronic kidney disease known as chronic interstitial (kidney.org). In a previous interview with former NFL superstar Calvin Johnson by the Washington Post a credible, extremely popular newspaper. Calvin Johnson says were handed out like when he played. Studies show the use of Cannabis as a pain relief to be successful. The Hawaii journal of Public Health wrote an article explaining the benefits of Cannabis for medical use, especially the medical use of pain relief. The article states when patients used Cannabis for pain relief reported pain relief from medical cannabis was Webb, S. Webb 109-111). NFLPA proposed the ban on marijuana to be uplifted to avoid players being addicted to painkillers while they play the game and after they are done with their careers. The end of the dependence on pain relieving pills can prevent tragedies like disease and overdose in the future. Overall, although both organization have different views on how to promote and encourage player safety they both care about this issue and that is a start on their journey to Pierre 5 reaching a compromise.The lift on the ban of marijuana in professional American Football is possible and inevitable. Pierre 6 Works Cited Institute on Drug Abuse. Blog . Mar. 2016. Web. 4 Feb. 2017). A. FAQ U.S. Anti-Doping agency . U.S. Anti-Doping Agency (USADA), 27 Oct. 2015. Web. 4 Feb. 2017). National Kidney. medicines . The National Kidney Foundation, 3 Feb. 2017. Web. 4 Feb. 2017.) Des Bieler By Des. Johnson Says Painkillers Were Handed out to NFL Post . Washington Post, 6 July 2016. Web. 4 Feb. 2017.) (Webb, Charles W, and Sandra M Webb. Benefits of Cannabis: A Patient 73.4 (2014): n.pag. Web. 4 Feb. 2017) (Dachman, Jason. Ratings Roundup: NFL Regular Season Up on Three of Four Networks, New 6 Bowls Plummet on  Video Group . N.p., 8 Jan. 2016. Web. 21 Feb. 2017.) . Pierre 7