Figbe 1 Prosper Figbe Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 15 April 2017 Homeless but not hopeless In our present time of depressing prosperity in our society, many of us individuals are living the dream, living the good life of joyful health, wealth and continuous fulfillment; however, many individuals are left unnoticeable, hungry, living on the streets and having no place to call home. Having this notion in mind makes me wonder over and over that what is life if we go out of our way to help make day beautiful. Keeping that in mind it is quite obvious that we live in a world full with riches and happiness but many of us are constantly faced with hardship and constant fear of what we even see and at such many if not everyone has gone without having something in his/her lives but how many of us have gone without having a place to call home. never too late to help make a change because it all starts now and you can be the difference that we all craved for. Imagine the feeling of not knowing where to go or what to do and feeling lost completely. Imagine spending every single night in the harsh weather on the street, which you call home. Imagine waking up to various chattering noises every beautiful day and then face with the challenge of finding a public place that would kindly allow you without being judgmental in order to clean up, imagine being hungry and begging every single individual that passes bye for a little change just to eat a sketchy meal. It takes a lot of courage to act, by acting with just a simple kindness can go a long way in brightening Figbe 2 day. According to David Wolfe, CEO and founder, Lessa Sleep LLC a given night, more than half a million people in the U.S. are living on the streets, in cars, in homeless shelters or in subsidized transitional housing. Of that population, 15 percent are considered this is a prime example of the rise in percentage of individuals living in the streets and the danger that comes along with it. It take much to be a catalyst for joy and source of happiness for who as fortunate as yourself. So which one are you? Are you the kind that wants the exhilaration for others or the kind that only cares about him/herself? Finding and preserving a steady source of income is an important measure for ending homelessness. Having something to hold on too, the idea of being fully employed can surely help the homeless in finding a better way to generate income instead of constantly begging in the streets. This starts by creating numerous opportunities for the homeless, opportunities that could help better their lives and that of their families. In our society today, it cost less to help homeless individuals transition back into the society than it does to leave them out on the streets. According to Kevin Murray, CEO of the Weingart Center it clear that as much as we want them to have charitable intent, donating to address the problem of homelessness also should appeal to their self-interest. I think we make a pretty good case that donating to homeless people saves money directly, in addition to the benefits of a better city, better lifestyle, and better You donating to the less privilege is an incredible act of generosity which can definitely go a long way in changing lives but how about taking it to the next level through investing in the life of a homeless individuals. The idea of Investing can mean a lot of things, it can be putting an homeless person into school, it can be finding a job that Figbe 3 will not only keep them off the street but help make them become a well respected individuals in the society. Life is unpredictable and at such nobody irrespective of the position or societal class is bigger than being homeless. Most cases of homelessness are often caused by tragic life occurrence like domestic violence; the death of loved ones, job loss, family disputes etc. and we all needs to understand that those affected by all these severe tragic incidence are once respected happy individuals in the society before finding themselves homeless. According to Robert fisher of people has many causes; industrialization, wars and subsequent problems, natural disasters, racial inequities, medical problems, Everyone can be rendered homeless as a result of natural causes. These danger that we see before us can actually happen to any of us irrespective of ones class in the society. So you know an earthquake, hurricane or even a control can destroy our home within minutes, so by getting involved and helping in these issues is a step in making our society better. Getting involved and signing numerous petitions do anyone any good. The best possible solution is by making one voice heard, not just for yourself but the general population. Because these problem is a lot bigger than just one person and the early we start seeing things for what it is and take action the better for everyone of us. According to Brian Orme, can make a difference in life today. Stop. Be present. Listen. Show someone in need they have value because they are made in the image of showing someone that they are worth having a conversation with irrespective of their situation can go along way because everybody needs love, happiness as well as a pure sense of belonging because situations can change and destiny can change. Figbe 4 Life is a gift, filled with happiness and sometimes hardship but we all can decide where we fit in and having this in mind you be the reason others leave the life of happiness. Many of us are fortunate enough to live in mansions we call home while others are left to leave and dwell on the street having nothing to show for it. What is life if we go out of our comfort zone in helping those in need because we can be in that same situation that the homeless people are constantly facing. It take much to help, all it takes is courage and the mindset to see right from and you can start by being that change that we all need. WC 1200 Figbe 5 Works Cited Fischer, Robert. The History of Homelessness in America 1640s to  Downtown Congregations to End Homelessness. N.p., 17 Mar. 2014. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. N/A. This Homeless Man Just Gave a TED Talk on Relationships from the Back of a Gas  Faithit. N.p., 12 June 2015. Web. 02 Apr. 2017. Wolfe, David. Company Tackles Homelessness: One Mattress at a Triple Pundit: People, Planet, Profit. N.p., 19 Oct. 2016. Web. 22. Jan. 2017 Peters, Adele. This Homelessness Organization Says You Should Stop Donating To The  Co.Exist. N.p., 08 June 2015. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. Luker, Sonia. Natural Disasters: Leaving People  Natural Disasters: Leaving People Homeless. N.p., 01 Jan. 1970. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. N/A. Funders Together to End  Funders Together to End Homelessness. Together, n/a. Web. 02 Apr. 2017.