Student 1 Student Professor Thornton P3 Intermediate 16 April 2017 Aiding Depression As a nation, we must come together as a whole to combat depression, the three pillars of physical, emotional, and financial support are keys to success in fighting for those who suffer from depression. Physical support can be provided to those in need through hug therapy and art therapy. Emotional support can be catered to those in need through social media, mail, or other technology. Financial supported can be presented to depressed individuals through non-profit organizations, free services, and organizations that are driven towards fighting depression. On average, million Americans suffer each (G. Smith) Depression is a topic of concern because there is a rapid increase, specifically through the last century. This illness does not receive sufficient funding, research or acknowledgement. Although there are instances of confrontation from other organizations, it is vital to persuade them to combat depression. Depression is a life-threatening illness and should be treated as such, it consumes you mind, body, and daily life. Depression can cause one to disassociate themselves from their families, societies, work, happiness, and their normal lives. Many people that experience do not display signs of depression as they mainly spend time to themselves and block out life around them. The Anxiety and Depression Association of America and the Devon Safeguarding Children Board are inspiration to myself, as well as others, to aid this cause. These two organizations offer aid to those suffering; however, not many are aware of this available need. Student 2 Physicality is a phenomenon that has prevailed throughout human kind in every relationship whether it be mother-child, father-child, man-woman, friend-friend. Eight hugs a day can make all the difference; hugs build trust, raises oxytocin levels, strengthen the immune system, happiness, boost self-esteem, relax muscles, reduce stress, and provide positive energy. Hugging therapy has become more popular in the United States of America because hugs have proven to be very in combating any feelings of sadness or lowliness. Physically having presence can provide a feeling that no picture or phone can. Physicality is not a phenomenon only with people but with objects as well. Art therapy is successful in its ability to allow people to out their feelings. Stroking brushes through tiny puddles of paint and brushing them onto a surface allows individuals to gain a sense of relief as they are clearing their mind. Creativity plays a major role in art therapy, when one experiences depression words do not speak. The mind and hands speak and with the color choices and patterns that an individual utilizes he/she can display his/her creativity and feel. A painting can reflect many emotions, feelings, thoughts, concerns, and expression of the mind. Interpretations may differ from person to person depending on their experiences. Life is not viewed the same by all individuals because out experiences is was makes us different from every other person. Art therapy can be practiced individually or in a group or class. In a class or group an depressed individual may meet others who share similar feelings even if not similar experiences. The feeling of familiarity and similarity may begin to appear and begin to combat the depression. Although many organizations that attempt to help individuals recover from several sicknesses through financial support. Financial support simply takes care of financial needs, or helps reach financial need. It is vital to consider feelings and emotions, especially for those who are suffering hardships. man has his secret sorrows which the world Student 3 knows not; and often times, we call a man cold when he is only (Henry Wadsworth Longfellow) The presence of someone could potentially save the life of a loved one or any person. This quote is a perfect example of how misunderstood depression can be. Most civilians are uneducated in the matter and struggle when it comes to being there for their loved on. Emotional support is not only provided in-person but also through the modern technology that is present. Technology such as facetime, phone calls, skype, mail, e-mail, Facebook, and other social media allows people all over the world to communicate. There are many people who do not experience sufficient support; therefore, it is important to make them feel important. Someone I was very close to experienced depression and was very close to taking their life. I just met them when they began to have suicidal thoughts; however, I began to make one phone call a day and their depression was minimized. I asked this friend a few years later how he/she came out of depression and was told that one phone call a day can save a life. Music therapy is said to be live changing. The impacts on lives of people suffering from illnesses range anywhere from cancer to depression. If we could provide more funding for instruments to be used at therapy, or maybe even implement private lessons, depression could be fought. The connection we feel as humans to music is something so powerful- yet so hidden. Supporting your loved ones during this hard time, the financial support provided by you is what will mean a lot as well. As you have heard this type of condition requires a lot of emotional support, with that comes the obligatory financial responsibility as well. The information provided by the ADAA online is free and accessible to anyone with an internet connection. Through the ADAA website, many treatments are offered for free. Depression and anxiety groups, as well as peer consultation are only a click away. Each year, a convention is held by the ADAA for both members, and nonmembers to attend. Depending on the time of Student 4 purchase, the rates may differ. They range from $229-$624 for members. The nonmember rates vary from $225-$779. This is an example of why being a member of the ADAA is extremely beneficial to you and your loved ones. Not only are you receiving a treatment that will change your life, but you are also entitled to member perks. Having a complimentary subscription to the ADAA magazine will keep you informed on what is happening near you. Joining the team will lead to more research. Funding for these organizations is what can keep them thriving in this tough environment. It is not only your emotional obligation to aid a loved one, but a financial one as well. With the use of your dollars, is the only multidisciplinary professional organization in mental health that engages the words leading (Nina F. Rifkind) The Devon Safeguarding Children Board is responsible for creating a safe environment for potential situations that can lead to depression. Their website has information available free to the public as well. Having the availability and convenience of these two organizations leaves almost no excuse to avoid getting help when battling depression. Depression is a mental illness that varies from individual to individual. If fought back depression can just be a previous rough time; however, if certain precautions are not taken then one could risk many aspects of their life. These aspects include: work, relationships, weight, physical health, mental health, other chronic diseases and illnesses, happiness, drug/substance abuse, education if applicable, and daily life. A number is just a statistic, but when there are lives behind a number there is so much at stake for the world. million are affected by depression; this number needs to change and one day hopefully be out of the millions. Through physical, emotional, and financial support, depression can be fought back. (WC:1374) Student 5 Works Cited America, M. H. (2014, March 13). Depression. Retrieved January 18, 2017 Bianchi,Renzo, et al. and depression: Label-Related Stigma, Help-seeking and Syndrome Psychiatry Research, vol. 245, 30 Nov. 2016, pp. 91-98. EBSCOhost. 2016.08.025. Student 6 Boerema, Anke M., et al. of Help-Seeking Behavior in Depression: A Cross- Sectional BMC Psychiatry, vol. 16, 23 Mar. 2016, pp. 1- 9.EBSCOhost.doi:10.1186/s12888-016-0790-0. DBSA. Depression and Bipolar Support Alliance (DBSA), 2 Mar. 2015. Web. 2. Apr. 2017 Service DBSA. Pamela Smith, 7 Jan. 2014. Web. 14 Apr. 2017 Children & Freedom From Fear. N. p. 4 Oct. 2001. Web. 15 Apr. 2017 Recovery Freedom From Fear. N.p., 6 July 2004. Web. 2 Apr. 2017