Student 1 Student Dr. Jamie Thornton ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Future Energy Usage Matters Renewable energies are an aspect of technology that have been discussed about, however their importance in providing energy to the general public is still unmatched by that of fossil fuels. According to Hendrickson, fossil fuels account for of the energy used by the world (Hendrickson). Fossil fuels are being used to heavily, and it is causing us to rely on a fuel that will eventually run out of supplies. Fossil fuels consist of oil, coal and natural gases, forms of energy that we get from inside the earth. While, renewable energies consist of solar, wind and water, forms of energy gathered from non-ending sources. Fossil fuels take thousands of years to produce inside the earth, while renewable energies are out and will be at our disposal. Renewable energies should be integrated into the power grid for commercial and professional use, due to the eventual running out of fossil fuels and extensive damage they will cause. Since the start of the Industrial Revolution, fossil fuels have been the largest energy component driving the worlds economies. As we have transitioned from the start of the Industrial revolution to the state now, more sources of energy have started to arise including those that are present in renewable resources. Saudi Aramco, is a company based out of Saudi Arabia and contributes to one in every eighth barrels of oil that are produced (Saudi Aramco). Aramco, is a Student 2 company that has shown grave interest in the industry of fossil fuels. However, Solar Energy International is a company mission is to individuals to support a more sustainable (Solar Energy International). Both of these stakeholders take to appeal to either side of the energy conversation, while SEI wants to lead towards a more sustainable world. While, according to an article written by Amir Baniassadi, him and his team assessed the rate at which solar energy could integrated into the power grid in California. According to this article, systems offer more susceptibility for improvement by integration of (Baniassadi 298). Baniassadi presents a statistical model to prove the integration of renewable practices overall, allows the systems to be improved. The statistical models present an argument to start integrating solar energy now, if it will be more beneficial and improve it should be done sooner rather than later. While, Solar Energy International is empowering individuals it is teaching sustainable practices to those that are interested in. These practices are means of showing individuals how to use sustainable practices in order to better their lives or make them easier. These practices are taught at a class to class base that must be paid for, in order to accompany the information and for Solar Energy International to make an income to pay its workers (Solar Energy International). This is their way to continue to allow more individuals to add more practices, while the bigger oil companies only need to sell due to them having a much larger marketable audience. According to the article of Bioenergy Futures in Sweden, it is prevalent for phasing out fossil fuels to benefit the earth and country it is being apart of (1118). While policies are a political debate for the future, those that are being present in Sweden have benefitted the outcome of the society. By phasing out the use of fossil fuels, CO2 is then reduced which leads Student 3 to the decrease in overall temperature of the planet (Bioenergy Futures 1118). Exchanging the use of fossil fuels for more renewable resources, overall increases better outputs of the company. While a capitalist society is meant to function based on the wants of the individual not every individual has the availability to sell their ideals. Solar Energy International, is trying to sell the aspects of their ideals to the public in order to gain more revenue in order to build more sustainable practices for larger groups. While, companies like SEI would like to advance towards more of market they do not have the same luxury as many individuals tend to do. For this, a lot do not want to lean towards an ideal of getting rid of fossil fuels because they believe it will hurt more than help. However, in a Ted Talk by Avery Lovins, she gives a twenty-five-minute lecture on a plan to transition the United States out of the use of fossil fuels and into renewable energies. Stating, of the past four half of the new generating capacity has been (Avery Lovins). The transitions of the world into more sustainable practices is an aspect that has already happening, something the United States will have to catch up to. While something like this, is not always an aspect that is thought or the most important problem the world is facing it is something that will face the planet. The certain issue of fossil fuels being the primary resource and solar energy being a later source, the primary resource will eventually run out. If something is being a non-prominent issue, it is still something that is an issue and is needed to be addressed for folks. In hindsight, in a few decades most fossil fuels will run out and while that is not current, it is better to be prepared. Solutions in the past have not been passed, as it is seen as needed to have government intervention in order to aid in removing fossil fuels. However, the government is nor the sole owner of laws that can govern the states. It is still important for individuals to talk in regard to these issues, or else the economy or rush for consumers to switch to renewable will be to demanding for the economy to handle. Student 4 Now a call to a certain action is necessary to allow for the availability of information to be easily acceptable. It is not the governments job to know to add reforms to the market to be in favor of renewable energy sources and sustainable practices instead of fossil fuels. The individuals that consume are the ones that change the market, so it is the consumers and manufactures job to switch what the market is needed to produce. The demand for more sustainable items and solar panels will cause companies to be in favor of producing these items. Simply keeping the information in mind and letting guard your purchases and decisions is the best step to call companies and stakeholders to do, to invest in it one selves and inform other of the reasons in which you are partaking. Fossil fuels will end up causing more of a problem than they have already done now in the world. As problems stem to arise, we will run out of fossil fuels and global warming will still be an issue in the near future. While fossil fuels are our main source, they will eventually end up running out in the near future. To simply lay off the amount of fossil fuels by being more conservative in decisions, but also make decisions in order to make renewable resources more prominent into the field. In doing these small changes by most individuals, it will show a trend of wanting to shift towards a better outcome for the future. Student 5 Sources List Bioenergy Futures in Sweden - System Effects of CO2 Reduction and Fossil Fuel Phase-Out  Global Change Biology Bioenergy, no. 5, 2015, p. 1118. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1111/gcbb.12225. Baniassadi, Amir, et al. Application of R-Curve Analysis in Evaluating the Effect of Integrating Renewable Energies in Cogeneration  Applied Thermal Engineering, vol. 93, 25 Jan. 2016, pp. 297-307. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.applthermaleng.2015.09.101. Hendrickson, Cary. Fossil  Salem Press Encyclopedia, January. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=er s&AN=89475132&site=eds-live. Margonelli, Lisa. Political Chemistry of TED. June 2010. Lecture. Lovins, Avery. 40-Year Plan for TED Mar. 2012. Lecture. R. Economic, Energy, and Environmental Benefits of Concentrating Solar Power in  2006. EBSCOhost, doi:10.2172/881924. Aramco Where Energy Is Saudi Aramco, Saudi Arabian Oil Company, 2017, www.saudiaramco.com/en/home.html. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017 Training, Solar PV Training, Solar Installer Training, Solar Energy Solar Energy International (SEI), Solar Energy International, 2016, www.solarenergy.org/. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017.