Student 1 Student Professor Jamie Thornton ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Climate Change and Energy Crisis Energy is a growing concern across the world, with the increasing issue of climate change all countries are searching for alternative sources of energy. With this concern conservative sources of energy such as fossil fuels, coal and oil are disbanding due to their impacts on towards the environment (Mackay). Also through this solar, wind and hydro energy are growing through more government funding and incorporation in large businesses. As the solar industry grows and the coal industry stagnates interest groups take sides promoting their viewpoint on the conflict. Stakeholders disagree on the issue of whether to invest more time and money into alternative sources of energy, or to continue to fund and research energy acquired through fossil fuels. A prime example of a stakeholder promoting solar and other sources of alternative energy is the Solar Energy Industries Association (SEIA), this organization creates articles and backs companies to promote the usage of solar energy within America (Solar Energy Industries Association). This stakeholder along with many others support that climate change is negatively impacting the environment, and because of this more people, countries, and companies need to start implementing solar and other alternative sources of energy to protect future. One of the primary leading stakeholders of alternative sources is the SEIA. This group of people is a non-profit organization that was established in 1974 as a trading association, this group works with several other companies to make solar energy a mainstream resource within Student 2 America (Solar Energy Industries Association). It notes on the website, organization maintains a complete dedication to solar energy as means for powering (Solar Energy Industries Association) and intends to do so by influencing the general population of the United States. Due to the recent concerns of global warming and climate change, ideas of alternative sources of energy have become more prominent throughout the world, including but not limited to hydropower, and wind power (Mackay). The SEIA stands to champion the use of clean, affordable solar energy in America by expanding markets and working with thousands of member companies. Solar energy is a major form of alternative energy and most think it should be considered as the primary source of power in America because they believe cost-efficient, promotes a new source of jobs, and is a clean supply of energy (Solar Policy and Legislation). The SEIA maintains a hold that climate change is affecting the world now because of the usage of fossil fuels as a means of energy. Other facts and information noted by the stakeholders found in this portion of the documents are the victims because of this major problem in the world. An example of this as seen from the website, the victims of this problem is the abuse that the environment receives. Parts of the world that abused the environment through energy acquired by fossil fuels, environments are the victims of this major problem as they get destroyed and disfigured by humans. As the environment changes in a negative fashion, animals and the air in those parts of the world are also greatly affected. First-hand account in these situations show that incredible changes and problems arise with the usage of fossil fuels (Renewable Living). Global warming and energy as means for empowering America is an impending issue, many people look towards alternate sources of energy while others believe the continuity of fossil fuels is important. As organizations and companies side against one another fiscally the Student 3 issue becomes less and less compatible. A solution to this problem is for more companies, countries and everyday people to adopt alternative sources of energy into their everyday lives. The SEIA wants to improve the environment by disbanding fossil fuels and improving solar power in America. Stakeholders for alternative sources of energy have noted that wind solar and renewable sources of power cause less emissions to the world. Another main point is that conservative sources of power increase the risk of environment changes and issues. One fact noted by this stakeholder and factual websites is that the United States has reduced emissions by 60% since implementing alternative sources of energy (BBC Technology Documentary Renewable Energy). Past solutions to this incompatibility have occurred but mostly through the cutting down of coal power as a whole in America to open up more alternate sources of energy. Other solutions have been created so that solar energy furthers and the coal energy starts to diminish by governments control. Most scientists have come out in articles and textbooks noting that have to cut down on coal power as a whole in America to open up more alternate sources of (Smart Energy Solutions: Decrease Coal Use.). In the pas some compromises ensued that benefited the coal industry in the past caused solar groups to cease on its creation of solar panels so the coal industry can further (Mackay). But to end the climate change crisis we need to cut off the fossil fuel industry completely. A new way for us to fix the impending issue of climate change is to further invest into alternative sources of energy. If more governments, companies and everyday people begin adopting renewable energy resources into their everyday lives then the world will greatly benefit. Some realistic actions that non-engaged stakeholders can begin to take is to join online blogs, and organizations that support the usage of alternative sources of energy to increase the widespread support of the issue. Also at a practical level companies can begin utilizing Student 4 alternative sources of energy within their places of business and can also join and support international organizations that are in support of the issue. Specific steps include increased production of solar panels, wind turbines, and damns, as well as the decreased output of coal mining and factories to be able to create the alternative energy source of solar panels. Climate change is an impending problem and we have to deal with it now by establishing new alternative sources of energy. The evidence found within this paper shows the factual evidence behind the changing of the environment through the usage of conservative forces of energy. By using goal and other fossil fuels, the environment is being harmed greatly. On a positive note the possible help from non-engaged stakeholders will benefit the planet as a whole by reducing emissions and lessening the problems that arise from climate change. The final plea is to support alternative sources of energy as they are means to power the future, they reduce emissions and cause less harm to the environment. The problems that arise through global warming bring will be lessened immensely and humanity will greatly benefit. (Word Count: 1249) Student 5 Works Cited BBC Technology Documentary Renewable Energy NEW Science Documentary  YouTube. YouTube, 06 Nov. 2016. Web. 01 Apr. 2017. MacKay, David. A reality check on  David MacKay: A reality checks on renewables TED Talk TED.com. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Apr. 2017. Mackay, Michael E. Solar energy: an introduction. Oxford: Oxford U Press, 2015. Print. Renewable  Biomass Heating Systems. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Apr. 2017. Sadoway, Donald. The missing link to renewable  TED: Ideas worth spreading. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Apr. 2017. Smart Energy Solutions: Decrease Coal  Union of Concerned Scientists. N.p., n.d. Web. Solar Energy Industries  SEIA Solar Energy Industries Association. N.p., 6 Apr. 2017. Web. 10 Apr. 2017. Solar Policy and  MassSolar. N.p., 26 June 2016. Web.