Wrigley 1 Dakota Wrigley Angelica Aranda Composition 2 Section 33 February 5, 2017 How we can Protect Children from Violent Video Games In world, technology has advanced at rapid pace, and thus, the production and demand for videogames has skyrocketed. This demand has had its own pros and cons, with one of its cons being the demand for more violent videogames. Most kids are used to playing videogames such as Zelda or Mario, which does have some violence in them, but nothing to the extremes that some modern games bring. This normally would be fine, as there are age ratings on games that prohibits kids too young from buying those games, however it has become possible for these kids to play those games not only by themselves, but with their own parents buying it for them. As such, there should be a reporting feature in-game to report any children playing a violent game, however, there has yet to be one. Because of these changes, different groups have wanted a change in the system, one of whom are the Parents Television Council. Their goal is children and families from graphic sex, violence and profanity in the media, because of their proven long-term harmful (Parents Television Council). Apart from them, you have the companies who make/ sell these violent and/or graphic videogames, one of whom is Sony. This company does not wish for children to play these intensively graphic and violent games, and already helps the issue by putting a age rating on the cases for the games. However, despite all the warnings that are given to the parents who are buying these games, they are ignored, so organizations like the PTC still consistently pressure the videogame industry. Wrigley 2 The Parents Television Council is non-partisan education organization advocating responsible (Parents Television Council). In short this means that this organization has their best interest for the people, and are not influenced by outside sources. They do their best to try and educate the general population about the harms of different media towards children. This organization provides the issues of the topic, research studies involving the issue, and any major news that had to do with the issue at hand. This group recognizes that there are rules in place for this issue that bars children from buying these violent video games, but point to the retailers that still sell those games to the young kids, and to the parents that buy those games for their children to play. Video games have had a history of giving children more violent tendencies. As Douglas Gentile, who is a psychology professor at the university of Iowa, said, thoughts were more accessible after participants played the rather than video game, (3943). However, there are some cases that are put out that violent video games do not affect the child in any way in regards to violent behavior. As Christopher Ferguson, who is a psychology professor at Stetson University, said, of the main analyses revealed no significant effects for violent video game condition, nor for gender, nor for their interaction on aggressive (399- 410). Despite that, there are still more studies that point to the negative side of the story. As Jodi Whitaker, who is a professor of communication at the University of Arizona, said, points to an increase in aggressive behaviors both in the short run and in the long (1036). The overwhelming amount of information against violent videogames with children points itself at companies that make games and that sell them as well. Sony is one of those companies that sell violent videogames. Their mission statement is be a company that inspires and fulfills your (Sony, Sony.net). They have their own Wrigley 3 consoles that they sell that allow their users to play those games. Each player gets their own personal account with their own personalized gamer tag. They also sell games online via the PlayStation store. From this, the users can access multiple games that can be downloaded to the system and played. In a way, they have no real control over who can purchase their games, except those who pay with their credit cards, which kids just have. So, whatever control they do have over who buys these games has no effects on what a child can or cannot play. Both organizations wish the best for their consumers when it comes to experiencing entertainment, the PTC obviously encouraging the proper entertainment for children, while Sony wants everyone to have a great gaming experience. To Sony, it does not matter who you are or what your race is, none of that matters. They truly want you, as the consumer, to be happy with your purchase from them. However, the PTC wants the access to these mature games to be cut off from the young population, which is a very serious concern. There is nothing that the PTC can do to help this issue except point it out and hope that more people will get involved with this movement to protect children from playing those excessively violent games. If this responsibility were to fall just on shoulders, it would not be fair, nor would it be right. Despite those differences, there is a way to take a step forward that could help the PTC and their movement, while not hurting Sony. As mentioned before, there are individual accounts set up on machines. These accounts allow the user to play online (with a paid yearly subscription of 60 dollars). What is one thing that kids do not have a lot of that is needed to make those accounts? the money, which their parents pay for, most likely. A great compromise for this is that Sony should implement a feature in their policy that states that any account suspected to have a child playing a game that is rated for an adult audience be suspended, unless otherwise proven to be wrong, upon which online access will be returned to the user. Wrigley 4 This policy, should not be placed in the hands of Sony, in general, but should be placed in the hands of the consumer as well. What would that entail? The user should be given a reporting function to report other players for different reasons, which is already implemented in most online games. In this function, the user should be able to select an option that says the account that is being reported has what sounds like a child playing a game they should not have access to. However, it should not be the employees of Sony to go through these reports, but rather those of the PTC. Sony already has an age rating on the games they sell and with this compromise they would have to implement reporting features in all their games from day one. This already puts too much of the burden on Sony, and for the PTC to have any say in the end, they should be able to go through the reports and ban the accounts that they deem necessary. Sony also already has a feature on all their games that tells the consumer what they are buying. This is where the consumer reporting this issue comes into play. Most users in gaming world will overlook a young child playing a violent game. So, to make this deal even, I propose that the PTC provides a pamphlet of sort that would be added into the cases, or even on the back of, of newly bought games so that the users know that children are not allowed to play those games and that anyone who thinks a child is playing said game should report the incident to be reviewed. This not only benefits the PTC by allowing them to have a major say in these incidents, but Sony can also make a statement that they are working with the PTC to help ensure the safety of children with additional safeguards that help prohibit children from playing excessively graphic/violent videogames. In this rapidly advancing world, technology is becoming increasingly accessible and easier to use. Video games have been becoming more popular over the years with its player base rapidly increasing and becoming more demanding. However, the players forget to worry about Wrigley 5 others or to pay attention to who they are playing with, the children. The users should be able to recognize a possible child playing the game and as such should be able to report that player so that they can be banned from the online servers so that they are discouraged from playing those games and would be then be more willing to play the games that are set out for them to play. Wrigley 6 Works Cited Gentile, Douglas A., Patrick K. Bender, and Craig A. Anderson. Full Length Article: Violent Video Game Effects on Salivary Cortisol, Arousal, And Aggressive Thoughts In  Computers In Human Behavior 70.(2017): 39-43. ScienceDirect. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Ferguson, Christopher J.1, CJFerguson1111@aol.com, et al. Digital Poison? Three Studies Examining The Influence Of Violent Video Games On  Computers In Human Behavior 50.(2015): 399-410. Education Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Sony Corporation Global  Sony Global - About Sony. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Feb. 2017 Violent Video Games and  PTC Violent Video Games and Minors. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. Whitaker, Jodi L. PROTECTING VIRTUAL PLAYGROUNDS: CHILDREN, LAW, AND PLAY ONLINE: A Review Of The Effects Of Violent Video Games On Children And  Washington & Lee Law Review 66.(2009): 1033. LexisNexis Academic: Law Reviews. Web. 5 Feb. 2017.