Chen 1 Lulu Chen Dennis ENC 1102 003 April 16, 2017 Immigration: The Root of Human Immigration has been and remains an emotive topic in the public domain. Various stakeholders present their views on the topic without adequate understanding of the distinction between its real problems and illusory problems. Anti-immigration crusaders perceive immigrants as a threat to the economy. This perception is misguided because it does not account for the immense contribution that immigrants make to economic development. The argument that immigrants should not be accorded equal rights as those of other American citizens is premised on their perceived threat to the economy. The real problem, however, is the threat to national security if immigrants are not checked or registered. If any one single immigrant is unregistered, resource planning is distorted; law enforcement is hampered and cover for terrorists is provided (Kirk and Kane). Pro-immigration crusaders, such as the National Immigration Forum, should strive to enlighten other stakeholders on the distinction between real problems and those that are only perceived to be caused by immigrants. Such a distinction will give rise to constructive discussions about the need to treat immigrants as other Americans. In spite of that, the National Immigration Forum should remain awake to immigration challenges even as they champion for the rights of immigrants. Pro-immigration stakeholders should shift the conversation to immigration reforms. Comprehensive immigration reforms that distinguish between the good and the bad can build Chen 2 consensus among various stakeholders. Firstly, pro-immigration stakeholders should champion for a nationwide system that identifies all immigrants in the country. The system should be credible to root out illegal immigrants. The country can plan better, aware that they have a certain number of legal immigrants. In addition, the National Immigration Forum should also spearhead the move to identify illegal immigrants to ensure their stay in the country is validated as required by law. Pro-immigration campaigns should be founded on the law and not just appear to fight for the rights of people who should not be in the country in the first place. Anti- immigration crusaders have been able to articulate their issues more strongly by capitalizing on the rise in the number of illegal immigrants. The increase in the number of illegal immigrants undermines effective planning and resource allocation. Unless this challenge is solved, is difficult to convince other stakeholders on the need to accord them the same rights as those of other American citizens. Why do many immigrants choose the United States as their destination compared to other countries? America certainly provides a home to the homeless. Protection of minority rights cements a values and protection of the rights of its own citizens (Patten). Throughout history many countries that were once very powerful have declined because they have erected barriers to protect them from the outside world. However, America has remained exceptional with her openness. American strong values and the Bill of Rights are greatly cherished and embodied by her citizenry. They provide stability to many immigrants who cannot find it in their own countries. Besides, the country is famous for championing for human rights in the whole world. Should America therefore lose her stake in the world because of mishandling immigrants? There is need for the United States to reaffirm her openness and accord immigrants with equal rights and opportunities as those of other Americans. Chen 3 The Congress and the House of Representatives elected to give the immigration more attention in 2005. To revise the then immigration policy, they proposed to enhance border security, worker verification programs, establishing a temporary guest worker program and providing some rights to some of the illegal immigrants living in America. These proposals however failed to address the fundamental issues of equal rights and opportunities to immigrants (Czaika and Hein De Haas 488). These proposals were legitimate but their ineffectiveness was hampered by the massive number of illegal immigrants. Challenges such as terrorism became easier since immigrants from extremist groups easily found their way in the country. Probably, some of these challenges were instigated by the unfair treatment between the immigrants and other American citizens. If immigrants are fully assimilated and treated as other Americans, there is likelihood that they will not pose a threat to the security or economy. On the other hand, if immigrants are treated as second class citizens and disenfranchised, it may lead to acrimony and bigotry. If immigrants do not have the same opportunities, they may decide to fight for them hence fueling insecurity (Hoskins et al 434). The National Immigration Forum should not present their argument as one that is based on human rights but one that serves the greater good of America. The argument should seek to convince anti-immigration crusaders that by ensuring equality between Americans and immigrants, there would be less intolerance, more satisfaction and less immigration related problems. The immigrant problem is a global problem, and by extension an American problem. This means there is need for various stakeholders to agree on how best to handle the issue. President Donald Trump recently issued a travel ban on all Muslim countries in a move to prevent the entry of extremist groups in the United States. That move disadvantaged many innocent people and those who would otherwise positively contribute to the growth of America. Chen 4 Besides, President Trump risked confining the United States into isolation, a move that would compromise position in the world (Diamond). The National Immigration Forum should present this as an admission of failure by the United States to identify illegal immigrants and register them or simply refusing to give them opportunities. Where then does that leave other countries such as Germany, China or the UK? They simply gain a comparative advantage over America and become better havens not only for immigrants but also traders and other investors. America should remain the country that leads from the front in facing her challenges head on instead of cowardly moves such as that taken by the president. In conclusion, the issue of immigrants is a global problem. America should lead from the front in averting the problem. There is need to develop a nationwide system that can identify and document all immigrants in order to curb the rise in the number of illegal immigrants. The United States should ensure that legal immigrants are assimilated in the country and provided with equal rights and opportunities as other Americans. These would prevent bigotry and the formation of extremist groups that would want to get back at America for isolating them. Pro- immigrants such as the National Immigration Forum should fight for equal rights and opportunities for immigrants based on the provisions of the law and American values. Pro- immigrants should also champion for comprehensive immigration policies that not only seek to enhance border security and employment verification programs but also equal rights for immigrants. Their argument should serve the interests of both the immigrants and America. Chen 5 Works cited Czaika, Mathias, and Hein De Haas. The effectiveness of immigration  Population and Development Review 39.3 (2013): 487-508. Diamond, Jeremy. Donald Trump: Ban all Muslim travel to  CNN (December 8, 2015) (2015). Hoskins, Bryony, Michaela Saisana, and Cynthia MH Villalba. Civic competence of youth in Europe: Measuring cross national variation through the creation of a composite  Social indicators research 123.2 (2015): 431-457. Kirk, Johnson and Kane, Tim. Real Problem with Immigration... and the Real Heritage Foundation, 2016. Patten, Alan. Equal recognition: The moral foundations of minority rights. Princeton University Press, 2014.