Langs 1 Chase Langs Dennis Composition II 2 April 2017 Hot Rods, Tree Huggers, and a Better Life The best way to fight a bigger government, save the trees, and improve your lot in life, is by going to the drag races. Drag racing and the government regulations that follow are a great example of how you can preserve your right to pursue your own happiness, and at the same time, help and promote the betterment of your neighbors. The lesson learned from Wally Parks, who created the National Hot Rod Association (NHRA) in 1951, is to actively and meaningfully participate, no matter what it is you love to do. But you cannot participate by sitting on the couch and yelling at the TV. You have to load up the car, buckle the kids in, and get driving. Driving is our national pastime. The popularity of cars and drag racing those cars grows every year. In fact, some of the most celebrated drag racing events pull in more than 100,000 spectators (Peltz). drag racing looks to shorten breaks from fast action to draw (Peltz). Yes, environmentalists will argue that cars create more pollution and hurt the environment. They will go on to say that cars -- especially drag cars -- are loud, noisy, dirty, and do substantial injury to the environment. They say there is a need for the Environmental Protection Agency, or the EPA. But with all of its rules and regulations and enforcement and fines, people Langs 2 argue that government has taken environmental protection too far. This essay will explain that not only can the competing interests of those who enjoy drag racing reconcile with the EPA, but, driving, especially drag racing, can do more good for the environment than harm, it can stave off Big Brother, and help create and build better technologies that can benefit everyone. Since President Richard Nixon created the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) in 1970, it has grown over the years with rules and more regulations it says are needed to protect the environment as well as people. In fact, President Obama assumed office in 2009, the EPA has published over 3,900 rules, averaging almost 500 annually, and amounting to over 33,000 new pages in the Federal (Sykes) been especially hard on cars and has gone after car pollution with increasingly difficult to meet emissions standards. Some say the EPA has grown too big in its enforcement. The EPA certainly has a big influence on the automobile industry and drag racing in particular (EPA). Wally Parks established the National Hot Rod Association, or the NHRA, in 1951. His mission was to organize and promote the sport of drag racing. The NHRA has been sponsoring local and national drag racing events for just under 70 years, and according to the web site, trails only NASCAR in attendance, sponsorship commitment, and popularity in the United States (NHRA). The most popular drag cars can have 8,000 horse power engines and can reach up to 300 miles per hour (Peltz). Drag racing has become so popular over the years, its annual revenues have reached over $100 million per year (Burk). The NHRA and race cars are a big-money industry. It is certainly not going to disappear any time soon. Langs 3 For example, the following chart illustrates the year-over-year annual growth of the NHRA: (Chart 1) Those who want to protect the environment argue that the NHRA with all of its events and races (there are over 40,000 registered drivers with the NHRA and it sponsors 24 sanctioned drag racing events each race season) contribute hugely to car pollution and do more harm than good therefore, the EPA has every right to govern, regulate, and limit the use of cars. Automobile emissions pose a significant and substantial danger to the environment. emissions can cause headaches, contribute to lung cancer, emphysema, and various other respiratory Langs 4 and cardiovascular problems . . . They also modify weather conditions, damage vegetation, and eat away at rubber, textiles, dyes, and other Conversely, the EPA has grown into a regulatory monster that some people say should now be reversed, or even done away with entirely. the EPA became a victim of its own (Morning Edition). In fact, the EPA was recently caught trying to increase its own power. New York Times revealed the agency colluded with environmentalist groups in a campaign to manufacture public comments in favor of a new rule that expands its own There is, however, a way to reconcile the continued growth and development of cars, and of drag racing especially, with the goals of environmentalism and the rules and regulations of the EPA. We love our cars, and from the looks of the NHRA, there is no doubt that people love to race their cars. So, the idea that government can tell us what we can drive, or where we can drive it, or even how we can drive our cars strikes into the heart of our ideas of privacy, our to life, liberty, and the pursuit of On the other hand, we all agree that the environment is important. People are important. It was reported that 2016 was the deadliest year on American roads in nearly a decade (Korosec). was the deadliest year on American Roads in nearly a (Korosec). The EPA is only trying to do its job by protecting both. And by focusing on what the EPA is really trying to do, rather than getting upset by what it is doing, we can achieve the goals of having our cars, protecting our families, and preserving our neighborhoods. Langs 5 For example, regulations have pushed engineers and designers to find ways to make automobiles more efficient and nod to EPA, cars are faster, more powerful and more fun to teams attempt to wring every drop of performance from a fixed set of resources to allow them to gain a competitive advantage over their rivals. In doing so, they create and develop technology which allows wider society to enjoy improved performance from fewer to the EPA and the work it has done . . . most sulfur has been removed from gasoline and diesel, cars run cleaner and go further and faster per gallon. Most importantly, we can all breathe a little (Truett) As shown by the following chart, pollution emissions have actually been falling since at least 2004: (Chart 2) Langs 6 Environmental concern has lead to better aerodynamics, better fuel efficiency, and improved technology, all of which mean better cars for the population, safer automobiles, and a greener environment. Cars are fun. Racing cars is better fun. Having a Hot Rod to race? as exciting as it gets. But such excitement can invite the attention, just like the And you should not allow the government to dictate how you live your life, whether you want to race a car at an NHRA event, or watch a drag race, or even drive your car to the park. But we can meet government rules and regulations if we have the right attitude, whether it is about cars or anything else you might find important in your life. First ask what is the purpose behind the government regulation. Then ask how best to meet that request. Then take the time to invest in solving the problem the best way you can. Wally Parks did it that way. He created the NHRA to find the best way to race cars, not just for himself, but for everyone. By following the rules, and striving to accommodate competing interests, Mr. Parks not only advanced the science and technology of drag cars, but also for the car sitting in your driveway. You can too by getting in your seat. It is time to get out there and get involved! There are hundreds of NHRA events each year with classes ranging from stock cars to the top fuel dragsters. Race what you have or dive in, gain knowledge, and build your own racecar. Langs 7 Works Cited Burk, Jeff. 2013 Tax  DRO RSS. NHRA, 19 Jan. 2015. Web. 02 Apr. 2017. Coggin, Will. Drowning by EPA  TheHill. The HIll, 17 June 2015. Web. 02 Apr. 2017. <http://thehill.com/blogs/congress-blog/energy-environment/245201- drowning-by-epa-overreach>. EPA. EPA Regulations: Too Much, Too Little, or On  EveryCRSReport.com. Congressional Research Service, 30 Dec. 2016. Web. 02 Apr. 2017. <https://www.everycrsreport.com/reports/R41561.html>. F1. Technology Explained  Racecar Engineering. Racecar Engineering, 23 June 2012. Web. 02 Apr. 2017. <http://www.racecar- engineering.com/technology-explained /formula-1-and-the-environment/>. Korosec, Kirsten. 2016 Was the Deadliest Year on American Roads in Nearly a  U.S. Traffic Deaths Jump to Make 2016 Deadliest on Roads Since 2007 Fortune.com. Fortune, 15 Feb. 2017. Web. 02 Apr. 2017. <http://fortune.com/2017/02/15/traffic-deadliest-year/>. Morning Edition. How the EPA Became a Victim of Its Own  NPR.org. NPR, 17 Feb. 2017. Web. 2 Apr. 2017. <www.npr.org/2017/02+/17/515748401/how- the-epa-became-a-victim-of-its-own-success>. Peltz, Jim. NHRA Drag Racing Looks to Shorten Breaks from Fast Action to Draw  Los Angeles Times. Los Angeles Times, 14 Nov. 2014. Web. 02 Apr. 2017. <http://www.latimes.com/sports/la-sp-nhra-finals-20141115-story.html>. Sykes, Justin. 4,000 EPA Regulations Issued Under President Americans for Tax Reform. 6 July 2016. <https://www.atr.org/nearly-4000-epa- regulations-issued-under-president-obama.> Truett, Richard. With Nod to EPA, Cars Are Faster, More Powerful and More Fun to  Automotive News. Automotive News, 15 Nov. 2016. Web. 02 Apr. 2017. <http://www.autonews.com/article/20161115/BLOG06/161119909/>. Langs 8 Chart 1: http://si.wsj.net/public/resources/images/GP- Chart 2: http://media2.picsearch.com/is?QXwLSdXnumXwflF0Gp6vI3Eba28jFmz7E MF6T-49DMU&height=254