Schmitt 1 Hayden T. Schmitt Ms. Angelica Aranda ENC 1102-033 5 February 2017 Funding Demise Due to House Budget Cuts Trends in the way Americans prefer their tax money to be distributed are in constant flux due to opinion shifts in politics and the economy. A recent budgeting conflict has arisen between the United States House of Representatives (the House) and The National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA). The House determines the annual budget that NASA receives, which is sourced from the money collected from American citizens through our taxes. NASA is a government-run, space research and space exploration organization that requires a significant amount of money to make progress on its many projects. Their achievements have changed the world with the knowledge they have uncovered. Both organizations want to bring prosperity to the United States. Their philosophy on how to do that, and the funds available, however, differ between the two. In order to satisfy both sides, a change in organizational structure is necessary. Removing NASA from the government and reorganizing it as a private organization, will displace the financial burden previously placed on the House. The new independent NASA will then be able to seek funds from investors beyond the US government by selling company shares on the stock market. In order to remain invested in space technology, the House can issue funds as it votes to do so through grants to specific projects rather than being forced to distribute an entire budget to NASA. Schmitt 2 The US House of Representative is a government organization made up of congressmen and women who represent the interests of their respective states. The people of each state vote in representatives to the House and the number of representatives per state is proportionate to its population. The website states representative is elected to a two-year term serving the people of a specific congressional (US House of Representatives). This statement the means representing their wishes before the House. During difficult economic circumstances, this often involves cutting the budget of programs deemed unnecessary, or reducing the budget of programs that have been overfunded. NASA is one of the targets that were chosen due to its often-untimely payoff. The work done by NASA does not return its investment quickly enough for the House to justify the amount they pay into it. While the House has a mutual interest in making America prosper, they do not have the same long-term timeline for prosperity that NASA possesses. It is important for the House the compromise since they are accountable to their constituents to reduce government expenditures and save taxpayer money, but also to make decisions on what tax money should invest in that would positively impact the prosperity. NASA is a great pillar of American pride. It is responsible for many of the greatest boast-able achievements due to their successful missions. They have delivered countless satellites, landed on the moon, and put rovers on mars, all in an effort to find ways to improve the lives of Americans, and all humanity. The slogan stated on their website states reach for new heights and reveal the unknown for the benefit of (NASA) It is clear that the goal of their organization is to make the United States and the entire world a better place through the work they do at home and in space, however that work is costly. Devin Henry, a writer for The Hill, wrote an article titled Takes Aim at Climate that Schmitt 3 demonstrates the desire to reduce funding. The bill aims to reduce climate research funding by 300 million dollars, from a total budget of 2 billion (Henry, pg. 1). While the root interests of these government organizations are aligned, their philosophies on funding allocation differ greatly. While the House dates back to 1789 (the House), these two organizations have operated with the government together since founding in 1958 (NASA). They have always had a money holder, and money recipient dichotomous relationship. The opinion of the House has shifted with the political and economic spectrum of the country over the years of their relationship. John F. Kennedy famously gave them strong support during his presidency, which motivated the American support and an increase in funding to NASA via the House. Even after the catastrophe of the Challenger mission under the Reagan administration, the program still resumed with relatively unchanging support from Americans. Most recently, mass cuts were instituted to NASA under the Obama administration in order to redirect funding into social welfare programs. William Broad, a writer for the New York Times, wrote that NASA not only endured extreme cuts to its funding but also had to cut their staffing extensively. This caused much of the government personnel to transfer to the private sector companies like SpaceX and Boeing (Broad, New York Times). It is clear that both of these organizations are in need of reorganization in order to mutually move into the future and work together. In order to compromise between the conflicting goals of the US House of Representatives and NASA, a restructuring must occur. NASA must be removed from government programming, and reorganize itself into a private space technology research firm, competing directly with other private space agencies such as SpaceX. Tim Fernholz, a business analyst and writer for Quartz Media, estimated the value of SpaceX at 11.5 billion dollars (Fernholz, Quartz Media). This Schmitt 4 serves as the case study that a private institution can operate to develop space technology without government funding. While there are other companies that contribute to space technology, SpaceX and NASA are relatively unique, in that they are less diversified in their company goals than a company like Boeing, working specifically to explore space and use the gifts that that research brings towards bettering mankind. Becoming a private organization benefits them both in various ways. It will save the House budget money since it will no longer be the guarantor of NASA. It will add competition to the space exploration market with the US, which will bolster the economy, which is always a key goal of the House. NASA will be able to gain investors from more diverse sources by selling shares of the company on the stock market. NASA also will not have projects restricted by minimal government budgeting. The government can remain invested in space exploration, in order to ensure the will of the hopes for space remain as a part of projects, through government grants, which can net to less cost than that used when NASA was a part of the government infrastructure. The necessary steps to make this sort of transition a reality would be to find a buyer for NASA, which would also provide money flow into the House. With the possibility established, a bill would be written removing NASA from the government control and releasing it to the buyer. Fine print could be added to this bill in order to maintain any secrets that the government may want to keep. After approval of the bill from the house, the buyer can reorganize NASA and use its powerful brand to gain investors and continue previously terminated projects. In order to bring prosperity to America and the world, without destroying the economy in the process, tough budgeting decisions must be made. While the US House of Representatives want to make America flourish, they have to balance the glory of space travel, with the stability of the economy. NASA is an organization fully capable of giving prosperity to Americans, but Schmitt 5 not under the oversight of the US government. It has been proven that a private space technology company can be just as successful, if not more successful than a government-run one. Therefore, NASA needs to enter the realm of competition in order to grow to its full capabilities. The government is only suffocating their capabilities at this point, so cut them from the government fold, but maintain the government involvement in the furthering of science with allocated grant money. The House and NASA will be far more effective with its government tie severed, and voter scientific interested funded in the form of grants rather than total budgetary control. Schmitt 6 Work Cited Henry, Devin. Trump Takes Aim at Climate  TheHill. N.p., 30 Oct. 2016. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. <http://thehill.com/policy/energy-environment/303384-trump- takes-aim-at-nasas-climate-budget>. NASA. NASA, n.d. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. <https://www.nasa.gov/>. The House  The House Explained House.gov. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. <http://www.house.gov/content/learn/>. Broad, William J. With the Shuttle Program Ending, Fears of Decline at  The New York Times. The New York Times, 03 July 2011. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. =0>. Fernholz, Tim. Flightless or No, SpaceX Investors Say Its Value Has Grown 15% since  Quartz. Quartz, 13 Nov. 2015. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. <https://qz.com/549443/flightless-or-no-spacex-investors-say-its-value-has-grown-15- since-january/>.