Last name 1 Name Instructor ENC 1102 April 16, 2017 Recycling Used Paper Fossil fuel-related pollution and deforestation are the leading causes of global warming. Forests play a vital role in the regulation of carbon dioxide gas, which is the most abundant and impactful greenhouse gas produced from the use of fossil fuels in industries, and internal combustion engine machines. Trees reduce the atmospheric carbon dioxide by absorbing and converting it to oxygen through photosynthesis, thereby reducing global warming. The paper industry is the leading culprit of deforestation in the lumbering sector. To address this concern, it is vital for direct and indirect stakeholders to consider pushing for the adoption of sustainable environmental-friendly ways of exploiting forest resources. Recycling is the best way through which paper millers can avert deforestation, and improve sustainability through conservation of resources used in the virgin papermaking process. Recycling also helps to relieve negative feelings resulting from irresponsible wastage of resources, and increases their positive emotions due to the responsible use and disposal of resources in a sustainable way. The Environment Protection Agency (EPA) of the US has been on the forefront in encouraging people to recycle the ever-increasing paper wastes in a bid to conserve forests (Sun and Tridel 293). Similarly, the European Union countries are encouraging paper-making companies to incorporate waste paper recycling as part of their industrial processes to encourage Last name 2 a recycling-based circular economy (Milmo 16). In the US, each person produces an average of about 3 pounds of paper wastes, half of which is recycled (Sun and Tridel 293). In a bid to encourage recycling of paper wastes, the EPA has rolled out a hierarchical method of waste management that involves the reduction, recycling, and reuse of wood products (Sun and Tridel 293). The EPA has organized recycling challenges in which prizes are won by communities and companies that lead in recycling waste paper. This sheds light on the importance of modeling actionable insights to implement efficient and effective recycling programs, which are aligned to forest conservation, biofuel and electricity production, and other sustainability schemes. Adoption of environmental-friendly paper-consumption patterns such as recycling has been shown to promote altruistic behavior, from the urge to conserve natural resources such as trees in sustainable ways (Sun and Tridel 294). Wastage of recyclable substances brings negative emotions, whereas recycling dispels the negative self-conscious sensation arising from wastages that have negative impacts on the environment (Sun and Tridel 295). Responsible use of available resources and conservation of the environment are among the top global agendas of the 21 st century. Massive deforestation over the past few centuries has resulted in diverse negative reversible and nonreversible effects on the earth, such as global warming and extinction of many species of plants and animals respectively. The paper-making industry is the biggest consumer of wood, taking up 42% of all the trees felled annually (Martin). The industry can participate in the reduction of global warming through recycling of waste paper, which helps to avoid the use of trees as raw materials. This is due to the alarming rate at which the paper industry consumes trees. For instance, 300 million tons of paper is produced in the world every year, which corresponds to about 100 million tons of trees (Martin). This amount can significantly be reduced by recycling. Studies have shown that recycling (both chemical and Last name 3 mechanical) of waste paper consumes less energy than the virgin paper-making process (Schenk 154). The mechanical recycling process cause minimal pollution to the atmosphere because the use of chemicals is minimal, and there is no combustion involved (Schenk 154). On the other hand, the chemical process emits less carbon dioxide gas to the atmosphere as compared to the virgin paper-making procedure (Schenk 154). Recycling allows paper manufacturers to conserve huge quantities of resources that could have been wasted in the virgin paper-making process. For instance, 9,500 pounds of recycled paper saves over 80 trees, 122, 080 liters of water, about 19, 480 kW of energy, and 1,511 liters of oil (Gourmelon). Considering that about 300 million tons of papers are produced in the world in one year in the virgin paper-making process, and the average waste paper produced is about the same amount as that which is manufactured, recycling can save up to 3.75 trillion trees in the world in a year. The generation of biofuels from recycled wastepaper is a developing idea on energy production that falls under second generation (2G) biofuel production, which is the latest method of sustainably utilizing renewable wastes. This idea is practicable although it has not been fully embraced to a great extent economically. Wastepaper contains high quantities of carbohydrates, are easily digestible, and cheaper (1 ton costs about than other sources of biofuels like corn (Wang et al. 1174). Biofuels from wastepaper can be economically viable like petrol (Wang et al. 1174). Bioethanol is produced from waste paper in a series of reactions that involve the action of a mixture of cellulolytic enzymes and recombinant bacteria such as Zymomonas mobilis in a specially modulated wastepaper medium (Wang et al. 1174). The bioethanol from wastepaper has the potential to lower the price of fuels by up to 25%, and reduce fossil fuel-related pollution (Wang et al. 1180). Last name 4 The viability of large scale generation of electricity from wastepaper has been evaluated using pilot experiments, and it has been found that wastepaper can be used to produce substantial amounts of current. Apart from the electrical power that can be generated from biofuels obtained from the waste papers, the wastewater used in the recycling process can also be utilized in electricity production using the microbial energy cells (Huang and Logan 349). Two processes are involved; cellulose hydrolysis followed by electricity generation, in which both steps can happen in one reactor due to the reduction of the fermentation products by bacteria at the anode (Huang and Logan 349). The anoxic bacteria in the microbial energy cells degrade cellulose, and exoelectrogenic bacteria present at the anode of the microbial energy cells act on the end products of fermentation to generate current (Huang and Logan 349). Although recycling waste paper is a resource-conserving process, there are setbacks arising from the process, which have negative impacts on the environment. The recycling process produces carbon dioxide gas and toxic chemicals, which contaminate the air and water used in the deinking process. However, there are measures that can be taken in the recycling process to minimize or completely solve these problems. For instance, the wastewater used in the recycling process can be detoxified through the use of photocatalytically-oxidized titanium dioxide, and a process that involves the application of close-loop ozone system (Bierbaum and 456). These processes effectively detoxify wastewater thereby making it usable both industrially and domestically, and also save industrial operating costs (Bierbaum and 459). Other viable wastewater treatment methods include but not limited to: oxidation, biological techniques such as anaerobic digestion, adsorption, and coagulation (Kamali and Khodaparast 332). Toxic gasses can be minimized by substituting fossil fuels with electric power, and utilizing renewable energy from wind and solar. Last name 5 Trees are the main raw materials used in the paper-making process. There has been a steady increase in environmental threats such as global warming, corresponding to the increasing deforestation rates all over the world. Recycling of wastepaper is among the best solutions to curb deforestation since the paper industry is the biggest consumer of trees. Recycling wastepaper also helps to curb other expenses incurred in the virgin paper-making process. It enables paper millers to conserve resources such as water, electricity, and petroleum fuels. Other benefits of wastepaper recycling are bioethanol production, and electricity generation. Therefore, stakeholders should support and encourage recycling, which is among the most efficient sustainability processes that facilitate resource conservation (WC:1277). Last name 6 Works Cited Bierbaum, Svenja and Cost Savings in the Ozone Treatment of Paper Mill Effluents Achieved by a Closed-Loop Ozone Control  Ozone: Science & Engineering 31.6 (2009): 454-460. Print. Gourmelon, Gaelle. Production Levels Off, Environmental Footprint Still WORLDWATCH INSTITUTE. Worldwatch Institute, 2015. Web. 14 April 2017. Huang, Liping, and Bruce E. Logan. Electricity generation and treatment of paper recycling wastewater using a microbial fuel  Applied microbiology and biotechnology 80.2 (2008): 349-355. Print. Kamali, Mohammadreza, and Khodaparast, Zahra. Review on recent developments on pulp and paper mill wastewater  Ecotoxicology and environmental safety 114 (2015): 326-342. Print. Martin, Sam. Ecology Global Network. ECG, 2010-2017. Web. 13 April 2017. Milmo, Sean. Europe places increasing emphasis on  Ink World 22.5 (2016): 16-17. Print. Schenk, Niels J., et al. The Nonlinear Relationship Between Paper Recycling and Primary Pulp Requirements - Modeling Paper Production and Recycling in  Journal of Industrial Ecology 8.3 (2004): 141-161. Print. Sun, Monic and Remi Trudel. The effect of recycling versus trashing on consumption: theory and experimental  Journal of Marketing Research (JMR) 54.2 (2017): 293-305. Print. Last name 7 Wang, Lei, et al. Bioethanol production from various waste papers: economic feasibility and sensitivity  Applied energy 111 (2013): 1172-1182. Print.