Student 1 Student Instructor Lewis ENC 1102 16 April 2017 One Step Away from Homeless Imagine you are a nontraditional college student with significant student loan debt. You have an unfortunate circumstance and suddenly must drop out of college. On top of your student loan debt that requires payment within a few months being out of school, you have two young children and rent is due. An unfortunate circumstance such a death of a parent, domestic violence, or drug addiction can put anyone at risk for homelessness. Now imagine you are carrying everything you own in a few black trash bags and have your two children in tow, wondering where you and children will sleep tonight (Hughes 2015). This is just one of many stories of how an American becomes homeless. Life is unpredictable and sometimes this is the unfortunate outcome. Homelessness affects nearly five-hundred thousand, seven hundred and eight people on any given night (National Healthcare for the Homeless Council 2013). Homelessness does not discriminate. It effects men, women, and children of all ages, races, cultures, and ethnicity. With the growing gap of wealth and poverty and the affordable housing crisis, many people are left homeless (Rayburn & Guittar 2013). While many programs and organizations around the country have been set into place to aid the homeless, it is only mitigating the problem instead of providing a valid solution. The question has to be asked, what can this generation do differently to help? College students everywhere have to ability to reach out to their community and become personally involved with becoming part of real change for the homeless community. Now more than ever, the intolerance for the poor and homeless is Student 2 acceptable. This intolerance results in a universal stigma and violence for these marginalized individuals. Change is imperative. The issue of social concern is the growing epidemic of homelessness in every community. The United States is amongst the wealthiest countries in the world, yet we have an estimated 3.5 million people who are homeless in the country (Rayburn & Guittar 2013). This has been an ongoing social concern for the last two decades (Rayburn & Guittar 2013). The definition of homeless differs dependent on the institution. The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services defines homelessness as homeless person is an individual without permanent housing who may live on the streets; stay in a shelter, mission, single room occupancy facilities, abandoned building or vehicle; or in any other unstable or non-permanent (National Healthcare for the Homeless Council 2013). 2014, 7 million people in poor households were doubled up with family and friends, the most common prior living situation before becoming (Snapshot of Homelessness). The last time the country was this down was during the Great Recession in the early 2000s and 2010s (Snapshot of Homelessness). As of 2017, the poverty rate in the United States is as high as 13.5%, which is equivalent to 43.1 million Americans living in poverty (Gongloff 2014). With the staggering number of Americans living in poverty and the affordable housing crisis, the prevalence of homelessness starts to make a bit more sense. Think of a time when you came in contact with someone who is homeless. Did you make eye contact? Did you ask where they were sleeping that night? Did you reach into your pocket and give out spare change? The fact is, people regarded as homeless are simply invisible. Invisible People is an organization dedicated to making the invisible, visible again (Invisible People). Mark Horvath, founder of Invisible People and once homeless himself, interviews Student 3 homeless individuals and allows them to be heard and share their story. Once the interview is completed, viewers are left challenging the way they interpret homelessness. The universal stigma that surrounds the homeless population are summed up to poor life choices and addiction. To be a part of the solution, it is critical to study homelessness, empathize with individual experiences, and withhold personal biases and judgements (Rayburn & Guittar 2013). Invisible People demonstrates this well and encourages others to form their individual opinion on the matter. Encouragement should be made to understand homelessness from the perspective of the homeless and form individual unbiased opinion (Rayburn & Guittar 2013). Brinegar from Urban Geography, found that research suggests that negative perceptions of homelessness complicates development of effective programs (Brinegar 2000). As stated in Tedx Talk by Deborah Hughes, need to stop shaming and (Hughes 2015). The stigma that surrounds the homeless is a major barrier in our society. Change is needed. Homelessness is an epidemic. The prevalence and numbers are continuing to grow in every community within the United States. As reported by 2015 Annual Homeless Assessment Report, thirty-six thousand, nine hundred and seven youth between the ages of eighteen to twenty-four were homeless on a single night (Snapshot of Homelessness). As stated by Cherega from the Journal of Poverty, is an ethical belief that housing is a human right and that there is nothing that a person can do that relinquishes his or her right to deserve safe, stable (Chernega & George 2014). The National Healthcare Council for the Homeless states that research has determined stable housing is contingent to a successful recovery for chronically homeless individuals. Permanent housing paired with supportive services is the key to a foundation of success in housing the homeless (National Healthcare for the Homeless Council 2013). There are several programs, organizations, and churches who seek to provide Student 4 temporary shelter and services, but the problem is they are reaching maximum capacity and determined unsafe (Brinegar 2000). The challenges of affordable housing for single parent families is a significant struggle. With the demographics of homeless constantly changing, new challenges arise. In order to effectively solve homelessness, college students need to change the universal stigma of the poor and homeless (Rayburn & Guittar 2013). This is a concept that does not involve money, but rather time. Time needs to be offered to the homeless community and supporting organizations. Time needs to be spent assessing how poverty and the affordable housing crisis are contributing to the epidemic of homelessness. The homeless have become invisible people, often forgotten and disconnected from society. It is our job as college students and future leaders of this world, to engage, advocate, and help provide better solutions for this suffering population. Students interested in social work, public health, or medicine are encouraged to get involved with programs similar to Street Medicine Institute. These students, teachers, and medical teams go out and provide medical care directly to those living and sleeping on the streets (Street Medicine). Street Medicine embodies compassion and healthcare to those who need it most. In addition to providing walking medical care to homeless communities, Street Medicine incorporates educational opportunities (Street Medicine). Voting YES on Measure H is another opportunity to engage in the fight against homelessness. Voting YES on Measure H is a comprehensive plan to provide services and resources such as medical treatment, job training, and counseling to get the homeless off the street (Measure H). Actively supporting local organizations by means of volunteering or donations is yet another way to show support. Newly- engaged stakeholders can start by becoming more open to the topic of homelessness, to not dismiss these people based upon stigma that surrounds the homeless. With this disconnection, Student 5 the increasing homeless population and affordable housing crisis, communities are set up for failure. No one wants to be homeless. No one wants to stay overnight in a shelter where they are at risk of rape or communicable diseases. Every human deserves to have a home. Of the several hundred interviews with victims of homelessness conducted by Invisible People, not one person wished to be homeless. Instead the homeless had dreams of family and a home (Invisible People). College students are the future leaders of the world. Changing values and beliefs must start while the mind and body is young and eager. College students everywhere are capable to help fight the epidemic of homelessness and the intolerance of the poor. It is time to make invisible people, visible again. (WC: 1350) Student 6 Works Cited About The Institute Street Medicine  Street Medicine Institute. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Brinegar, Sarah J. Response To Homelessness In Tempe, Arizona: Public Opinion And Government  Urban Geography 21.6 (2000): 497-513. Web. Chernega, Jennifer, and Christine C. George. Works in Progress: Searching for Solutions to the Difficult Problems of  Journal of Poverty 18.3 (2014): 227-30. Web. Frequently Asked  National Health Care for the Homeless Council. N.p., 07 May 2013. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.Gongloff, Mark. 45 Million Americans Still Stuck Below Poverty Line:  The Huffington Post. TheHuffingtonPost.com, 16 Sept. 2014. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Invisible  The Huffington Post. TheHuffingtonPost.com, n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Rayburn, Rachel L., and Nicholas A. Guittar. Is Where You Are Supposed to How Homeless Individuals Cope with  Sociological Spectrum 33.2 (2013): 159-74. Web. Snapshot of  National Alliance to End Homelessness. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. TEDxTalks. Solving homelessness: Stop shaming and blaming Deborah Hughes  YouTube. YouTube, 22 June 2015. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Vote YES on Measure H to help end homelessness in L.A.  Yes on Measure H. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.