Echeverry 1 Alejandro V. Echeverry Professor Phillips Comp. ii 16 April 2017 The Solution to the Food Crisis All over the world we are experiencing droughts of food. Yet we produce enough food to feed 10 billion people as of 2014 currently we are at a population of 7.5 billion (Johan 147). Now that we understand that situation what affects might have on the rest of the world that is better off than the improvised nations. The companies will end up losing out on opportunities to not only touch an economy that has no other competitors but also lose out on cheap labor. This not only could be a huge disappointment but a lack to not only boost our economy but also develop friendly relationships with other countries in a situation where both countries win. With the push from citizens of developed countries the food companies can come to a formal legal agreement with the governments of developing countries, both group will be able to benefit highly if the terms and conditions of the arrangement are fair and not one sided. Currently we have a crisis in South Africa specifically in urban setting where food production is not up to par with the development and growth of the city and its population. In turn there have been efforts by the local communities to unite and create farm lands and plot near the city capable to produce a least some portion of sustainable healthy crops (wade 84). Taking this information into account we should be looking at the capability of already available companies such as dole and Tyson these are mass producers of food. Companies that have an already established system that really allows for the most effective and resource saving process. If these companies that have already had previously established deal and expansions in places like Chile, Echeverry 2 Mexico and Argentina. The Benefits to these specific companies is that they both believe in not only leaving a minimal impact on nature and also being able to develop and set up effective factories that produce food that would benefit the citizens of these developing nations. These companies will allow for the development of a more sustainable system in which people will be employed and educated in a country that lacks a lot of work and education opportunity (Hawkes 45). This will not only benefit these countries but it will also allow for the company to expand. The company will also have no economic competition in the area allowing them access to cheaper labor. Secondly there is a need for citizen from more developed countries to care because they will also have reverberations of these decisions (Wade 82). If these companies were to gain the benefits of these offshore and foreign deals then we will be able to really boost our economy and relations with these foreign powers. This is beneficial to everyone because not only would these food products be available much more affordable but the money the company makes would be a huge impact on the economy of the U.S. allowing for a higher quality of life for these citizens. The advantages of having allies that will be keeping our companies in mind that boosted their economy are a huge plus (Hawkes 54). With allies who will not only be able to give us products globally cheaper than anyone else. We will also gain a sphere of influence in that hemisphere and with this access to fertile lands and resources the economic advantages are innumerable. Progressing into the final point, all that is needed from develop nation citizens is to push these companies to think of these opportunities and viable options. The need for these deals is essential to our economy and there are multitudes of way people can become involved into helping this deal happen. One way most citizens can participate is attending town hall and government assemblies, here citizens will be able to elect people and voice their ideas and wants Echeverry 3 to have a representative that will push these American companies to make agreements with these governments. Along with that during our presidential elections the voices of the many are addressed. Therefore if this idea comes to the forefront of the political conversation we will be able to have it be a focus for our presidential candidates and really prove a move worth making (Swinnen 42). This allows for more people to achieve some understanding of the idea and how we can all be benefited in a positive way while in the mean while gaining a allies and a global influence in power. The more citizens voice their ideas through these government elections along with social media to grown awareness then we will be able to progress and add to a global betterment. All this can be done from the commodity of your homes when it comes to the idea of social media. When we have enough people focusing on these ideas, it will grow and spread gaining more and more credibility. Once we have established this credibility to the idea we will be able to really push and bring this to play ground. It will also be the job of the citizens of the U.S. that we make sure the trade deal are fair and just to make sure there is no exploitation by these companies. If we do not patrol these deals and the way they are carried out by our native companies then we could risk a similar catastrophe of the invasion of the Middle East for resources, creating an air of hate and distrust for American citizens (Hawkes 56). This is something the citizens will have to be monitoring. As citizens there will be a huge responsibility put on our shoulders but if this is capable of being done we can push for an outcome that is beneficial to everyone (Swinnen 37). This means as citizens, there must be a developing dialog between what these deals should consist of. If left up solely to the companies they would be the possibilities of abusing the developing nations and exploiting the workers. Instead of creating a prosperous relationship between the two there will be a oppressive invasive view at the U.S. Echeverry 4 companies. Therefore if we can really push to educate the people about this topic and spread the word about these idea we can come to a census on what should be in these trade deals. Finally the food crisis is an imminent issue that can affect everyone in the world. If we pass up the opportunity to make allies and improve both countries economy the U.S. will be missing a great opportunity to change its global presence and persona instead of being seen as the police we will be seen as allies and economic liberators instead of economic oppressors (Swinnen 33). This can be done through a fair and just trade deal between both the governments of these developing nations and companies such as Dole and Tyson. This will benefit our economy, global perspective and gain allies that will turn out to be some of our greatest allies with a sphere of influence in this hemisphere. This gives the U.S. more power and stability. Citizens will just have to become involved and be able to vote for senators and representatives that will condone our ideas and push them into congress where they will be able to really make a difference to these companies native to the U.S. Echeverry 5 Annotated Bibliography  Dole. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Hawkes, Corinna. The role of foreign direct investment in the nutrition  Public health nutrition 8.04 (2005): 357-365. Wade, Isabel. Community food production in cities of the developing  Food Swinnen, Johan FM, ed. Global supply chains, standards and the poor: how the globalization of food systems and standards affects rural development and poverty. Cabi, 2007. Cohen, Joel I. Poorer nations turn to publicly developed GM  Nature biotechnology 23.1 (2005): 27.