McClure 1 Sydney McClure Maria Theodosiou Composition II April 13, 2017 The Integration from STEM to STEAM What is the difference between STEM and STEAM? First off, according to T.J article, Engaging Students In STEM he states, term refers to teaching and learning in the fields of science, technology, engineering, and (246-247). Now, let me ask, do you know what STEAM is? If not, STEAM is the same thing as STEM, the only difference is that there is an added A that stands for art. I know what you are thinking, What does art have to do with science, technology, engineering, or Well, the answer is simple; everything. STEM has been around for such a long time, it makes it difficult for change to be accepted; not everyone is welcome to change. However, adding art into STEM can benefit student education. In John article, STEM to STEAM: Art in K-12 Is Key to Building a Strong  he states, we know that the challenges the next generation faces will demand creative solutions, but I would argue that STEM alone will not get us (Maeda). That is why encouraging STEM to STEAM is so important. There are so many reasons why STEM cannot last by itself. This integration can be the beginning of something big, and there are so many ways to help. Things like signing a petition, donating money to foundations, plus so much more. Kennedy made a comment saying, that engages students in STEM promotes instructional strategies that challenge students to innovate and (254). When it comes to McClure 2 innovation and inventions, what do you think about? Most people think about science, technology, and engineering. However, did you know that art is more involved with innovation and inventions? The best forms of innovation are the things that people do not think of. Things such as music, movies, books, documentaries, paintings, maybe even poems. These art related subjects truly grab the attention of people and make them feel certain emotions. The arts have a way of connecting to people, making them feel, and sometimes, even changing the way they think. Think about it, has there ever been a moment when you were sitting in your car and a sad song came on? I am sure that when you listened to that song, you felt a little sad right? What about happy music? I bet there was a time when you were in a bad mood, a happy upbeat song came on, and you found yourself dancing or enjoying yourself. That is the power that music and other art related subjects have on people. After all, according to The Rhode Island School of Design, goal is to foster the true innovation that comes with combining the mind of a scientist or technologist with that of an artist or (RISD). That is why adding art is so beneficial towards the other subjects in STEM. When they are combined, they can improve student education. Stronger student education will nurture the minds that will make the innovations that truly change the world. Simple things can help stimulate the mind, especially music. Having your child learn how to play music, or even listen to music, can do so much for their brain. According to Deane article, How Music Affects the Brain for the  she notes that music can help improve language development, produce a small increase in IQ, improve test scores, increase brain connectivity, and increase spatial intelligence (Alban). This means that having your child involved in music, in any way, can improve their brain. Who would have thought that something as small as listening to music, could have such a big effect on the mind? It is not just listening to music either, playing music plays a significant role as well. Alban found evidence that, McClure 3 brains are noticeably more symmetrical. Areas of the brain responsible for motor control, auditory processing, and spatial coordination are larger. They also have a larger corpus (Alban). This indicates that not only does music help you learn, but it also gives you an overall better brain. Anyone can help encourage the integration from STEM into STEAM. You can donate money to the STEAM Power after school program whose goal is, ensure that all of our kids are participating in the fastest growing educational trend the integration of science, technology, engineering, art/design, and (STEAM POWER). Donating money to this non-profit organization will help them educate teachers and students in the way of STEAM, which can give a head start towards the integration. Other than donating, you can even sign a petition for STEAM. You are probably wondering what good a petition will do. Well, with enough signatures, not only will it spread the word about STEAM, but with the right influence, it could help make the integration a reality. There are so many ways to incorporate art into the lives of others. Parents can enroll their children in more art classes. Maybe they can add more artistic things around the house such as puzzles, coloring books, anything like that. Parents are naturally hardwired to raise their children for success and to prepare them for the world. That is why parents look at what schools have the best ratings to give their children a better future. If you had to pick a future for your child, you would want to make sure that they will be able to survive in the crazy world that we live in. You would want them to get the best education so that they can get a successful job, right? That means offering them access to art to help improve their education. As I stated above, music is another thing that can help stimulate the brain. The sooner children get involved in music, the more it will benefit them. you want that for your child? Even if you cannot convince STEM programs to become STEAM, you can do so much more to help encourage the use of art. McClure 4 Taking all of this into consideration, it is easy to see that STEAM is better than STEM when it comes to student education. Buck even stated, integration is an approach to teaching in which students construct and demonstrate understanding through an art form. Students engage in a creative process, which connects an art form and another subject area and meets evolving objects in (6). What he is trying to say, is that when art education is combined with the other subjects in STEM, each subject evolves and strives. Alban also stated that, with musical training do better in subjects like language, reading, and math and have better fine motor skills than their non-musical (Alban). Not only does one credible person acknowledge how the arts improves the learning of other subjects, but another source can also confirm that same fact. Knowing this, it is hard to understand why people are so hesitant on adding art into STEM. If there is all this evidence that proves that adding art is so much better for student education, why the integration been put into effect? The integration needs to happen sooner than later. The sooner it happens the better your education will be. McClure 5 Works Cited Alban, Deane. How Music Affects the Brain for the  Be Brain Fit. 02 Mar. 2017. Web. 12 Apr. 2017. <https://bebrainfit.com/music-affects-brain/>. Buck, Ralph, and Barbara Snook. Teaching The Arts Across The Curriculum: Meanings, Policy And  International Journal Of Education & The Arts 17.29-32 (2016): 1-21. Art & Architecture Source. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Kennedy, T. J, and M. R.L, Odell. Engaging Students In STEM  Science Education International 25.3 (2014): 246-258. Education Source. Web. 17 Jan. 2017 Maeda, John. STEM to STEAM: Art in K-12 Is Key to Building a Strong  Edutopia, 02 Oct. 2012. Web. 19 Jan. 2017. Rhode Island School of Design  Rhode Island School of Design RISD. Web. 19 Jan. 2017. <http://www.risd.edu/>. POWER After STEAM POWER After School. Web. 11 Apr. 2017. <http://www.steampowerafterschool.org/>.