Nicole Franze Mr. Phillips ENC 1102 025 16 April 2017 Enough is Enough This country must fight and stand for what is right. The Dakota Access Pipeline (DAPL) is an oil pipeline being built through a native reservation to transfer thousands of barrels of oil from the Bakken shale oil fields in North Dakota to the oil tank farm near Patoka, Illinois. The construction of the DAPL must come to an end because of its risks regarding the contamination of the Natives only water source and the destruction of their sacred burial grounds; in order to succeed in this fight everyone must with Standing One needs to be educated and then engaged about this issue; they need to want to take action in fixing the issue and then follow through with it. There are many opportunities that us Americans have in order to fulfill this goal. The Standing Rock Sioux Tribe is a Native American tribe that lives on the Standing Rock reservation. The Tribe and other committed natives are protesting the production of the Dakota Access Pipeline due to the pipeline being built below their only water source and through their sacred burial grounds. The Bakkens Holding Company are the creators of the DAPL. Due to The Bakken Holdings Company being known to have leaks in their previous projects, the tribes are terrified that the DAPL will contaminate their only water source. As stated by Chasity Delorme, time I returned to Standing Rock these last few months I become more educated on the environmental racism taking place, the disregard of historical Treaty agreements, and the neglect of basic human rights and safety. But what will forever be ingrained in my heart is witnessing the power of my people; the power when their inner warrior surfaces and they are forced to defend themselves against the very same injustices our ancestors have battled for hundreds of This issue is important because this country is getting used to everything being taken away from them without hearing opinion. The Natives have been fighting for decades upon centuries for their land and their rights alone. The Natives have been constantly lied to, manipulated and pushed into a corner simply because America does not find them important enough to be heard. Little does anyone know, Native Americans are the ones who discovered this country. For them to be the ones that are forever in the dark is not right. The Standing Rock Sioux Tribe and other supporters have dealt with numerous distinct types of attacks and some have even found themselves in a lawful situation from officers and anyone that is supportive of the DAPL. According to Joseph Erbetraut, 400 arrests have taken place at the Dakota Access Pipeline construction site since the protests began. The arrests have been on charges such as criminal trespassing and engaging in a riot. Protesters have reported local law enforcement of using pepper spray, tear gas and beanbag rounds on them and responding to peaceful demonstrations, pipe ceremonies and prayer circles with militarized force. The show of force prompted Amnesty International to send a team of observers to monitor how law enforcement is handling the protests. A United Nations group is also investigating the allegations that law enforcement is using excessive force and committing other human rights The natives are being mistreated because of this protest; they are just fighting for their land/ home. The tribes need help to end this battle. The Standing Rock Sioux Tribe is calling all those willing to stand in the fight with protecting the natives water and lands. Indigenous Environmental Network activist Dallas Goldtooth said, now, we have a call to action across the planet ... for people to take to the streets, to rise up and rise with Standing Rock in mass mobilization, to support this effort and this fight against the abrogation of indigenous rights, the complete disregard for the law of the Standing Rock is asking that America rises and stands with the Native American people of the world whose rights protect Unci Maka (Grandmother Earth) for the future generations. They ask that America helps fight this battle alongside them and help spread the word about this tragedy. Hundreds of thousands of people based at the site of the pipeline and reservation will need shelter, food, and warmth to get through the cold temperatures. Standing Rock is asking for everyone to donate to the reservation and those fighting alongside them in one of three ways; Sign a petition to stop the construction of the Dakota Access Pipeline, send supplies to those fighting, and/or donate. Also, there are plenty of events throughout each month that offer ways to get more involved and help raise money for the tribes. In order to find such events, the Standing Rock official website has a list of their monthly events on their tab. Petitions are created to request that something be done. Usually a petition must have a specific number of signatures in order to be successful. Petitions typically go through the government and are used for more serious matters. All throughout the internet there are petitions for the construction of the Dakota Access Pipeline, the contamination of the natives only water source, and the trespassing and destruction of the natives sacred burial grounds. By signing a petition, that person did not just make the natives one step closer to success but that person was able to be heard by thousands and be able to know that their opinion mattered. Sending specific supplies and/ or donating is helpful for the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe and others on the reservation because they are able to survive through the harsh weather changes. On the Standing Rock website, they have a list of supplies that they ask to be donated. If anyone is unable to physically send an item but still wants to help the cause, they are given the opportunity to send money directly to the Standing Rock Reservation. By donating money and not a specific item, the Sioux tribe and other devoted natives are able to buy exactly what they need to make it through the weather changes, police harassment, and the fight alone. Standing Rock has had 48,252 contributions since the beginning of this journey. They only need 2,948 more contributions until their goal of 51,200 is reached. With regard to ending the production of the Dakota Access Pipeline everyone must come together as one and be a voice. This nation must be educated on this issue, become engaged on the issue, and want to make a positive effect on the issue. The native people have been pushed aside and neglected long enough. The Standing Rock Sioux Tribe and other devoted natives do not want their water to have any chance of being polluted or their sacred burial grounds being destroyed. These tribes do not have anywhere else to go and we must help to protect their remaining homelands. They cherish their land that they call home, and they are protecting it like we would ours. The Standing Rock Sioux Tribe will not back down in this fight and they are determined to protect their land and water. After this prolonged battle, enough is enough. Works Cited Erbentraut, Joseph. What You Need To Know About The Dakota Pipeline The Huffington Post.TheHuffingtonPost.com, 15 Jan. 2017. Web. 03 Apr.2017.<http://www. b4b4e3cf>. Delorme, Chasity. #Nodapl a Movement of Nonviolent Indigenous  Our Schools/ Ourselves, vol. 26, no. 2, Winter2017, pp. 71-78. EBSCOhost,ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login ?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=eue&AN=121779112&site =eds-live. Smith, Kerry. Standing Rock Water Protectors Call for Mass Protests as DAPL  Green Left Weekly. N.p., 09 Feb. 2017. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. <https://www.greenleft.org .au/content/standing-rock-water-protectors-call-mass-protests-dapl-approved>.