Cody Berry ENC 1102 Dennis Violent Video Games Create Violent Children According to the NPD, in 2011, 91% of children in the United States ages 2-17 play video games. (Camp) Children all over the US play video games and a high percentage of these video games all include violence. The most popular of these titles being games such as Call of Duty and Overwatch which are both rated for higher aged individuals. Most of the video games that are popular with the youth of America today are games like these, either shooting games where you can shoot other people, zombies, etc. or hack and slash games where you can stab and slice people and monsters. People learn from their surroundings and actions, as children grow, their behavior reflects that of the environments they are exposed to. These violent video games influence behavior drastically and in negative ways. The Parents Television Council (PTC) is an organization mission and vision is to protect children from graphic sex, violence, and profanity in the media and provide a safe entertainment media environment for children across America. (The PTC Mission) They are an organization who is against violence in media due to its harmful effects on behavior and development. The correlation between violent behavior and violent video games is backed by over 3,000 medical and sociological studies in the last 50 years that prove that children are negatively affected by media violence. (Violence and the Media) A more recent study in 2012 done by Anderson et al. tested whether exposure to violent video games has an effect ton aggression over time in both high and low violence cultures. Three independent samples were assessed at 2 points in time separated by 3 to 6 months. The first sample consisted of 181 Japanese junior high students between the ages of 12 and 15, the second sample consisted of 1050 Japanese students between the ages of 13 and 18, and the third sample consisted of 364 United States students between the ages of 9 and 12. The behavior was assessed early in the school year and then once gain either 3 or 6 months later. Results showed that those who habitually played violent video games became relatively more aggressive and multi-sample structure equation modeling showed similar results in the United States and Japan for similar aged youth but was smaller in the older youth. (Anderson) This study is one of very many that show a correlation between aggressive behavior in developing children and violent video games and that the violence is a risk factor for future aggressive behavior. This evidence should be sufficient in explaining the link between violence in video games and aggressive behavior in developing children. I personally believe that the exposure to violence does have a negative effect on developing children and that the responsibility of preventing the exposure falls mostly on the parents, however there is something I suggest for the developers to further restrict content to age. I believe that there is could be a way to integrate a security system into video game consoles that registers a account to their ID and fingerprint. In this way, the console has a record of the age and has a way to link the user physically to record of them. For example, a parent who enjoys playing video games as a pass time has his fingerprint linked to his ID in the consoles memory and before logging into his account to play video games, they would have to scan their finger so the console can confirm the user is of age. Conversely, if a child were to attempt to play a video game not meant for their age group, the fingerprint scan can confirm that the user is under age and can prevent the child from playing the game. In this way, all responsibility for the prevention of exposure to violent video games rests on the parents and keeps the developers not liable for any actions linked to the video games that they make. There are many ways to get involved with violence prevention in media through the PTC. If you visit their website, there is a plethora of information involving statistics and studies showing the harmful effects of violence in media on developing children. After reading the information they have available, they have ways to take action using their get involved tab and in the action center. The action center describes ways you can contribute to the safefty of children from exposure to violence such as filing with the FCC or contacting news networks. If you ever feel unsafe with the media, the website has multiple ways to combat being shown and made for public entertainment. To conclude, roughly 91% of children in the United States play video games and a majority of video games developed contain violence in them. Developing children are influenced by their environments as they grow and maintain those learned behaviors. Being exposed to violence and partaking in those activities, whether virtually or physically, has a long-lasting effect of a behavior and will ultimately make them more aggressive. Countless studies exist to back the claim children become more aggressive after being exposed to violent video games and violent media in general. Despite this, however, there are many ways to combat this negative influence and the Parents Television Council creates those opportunities so that the children of the United States of America can be safe from violence exposure. Work Cited Anderson, Craig A., Akira Sakamoto, Douglas A. Gentile, Nobuko Ihori, Akiko Shibuya, Shintaro Yukawa, Mayumi Naito, and Kumiko Kobayashi. Longitudinal Effects of Violent Video Games on Aggression in Japan and the United  Pediatrics. American Academy of Pediatrics, 01 Nov. 2008. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Camp, Jeffrey Van. 91 Percent of Kids Play Video Games, Says  Digital Trends. N.p., 11 Oct. 2011. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. The PTC  PTC Mission. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Violence and the  Media Violence Campaign. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.