Rivera 1 Marielisa Rivera Karen Hanson Enc 1102 16 April 2017 Hydraulic Fracturing in a Review As the world continues to deplete natural resources, at a rate that far surpasses natural ability to replace itself, new mechanisms that allow for the extractions of oil and natural gas will continue to expand. Therefore, recently in the last few decades hydraulic fracturing (fracking) has become an industry that has surpassed traditional drill sites for oil in the United States. Joshua Pritchard discusses fracking as mechanical process that uses fluid pressure to release quantities of petroleum or natural gas from deep below the (Pritchard). Although fracking is a useful technique to extract shale oil and natural gas, the environmental hazards it presents far exceeds its benefits and has led numerous individuals to pressure law makers to ban fracking. Fracking has become a controversial issue in part because of the risks it presents to the environment. Since fracking involves the use of high pressure and chemicals to break down the shale bed, there is concern for aquifers being at risk of contamination. Aquifers exist underground and is where the extraction of most drinkable water occurs, as over 80% of water that is drinkable is locked away in polar ice caps (M.H Sellami,et. al). Fracking causes breaching (the process of chemicals contaminating the aquifers) to occur when the pressure shifts plates beneath the surface making aquifers level with well injection sites allowing the chemicals to contaminate the clean drinking water. In addition, during the fracking process bed rock that protects the aquifers is also broken down and makes areas surrounding the aquifers more porous. Thus, fracking makes aquifers highly susceptible to ground water leaching (Damian Carrington). Some critiques who stand firmly that fracking should continue, state that if ground water leaching truly does happen then water treatment facilities will clean the contaminated water. However, this argument does not look at fracking in a holistic matter. As some scientist, have already stated that because of some of the chemicals used in the process if contamination occurs water treatment facilities will not be able to filter out all the toxins. Therefore, continuing to frack may lead to humans being forced to drink sewage water that has been treated as well as the dependence of desalination plants (Lin, Lue, et. al). Fracking not only has been looked at by environmentalist and scientist for causing ground water contamination but has recently been linked to essentially causing man made earthquakes (McGrath Goodman, Leah). Some scientists have gone as far as to claim that the recent spike in earthquakes in Oklahoma has been the result of fracking. Despite warnings from scientist that fracking is the link to the massive increases of earthquakes in this state, law makers continue to halt the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) from trying to stop fracking to limit the environmental impact in the region (United States Environmental Protection Agency). It has Rivera 2 been suggested that the reason fracking has caused these earthquakes is because during the process the bed rock is broken, which causes plate shifting and the methods to replace the rocks once all the resources are extracted is not sufficient. When fracking is finished at one site liquid is pumped back in along with cement. This does not create enough support or elasticity thus creating the potential hazards of creating plate tectonic movement. Furthermore, the fracking process is not delicate on the environment. The force exerted onto surface has been linked to another possible cause for creating manmade earthquakes. This is because fracking essential shocks the surface. As the force creates a higher frequency then the normal waves passing through the surface to cope the plates shift and thus earthquakes occur (McGrath Goodman, Leah). Since fracking has been linked to alarming environmental consequences it should be banned. Humans cannot afford to allow fracking to continue despite increasing reliance on fossil fuels. With the new age of technology there is a vast amount of alternative energy resources that can replace the need for fracking and drilling altogether. Such alternatives might include solar energy, hydraulic energy, nuclear energy, and wind energy. Therefore, lawmakers should not continue to allow fracking when there is such a long list of alternative sources of energy that have a far less environmental foot print (environmental impact). However, citizens must refrain from allowing lawmakers to turn a blind eye and allow commercialism to outstrip environmentalism. Ways that individuals might want to get engaged in the argument would be to simply first find out what their state stance is on fracking. As numerous states, have already banned fracking. However, since bans are not universal yet the next step would be to contact the state representative of that region and ask them what their stance on fracking is. If they support fracking a great way to be leader, is to take the initiative to start a petition to ban fracking if one is not available yet. This may seem like a simplistic approach to the issue however, such tactics have already worked in states like Florida. For instance, in Florida numerous petitions sparked law makers to try and pass laws to ban fracking. Due to activists pressuring lawmakers to realize that because of the limestone formations Florida would be highly susceptible to having even more sinkholes as the results of fracking (Lizette Alverez). Although fracking is a useful technique to obtain the increasingly scarce available shale oil and natural gas it imposes environmental risks that outstrips the benefits. This why states like Florida have already taken the initiative to ban fracking as it has already been linked to water contamination and earthquakes. However, fracking is an industry that makes billions each year and thus transitioning out of it can take some time. Citizens should not get complacent through the process and should continue to pressure law officials until fracking can be universally banned. Citizens should do this by using social media and other devices to start petitions and voice their opinions to law makers. Rivera 3 Work Cited Carrington, Companies Will Be Legally Required to Reveal Chemicals Used for Fracking; Infrastructure Bill Amendments on Ground Water Pollution and Accepted, but Labour Maintains Regulation Is Still  The Guardian. Lin, Lu, et al. Innovative Use of Drinking Water Treatment Solids for Heavy Metals Removal from Desalination Concentrate: Synergistic Effect of Salts and Natural Organic  Chemical Engineering Research and Design, vol. 120, 01 Apr. 2017, pp. 231-239. MCGRATH GOODMAN, LEAH. Thunder in the  Newsweek Global, vol. 166, no. 15, 22 Apr. 2016, pp. 20-23. Pritchard, Joshua. Fracking:  Salem Press Encyclopedia (2016): Research Starters. Web. 24 Jan. 2017 Sellami, M.H., et al. Engineering Advance: Solar Distillation Using a Blackened Mixture of Portland Cement and Alluvial Sand as a Heat Storage  Desalination, vol. 394, 15 Sept. 2016, pp. 155-161. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.desal.2016.04.027. United States Enviromental Protection Agency. Mission and What We www.epa.gov/aboutepa/our-mission-and-what-we-do(web).29 Jan. 2017(London, England), 2015.