Harrison 1 Morgan Harrison Maria Theodosiou ENC 1102 11 April 2017 Stop Human Trafficking About 20 to 30 million people are being trafficked around the world today (Do Something). Human trafficking is commonly mistaken solely as a sex industry. This is incorrect. According to the Department of Homeland Security, human trafficking is defined as day slavery and involves the use of force, fraud, or coercion to obtain some type of labor or commercial sex (What is Human Trafficking). This is a huge issue because it takes away basic human rights and forces them to go through traumatic events. You can help stop this ongoing crime by supporting organizations such as the End It Movement. A study was done to see how being trafficked affects an life after they are saved. In this study, they focused on figuring out what an individual was like prior to being trafficked and then a comprehensive psychiatric evaluation once trafficked. They found that there are some risk factors which heighten the chances of an individual being trafficked. These include but are not limited to poverty, young age, limited education, and lack of family support (Pascual-Leone). Lack of family support can also be explained as being a runaway, orphan, or homeless. Often, the traffickers coerce the victims into the trap of human trafficking by offering more economic opportunities or housing (Pascual-Leone). They appeal to those who are in poverty and desperate for work. Often, these poverty-stricken individuals will agree, thinking the employer is telling the truth. These people are sometimes then coerced into sexual slavery. These poor girls have their hopes high of a better life and suddenly find the reality that they are stuck in Harrison 2 the vicious cycle of sex trafficking. Although sexual exploitation is a type of human trafficking, it only makes up about 22 percent of slavery around the world (Slavery Today). This means that for every 5 slaves, about 1 of them is coerced into sexual exploitation against their will. Unfortunately, the average age of an individual that is lured into sex trafficking is between the ages of 12 and 14 years old (Selah Freedom). A study was published in the American Journal of Public Health that studied the linkage between adverse childhood experiences and human trafficking. Examples of adverse childhood experiences include verbal, physical, or sexual abuse along with family dysfunction (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention). The results were shocking. A girl that has a history of sexual abuse is 2.52 times more likely to be coerced into human trafficking while a boy that has a history of sexual abuse is 8.21 times more likely to be coerced into human trafficking (Reid et al. 306). These are sobering statistics but the good news is that you can help put this statistic to an end. One way to understand the issue of human trafficking is to hear a story from someone that has been through it themself. Maria is a middle-aged woman that experienced forced labor trafficking and sexual abuse from her employer (Pascual-Leone). She had suffered through the loss of her spouse and lives. Once this happened, she had to search for work so she could financially support her other children. She landed a job that was not in her country- it was in Canada. She was forced to work long, labor intensive hours and was forced to live in a house with 30 other women that were also migrant workers (Pascual-Leone). Her employer took her passport and would not let her have it back so that she could not go anywhere. She was now under her complete control- her house, her job, and her legal documents. She had no freedom of her own as she thought she would once accepting her job. During the time that her employer was sexually abusing her, he promised that he would provide a stable life for her and Harrison 3 her children. He did this to several of the other migrant workers as well (Pascual-Leone). He would lure her to a place that would put them in a place by themselves. This created an opportunity for him to sexually assault her. Maria had curfews and was unable to go places that her employer did not know about. She was absolutely terrified. Having very little freedom and not knowing the language of the country she was in; she could not get help. When one last instance occurred that made Maria fear for her life, she was finally able to escape the torture of her employer. She found social and legal services and is now doing significantly better (Pascual- Leone). She participated in the psychotherapy study (Pascual-Leone). They focused on how she felt about herself and creating boundaries. She went through extensive therapy sessions and now has a different perspective of what happened to her. Her mindset went from being overwhelmed by emotional pain to understanding that the man that was employing and abusing her has issues of his own (Pascual-Leone). This gave her a better understanding of what she should and should not accept from others since she misjudged this job opportunity as a migrant worker. Going through these therapy sessions helped her symptoms of crying, poor sleeping, and being present with her family (Pascual-Leone). Luckily, Maria was able to escape her situation. This is not the case for many slaves worldwide. With your help and the help of those around you, the 20 to 30 million slaves in the world can find freedom and safety (Do Something). Imagine if you were on a plane and the woman sitting in the row in front of you was being trafficked. You may have encountered someone that desperately needed help but you were unable to tell that they were in danger. Now imagine if you had a chance to help that man, woman, or child. You would change their lives Harrison 4 forever, possibly even saving their lives. Although this is a wonderful concept, more times than not, people do not know how to spot if an individual is being trafficked or how to help them. One way to be of help is to know some of the warning signs that someone is being trafficked. There are many different signs to look out for but here are a few from the Polaris Project. Those that are being trafficked are often not allowed to come and go as they please, similar to how we saw in story. When communicating with victims of human trafficking, they may avoid eye contact. When the trafficker is around, they may insist on speaking for the victim or translating for them. This is an example of how little power the victims have in these situations. Since many people that are trafficked are transferred into a different country, they will often know very little about their whereabouts or the city that they are in. Another huge sign of trafficking is that the individual is unpaid, paid very little, or paid only through tips (Recognize the Signs). If you sense that someone is being trafficked, call the Human Trafficking Hotline. There is a 24/7/365 Human Trafficking Hotline. What this means is that at all hours of the day, every day of the year, there is a hotline that can be called to report findings of human trafficking. This number is 1(888)373-7888 (Sex Trafficking Victim Outreach Card). Wallet sized Victim Outreach cards can be ordered from the Sex Trafficking website. This is so that if you suspect that someone is being trafficked, a card can be placed in the vicinity that they are in so that they have a way out of their situation. In 2016, the hotline discovered 8,042 cases of human trafficking; 35% higher than the rates in 2015 (2016 Hotline Statistics). Though this is a scary statistic, it means that more people were helped than ever before. This hotline is working and is a vital part in getting victims help. In addition, there are different organizations that work to put an end to human trafficking such as the End It Movement. On the End It website, there is a spot to sign a Harrison 5 petition from the International Justice Movement which is working to put an end to slavery (Shine a Light on Slavery). End It Movement also has a day that everyone can write a red on their hand to spread awareness for slavery and join together to take a stand against slavery. Supporters of this movement can also donate on their website. Human trafficking is a crime that is about to surpass the drug industry, bringing in a profit of $32 billion every year (11 Facts about Human Trafficking). It needs to be stopped because as we saw with story, it takes away the basic human rights of individuals and puts them through traumatic life events. Luckily, there are many ways people around the world can do their part to help put an end to modern day slavery as we know it. This includes knowing a few basic signs that an individual is being trafficked. There are many different organizations, such as the End It Movement, that an individual can donate to, support, and volunteer for. There are wallet sized cards with the Human Trafficking Hotline number to make it more available to people. There are also petitions that can be signed to show the government that this is a serious issue that needs to be paid attention to. Human Trafficking is a horrible crime that is happening all over the world that needs to be paid attention to in order to save millions of people. Harrison 6 Works Cited 11 Facts About Human  DoSomething.org Volunteer for Social Change. N.p., n.d. Web. 11 Apr. 2017. Blue  What Is Human Trafficking? Homeland Security. N.p., n.d. Web. 11 Apr. 2017. Slavery Today Free the  Free the Slaves. N.p., n.d. Web. 11 Apr. 2017. Pascual-Leone, Antonio, Jean Kim, and Orrin-Porter Morrison. Working with Victims of Human  Journal of Contemporary Psychotherapy 47.1 (2016): 51-59. Web.  Selahfreedom. N.p., n.d. Web. 11 Apr. 2017. Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 17 Dec. 2010. Web. 11 Apr. 2017. Reid, Joan A., Michael T. Baglivio, Alex R. Piquero, Mark A. Greenwald, and Nathan Epps. Human Trafficking of Minors and Childhood Adversity in  American Journal of Public Health107.2 (2017): 306-11. Web. Sex Trafficking Victim Outreach  National Human Trafficking Hotline. N.p., 07 Jan. 2015. Web. 11 Apr. 2017. More Assistance, More  Polaris. N.p., 31 Jan. 2017. Web. 12 Apr. 2017. END IT  END IT 2017. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Apr. 2017.