Kiffner 1 Kayleigh Kiffner Karen Hanson ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Why Are Bad While out shopping for groceries or cooking dinner at home, have you ever stopped and thought about what is in the food you are about to consume? are everywhere, hard to not have at least one GMO product in your pantry right now as a matter of fact. Currently make up about 70 to 80 percent of the food we consume Scary The top ten GMO crops are corn, soy, sugar, aspartame, papayas, canola, cotton, dairy, and zucchini and yellow squash 10 Worst GMO This is one of the first steps you can take to avoid is by avoiding these top 10 GMO foods all together. have unknown effects on the human body that is not scientifically proven to be safe to be eaten. Organisms are genetically modified to help with pest resistance meaning that the plant becomes toxic to its most common insect pests that can make a crop die or yield less due to an outbreak. If these newly modified organisms are made to be toxic to an insect what could it do to a person? Genetically Modified organism need to be labeled and you can start by learning about the project called The Non- GMO Project that works diligently to help get labeled as well as inform you of ways to avoid that labeled. unknown safety is a large concern for most of society. Yet, they know much of what they can do to help. Currently The United States of America requires no labeling of genetically modified organisms at all (GMO Facts). use of creating herbicide Kiffner 2 resistance plants causes an increase in the use of herbicides to kill surrounding weeds (GMO Facts). They also are creating crops that can kill any insects that try to eat it. Making plants have their own pesticide built into their genes (GMO Facts). Over time the weeds become more and more resistance creating that take more herbicide to kill or a new chemical to kill them off (GMO Facts). The herbicide is sprayed all over the crops as well as the weeds since the crops are now herbicide resistant without any true research to prove the new GMO crop is safe to eat without any risky or possibly bad side effects. There is currently no studies that can prove whether or not are causing certain illnesses or allergies to occur in people more from the introduction of new Although many see that allergies to foods are increasing and illnesses on the rise with the introduction of It is not yet proven whether it is correlated or not. Why take the risk of eating these organisms if it is unsure whether you can catch an illness or become severely allergic to a certain type of food. are known to be environmentally damaging. Due to being herbicide resistant, and the weeds becoming more resistant themselves. This is causing a very large increase in the use of chemicals overall. The chemicals are being sprayed onto the plants and weeds to fall into the soil (The Environmental Impact of GMOs). Anytime the sprinklers run or it starts to rain the leftover chemicals that are now in the soil cause which spreads to other areas into rivers, streams, lakes, and oceans. The chemicals then just affecting and killing weeds around the crops, but is now becoming toxins to other environments around it. Affecting other living creatures in the area (The Environmental Impact of GMOs). As well as new GMO crops are being grown in soil or environments they normally This can take a toll on the soil making it become destroyed and unable to grow plants anymore (The Environmental Impact of GMOs). Kiffner 3 To help get labeled in the United States you can get involved by contacts large corporations such as or Nestle for instances which is proven to be working. There are now cereal that are certified to be GMO free with the butterfly logo created by The Non-GMO Project. You can send your concerns to these large companies at Just Label Its website. You can also get involved and make a difference by adding you name to their petition that way they can show how many people want to be labeled. Just sitting back and not acting on it help your opinion or view. The only way to make a difference in something you believe is to make it happen. Even if you think something simple that make a difference it will. Every action will get labeling one step closer. You can also act locally by getting information or the emails of your local governments to email them stating your concerns about and that they need to take action to get labeled as well. In conclusion, are not labeled, they can cause unknown effects on humans like the possibility of allergies to foods that most normally would not be allergic to. They can also possibly cause infertility and other unknown side effects from consuming such organisms. If not natural it be eaten. are affecting the environment around them too. Its damaging the environment and ecosystems. Weeds are becoming resistant to herbicides causing more toxins to be released in the ground and air. It has effects on wildlife such as birds, insects and other small creatures when pesticides are used to kill pests. Why consume a product that is already showing signs of damaging so much around it? Without scientific research and studies to prove its safety or dangers it should be labeled that way you can avoid it to keep yourself and your family safe from its unknown dangers. Kiffner 4 Scary Facts About One Green Planet, www.onegreenplanet.org/vegan-health/10- scary-facts-about-gmos/. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. Non-GMO Project, www.nongmoproject.org/gmo-facts/. Accessed 15 April. 2017. Environmental Impact of One Green Planet, www.onegreenplanet.org/animalsandnature/the-environmental-impact-of-gmos/. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017 10 Worst GMO Foods for Your GMO Foods Natural Society, 1 Oct. 2015, naturalsociety.com/top-10-worst-gmo-foods-list/. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017.