Sulbaran 1 Helio Sulbaran Professor Karen Hanson ENC 1102 April 16, 2017 Electoral College The United States considered a republic, instead of a democracy. This is due to the fact that the United States does not elect its president by a direct vote for a candidate, but by casting their vote for a representative that represents a certain candidate. This is the Electoral College, the system that the United States uses. The Electoral College has become a highly debated topic, regarding whether the Electoral College should be eliminated or should the Electoral College stay and remain as the system used to elect the president. The Electoral College should not be eliminated, but in fact, it should be updated, at the state level, to be able to keep up with the United States of today. Before expanding on the reasons of why the Electoral College should be updated, the history behind the Electoral College should be explained. The Electoral College is a process use by the United States to select their president and vice president. It was created by the Founding fathers with the idea of a between election of the President by a vote in Congress and election of the President by a popular vote of qualified Archives) They based it on the idea that the people will vote for a representative that will then cast their vote for the candidate that they represented. This is what makes the united states a republic, because they do not have a direct democracy system, on where the people vote for a candidate directly. So, to win the presidency in the United States, a candidate will need to win the majority of the votes in the Electoral College. The electoral College consists of electors, one for each of the 100 members of the Senate and the 435 members of the House of Representatives, plus three for DC. Sulbaran 2 Each elector casts one electoral (Barthelemy)This means that to win, a candidate must have 270 or more electoral college votes. Even though it is a good system, and it is based on a good idea, the Electoral College has its flaws. Some of these flaws are that the winner of a presidential election does not necessarily have to be the winner of the popular vote, meaning a candidate can win by having a minority of people voting for them. The other flaw is that because a candidate to win must receive 270 electoral college votes, the candidates spend most of their time campaigning in states that have the most electoral college votes and the states that are so called the swing states, because of the winner take all system, creating in the voting power of citizens across states, and, in doing so, also provides empirical evidence that such disparities are rewarded in the fiscal policy This means that not all the votes are equal, depending on what state the voter is voting from, the more power their vote has. These Electoral College flaws affect the population in various ways. The firs problem with it was the idea that a candidate could win the election without winning the popular election. There have been four examples in the history of the US on were a candidate won the presidency, without receiving the majority of the popular vote. An example of this, is the election of 2016, on where one candidate won the presidency with 304 electoral college votes, but only received 62,955,202 popular votes, compared to the losing candidate which received 227 Electoral votes, but received 65,794,399 popular vote, winning the popular vote.(National Archive) By having a candidate win without the popular vote, this means that the candidate does not represent the majority of the country population and it does not represent the best interest of the majority of the people. The other problem that affects the people are that because of how the Electoral College is set, some votes posses more value than others, depending on the state they come from. This means that not all votes are equal, and that certain voters posses more voting power than Sulbaran 3 other. Also, depending on the state, a state might receive more federal income they receive. This means that because of the Electoral College, each state is viewed different and the states that have more power to change an election, or swing states, they receive more benefits than other states. As stated by the research concluded by Duquette, Mixon, and Cebula, they concluded that empirical evidence that status for a given state in a given presidential election brings with it the potential reward/benefit of being the recipient of greater real per capita federal government grants to state and local This means that the state that receive the status f being swing state receive more aid from the federal government, because the fact that they can decide the result of presidential elections. Basically, the citizens that reside in the so called swing states, receive more benefits from the federal government than the citizens living on regular states. To fix the flaws in the Electoral College, and correct these disadvantages made by it, the Electoral College should be amended at the state level. To fix this, the Electoral College should not be removed, but upgraded. The winner take all system should be eradicated, and becoming more of a system that has proportional distribution of electors. It can be similar to the system that Maine uses. This system works as the divides itself into a number of districts, allocating one of its state-wide electoral votes to each (The Electoral College Maine and Nebraska). This means that the electoral college voter are split according to the district they are in, and depending on what their district votes for, that where their vote will go towards is. The system we are proposing however, does not divide the state into district. Instead, the electoral college vote will be split between the candidates, each receiving a proportional amount of electoral college voters, depending on the popular vote. The district idea is abandoned to avoid gerrymandering, which means manipulation of district lines for partisan Sulbaran 4 (Polsby). The proposal will be also being taken just to the state legislature, so it does not go to the trouble of the federal government, and the constitution does not have to be amended. There are many different ways people can help. One is to sign a petition to support the cause at a national level. Next one can be to sign a letter to their local representative on supporting the amendment at the state level. And another one can be by donating to the cause to get more people involved and to recognize and support the cause. The Electoral College has always been a highly debated topic. It is much debated due to the fact that this is the way the U.S elects their president. The Electoral College was very successful at the beginning, but with the time passing, there should have been upgrades to it. To fix the issues of having a candidate win the elections without winning the popular vote, and to not have some states have more power over others, an amendment to the state level should be passed. This amendment will divide the electoral college votes of the state proportionally to the popular vote, and it will rim down the possibility of Gerrymandering. The way people can support the cause is by signing the national petition, by signing and sending a letter to their state representative and by donating to the cause. Sulbaran 5 Work Cited Barthelemy, Fabrice, et al. The Architecture of the Electoral College, the House Size Effect, and the Referendum  Electoral Studies, 2014, p. 111. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.electstud.2013.07.004. Duquette, Christopher, et al. Swing States, the Winner-Take-All Electoral College, and Fiscal  Atlantic Economic Journal, vol. 45, no. 1, Mar. 2017, pp. 45-57. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1007/s11293-016-9526-2. Polsby, Daniel D., and Robert D. Popper. Third Criterion: Compactness as a Procedural Safeguard against Partisan Yale Law & Policy Review, vol. 9, no. 2, 1991, pp. www.jstor.org/stable/40239359. National Archives and Records Administration. National Archives and Records Administration, n.d. Web. 13 Apr. 2017. National Archives and Records Administration. National Archives and Records Administration, n.d. Web. 13 Apr. 2017. <https://www.archives.gov/federal-register/electoral-college/about.html>. National Archives and Records Administration. National Archives and Records Administration, n.d. Web. 13 Apr. 2017. <https://www.archives.gov/federal-register/electoral- S. Electoral College%3A Who Are the Electors%3F How Do They Vote%3F>. Sulbaran 6 Polsby, Daniel D., and Robert D. Popper. Third Criterion: Compactness as a Procedural Safeguard against Partisan Yale Law & Policy Review, vol. 9, no. 2, 1991, pp. www.jstor.org/stable/40239359. The Electoral College - Maine and  The Electoral College - Maine and Nebraska., n.d. Web. 08 Feb. 2017.