Allowe, 3 Adam Allowe Smith Composition I April 10, 2017 Police Prejudice in the Black Community Police officers have wrongly discriminated against African Americans damaging the relationship between the two. If police prejudice continues, and the oppression of an entire race of people continues, then how are African Americans considered equals? Why should African Americans be treated differently than other racial groups? The result of these discriminations is that the 911 operators have received significantly less calls from predominantly African American communities after an attack on member of that community, victims, and the communities they are apart of, have reported self-esteem, perceived social support, weaker academic commitment and performance, higher levels of depression, and involvement in (Stewart, Baumer, Brunson, Simons Some people believe that this is because African Americans commit crimes at a higher rate than other groups, but police are more likely to shoot an African American than they are a Caucasian based on stereotypes in tests. After Frank Jude, an unarmed African American, in Milwaukee was beaten by several police officers the community as a whole significantly reduced its outreach to police. After attack there were over 22,000 less calls to 911 and 56% fewer calls from minority communities. The injustice of this attack, and the many like it, brings to light that the African American community is being oppressed by the police in an effort to minority groups who threaten their economic, political, and public safety (Rembert, Watson, Hill 1-9) African Americans often experience mental and emotional problems associated with the negative police interactions that they encounter. African Americans who have experiences with racial discrimination are associated with a variety of adverse Allowe, 3 (Stewart, Baumer, Brunson, Simons Police discrimination gives these individuals a decreased self worth because of how they are treated by law enforcement. The lowered self esteems, weaker academic commitment, and higher levels of depression that are a result of police discrimination hurt the community and lead to a higher rate of violence and delinquency. Although some say that if African Americans already committing a crime that the police would have no reason to interact with them. While that is true that the police would have no reason to interact with them, but racial profiling as lead many officers to have a preconceived notion that an African American is more dangerous than another minority group. In police dilemma: Using ethnicity to disambiguate potentially (Correll, Park, Judd, Wittenbrink 1314-1329) police bias was tested to see if they viewed African Americans as a threat or not. The police in the test used cultural stereotypes in determining if a person is dangerous or not. Police prejudice works to interfere with the civil rights of African Americans. The attacks on the community try to create social norms similar to Jim Crow laws, by mentally and emotionally emotionally segregating African Americans from the rest of the population. Police prejudice attempts to make it that African Americans equal by treating them differently than other racial groups. Work Cited Desmond, Matthew, Andrew V Papachristos, and David S Kirk. Police Violence and Citizen Allowe, 3 Crime Reporting in the Black  American Sociological Review, 81.5 (2016): 857-876. Hadden, Bernadette R, Willie Tolliver, Fabienne Snowden, and Robyn Brown Manning. An Authentic Discourse: Recentering Race and Racism as Factors That Contribute to Police Violence Against Unarmed Black or African American  Journal of Human Behavior in the Social Environment, (2016): 1-14. Rembert, David A, Jerry Watson, and Rickey Hill. A Trilogy of Trepidation: Diverse Perspectives on Police Violence Targeting African American  Journal of Human Behavior in the Social Environment, (2015): 1-9. The police dilemma: Using ethnicity to disambiguate potentially threatening individuals.Correll, Joshua; Park, Bernadette; Judd, Charles M.; Wittenbrink, Bernd Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, Vol 83(6), Dec 2002, 1314-1329. Stewart, E. A., Baumer, E. P., Brunson, R. K. and Simons, R. L. (2009), Neighborhood Racial Context And Perceptions Of Police-Based Racial Discrimination Among Black Youth. Criminology, 47: