Okpor 1 Favour Lucky Okpor Ms. Maria Theodosiou ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Animal Cruelty Animals are being abused in different ways such as being kept in zoos for making profit off the tourists that comes over to watch them and animal skin is used a lot in the fashion industry to make cloths like bags and furs. What people fail to know is animals go through so much labor in different ways that includes carrying heavy materials on their back and traveling long distances. Most of the time they are being sold out by their owners to buyers that uses them for various things. Animal cruelty should be stopped and they should be given their rights as living things, to help stop animal cruelty you can go to the website that is an organization that helps to fight for animals and donate through their website and you can also become a member to help create awareness of this issue. In this 21th Century, animals are being denied their rights as living things in different ways and due to the fact that animals are victims without a voice organization such as SeaWorld takes advantage of them. This organization use them for profit making and as a form of entertainment for people. The range of behaviors considered cruel by some individuals or cultures encompasses not only deliberate abuse and neglect of pets or work animals, but also the use of live animals for medical and scientific experimentation, the practice of hunting for sport or food, and even the use of animal products for food and clothing (Boslaugh). Animal cruelty laws, and more generally a broad concern about animal welfare, are both fairly recent development in Western history. For much of human history, animals have been regarded largely as the possessions of human beings, Okpor 2 without rights of their own (Boslaugh). For instance, in the eighteenth century, the German philosopher Immanuel Kant expressed the then-mainstream opinion that animals were important only in relation to their usefulness to human beings, rather than as sentient beings deserving respect (Boslaugh). As further evidence of the increased gravity associated with committing cruel acts against animals, individual states began passing provisions that made the worst acts of animal cruelty felony-level crimes with harsher punishments. In 2012, a Montana malamute breeder was sentenced to thirty years in prison with twenty-five years suspended after he was convicted of more than ninety counts of animal cruelty. By early 2014, all fifty states and the District of Columbia had enacted felony legislation. At the same time, President Barack Obama signed the 2014 Farm Bill into law, which included a provision that made knowingly attending an organized animal fight a federal misdemeanor. In addition, the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) announced later that year that it would begin reporting animal cruelty as a Group A felony in the Uniform Crime Report in its own category, making the incidents easier to track and perpetrators easier to identify. On the other hand, the British philosopher Jeremy Bentham, who developed the philosophical approach known as utilitarianism in the late eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries, likened human mistreatment of animals to human mistreatment of other humans in slavery, an analogy also used by the nineteenth-century British philosopher John Stuart Mill (Boslaugh). In 1822 England passed the Cruel Treatment of Cattle Act, also known as Act because it was sponsored by animal-rights activist Richard Martin. This law made cruelty to large domesticated animals such as horses, sheep, and cattle, a crime; cattle was a general term for such animals (Boslaugh). Prior to this time, injuring or killing an animal was not considered a Okpor 3 criminal act if you owned the animal, while an offense against someone animal was considered a crime against the owner, not the animal (Boslaugh). Two years later, the first modern animal welfare organization, the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (SPCA), was founded in London; in 1840 it changed its name to the Royal Society to Prevent Cruelty to Animals (RSPCA). One of the founders of the SPCA was William Wilberforce, an antislavery activist, who continued the tradition of associating the concern for animal welfare with the concern for less fortunate human beings (Boslaugh). Every year, thousands of animals are victims of cruelty (South University) animals behind cages, starving and dying, is an awful sight. Now imagine yourself as a human being captured and kept in a particular place for a very long time with no hopes of getting out of there any time soon. Imagine yourself being used as an object of entertainment for people to make profit out of your appearance as a living thing. The philosopher, Immanuel Kent said in his lectures on ethics: who is cruel to animals become hard also in his dealings with However true this is, it does highlight that causing suffering in general should be viewed as a bad thing, irrespective of whether we are causing the suffering of a human or an animal(Moosa). In most African countries like Nigerian animals are seen as things that just exist for human consumption and do not deserve the rights to freedom to do whatever they want just like other living things (Kingsley). As human beings we do not wish these experiences for ourselves so why not we do something to help stop this. For the act of animal cruelty to stop there are various ways to participate which includes adoption you can basically go to an animal shelter and give an animal a home and make them feel loved. Again, you can offer donation to organizations that helps to fight against animal Okpor 4 cruelty to help build fund they could use to go and save animals going through these experiences. For example, PETA which is an organization that helps fight for animal cruelty have a donation going on you can participate in by going to their website www.PETA.com. Animal cruelty should be stopped and they should be given their rights as living things, even if they have the strength or voice for to fight for themselves we as human beings should fight for them. Although, not everyone will be in support of these but try to put yourself in the shoes of what these animals are going through and support them by donating or adopting one to help make a difference. Work Cited About  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Boslaugh, Sarah E., PhD. Animal  Salem Press Encyclopedia, September. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx?direct= true&db=ers&AN=89677516&site=eds-live. Moosa, Tauriq. Animal Captivity Big Think. The Big Think, Inc., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Oman, Kingsley. Personal interview. 15 April. 2017. Okpor 5 University, South. Animal Cruelty and Neglect  South University. South University, 7 Dec. 2012. Web. 19 Mar. 2017. . Okpor 6