THE POISON IN OUR MIDST 1 The Poison in Our Midst Ashley Taepakdee University of South Florida THE POISON IN OUR MIDST 2 The Poison in Our Midst Have you ever heard of sulfuric acid, ethylbenzene, glutaraldehyde, or hydrochloric acid (Stringfellow et al 2017)? Some may sound familiar, but even if they would you want to drink these chemicals? All of these chemicals are known to cause damage to organs, to be toxic to aquatic life, and to be fatal if inhaled or ingested (Ethylbenzene). Not only that, but ethylbenzene is also a known carcinogen and exposure can lead to an untimely death. Unfortunately, you may already be drinking these chemicals now. Hydraulic fracking utilizes these chemicals and many more in order to extract oil and natural gas from the ground. This process injects water, chemicals, and sand into the earth and some of this fluid can leak into aquifers/groundwater reservoirs. Fracking is used to reach oil and natural gas that is otherwise unattainable. While it helps America become energy independent, hydraulic fracking is still detrimental to the environment and communities, but it can be remedied by consumers like you. By being informed and making small lifestyle changes you can help to reduce the negative effects caused by hydraulic fracking and help companies to see the advantage in investing in greener, safer energy sources. The process of extracting natural gas and oil from the ground begins with drilling. Holes are driven in the ground and then fracking fluid, composed of water, chemical additives and proppant, is forced into these wells at very high pressures (Kreipl 2017). This creates fractures in the rock formation that allow oil and natural gas to escape to the surface. It has been found that fracking fluid and wastes from fracking contain over 71 chemicals that have been known to cause 10 or more health effects (Stringfellow et al 2017). Some of these are respiratory irritation, skin irritation, cancer, and even organ failure. For communities surrounding these sites, the chemicals pose a more eminent danger. The water they drink may be contaminated and slowly THE POISON IN OUR MIDST 3 poisoning them. In Pavilion, Wyoming residents complained their drinking water had a weird smell and taste. An investigation was launched and it turned out their water was contaminated with the chemical additives from fracking fluid (Vaidyanathan 2016). What if that happened in your community? Water is an essential resource for life, and if it is contaminated then what use is it? The fracking process also uses billions of gallons of water every year. With some communities facing water scarcity, the problem is not if their water is deadly, but if they can even acquire water needed for survival. Fracking wastes water that can be used for these communities who face shortages every year. Most of the water used in fracking is considered unusable afterwards and is disposed of. Since the water is now toxic, wastewater injection wells were created to dispose of the byproducts of oil and natural gas extraction (Oskin 2015). These wells inject the waste water into the ground creating new fault lines due to the pressure and destabilizing old lines already there. This has led to 10 times more earthquakes in Oklahoma in recent years, and increases in earthquakes in Ohio and Arkansas (Oskin 2015). Oklahoma is nowhere near a fault line and therefore most of their earthquakes are induced by these injection sites and the communities who live around there are suffering. Recently an earthquake of 5.6 magnitude hit Oklahoma injuring a person and causing infrastructure damage (Andrews 2017). With the use of fracking on the rise to extract oil and gas, earthquakes may become a new normal to those who live near these sites. So far we have seen how hydraulic fracking can harm people and communities but hydraulic fracking also harms the environment and animals. The chemicals used in this process cause vegetation to die and with less plants more carbon dioxide is left in the atmosphere contributing to the erosion of the ozone layer and global warming. Fracking allows gasses to seep out of the THE POISON IN OUR MIDST 4 ground which cause air pollution. This can lead to the suffocation of certain animals and plants. The air quality is very low near these sites and leads to climate change with its contribution to greenhouse gasses (Meng 2017). Waste water from fracking can pollute nearby bodies of water and ground water causing marine animals to suffer. Marine population deaths affect the fishing industry and can also lead to a chain reaction in the food web of the marine ecosystem (Margaret 2016). This disruption of the food web can cause animal extinctions and adverse effects on the ecosystem. Animals surrounding these fracking sites are harmed by the chemicals and can lead to more extinctions. Reports of wildlife affected by fracking have been found in Colorado, Ohio, Louisiana, Pennsylvania, and Texas by pet owners, farmers, and veterinarians. These animals are said to have had serious illnesses, reproductive issues, and some are reported to have died from these effects (Fracking threatens wildlife). In the end, hydraulic fracking can cause earthquakes, extinctions, diseases, cancer, and even death. It also wastes huge amounts of water and pollutes the air. Do you want to live in a world where you are constantly sick, struggling to obtain water that is clean and air that is breathable? Would you want to be scared of constant earthquakes shattering your house, belongings, and family? Do you want to live in a world with barely any plants and only a few surviving animal species? With the use of hydraulic fracking we can get to this place, the destruction of the earth as we know it. Together we can change this outcome. Natural gas and oil is the treasured products of fracking but what if they as important? By reducing our use of products made from these resources and choosing products that promote a more sustainable and greener way of life can we change our world for us now and the generations to come. Oil is used to fuel cars, for the manufacture of plastic products, paints, and other industrial purposes. Natural gas is used to generate electricity and heat homes (Plumer 2014). Some steps that you can take THE POISON IN OUR MIDST 5 have to be big, you could use a reusable water bottle instead of buying plastic water bottles. You could use glass containers for food instead of plastic. Use reusable bags at the grocery store or paper bags instead of plastic bags. Some other lifestyle changes you could make is to invest in a more fuel efficient car that not only would reduce the amount of gas you consume, but also save you money at the pump. You could even choose to use an electric car to greater reduce the need for gas. Another action you could take is to conserve electricity. Turn off lights when you leave a room, leave the air on when no one is home, take shorter showers and try to conserve hot water. If you are able too, you could install your own solar panels, which would greatly reduce your reliance on natural gas and reduce your electricity bills. All of these suggestions could reduce demand for oil and natural gas and help to convince large oil companies involved in fracking to choose other forms of energy such as solar, water, or wind power. Choose a few lifestyle changes that fit your life and implement them. For yourself, for your children, and for the generations to come. we all deserve to live in a world that is full of life and not overrun with chemicals and pollution? wait to start helping yourself and your community, start changing now before it is too late! THE POISON IN OUR MIDST 6 Works cited Andrews, R. (2017, April 11). What Caused Powerful 5.6M Earthquake? Retrieved April 15, 2017, from http://www.iflscience.com/environment/what-caused-oklahomas- powerful-56m-earthquake/ ETHYLBENZENE. (n.d.). Retrieved April 15, 2017, from https://pubchem.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/compound/ethylbenzene FRACKING THREATENS WILDLIFE. (n.d.). Retrieved April 15, 2017, from Kreipl, M. P., & Kreipl, A. T. (2017). Hydraulic fracturing fluids and their environmental impact: then, today, and tomorrow. Environmental Earth Sciences, (3), 1. doi:10.1007/s12665-017-6480-5 Margaret, C., & Michael, W. (2016). Food, Fracking, and Freshwater: The Potential for Markets and Cross-Sectoral Investments to Enable Water Conservation. Water, Vol 8, Iss 2, P 45 (2016), (2), 45. doi:10.3390/w8020045 Meng, Q. (2017). The impacts of fracking on the environment: A total environmental study paradigm. The Science Of The Total Environment, 953. doi:10.1016/j.scitotenv.2016.12.045 Oskin, B. (2015, February 12). Hidden Faults Explain Earthquakes in Fracking Zones. Retrieved THE POISON IN OUR MIDST 7 April 15, 2017, from http://www.livescience.com/49785-oklahoma-earthquake-risk- hidden-faults.html Plumer, B. (2014, March 28). What do we use oil and gas for? Retrieved April 15, 2017, from http://www.vox.com/cards/fracking/what-do-we-use-oil-and-gas-for Stringfellow, W. T., Camarillo, M. K., Domen, J. K., Sandelin, W. L., Varadharajan, C., Jordan, P. D., & ... Birkholzer, J. T. (2017). Identifying chemicals of concern in hydraulic fracturing fluids used for oil production. Environmental Pollution, 220(Part A), 413-420. doi:10.1016/j.envpol.2016.09.082 Vaidyanathan, G., & C. (2016, April 04). Fracking Can Contaminate Drinking Water. Retrieved April 15, 2017, from https://www.scientificamerican.com/article/fracking-can- contaminate-drinking-water/