Higgins 1 Amanda Higgins Professor Adam Phillips Composition 2 13 April 2017 Call to Action The College Athletes Players Association(CAPA) is what got the ball rolling for student athletes getting payment for their hard work and dedication. The College Athletes Players Association is an organization ran by three men who were once college athletes. They and others fight for equal rights for student athletes. The National College Players Association(NCPA) is founded and ran by Ramogi Huma, also the founder of the College Athletes Players Association. The National College Players Association followed the College Athletes Players Association in their footsteps. They are also fighting for equal rights and justice for college players. It shows you more ways you can get involved and what they are doing to help athletes. Players from all divisions and sports speak up on their experiences and troubles while playing a sport in college. There are many things people can do to get involved, help the cause and support. People can do many things in order to not support the NCAA and help college athletes. The College Athletes Players Association was the organization that led to The National College Players Association(NCPA). is led by current and former college athletes, including former UCLA player Ramogi Huma, founder of the National College Players Association; former UMass basketball player Luke Bonner, and former Northwestern quarterback, Kain (CAPA). The College Athletes Players Association goal is to fight for justice for college athletes. Now, Northwestern football players assert their labor rights, so the College Athletes Players Association petitioned the National Labor Relations Board. If it works, Higgins 2 athletes nationwide could establish a national association that can eliminate all unjust NCAA laws. The National College Players Associations mission is to provide the means for college athletes to voice their concerns and change NCAA rules. Their goals are to minimize college brain trauma risks, raise the scholarship amount, prevent players from being stuck paying sports-related medical expenses, increase graduation rates, protect educational opportunities for college-athletes in good standing, prohibit universities from using a permanent injury suffered during athletics as a reason to reduce/eliminate a scholarship, establish and enforce uniform safety guidelines in all sports to help prevent serious injuries and avoidable deaths and more. Some stories about college experience with unjust rules can be too much to UCLA middle linebacker Donnie Edwards has been suspended by the NCAA for one game and ordered to make restitution for the $150 worth of groceries that he says were left at his apartment without his knowledge in two separate incidents. Edwards will sit out game against (Springer). The NCAA made Edwards get the $150 that the groceries were worth and give it away. He decided to give it to charity. They also suspended him in a game, right before his senior year was ending. Ramogi Huma was teammates with Edwards, and this sparked a fire of desire to fight for justice for all college athletes. One unjust rule of the NCAA is that players can lose their scholarship if they get hurt and they have no medical insurance of any kind. goal is to ensure that current and former athletes never have to pay out of pocket for sports injuries. Some think a compensation model could fill the (Strauss). College athletes deserve better medical insurance. when a player is injured, nothing prevents the athletic director from refusing to pay related medical sometimes keep coming for years. Even for those with private insurance, some policies Higgins 3 cover varsity sports injuries, have high deductibles, or refuse to pay the entire amount due. In such situations, the remaining costs fall to the athlete (many schools, though, do pay those They are putting themselves in risk for injury that can put them out for a season or even forever. College athletes usually get a food plan in their scholarship. Recently they just passed a law that gives student athletes unlimited food. Some athletes have said they starved or went to bed without dinner because they did not have money to go get some. There are many ways people that are not directly affected, can get involved. Just one small way you can get involved is by donating. On National College Players home page, you can donate there. D1 athletes can join an athlete membership on the National College Players website. You can follow their Twitter and Facebook which shows people updates and others fighting for justice. Even if you are not a D1 athlete, you can still become a member of the National College Players Association. You get a newsletter every month. Full Court is a free monthly e-newsletter for members and is our primary way to keep you up to date on current NCPA issues and activities surrounding our fight to secure basic protections for college (NCPA). People can go on a against the NCAA and college sports in general. Anyone can start a petition for college athletes and help get their voices heard. The College Athletes Players Association and the National College Players Association go to court against the NCAA to speak up against the unjust laws of college sports. They speak up at conferences and at schools. College athletes need help from anyone and everyone. Every little thing counts. Just because a person is not directly affected by what is happening in college sports, does not mean they can not help. Joining the College Athletes Players Association or joining the National College Players Association can get the athletes one step closer to their end goal. Listening to Higgins 4 some stories on how stressful playing college sport is and focusing on school. Some stories are more intense, about how they do not have food or money. Lastly, any ordinary person can help an athlete in need. Every little thing helps get their voices heard. Going on a and not supporting the NCAA is just one little way people can help. Higgins 5 Home National College Players Association. N.p., n.d. Web. 13 Apr. 2017. <http://www.ncpanow.org/>. Mama, Raman. Viewpoint: College Athletes Should Be  USA Today. Gannett Satellite Information Network, 24 Dec. 2016. Web. 13 Apr. 2017. <http://college.usatoday.com/2016/12/24/college-athletes-should-be-paid/> Nocera, Joe. A Way to Start Paying College  The New York Times. The New York Times, 08 Jan. 2016. Web. 13 Apr. 2017. https://www.nytimes.com/2016/01/09/sports/a- Springer, Steve TIMES STAFF WRITER. Edwards Suspended for One Game : UCLA: Linebacker Ordered to Pay Restitution for $150 worth of Groceries Left at His Apartment, Allegedly by  Los Angeles Times. Los Angeles Times, 13 Oct. 1995. Web. 13 Apr. 2017. suspended>. Strauss, Ben. A Fight to Keep College Athletes From the Pain of Injury  The New York Times. The New York Times, 24 Apr. 2014. Web. 13 Apr. 2017. <https://www.nytimes.com/2014/04/25/sports/a-fight-to-keep-college-athletes-from-the- Walsh, Meghan. Trusted When NCAA Schools Abandon Their Injured  The Atlantic. Atlantic Media Company, 01 May 2013. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. <https://www.theatlantic.com/entertainment/archive/2013/05/i-trusted-em-when-ncaa- schools-abandon-their-injured-athletes/275407/>.  College Athletes Players Association (CAPA). N.p., n.d. Web. 13 Apr. 2017. http://www.collegeathletespa.org/