Fishman 1 Professor Wiggs! ENC 1101! 17 April 2017! Rough Draft! !! ! Internet regulation and restrictions is a highly debated topic in modern time. The topic can be quite controversial and for good reason. There is basically two sides to the argument and it is difficult to fall somewhere in the middle because it is more of a yes or no question rather than a question of how much. On one side of the argument are people who believe the internet should be a free space, free of all rules and regulation. The other side of the argument is that the internet should be regulated in one way or another for reason like safety, legality or control. It is argued that the internet has gone through four stages since its birth. The open internet stage, which is exactly what it sounds like, a period of time when the internet was a life of its own completely free from regulation. Then came the stage which is when places like China and Saudi Arabia started restricting their citizens from speech against their government and organization against their government online. After was which was essentially a less drastic version of its predecessor. Finally came the stage which is the period the world is in now. This stage is a push back against the control of the internet which is why this is an important topic to talk about now. The problem is that a free internet only works in vacuum where the world is full of people with only good intentions. Furthermore the internet needs to be looked at from all types of perspectives and cultures what may be deemed as fine in the United States could be highly illegal in China. Internet regulation may not be ethical but it needed because it protects people, hinders the ability for illegal activity and help governments maintain order. Fishman 2 The counterargument to all of this is pretty simple. People who disagree with the need for internet regulation base it on two reasons. The first reason being that it is unethical. This argument is one that has some substance to it. One could certainly make the argument that regulating a cyberspace like the internet would be unethical, in countries like the United States it could even be argued that it violates the constitutional right of free speech. However, when this argument is looked at in depth it proves to be weak. Furthermore, the other argument is that it simply is not needed. This idea like mentioned earlier works in a vacuum, in a world without bad people the idea of an internet free of regulation sounds like a great one. Obviously, there are people with bad intentions in this world which is another reason internet regulation is needed.