Viviana M. Milla Milla Professor Spencer Bennington ENC 1102 12 April 2017 1 An initiative to increase Middle Eastern education that can produce the economic growth of the area. I. Introduction A. Background and Context a. Description of the misogynous educational approach took by the middle eastern countries i. Boundaries for an equal education between genders in the Middle East ii. Measures took by feminist middle eastern organizations to create more equal education. b. History of the educational support bring to the middle east by European and American organizations i. Types of international help bring to middle eastern women 1. Scholarships and loans supported by the US government. 2. Scholarships and loans supported by the European Union 3. Initiatives supported by private educational institutions. Milla 2 a. Types of educational help that American universities provide to female Middle Eastern students b. Scholarships supported by USF department of global studies B. The USF department of global studies in collaboration with alumni must sponsor an equal education between genders in the middle east thought the creation of a special type of scholarship for middle Eastern women that in the long run will generate the economic growth of the area. II. Body Paragraph A. An increase in the funds designated to support scholarships for middle Eastern women, not only will help middle eastern women, but also will benefit the educational institutions involve in this initiative. B. According to UNICEF, scholarships are the most effective method to reduce the educational gap between women and men. In addition, is the method that generates more social and economic impact (50). a. This evidence is relevant to discuss because will show to the reader why it is important to invest and struggle for equal education for Middle eastern women. Bring free education to middle eastern women will generate a global economic impact that will beneficiate all types of workers. Milla 3 b. This is a credible quote because is provided by UNICEF and the world bank. That means that the data that those organizations shown is base on a research. c. This source will engage the readers, because they will feel that the education of middle Easter women is a relevant issue for their future lives, as proved in the evidence, the places where the education of middle eastern women is promoted, experience an increment in economic and labor resources. In addition, the readers will feel the right of doing something, because now education of middle eastern women its part of their environment. C. To achieve equal education for middle eastern women its necessary that college students encourage and push their educational institutions to promote scholarships for Middle Eastern Women III. Body Paragraph A. In order to ensure a continuous development of middle eastern education, alumni must contribute economically and technologically to support the constant educational and social improvement. B. As UNESCO reported in 2015, the geographical areas where alumni contributed economically to the technological development of academic institutions, experienced a tremendous sustainable economic growth, allowing the reinvestment of resources to increase the percentage of educated women (12). Milla 4 a. This evidence will be an essential part of my call to action thesis, because will show that alumni contribution can play an important role in the growth of scholarships for middle eastern women. b. It is credible, because as my last source, this one is supported by UNESCO which is an International organization that base its documents in an exhaustive research. c. The purpose of this paragraph is to show the power of the students to ensure a continuous development of middle eastern education. As show in the previous paragraph this issues involves everyone, because the development of middle eastern women, increases the economic growth of the area in which they develop. Thus, we are not only engage with this issue, but also we have the power to solve it. C. Conclusion A. Call to action: An initiative to encourage the contributions of USF alumni, in order to increase the resources to sponsor more scholarships for Middle Easter women. B. Before the analysis, the readers thought that promoting the education of middle eastern women was just a waste of resources that was not related with them. However, after the information, they can be sure that encouraging and supporting scholarships for middle eastern women improve the economical situation of the area. Therefore, the alumni and the Milla 5 colleges that promote scholarships for Middle Eastern women, can be sure that the area will experience an economic growth that will benefit everyone. C. The essay will finish recommending the actual student to organize activities in collaboration with the department of USF international students to encourage future alumni to make contributions in order to sponsor future scholarships in favor of Middle Eastern Women. Milla 6 Works Cited Department for International Development. education: towards a better future for All. UK governmental press. January 2005. http://www2.ohchr.org/english/issues/development/docs/girlseducation.pdf Rose, Pauline. Female Education and Adjustment Programs: A Cross Country Statistical Analysis. Vol. 23, No. 11, pp. 193 I-1949. University of Manchester Press.1995. http://ac.els-cdn.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/0305750X9500091P/1-s2.0- United Nations Fund. The investment case for education and equity. United Nations Press. January 2015. United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization. Education and skills for inclusive and sustainable development beyond 2015. May 2012.