Nauert 1 Mark Nauert Composition 1 Emil Smith 26 March 2017 Concussions become a Heated Topic in the NFL The National Football League was formed in 1920 and since then has become the most popular sports league in the United States. The league has the highest attendance rate of any other league in the world, and continues to become more and more successful. Players make millions of dollars playing and teams create huge fan bases across the world. Everything surrounding the NFL sounds positive until people began to take a closer look at what can result from the sport. Concussions have long been a part of the sport, but nobody ever talked about whether or not the league was doing all they could to keep players more safe. For years the game never changed, but eventually people began to do studies on the game and advocated for change. Discussions about the long term effects and overall risks of having a career in the NFL have become more heated over the last 10 years due to public backlash regarding safety. In 2007, a report came out disputing the NFL on concussions. The University of medical program conducted a survey from over 2,000 retired NFL players. From the study, a correlation between depression and concussions was found (Awtrey). New information was coming out that showed players who had concussions during their career, in some cases, would later experience depression. Before this, there had not been a lot of discussion on the risks of playing football. These football players have an outside life as well; many already have kids or hope to start a family at some point in their career. After sustaining a concussion, it Nauert 2 opens eyes on what could happen to them in the future. How could these injuries effect their plans for after football? More and more questions begin to pop into players and families head. This would only mark the beginning of numerous amount of reports that would come out talking about the dangers of a concussion. Later in 2010 an article came out that discussed prescription troubles in the NFL. Through another study, players had been found to have been misusing pain medications. Opioid addiction is a major subject in the article as this seemed to be a common addiction among players. Once again, concussions were the main reason for players being given this drug, and some say they were misdiagnosed. The article took a different side to talk about that others thought about before. Not only are there the risks directly from a concussion, but there are also dangers that come indirectly. Misuse of opioids can lead to physical and mental impairment, or even death (Cottler). This relates back to the report from 2007 that found a correlation between depression and concussions (Awtrey). Opioid use as stated before can cause mental impairment or even depression if not used properly. This being said, it can be seen that the issues discussed in both reports stem with concussions. This was uncomforting news to fans, players, and the league. Recently, a very interesting article came out that questioned whether Pro football could remain the most popular sport in the United States. The article dives into television ratings and youth participation to see how football is being affected by all the new knowledge coming out about the effects of concussions (Karaim). The television ratings for the NFL are still extremely strong. In fact, last fall some of the most watch television shows are NFL football games. However, the NFL could take a loss soon because people are becoming more and more aware of the effects, and many want to see their loved ones go through that. Youth participation has Nauert 3 lowered, and another sport is beginning to really take off in the United States. Soccer is that sport, but for now football still remains on top. Could soccer take over in the future? Parents are starting to question whether to allow their children to play football, especially at a young age. The article has some statistics to go with it that prove just how dangerous the sport can be. It states that Boston School of Medicine found that 59 of 62 players tested positive for CTE, a disease associated with memory loss, confusion, and visual impairment (Karaim). Even with a low amount of players being in the study, only 3 did not test positive. That is an overwhelming amount. This reports adds to the statistics from the reports before to keep showing the risks of football. The question that came next was, what will the NFL do to respond to this public backlash? Finally, in 2016 the NFL introduced new rules to try and help with the spike in concussions. The public had voiced their opinions for years and the NFL finally decided to respond. Along with the concussion protocol they put in place, came penalties if a team did not properly follow procedure (Belson). Before this, teams had been violating the protocol with absolutely no penalty. The article states that in the league will be fined thousands of dollars or even lose draft picks if they do not take a player out of a game after a concussion It took years for this change to finally occur. Without the reports that were discussed before, and the constant backlash the league was receiving this would have never happened. The league says they will continue to look for ways to make the game safer for players, but the public will not stop here. While people achieved the goal of getting the attention of the league, there will continue to be more discussions on concussions in the future. In conclusion, over the last 10 years it is clear that the discussion about the dangers of concussions has become more prominent. The NFL responded with change, but people still want Nauert 4 more change to occur. Players are starting to retire early, and shortening careers is becoming the norm. If the league wants to keep their stars from retiring early, it is important to be active in trying to find ways to reduce concussions. No matter what, the public will continue to push to do so. Nauert 5 Works Cited Awtrey, Stan. Report Disputes NFL on  Business Insights. 31 May 2007. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Cottler, Linda B. Injury, pain, and prescription opioid among former National Football League  Sciencedirect.com. July 2011. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Karaim, Reed . NFL  CQ Researcher by CQ Press. 4 Sept. 2015. Web. 19 Feb. 2017 Belson, Ken. N.F.L. Introduces New Rules to Back Its Concussion  The New York Times. The New York Times, 25 July 2016. Web. 19 Feb. 2017.