Bourne !1 Aaliyah Bourne Ms Maria Theodosiou ENC 1102 15 April 2017 Vaccination Are vaccines really important ? Are they even increasing our life span? Most importantly are you currently vaccinated? Over the past years the controversy of whether vaccines are important or not has grown. Many organizations have been formed to represent each side of the controversy. Organizations like The World Health Organization and Vaccinate Your Baby work to inform individuals and especially guardians of the benefits of vaccines. They also stress the importance that vaccinating your child is one step but keeping up with their booster shots is just as important. Not vaccinating your child makes them prone to contracting deadly diseases compared to the mild to no effects of vaccines themselves. According to Any Vaccines be Required for , ProCon.org the Center of Disease Control reported that approximately three hundred and twenty-two million cases of childhood illness were prevented between the years of 1994 and 2014 due to vaccination. Educating yourself about the myths and truths of vaccines is very important as myths are what non pro-vaccination organizations base their views on. Vaccines were not invented to harm but protect our nation; getting educated and spreading the importance of vaccines may help improve others quality of life. Education on vaccination is very important as it not only depicts why it is crucial but also the benefits. Vaccines are biological substance that is used to gain immunity against a specific disease. The journal article titled History of Vaccines and Immunization: Familiar Patterns, Bourne !2 New reports that vaccines were first invented by a man by the name of Edward Jenner (Stern 611). In the 1790s he successfully created a vaccine for smallpox using cow pox ( Stern 612). Stakeholders against vaccination often argue that vaccines plays a role in a childs development of autism. The journal titled are Not Associated with Autism: An Evidence-Based Meta-Analysis of Case-Control and Cohort writes to disprove this myth. To date there have been no quantitative data analysis pooling cohort and case-control studies that have assessed the relationship between autism, autistic spectrum disorder and childhood (Taylor et al. 3623). There may be mild side effects of vaccines but autism is surely not one. Many anti vaccination organizations believe the best way to become immune to a disease is the natural way; catching the disease and curing it through medication. The Center for Disease Control informs us that vaccines are the best way to prevent our family from some of the most dangerous diseases. Exposing ourselves to a disease for immunity not only risks our lives but can lead to long term complications (cdc.gov).As a nation we need to realize that antibiotics are not the solution but vaccination is. The journal article titled impact: Benefits for human has become one of the most wide-spread and successful of all health interventions after the provision of safe drinking (Doherty, 6708). Now from hearing this, imagine what we would do without vaccines, would most of us even be alive today? There are fourteen diseases that are crucial we are vaccinated against. They are measles, mumps, rubella, diphtheria, hepatitis A and B, tetanus, pertussis (whooping cough), meningitis, chicken pox, rotavirus, polio and the human papillomavirus (HPV). Although this may seem like a lot, most of these diseases are contagious and can lead to a death. is one of the leading causes of death among young children even though a safe and Bourne !3 cost-effective vaccine is (who.int). There were an estimated one hundred and thirty four thousand two hundred deaths from measles alone in the year 2015 (who.int). Imagine if someone in your family, especially your child, was supposed to be a part of this number. A way to prevent this is to ensure everyone is vaccinated or informed of the importance of being immunized. The issue of vaccination is important as not being vaccinated can cause you to pose as a threat to not only society but possibly your very own family. The journal article tilted and challenges of vaccination: an interview with Elizabeth written by Elizabeth Miller speaks about a young boy who contracted measles while abroad and upon his return caused a spread of the virus. Put yourself in the position of either this being your child or your child being someone who contracted the disease. Point is you never intentionally put yourself in a situation to contract a deadly disease. If in that situation, you will be okay as you would be immune to the disease; this goes to the very point of vaccines. Many people believe that since a certain disease may be extinct there is no reason to get vaccinated for it, however this is false. According to a journal article titled impact: Benefits for human outbreaks of pertussis and measles in countries in which these diseases were previously controlled show that the success of immunization programs cannot be taken for (Doherty et al. 6712). Outbreaks can be caused by cases like that of the one mentioned by Elizabeth Miller in her interview. An unvaccinated person travels abroad and brings back with them a disease that has been dormant in an area for a long time. Healthcare workers have an important role here to educate and ensure people of all ages are vaccinated (Doherty et al. 6712). Vaccines does not only save our lives but also our pockets. The article titled Important Bourne !4 Reasons to Vaccinate Your vaccines.gov says that vaccines not only protect people you care about but can save your family time and money. For example if someone in your family contracts a disease like meningitis it will result in thousands of dollars in medical fees. Things like surgeries, hospital rooms, medication and more will be needed, as meningitis is not a disease that you take antibiotics and your problems are solved. These situations become even more serious and stressful if you can not afford this or you do not have insurance. By being vaccinated in the first place you would not have had to worry. In order to protect our society and families we need to become aware and engaged in the pro vaccination movement. We need to educate ourselves and those around us and become a part of the vaccination pact. The organization VaccineNation aim is to get all children vaccinated by the age of three. They are currently doing an awareness campaign that plans to educate parents and future guardians about the benefits and importance of vaccines. They will be having marches and conferences in different cities around the United States from June 23rd to July 8th of 2017. The marches are to help spread awareness of the vaccine controversy while the conferences are directed towards disproving vaccine myths and informing individuals of the benefits of each vaccine. Both the marches and conferences will be held in Atlanta, Miami, Boca Raton, New York City,Houston, Chicago and Los Angeles.You can log online to VaccineNation and find out when we will be in your city. If you are not able to join us for our walk or meetings there are others ways you can engage yourself with the pro vaccine movement. The organization Vaccinate Your Baby works to inform parents about the benefits of vaccination while providing them with scientific based research. There are donations you could make towards the organization. The donations are used to educate the public of the harms of vaccine preventable diseases and Bourne !5 keeping up with a immunization schedule. You can also subscribe to their newsletters, it will notify you on updates on the progressions of vaccine laws, immunization science and also educational conferences near you. Subscribing not only allows you to engage in the movement but also gets you educated at the same time. Vaccination legislations can only be passed by the involvement of the government and so our government most of all needs to recognize the importance of vaccines. Contacting your local congressman is key, this is something everyone needs to feel the urge to do. If one or two people do this the urgency and importance of the issue will not be recognized but brushed off. But if there are heaps of persons bombarding the local congressman he or she will need to confront the issue sooner or later. Lastly we need to get our families involved; we need to get them educated and if not yet immunized vaccinated. You alone being immune from a disease is good but not great. If there was supposed to be an outbreak what you do, most importantly what would happen to them? not definite that they would survive and if they do would they suffer long term complications? Vaccines are not harmful, they are a way to help lengthen and improve our life. Educating yourself and those around you as well as engaging in the pro vaccination movement is the key. Despite some anti-vaccination organizations belief, vaccination is the best way of protecting yourself from contracting a disease. The growing controversy of vaccines causing autism in children has never been proven despite impeccable investigation. Not vaccinating your child can not only risk their lives but run you into dept. The important thing to remember is the children in your community are vaccinated, they the only ones who are protected. also doing their part to keep your child healthy and to help stop the spread of disease in your Bourne !6 (vaccinateyourbaby.org). Vaccination is the key to a longer and healthier life, unlock it by getting vaccinated, engaging in the movement or simply educating yourself. Works Cited Doherty, Mark, et al. Vaccine Impact: Benefits for Human  Vaccine, vol. 34, no. The Changing Face of Vaccines and Vaccination, 20 Dec. 2016, pp. 6707-6714. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.vaccine.2016.10.025. Important Reasons to Vaccinate Your vaccines, https://www.vaccines.gov/ Accessed 10 April 2017. Miller, Elizabeth. Controversies And Challenges Of Vaccination: An Interview With Elizabeth  BMC Medicine (2015): Academic OneFile. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Any Vaccines be Required for ProCon, http://vaccines.procon.org. Accessed 10 April 2017. Stern, AM and H Markel. The History of Vaccines and Immunization: Familiar Patterns, New  Health Affairs, vol. 24, no. 3, May/Jun2005, pp. 611-621. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx? direct=true&db=cin20&AN=106473645&site=eds-live. The Center of Disease Control, https://www.cdc.gov. Accessed 10 April 2017. Vaccinate Your Baby, Every Child by Two, http://www.vaccinateyourbaby.org/index.cfm. Accessed 10 April 2017. Bourne !7