Shop Cruelty Free 1 Shop Cruelty Free Malcolm Stewart English Composition II University of Florida Shop Cruelty Free 2 The body wash you used in the shower, the makeup you put on your face, or the pain meds you took to get rid of your headache are all items that went through copious amounts of testing. The testing of most of the products used on a daily basis, especially medicines are tested on animals. than 100 million animals suffer and die in the U.S. every year in cruel chemical, drug, food, and cosmetics tests as well as in medical training exercises and curiosity- driven medical experiments at (PETA). What many people do not know or do not think about is what they can do to change these statistics. One part of the problem is being informed on what needs changing the other part is being informed on how to make a change. To allow for consumers to make an effect change PETA and other organizations have compiled a list of all companies that produce products that do not use animals for their products, buy from these producers for your necessities without the unnecessary guilt. Animal testing in the cosmetic field has been a long debated issue, that has attracted government attention. A research study in two thousand and eleven concluded that seventy two percent of Americans think that using animals for cosmetic testing is wrong and seventy eight percent believe that alternatives for animals should be found. The traditional way for people to test cosmetic products is to test them on animals, due to how inexpensive and readily available animals are for testing. When cosmetics are tested on animals it can result in negative health effectives like blindness, cancer, and other long term effects. The animals cannot be provided any medicine due to the fact that it could skew the test result. When testing cosmetics, it must be taken in to consideration that the other chemicals introduced to the body might cause different reactions. Testing the way make up reacts to pain medications is something that is good, but would have to be an individual variable and would require more money put in to the care of the animals. If the animals do survive the physical problems that come with the testing they are left Shop Cruelty Free 3 with the mental problems like cowering when people get near them due to them being afraid. Cosmetic testing is the kinder form of animal testing compared to medical testing. Medical testing on animals is very widespread practice just like cosmetic testing since it is an inexpensive way to get research about the product. In an article by PETA they revealed are infected with diseases that they would never normally contract, tiny mice grow tumors as large as their own bodies, kittens are purposely blinded, rats are made to suffer seizures, and skulls are cut open and electrodes are implanted in them. Experimenters force-feed chemicals to animals, conduct repeated surgeries on them, implant wires in their brains, crush their spines, and much Most of these practices are not done to this extent, but it does happen. For researchers to be able to test their products they need patients who exhibit the illnesses they are trying to cure. The best way for them to get a large enough population with certain symptoms is to give people the symptoms, which is an unethical practice to do on humans so it must be done on animals. Just like when animals are used for cosmetic testing they are not given any medicine that is proven to work for the pain, they are only given something that is experimental. There are no animals that are safe from testing even if they do not match the genetic similarities of humans. the mouse and human genomes contain about 3.1 billion base pairs (or chemical letters). Only about 5 percent of the sequence consist of protein-coding regions (genes). More than 90 percent of the genome is non-coding DNA, sometimes called  DNA, that has no known (NIH). This statistics shows the that the majority of the DNA between humans and mice that share similarities is non coding and not important in testing things like medicines and surgical procedures. Yet according to the Foundation for Biomedical Researchers ninety five percent of the animals that are in labs used for medical testing are mice or rats. Shop Cruelty Free 4 There is a counter argument that says there needs to be testing done on animals. Medicines require research before they are to be used by humans. The cheapest and fastest way to test medicines is by using animals that have induced illnesses. human body is the most complex machine yet encountered, consisting of trillions of cells, each containing billions of molecules, many of which are composed of tens of thousands of (Pycroft). The human body is too complex to test on due to the numerous variables involved. When testing on animals those variables can be eliminated and the data will represent exactly what the researchers want. past century or so has seen an explosion in the availability of investigative tools cell cultures, non-invasive imaging, computer models these are all powerful techniques in arsenal in the war against disease and ignorance, but none of them fully replicates the intricacy of a living The use of synthetic organs is too simplistic to see how a medicine would function in certain situations. They may be able to mimic the human body, but they lack the refinement to react like the human body and are not capable of all of the nuances that the body is (Pycroft). If researchers are not allowed to use animals for testing they would miss the opportunity for to see how their products react within a system. Animal testing is not completely bad, it just requires some clearer guidelines. Animal testing for cosmetics is an unnecessary step, the products can be tested on synthetic skin since makeup does not involve interaction with other systems of the body. these first few years of the program, several NOTOX researchers have been focusing on developing a virtual model of the (Mone). There are researchers who have created a virtual body where they can see how products will react based on prior knowledge. This software can be purchased one time and research can be shared from company to company requiring less expensive testing and research to be done. As a consumer, you can purchase from companies who do not condone animal Shop Cruelty Free 5 testing. You can find companies that are cruelty free at this link, http://www.peta.org/living/beauty/these-companies-dont-test-on-animals/. You can also sign the pledge on website agreeing to be cruelty free. The best approach to limiting animal testing is to do your research before buying a product, there are plenty of organizations who do not support animal testing and do their research through much more effective approaches. You should never feel the guilt of an animal having to die so you can purchase medicine to help you live. Shop cruelty free. Shop Cruelty Free 6 References A. (2011, December 28). More Than a Makeup Trend: New Survey Shows 72 percent of Americans Oppose Testing Cosmetics Products on Animals. Retrieved April 12, 2017, from https://www.pcrm.org/research/animaltestalt/cosmetics/americans-oppose testing- cosmetics-on-animals Ezendam, J., Braakhuis, H.M. & Vandebriel, R.J. Arch Toxicol (2016) 90: 2861. doi:10.1007/s00204-016-1842-4 Gasper, P. (2016). Is Animal Research Necessary? Journal of Dairy, Veterinary & Animal Research,3(1). doi:10.15406/jdvar.2016.03.00066 Importance of Mouse Genome. (n.d.). Retrieved April 12, 2017, from https://www.genome.gov/10001345/ Melina, R. (2010, November 16). Why Do Medical Researchers Use Mice? Retrieved April 12, 2017, from http://www.livescience.com/32860-why-do-medical-researchers-use mice.html Mone, G. (2014). New models in cosmetics replacing animal testing. Communications of the ACM,57(4), 20-21. doi:10.1145/2581925 These Companies DO NOT Test on Animals. Cruelty-Free. (n.d.). Retrieved April 12, 2017, from http://www.peta.org/living/beauty/these-companies-dont-test-on-animals/