Feindt 1 Austin Feindt Professor Claque Human Trafficking: What you can do Are you aware that over a million people get forced into modern day slavery called human trafficking? Or even more are you aware of how little the United States government does about this problem? We live in a time when we think of the word slavery as an aged word because we live in a country that takes its pride on freedom. The worst part is that most of the new policies that the government implements only makes the industry bigger. Increasing trading between countries not only allows products to move across international borders, it makes a higher demand for the human trafficking industry. As Dandurand states in his article, social, cultural, and technological conditions of globalization have created a new and favorable context for transnational crime and, in particular, for human (Dandurand). I know what you are thinking, what can you do about this problem? The answer is to join organizations that specifically work against human trafficking such as Polaris and start petitions in order to get the government to implement policy that directly affects the human trafficking industry. Although the action could be costly, how can we truly take pride on our freedom when an issue of slavery goes on every day. Furthermore, how do we know that implementing policy would help this problem? According the website the percentage of persecutions of people involved with human trafficking after enabling the AC Team, which is a branch of the FBI devoted to human trafficking, increased by over 80 percent. (FBI) This substantial increase was just purely an act of policy making, that works specifically to eradicate human trafficking. However, most of the Feindt 2 programs that have been put into place, in regards to human trafficking is relatively new. It is hard to get accurate data that can make the United States government believe that it is working and not just a factor of changing social problems. As Devy states in her article about the government effecting human trafficking, trafficking programs have only been running since the early 2000s. Therefore, many programs are still new in the sense that they have been active for less than 15 (Devy 13). This is why it is very important to act now and prove to the government that these programs work, because if they pull the funds from the branches of the government that work specifically on human trafficking. Taking the topic of human trafficking to a more specific part of it, prostitution, a form of human trafficking. A nefarious crime that happens every day in the United States. Police enforcement have little control of this market so it continues to grow. Farrell says in her article on prostitution, police had little control of prostitution prior to the early 20th century. Although people who sold sex could be arrested for a variety of public order offenses, prostitution itself was not criminalized in the United States until (Farrell 212). The biggest problem is that different parts of the united states have different laws regarding to prostitution and how to intervene. If we had a national consensus on prostitution, then all state governments could enforce the same policy to end it. Prostitution is a raw form of human trafficking that most people just overlook. To add to this, an important factor to take into consideration when talking about human trafficking is the health aspects of human trafficking. The toll that human trafficking can take on an individual is insurmountable. Like prisoners of war, victims are scared for life after being forced into the human trafficking industry. I cannot imagine the emotions a victim goes through when being ripped from her freedom and put into a brother or any other form of trafficking Feindt 3 business. It is sad because victims of human trafficking are looked to more as examples of what has happened than people trying to mentally and physically heal the wounds that they have been inflicted upon. Researchers take data from victims collectively and make conclusions on how to prevent it for other people. While the victim just must live with the horrors that they have been through. Perez says in her article on the social and health priories of human trafficking, important health consequences for victims documented by this review show how they should be treated from the perspective of individual (Perez 2016). She is an example of a researcher that uses the data collected from victims and looks towards other future victims rather than caring about the one that is at hand. Personally, I feel like Perez is just making general statements and does not prove true rationales for the problem at hand. If we took more action on the problem, than maybe victims would not just be considered for how to treat other victims. Human trafficking does nothing but have negative aspects, the act of taking control of another human for personal advantage is immoral and should be looked down upon. Socially, the problem makes our country look bad since of our main principles is freedom, yet we do not take action on unspoken form of slavery. Also, if this problem continues to happen and it is not brought to the ears of every person, then victims will continue to endure the pain and suffering. Although advertisement could be costly, the support will follow, and the best way to fight against human trafficking is get the voices of the victims heard. Trafficking will continue to grow until action is implemented that makes the demand for the market to suffocate. If the demand for victims in trafficking goes away, then the market will disappear over time. Overall, the government has implemented policy for the FBI to take more action on trafficking in the past 15 years but it still happens every day. As stated before, the AC team has Feindt 4 increased persecutions of people involved with human trafficking substantially. However, there are other problems such as prostitution and sex slavery that most of the country cannot do anything about. There is no agreement on law enforcement on how to deal with these cases so some parts of the country the police just turn their cheek to this issue. The amount of physical and mental disorder a trafficking victim goes through will convince the most unconcerned listener to feel their pain and want to help them through it. With your support, you could be the reason why one less person gets evicted from their old life, only to be forced into modern day slavery and sold off like they are an item at a grocery store. Act today by going organizations that go against trafficking, and you can be the difference in if the government thinks they should further their financial support of law enforcement in regards to trafficking. Get out and get involved. Feindt 5 References Dandurand, Y. (2017). Human trafficking and police governance. Police Practice and Research,18(3), 322-336. doi:10.1080/15614263.2017.1291599 Davy, D. (2016). Anti-Human Trafficking Interventions: How Do We Know if They Are Working? American Journal of Evaluation,37(4), 486-504. doi:10.1177/1098214016630615 Farrell, A., & Cronin, S. (2015). Policing prostitution in an era of human trafficking enforcement. Crime, Law and Social Change,64(4-5), 211-228. E., & Parra, D. L. (2016). Eradicating human trafficking: a social and public health policy priority. Epidemiology and Psychiatric Sciences,25(04),347-348. Welcome to FBI.gov. (2016, April 24). Retrieved April 16, 2017, from https://www.fbi.gov/