The Cost of College Ali 1 The Cost of College Nafia Ali University of South Florida The Cost of College Ali 2 After going through twelve years of grade school, walking across a stage and getting a diploma, where do you go? What do you do with your life? Many students decide to go to a university, either public or private, to continue with their education in hopes of obtaining a degree and then entering the work force or going on to the graduate school level. The only issue with that is being able to afford that level of education. The tuition prices for colleges are constantly growing exponentially with no sign of stopping. Elizabeth Farrell found that public college tuition prices rose 33 percent within one year, while private colleges rose 10 percent (Public Colleges Tame Price of Tuition). It is said that these rising costs contributed to costs for research, clinical practices, student residence halls, athletics, and other activities that in general produce their own (Understanding the Cost of Public Higher Education). Every university distributes their money differently, but surely, they can find a means of lowering tuition prices and be able to give the students more financial assistance when they need it. You want your children to miss out on the opportunity of going to college just because it the right time for your bank account. In addition, you want your grandkids missing out on the same opportunity years later due to the same issue. College tuition prices have been affecting many generations of people and now is the time to protest with groups to lower college tuition and make a difference that will have a ripple effect on the entire nation. The main source of the issue is the national funding that is being allotted for university spending on education. This can be fixed by dealing with the Department of Education and their budget restrictions. The Department of Education oversees the Free Application for Federal Student Aid which students complete to receive financial assistance for college. This application determines which students the Department of Education gives out Pell Grants, Stafford Loans, and Work Study opportunities to. McKinney states how FAFSA is a central component of The Cost of College Ali 3 the current US financial aid system and filing this application is the critical first step in helping procure the financial assistance that so many students desperately need to enroll in and graduate from (FAFSA and Why Does it Matter?). As McKinney said, this application is essentially the lifeline of a college student. It helps pay for housing, books, tuition, and a meal plan. Many low-income families would have qualified for a need-based grant as those mentioned above, yet nearly 2.3 million students complete the application every year (McKinney). In order to take a stand on an issue, you need to be educated. A way to help your kids and future generations of this country get an education is to bring awareness to the importance of the FAFSA process and all its benefits. It makes college a more affordable process and gives families the opportunity to have a future with education. It creates an outlet for families that cannot afford those high and rising tuition prices, yet so many people even know of the benefits the FAFSA gives. The best way to deal with this is to create awareness on the issue. Tell your children and their friends about this application and even check if your local high schools are informing the students on how great this application is. While college tuition is still expensive which causes financial aid to not be enough sometimes, the universities are also at fault. The Department of Education plays a major role in this issue, but so does the universities that students apply to. Every year, the prices of tuition increase. In fact, in 2008, the cost to attend a four-year public university or college was $6,585, which was more than 5% higher than the previous year (Ehrenberg). Due to inflation and many other factors, this rate continues to rise while expenses take a toll on college tuition. Factors that are affected by these tuition rates such as housing, meal plans, and books make college almost impossible for some families to achieve. The prices of these factors usually increase as tuition does. The impact on the college pockets are significant with rising rates, since keeping The Cost of College Ali 4 up grades while attending school also involves buying the correct materials (Kelderman). The contradicting issue here is that low college tuition is does not always provide the best quality of education, since the college would have to make budget cuts in order to lower tuition (Kelderman). These cuts can be from any department, but the Department of Education should begin to oversee these cuts and determine the best way to lower tuition. Lastly, there needs to be a way where tuition can be handled and affordable. Some schools have already started creating a tuition gap, and in fact many states have started doing this as well. The University of Montana already started participating in a tuition freeze and it helped maintain lower prices of tuition without the chances of them increasing (Kelderman). The public can bring light to this university and see how the lower prices have truly helped. The way this was done was the government allotted around $50-million to public universities to give them enough money to maintain campus life and pay their workers while keeping tuition low (Kelderman). Other states can participate in this if more parents or government workers would show this example to more colleges and states. It is clear that college tuition rates need to be lowered for many reasons. Families should be able to send their children to college without worrying about their bank accounts going into the negatives. They also have to tell their child to miss out on the opportunity of education due to a financial situation. By bringing awareness to how helpful the FAFSA application is and by showing the government ways of creating a tuition gap, the college tuition prices could be managed and create a more affordable way to go to college. Also, parents can join groups to protest against high tuition prices and show the Department of Education and the universities that there is a better way to price tuition. Go out and fight for the right of education, The Cost of College Ali 5 because without more affordable rates, many people will be missing out on the opportunity of a lifetime. The Cost of College Ali 6 References Page Amuedo-Dorantes, C., & Sparber, C. (2014). In-state tuition for undocumented immigrants and its impact on college enrollment, tuition costs, student financial aid, and indebtedness. Regional Science And Urban Economics, 4911-24. doi:10.1016/j.regsciurbeco.2014.07.010 Education is a right! (n.d.). Retrieved March 19, 2017, from http://usstudents.org/ Farrell, E. (2005). Public Colleges Tame Costs of Tuition. The Chronicle Of Higher Education, (10), Kelderman, E. (2009). Calculating the True Cost of Tuition Freezes at Public Colleges. The Chronicle Of Higher Education, (36), McDearmon, J. T. (2009). Tuition rising: Why college costs so much. International Journal Of Educational Advancement, (1), 54. McKinney, L., & Novak, H. (2015). FAFSA Filing Among First-Year College Students: Who Files on Time, Who and Why Does it Matter?. Research In Higher Education, 56(1), 1-28. doi:10.1007/s11162-014-9340-0