James 1 Curtis James Professor Adam Carter ENC 1102 18 April 2017 Advocate Death with Dignity Laws in Florida Physician assisted suicide is a method of Euthanasia that gives terminally ill patients the opportunity to administer lethal doses of medication that is prescribed by a physician to hasten their death. Some families are directly affected by terminal illnesses personally and would prefer to see their family member die with dignity rather than suffering. Current Death with Dignity laws in other states such as Oregon allow patients the choice to proceed with physician assisted suicide if they feel like they no longer want to suffer from the pain and burden caused by terminal illnesses. Currently in Florida there are no laws concerning Death with Dignity and it is illegal for patients to request physician assisted suicide. By contacting your local representatives and advocating for Death with Dignity Laws in Florida you can improve the free will of terminally ill patients in the state. In 1997, the Death with Dignity act was passed in Oregon and was the first law to legalize physician assisted suicide in the United States (Death with Dignity Act). The organization with believes that terminally ill patients should have complete control over their end of life decisions and advocates for Death with Dignity laws across the United states (About Us). Through both political and social means the Death with Dignity organization helps to spread word about physician assisted suicide as an option. Patients James 2 diagnosed with terminal illnesses such as cancer or Lou disease often deal with unbearable pain, financial problems, and loss of everyday bodily functions. As a result, some patients may feel like they are being a burden to the family or disgraced by the lack of independence caused by the terminal illness. Through this loss of independence, the patient also loses dignity and the loved ones are left with the responsibility of deciding life ending treatment options. It is often disputed between physicians and those who advocate for Death with Dignity whether physician assisted suicide should be an option for terminally ill patients. But generally, it is agreed that the patients resulting debilitating condition can lead to the loss of dignity in a patient. Not only should patients have dignity in their death but they should feel confident in their decision and comfort knowing that there are options available. Recent reports by the Oregon Health Authority on the Death with Dignity act show that there has been an increase in the number of patients who request medication and that most patients were able to die in the comfort of their homes but there is also the option during hospice care (Oregon Public Health Division). Death with Dignity Laws gives terminally ill patients the opportunity to die with dignity and escape the excruciating pain that usually accompanies the illness. Patients in Florida should have Death with Dignity as an option and not be restricted by the current laws. Terminal illnesses are more common in society than most people think and they effect the family and friends of those associated with the patient. In fact, Pew Research Center says of Americans have had a friend or relative suffer from a terminal illness or coma in the last five years and for a majority of these people and 23% of the general public, the issue of withholding life sustaining treatment came (Facts). This statistic shows that terminal illnesses are a part of almost half of all Americans lives and that ending treatment that will keep the patient alive is an issue. Someone does not have to be directly diagnosed with a terminal illness for the effects to James 3 be felt, the burdens and struggles of a terminally ill patient can be upon the family and friends of the patient as well. Terminal illnesses can happen to anyone and most people think about that option until it is too late. According to the National Cancer Institute, 2016, an estimated 1,685,210 new cases of cancer will be diagnosed in the United States and 595,690 people will die from the (Cancer Statistics). Just having the option of Death with Dignity can give patients the comfort of knowing that it is there if they want to choose it eventually. Patients in Florida do not have this option and are forced to proceed with the current treatments that are allowed through state laws. With a change in these laws, family, friends, and patients all around Florida will have the opportunity to experience the comfort of full patient choice. To obtain Death with Dignity laws in Florida it must take a collective effort from all citizens. It is necessary to get these laws in place to expand the freedoms of terminally ill patients in our state. Everyone can get out and help to advocate for these laws in Florida. For the Death with Dignity movement to flourish in this state you can contact your local representatives by using the website http://www.house.gov/representatives/find/ which allows you to search and find your local representatives via zip code. Once you know who your local representatives are it directs you to their website and gives the contact information. With enough support giving a full explanation of how you feel about Death with Dignity and why there should be laws in Florida should persuade the local congressmen and house representatives to consider the possibility of constructing a Death with Dignity bill that could be a law in the future. It is vital for the movement in Florida that Death with Dignity gets as much support as possible and it all begins with everyone making an effort. Death with Dignity Laws have made a big impact on the lives of terminally ill patients in other states. It can be a comforting option to those who are suffering from tremendous pain and James 4 no longer wish to suffer. Not only do patients suffer but so do the friends and family of the patient and Death with Dignity laws can be a comforting to them too. It will take a collective effort from the citizens of the state of Florida to push for Death with Dignity laws by contacting their local representatives and advocating for the cause. James 5 Works Cited About  Death With Dignity. N.p., n.d. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. Cancer  National Cancer Institute. N.p., n.d. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. Death with Dignity Act. N.p., n.d. Web. 17 Apr. 2017.  NHDD. N.p., n.d. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. Find Your  United States House of Representatives. N.p., n.d. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. Oregon Public Health Division. OREGON DEATH WITH DIGNITY ACT: 2015 DATA  Oregon Health Authority (2016): 1-7. Web. 17 Apr. 2017.