1 Project 3: Animal testing: A call to action Project 3: Animal Testing: A call to action Rebecca Blackler University of South Florida 2 Project 3: Animal testing: A call to action When looking in a purse it is common enough to come across a makeup item, it could be anything from lipstick to powder. There are so many brands out on the market to pick from, therefore, a mascara could cost anywhere from three dollars to forty dollars. Obviously the more money which you spend, the better quality of makeup is received. Everyone has a different skin type, some are fortunate enough to have close to perfect skin where others have more sensitive. Makeup brands try to make their products usable for everyone. To do this, animal testing is used. They test on animals to see the side effects which take place when making new formulas or adapting previous ones. Many animals are being harmed daily when there are other alternatives. Anyone who wears makeup should stop using/buying from makeup companies who test on animals and sign petitions to stop certain brands from testing on animals. Testing on animals has been occurring for a while now. One of the most common testing techniques is Irritancy testing. This procedure was first adopted the US-FDA as part of the safety of evaluation of foods, drugs and (Prinsen, Hendriksen, Krul & Woutersen, 2017). In 1981, the test is composed of pulling out the lower and upper eyelids and 0.1ml/g of the substance is put in a eye. The eye is then held closed to keep all of the substance in. The remaining eye is left untouched so the eyes can be compared 1 hour, 24 hours, 48 hours, and 72 hours after the treatment has taken place. After 24 hours the substance would be washed out (Prinsen, Hendriksen, Krul & Woutersen, 2017). This is only one test style which are done on animals. Procedures like these are used by many makeup companies and there is a very large chance that you are wearing brands who test on animals. Some example of brands that do this are: Revlon, Clinique, Maybelline, 3 Project 3: Animal testing: A call to action MAC, Benefit, and Covergirl (Cruelty free, 2017). If you wear any of these products then you are putting on makeup which has been tested on an animal. This animal was unwillingly tested on, if the chemical was harmful enough then the animal could die. So many animals die and people even realize it. Your first stop for helping would be to start wearing cruelty free makeup. There are so many alternative brands which you can try. Some examples of cruelty free makeup is: elf, too faced, physicians formula, tarte, NYX, urban decay, and milani (Cruelty free, 2017). Even elf, a more known brand for being affordable test on animals. Their makeup ranges in prices and also have a wide variety of products to buy from. So for anyone to say that they cannot afford cruelty free makeup does not have an excuse. Some may say there are excuses for animal testing, that it is needed so people get reactions. Even though the U.S Food and Drug Administration Act is supposed to help regulate and manage the commerce of cosmetics, it is still up to the cosmetic brands insuring the safety of its formulations and products for (Ross, 2016). Companies animal test because they want to get in trouble for any severe reactions which their products might cause. However, there are other alternatives. In vitro testing is slowly becoming more popular. In vitro testing is on human which is able to evaluate chemicals, even highly colored ones, therefore, good for testing out cosmetics Hibatallah, Klaric, Mewes, Pfannenbecker, & McNamee, 2016). Animal testing is not the only option. Why should animals be harmed when they need to be? Why support a company which tests on animals? If you want to support cruelty free, then here are a couple ways to help. On April 26 th , Peta will be having a petition which you can sign to stop animal testing from occurring. They will be there all day during the bull market hours. If you make it to bull market then you can always go to their website and find the link. Not only do Peta have online petitions but so do 4 Project 3: Animal testing: A call to action other companies, just by googling against animal you will find many and many websites but national organizations. Also, now that you are informed on whether some companies test or not you can adapt your makeup. Even though more and more makeup brands are becoming cruelty free, there are still many drugstore brands which have not given it up. Why help profit a company that harms and kills animals? Imagine your pet, your neighbors pet, or your pet being abused. Would you find it acceptable to watch a person beat a dog? The answer is no. No animal should have to go through pain. No person should have the option of harming an animal for testing. No one should be able to have an option to buy animal tested makeup. So start by buying cruelty free makeup. Spread the word to your friends who are animal lovers. By signing a petition you can help stop the use of animal testing. A lot of people are aware of animal testing. But a large amount of people are not even aware of which brands test and which ones do not. If a lot of people stop buying makeup which is tested on animals then hopefully these companies will see a decrease in net sales and their profit at the end of the year. If a company notices that their consumer are unhappy with their performance then be more willing to make a change. No company wants negative relations. So help animals by spreading the word of brands which test on animals and go sign the petition at the bull market or online. 5 Project 3: Animal testing: A call to action References N., Hibatallah, J., Klaric, M., Mewes, K., Pfannenbecker, U., & McNamee, P. (2016). Assessment of cosmetic ingredients in the in vitro reconstructed human epidermis test method using HPLC/UPLC-spectrophotometry in the MTT-reduction assay. Toxicology In Vitro, 33, 105-117. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.tiv.2016.02.006 Companies That Test On Animals 2017. (2017, March 4). Retrieved April 14, 2017, from http://www.crueltyfreekitty.com/companies-that-test-on-animals/ Prinsen, M. K., Hendriksen, C. F., Krul, C. A., & Woutersen, R. A. (2017). The Isolated Chicken Eye test to replace the Draize test in rabbits. Regulatory Toxicology and Pharmacology, 85, 132-149. doi:10.1016/j.yrtph.2017.01.009 Ross, G. (2006). A Perspective on the Safety of Cosmetic Products: A Position Paper of The American Council on Science and Health. International Journal of Toxicology, 25(4), 269-277. doi:10.1080/10915810600746049