Somwar 1 Nygil Somwar Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 April 2016 Raise awareness on the severity of concussions Concussions have been the most over looked and undermined injury in almost every sport to ever be played. For years doctors and medical staff have been warning players to sit out games from which they sustain a concussion, but as we all know it never works out that way. According to Boston University and the U.S. Department of Veterans affairs 79% of the 167 high school, college, and NFL athletes they studied had signs of CTE (Chronic Traumatic Encephalopathy). it is an abnormal build- up of tau a protein that can spill out of cells due to blunt force trauma and can choke off or disable neural pathways that control things such as memory, judgment, and The scariest part of this whole issue is that CTE can only be diagnosed after death. Thus it is of the utmost importance to educate parents of young children and raise awareness in the NFL to ensure that player health and safety is first and foremost above all else. It all starts with High school it is the first step, informing parents of young athletes such as those that play for a club or school programs. Its vital for young athletes to have their parents involved and informed when playing sports because there is no organization that overlooks the health and safety of high school athletes when it comes to concussions. The only type of protocol is based on the state; each state puts in place sanctions and laws regarding concussions. For example, in 2009, the state of Somwar 2 Washington passed the first concussion in sports law, called the Zackery Lystedt The Zackery Lystedt Law any youth showing signs of a concussion to be examined and cleared by a licensed health care provider before being allowed to return to In order to spread awareness and reduce Traumatic head injuries the entire U.S must adopt the three action steps. The three action steps are included in most sports laws in the U.S but it should be enacted in all of them because it is a great way to combat concussions. The three action steps include educating coaches, parents, and athletes, removing the athlete from play, and obtaining permission to return to play. They already have this system in place for about 40 out of the 50 states in the U.S. Moving on up the ladder is college, which creates even more issues, with a weak foundation from high school; easy to see how athletes in college are getting abused and mistreated. Big companies such as the NCAA have very little interest in the health of a player as long as bringing in the big numbers. Big numbers refers to the monetary value of the athlete opposed to worrying about his health to play; they advertise his name to bring out the large numbers of fans. In many cases college athletes are pushed to their limit and get any type of compensation when they get hurt or injured. Sometimes the college athletes even want to report an injury because unlike in the NFL they have contracts to ensure their spot on the team. In college an athlete that is injured can get dropped from their scholarship because they only got accepted to the school on an athletic scholarship. If we can get high school athletes, coaches, and parents educated, hopefully it will translate onto the college level. The Somwar 3 future coaches, athletes, and trainers all get recruited from high schools so if correctly informed/educated they could fight back against the NCAA and make a change. Now its time for the NFL, the last and final step in the process, the National Football League has had a troubled past with Concussions. It has been released that the NFL has known about the lasting effects of concussions and have not done anything to stop or prevent CTE from occurring in players (npr.org). Numerous lawsuits have been filled against the NFL from previous NFL athletes who have retired. In July 2014 a settlement was reached for 765 million dollars (Sports Illustrated). In 2016 another settlement was reached for 1 billion dollars covering over 20,000 retired NFL players over 65 years (Sports Illustrated). The NFL currently has a concussion protocol in place that has been a huge improvement from the years in the past. So how exactly does the concussion protocol work? Well recently it has been headlined with the saying Smart. Play First they remove the player from the field then consult a physician and review the video to see if the player was targeted (targeted refers to if the other player tried to intentionally hurt the other player) in that case a fine is enacted. After reviewing the video they send the player back to the locker room and he cannot return to the game if he fails the concussion test. The main issue with this is that the teams would just ignore protocol or falsify results. But as of this year NFL commissioner Roger Goodell has enforced a new restriction stating that every team is investigated and if any flags are raised or suspicions about the concussion protocol not being followed correctly the team will be punished (Sbnation.com). Somwar 4 Concussions have a huge impact on athletes even though for years people say to just it which be more wrong. It affects athletes in the long run and if people educated it can continue killing and traumatizing athletes for years to come. High school athletes are the gateway to the college and NFL level awareness for player health and safety protocols. Athletes are losing their lives because greedy companies and organizations want to make money. We have to make a change in the lives of young children therefore we have to educate the parents. The raised awareness will in turn make its way all the way up the ladder to those elite athletes and save the pros from suffering a terrible fate. Word Count: 1096 Somwar 5 Works Cited Health &  Health & Safety NFL Football Operations. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.  NFL Play Smart, Play Safe. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Jcoleman@ncaa.org. Concussion Diagnosis and Management Best NCAA.org - The Official Site of the NCAA. N.p., 17 Jan. 2017. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Stites, Adam. How Does the Concussion Protocol  SBNation.com. SBNation.com, 18 Sept. 2016. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Jr., Carlos Dias. The Long-Term Effects of Concussions on NFL  Forbes. Forbes Magazine, 30 Sept. 2015. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Hersher, Rebecca. Supreme Court Rejects Challenges To NFL Concussion  NPR. NPR, 12 Dec. 2016. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.