Schrum 1 Jonathan Schrum Professor Karen Hanson ENC 1101.002 4/14/2017 Intermediate draft The commercial fishing industry is an industry of great importance and quite necessary to numerous local economies as it is a constant form of income. Not only do local economies depend on the revenue the industry produces, but national suppliers of seafood to the rest of the country deeply do as well. As if this enough to explain its importance, thousands of families residing in coastal fishing towns depend heavily on the fishing industry to survive. As of late, recent regulation proposals could soon de-legalize access to large areas in certain fishing grounds. These kinds of rules and regulations are not only unfair to fishing companies, but also fishermen themselves and their families. If areas in the fishing grounds are made illegal to access (and other regulations that may be similar) it has the definite potential to wreak havoc on said local economies, national distribution chains and local families. While the commercial fishing industry is in not in any explicit danger today, it still needs continued support from as many people possible. As mentioned previously, the local economies of fishing towns along our coasts depend on the income commercial fishing brings in. In fact, the author of an article in Marine Policy states that will decrease the profitability of commercial fishing (Brown). If areas of water are closed, the potential chance of devastating financial losses to local fishing companies is to high. If commercial fishing is a popular form of work in a town Schrum 2 and it suddenly is not able to produce the same amount of income the results would not be good. Whole companies could experience bankruptcy and go out of business leading to heavy job loss in the area. If commercial fishing companies start going out of business, local economies will begin to experience recession and poverty levels will begin to rise. Should something happen to the commercial fishing industry where fishermen could not produce as much as they previously were able to, establishments such as grocery stores, fish markets and even sea food restaurants would all be effected negatively. After fishermen harvest and sell a catch, it is usually processed by processing companies, packaged, and sent off to stores and restaurants alike. The entire procedure of processing fish is an entirely different, yet still important line of work related to commercial fishing. companies of all sizes employ (Kelleghan) to clean, package and ship seafood out. If regulations impede the amount of seafood being sent to the processing companies, an entirely different line of work could experience job loss/destruction. Like so, if these same processing companies cannot produce enough seafood to ship out to grocery stores and sea food restaurants the company itself will suffer. If grocery stores and restaurants do not have enough sea food to satisfy customers they will in turn lose business, which means they will lose money. Should regulations make it hard for fishing companies to produce fish and other sea food, it will in turn negatively effect people in other lines of work that are directly related to the fishing industry. Fishermen and their families obviously also rely quite heavily on the commercial fishing industry to provide for themselves. Fishing provides income necessary to afford essential things such as food, clothes, healthcare, schooling and housing. If this source of income is suddenly not readily available due to fishing ground closures the hardworking fishermen and Schrum 3 their families who so desperately rely on the income it provides will be out of luck. If they cannot recover and find different sources of income, the possibility that they will experience financial devastation is very high. With no income coming in, fishermen and their families will not be able to purchase tings they need. This in turn is bad for the local economy as it depends on locals using their money in said economy. Should fishing grounds experience closure or regulations that make them illegal to access the whole community will experience losses. Readers may question why they should care about an issue such as this, and the answer could be something as simple as sea food could become hard to acquire. Another possible answer could be that readers want to see other individuals in the fishing industry experience losses. Commercial fishing is an industry that is of great importance for multiple reasons. As previously stated, sea food will be hard to find, local economies could experience recessions, and fishermen and their families could struggle financially. On top of all that, commercial fishing been explicitly proven to harm fish stocks as they are a (Kelleghan). In fact change is another hazard for fishery (Kelleghan) that can possibly cause more harm than fishing companies. The commercial fishing industry is an industry that has been around for longer than some have been alive. There has been little evidence that it harms fish stocks, and it is quite possible that climate change has had a bigger effect on fish stocks. Commercial fishing supports local economies, provides income for fishermen and their loved ones and also serves as a source of sea food for establishments such as grocery stores and sea food restaurants. If reader could put themselves in the shoes of these hardworking individuals they would get to see the benefits fishing provides, but they also could possibly see how hard life can get if fishing grounds are Schrum 4 closed or regulations make it harder to produce fish. To answer the question of why readers should care, it is because fishing is a way of life that thousands depend on to survive. As stated before, The commercial fishing industry is obviously of great importance not only to fishermen, but their families, the local economy and establishments that rely on seafood as well. Should rules and regulations make fishing grounds illegal to access not only will fishing companies and their employees suffer, but the individuals who process the sea food, grocery stores and restaurants will as well to. Closing fishing grounds could easily create a domino effect in that fishermen would not be the only people to suffer losses. All in all the importance of the commercial fishing industry is greater than individuals may know as it provides for thousands of families, supplies sea food to establishments and supports local economies. Schrum 5 Works Cited Brown, Christopher J. Social, Economic and Environmental Effects of Closing Commercial Fisheries to Enhance Recreational  Science Direct. Elsevier Ltd, Nov. 2016. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Commerical FIshing Vital to the Local  Bellingham Business Journal 23.5 (2015): 11. Web. Florida Keys Commercial  About Us. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Kelleghan, Fiona. Fishing and Fisheries  Salem Press Encyclopedia. N.p., Jan. 2015. Web. 15 Apr. 2017.