1 Bennett Student Nancy Lewis ENC 1102 12 April 2017 The Hidden Solution for the Obesity Epidemic: Weightlifting The overweight epidemic in the United States is an ever-present issue that has the ability to affect everyone. The struggle of managing weight is a universal issue no matter their race, age, or gender. In this regard, the problem of weight gains increases in the percent of the population that do not engage in any physical exercise. However, another issue arises in individuals that are part of the overweight portion of America but wish to make a change, just not knowing how. There are several ways of losing weight, ranging from fasting diets, programs such as Weight Watchers, lose and cardiovascular activity, however one of the best ways to lose weight that is commonly overlooked is weightlifting. Through extensive research and experiments, weightlifting is proven to be one of the well-proven ways to lose body fat. Along with the primary benefit of gaining muscle mass and strength, weightlifting is proven to provide a multitude of other physical health benefits. In addition, an abundance of medical studies has shown it also drastically benefit an mental health. Obesity can be medically defined as individual with a Body Mass Index (BMI) of 30 and (Penedo). The BMI index is a body weight calculator conducted by physicians that relates an rate in kilograms divided by their height in meters, this along with the measurement of an waist circumference can determine whether an individual is overweight or obesity. (Luppino). Besides an increase in body fat, obesity comes with serious health complications. An excess amount of body fat can lead to high blood pressure, heart 2 disease, diabetes, and high blood cholesterol levels. In serious cases, cancer and heart attacks could occur and Similarly, a large amount of weight gain leading up to obesity can act as a trigger for feelings of depression, stress, or anxiety that could lead people to eat more than usual. The obesity-depression cycle is continuous and may lead to long term mental health issues, a study conducted by the American Psychological Association found obese women had a 37% increase in major depression compared to those within a normal BMI range. Health: A very large concern in people who are considered overweight or obese is oftentimes, they do not the best way to begin losing weight nor the most effective way. Many individuals who are not experienced with weightlifting and its physiological benefits to the human body overlook the act of lifting weights as an effective way to lose weight due to ignorance of the subject Health: Weightlifting carries the stigma that lifting weights increases your overall weight. Conversely, what is actually happening when a weight lifting program is begun; muscle mass is increased, while fat is lost. A study conducted actually presents information that aerobic effect on weight loss is negligible (Wolfe). However, high-intensity intermittent exercise was proven to be much more effective at reducing subcutaneous and abdominal body fat. One of the HIIE examples used was weightlifting, the act of putting heavy resistance against muscle groups for repetitions between eight to twelve, followed by a short rest period before completing the repetitions with weight resistance again actually burned more calories per minute than aerobic exercise such as running (Boutcher) . Not only does weight training reduce body fat during the exercise through the consumption of calories, it also increases ones metabolism for up to thirty-six hours after a workout. Additionally, Weight training over a long period increases the percentage of lean muscle mass on 3 individual, which is the powerhouse of calorie burning this is the reason males can typically consume more food than women and not gain weight, due to the greater amount of natural lean muscle mass on their body (Williams). Weight training over a long period of time not only increases muscle mass, but also increases the amount of calories burned and fat lost in order to feed the lean muscle being created (Williams). To an individual just beginning to attempt losing weight, they oftentimes are mistakenly led to believe cardiovascular activity is the best way to lose weight. However, it has been proven by multiple studies that the best way to lose weight is weightlifting. Not only has weightlifting been proven to be one of the most effective ways to lose weight, it has been scientifically proven to benefit overall physical and mental health. Scientific research and studies have shown weight lifting provides tremendous health benefits. A certain study shows extended weight training increases the strength of connective tissue, muscles and tendons (Wolfe). Overall, this benefits to improved motor function and decreases the risk for strained tendons and other various injuries. Likewise weight lifting is highly beneficial to bone density. The natural physical process of sarcopenia, the degeneration of muscle in old age, leaves an individual more susceptible to bone injuries and fractures (Boutcher). However, one way to increase bone density is resistance training, pushing and pulling large amounts of weights not only increases muscle mass but also strengthens bones by the application of more than weight than the body is used to handling. As well as providing beneficial outcomes to overall physical health, weight training has also been proven to benefit an mental health. It has been proven physical exercise releases dopamine in the brain, which makes one feel elated and happy. Likewise, an extended weight lifting program has shown an increase in serotonin levels in individuals who lift 4 versus individuals who do not (Penedo). Also, several studies have been shown weightlifting is a great way to reduce daily stress, anxiety, and relieve symptoms of depression. Also, weightlifting has the ability to benefit certain kinds of self-esteem issues and anxiety related to body issues because weightlifting makes an individual look better and also feel better. Overall, according to a certain study, resistance training in the weight room allows for functional capacity, better mood states, and several beneficial mental-health (Penedo). Weight lifting has been proven to provide a better quality of life and leaving individuals feeling happier and healthier than those who The obesity and overweight epidemic in America is a very important issue. It has the ability to affect literally anyone no matter age gender or ethnicity. Although some demographics are more susceptible to weight gain than others, it is an issue that can affect quite literally anyone. Any individual who eats un-healthy or lives sedentary lifestyle is at a higher risk for weight gain. The issue is growing at an alarming rate due to the amount of processed foods in society and can be stopped only on an individual level. Oftentimes there are an enormous group of people who know they are overweight or borderline obese and wish to make a change. Whether it be ignorance or being led astray by uninformed doctors or trainers, they are oftentimes led to believe cardiovascular activity is the only way to lose weight. However something they know is weight lifting is an excellent physical activity that can exceed cardiovascular activity in weight loss if done correctly. Likewise, it is an activity that provides exceptional mental and physical benefits. Weight lifting is a lifestyle that can improve an quality of life if done correctly, and is a very real option to help reduce the obesity problem in America. (WC:1221) 5 Works Cited Boutcher, Stephen H. Intermittent Exercise and Fat Journal of Obesity. Hindawi Publishing Corporation, 2011. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Helms, Eric R., Alan A. Aragon, and Peter J.Fitschen. Recommendations for Natural Bodybuilding Contest Preparation: Nutrition and Journal of the International Society of Sports Nutrition. Biomed Central, 12 May 2014. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Luppino, Floriana S., et al. Obesity, and Depression: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis of Longitudinal Archives of General Psychiatry 67.3 (2010):220-229. Penedo, Frank J. and Well-being: A Review of Mental and Physical Health Benefits Associated with Physical Current Opinion in Psychiatry. LWW Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Health: American Psychological Association. American Psychological Associatio. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. and National Institutes of Health. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.Web. 16Apr. 2017. Williams, Melvin. Supplements and Sports Performance: Amino Journal of the International Society of Sports Nutrition. Biomed Central, 2005. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Wolfe, Robert R. Supplements and Exercise The American Journal of Clinical Nutrition. American Society for Clinical Nutrition. 01 Aug. 2000. Web. 26 Feb.2017