Barnhill 1 Renee Barnhill Erika Staiger ENC 1102.005 16 April 2017 Breed-Specific Legislation In recent years, there have been many dog attack cases covered through news and social media. These attacks include provoked dogs, guard dogs and dogs attacking other dogs. Though when these attacks are recorded there can be bias in the media depending on the breeds that are involved in these attacks. If someone was ever to go through all the recorded canine attacks they will see a pattern that the attacks involving larger breeds such as bull mastiffs, German shepherds, and American Staffordshire terriers. Cases in which these breeds are mentioned tend to get more attention from the media than other breeds. This misguided information lead to state and city officials to turn to Breed-Specific Legislation (BSL) to regulate these attacks. Breed- Specific legislation are regulations that are directed towards larger breeds like the ones mentioned above that are commonly labelled as and (Weiss). The most common breeds that get stuck under these labels are pit bull breeds, these include American Staffordshire terrier, the English bulldog, and the bullmastiff. These regulations allow apartment places and whole cities to ban the ownership of breeds that fall under the pit bull type. This could make it difficult for students that already own these banned breeds to find a home for themselves and their furry companion. There are many ways to that ways to begin changing these legislations so be more effective and allow people to live with a pet of their choice without any worries of discriminatory regulations. To join this fight for better regulations USF students can join one of the many anti-BSL organization that are in Florida or come together to create one on Barnhill 2 campus, educate friends and relatives of these regulations, and encourage them to join the fight against discriminatory canine regulations. The severity of breed-specific legislation varies state by state. Here in Florida BSL differs by county and in some areas even by city. For example, Meghan Hays talks about this town in the Miami area that has banned pit bull breeds from all its residential areas. Miami-Dade, Florida has one of the strictest BSL against pit bull breeds. In this area, the ownership of pit bulls is banned but after thirty years under this discriminatory legislation commissioner Bruno Barreiro has begun a debate to lift the ban off these terriers (Hays, 59). Though the legislation did not get removed this debate lead to the development of an organization known as Miami Coalition Against Breed Specific Legislation. This organization is supported by many people around the Miami-Dade area. This situation here is an example on how people within a community can come together to take down these legislations that discriminate a canine solely by its breed. Steps like this are taken every day all around the United States to get rid of legislations similar to these. Many civil rights lawyers are beginning to also take cases that involve pit bull attacks to defend the accused attackers in civil court (Gahr, 56). The fight against breed-specific legislation has become a more widely acknowledged battle as more people become aware of the issues with these regulations. Even with everything that is being done to get rid of these regulations many people are still unaware that these regulations exist or how discriminatory they are against pit bull breeds. To understand how these regulations negatively effect and misguide the public one must understand the true definition of the pit bull. The pit bull is not an actual breed but a term used to describe a dog with certain characteristics like wide heads and lock jaw. This makes identifying a breed solely on appearance close to impossible. In many cases, even with a trained eye Barnhill 3 identifying dog breeds cannot always efficiently determine the dominant breed in a mutt (dogs made up of more than one breed) solely on looks. This misinformation makes enforcing breed- specific legislation difficult and often leads to innocent dogs being euthanized based on appearance instead of their behavior. This also brings up to issue that BSL is basing a aggression on its appearance alone without bringing the behavior into consideration. In Heather article, Canine Profiling: Does Breed-Specific Legislation Take a Bite out of Canine Crime, her study shows that aggressive behavior towards people is more commonly found in small to medium size breeds of dogs. However, many bite cases caused by these smaller breeds go unrecorded due to their size and bite force (Pratt, 858). Many people also believe that bigger breeds tend to have genetically altered DNA that causes them to naturally be more aggressive than smaller breeds but when looking at a study published in Mehrkam and article, Behavioral Differences Among Breeds of Domestic Dogs: Current Status of the Science, it is said that aggression is one of the more difficult behaviors to study by breed because of the under or over representation of breeds in these studies. This is again due to the fact that smaller breed cases go unrecorded or unacknowledged solely because of the size of the canine while larger breed cases like that of the American Staffordshire Bull Terrier is over represented in these studies. These studies are crucial when looking at how information about larger breeds can be mistaken to make these canines out to be so called breeds. Being aware of these facts when looking at BSL helps one understand how these regulations negatively impact the community. To better protect the community from that are actually dangerous and aggressive breed-specific legislation must change. Since these regulations vary by city it is crucial for everyone within a community to have an understanding of these regulations and to know what Barnhill 4 steps can be taken to allow these regulations to be replaced with more public protecting legislation to better the community. Here at the USF campus many students are preparing to find apartments around campus to live in for the years to come. For students with canine companions this search becomes much more difficult and even more so when their pets show up on the list of breeds not allowed in the apartments around campus. There are many ways to prevent this issue from accruing to future USF students. One way to join the fight against BSL regulations is to get with fellow scholars that are against BSL and create an on campus organization that discusses ideas that can be put forth to start new regulations for apartment places around campus that do not discriminate against certain breeds. Barnhill 5 Work Cited Gahr, Evan. Fido Goes to  American Spectator, vol. 33, no. 10, Dec2000/Jan2001, p. 56. EBSCOhost, Web. 11 April 2017. ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx ?direct=true&db=aph&AN=3793449&site=eds-live. Hays, Meghan. Pit Bull Lives Matter: Ineffectiveness Breeds Unconstitutionality in Miami- Breed-Specific Legislation Null  St. Thomas Law Review, no. 1, 2016, p. 59. EBSCOhost, Web. 11 April 2017. Mehrkam, Lindsay R., and Clive D. Wynne. Behavioral differences among breeds of domestic dogs: Status of the  Applied Animal Behaviour Sciences, vol. 155, June 2014, pp. 12-27. Accessed 15 April 2017. Pratt, Heather K. Profiling: Does Breed-Specific Legislation Take a Bite out of Canine Penn State Law Review 108. (2004): 855. LexisNexis Academic Law Reviews. Web. 14 April 2017. Weiss, Linda S. Breed-Specific Legislation in the United  Breed-Specific Legislation in the United States. Animal Legal & Historical Center. Michigan State University College of Law, 2001. Web. 11 April 2017.