Casiana Martinez Adam Phillips ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Our Second Amendment is our right to legally bear arms and more importantly, is that that right shall not be taken away. Our right to bear arms is a very heavily debated topic in this country right now, and is possibly one of the most important. Less than two decades ago at about eleven am two students at Columbine High School in Littleton, Colorado started what turned out to be one of the first, and one of the most horrific examples of school related gun violence in this history. This massacre that included pipe bombs, other assorted homemade explosives and multiple types of guns killed 12 people and injured 24 others not including both of the perpetrators suicides. This and various other tragedies have brought this country devastating loss along with many reasons to revoke our Second Amendment rights. Guns have been and continue to be one of the countries leading sources of violence and crime. School shootings, among other occurrences, are a devastating outcome of this gun violence, and through the implementation of common sense gun laws and prevention education we can stop this deadly trend. Gun violence has been an escalating and widespread problem in America, averaging 309 people every day that are killed in various forms of gun violence (Brady Campaign). The amount of people killed every day is completely unnecessary and absurd. When looking at a majority of these incidents, and knowing the circumstances that they occurred in, very plain to see that a good amount of them could be prevented. Various activist groups such as Demand Action for Gun Sense in America, The National Rifle Association, and many others fight for the Martinez 1 right to bear arms, the safe and smart way. These organizations are pushing to instill common sense gun laws that in effect should greatly reduce this outrageous death count. Putting these laws into effect will educate current gun owners, future gun owners and even non gun owners, on how to safely and efficiently buy, store, and handle guns. Along with these common sense gun laws, another proposition is that concealed carry should be a very limited practice that take place in schools, and some think it be allowed at all. Common sense gun laws and education on the topic is just the first step in preventing these school shootings, accidental homicides and many other fatal occurrences. School shootings seem to be one of the most concerning aspects of gun violence in this country. Shootings such as the Sandy Hook Massacre, Columbine, and various others captured headlines across the country at the time of the incidents and still hold that status. Over a hundred students have become victims in violent crimes such as these, and the research on why they occurred and how easily they been prevented is baffling. In most cases of school shootings the shooter had easy or easy enough access to guns to carry out the act and exhibited warning signs most would consider very obvious, but were easily ignored. Almost every school if not all have some form of education on ways to detect suicidal individuals, but not on those likely to commit homicide. Knowing these warning signs is just as crucial to saving lives, and would save many students from injury, possible mental trauma and even death. The Columbine tragedy kicked off a multi-pronged debate about gun control, school safety, bullying, violent video games and even Goth culture. Only Harris and Klebold know their real motives for killing their peers, and no longer around to explain themselves. In the 15 years since Columbine, much has been written and said about the tragedy, and how it might have Martinez 2 been avoided or how we could avoid another similar Looking back at all of these occurrences of school shootings, acts of homicide, and unintentional murders, there were ways of prevention. Anybody could go and watch a documentary on the Columbine shooting, or even the Aurora Movie Theatre Massacre and plainly see the warning signs that these three shooters displayed, even if they were overlooked before the incidents. Researching and learning about why people do these things and how they were able to pull them off has made many realize how preventable they were if they had been given the attention they needed. Learning about these incidents and the individuals that caused them only interesting, its educational too. Implementing common sense gun laws and education requirements on gun owners, and people affiliated with the gun owners is the best way to start preventing these tragedies. You can change life by simply taking the small amount of time to be a bit more observant of your surroundings and those that inhabit those surroundings. Putting education seminars in schools to show the students how to possibly spot someone that might need help could be the difference between someone going to class the next day and someone going to their best funeral. Petitioning to have these seminars and encouraging your classmates to go to them, and even becoming an advocate for those that might just need to know someone is there if they need it could be the factor deciding their next move. Another way you could go out and make a difference in this issue is to help different groups that are fighting to keep you and everybody you know safe by joining them and promoting their message of knowing how to properly store and use a gun. Martinez 3 Bibliography Kleck, Gary, and E. Britt Patterson. The Impact of Gun Control and Gun Ownership Levels on Violence  SpringerLink. Kluwer Academic Publishers-Plenum Publishers, n.d. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. In this peer reviewed article, the author is looking to find out what gun violence and gun prevalence have to do with crime and violence. They researched how fire arm restriction and other gun related legislature correlates with gun violence and crime related to guns. This article is related to my paper because it talks about how gun violence and correlation to crimes. The gun violence is what my paper and website is about, and what is causing school shootings. School shootings I feel are very closely related to how gun ownership and gun laws are to crime. Gun laws and related legislature is what I want the solution to be for these school shootings. Lawrence, Regina G., and Thomas A. Birkland. Guns, Hollywood, and School Safety: Defining the Shooting Problem Across Public  Social Science Quarterly. Blackwell Publishing, 21 Dec. 2004. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. This article is about how school shootings and the media has influence over it both before and after the shooting. How this article talks about gun violence and the amount of violence broadcasted in the media. Correlation between the two subjects is what the researcher was looking for. This article is related to my paper through the fact that gun violence has been and continues to be an escalating problem. The media really puts school shootings and gun violence in general on blast continuously. And I really think that this is one of the reasons this problem continues, the media puts it everywhere and it kind of gives it a normalcy that these people and especially kids take into account when even considering doing one of these acts. Kleck, Gary. Sign In: Registered  American Behavioral Scientist. N.p., n.d. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. This article talks about how after major school shootings the media and government along with government officials try to take stances. After the tragic Columbine shooting in Denver, Colorado a lot of public figureheads and people with political standing tried to take drastic measures on how they thought they could prevent another mass shooting like this one. Martinez 4 Suggesting asinine things really puts into perspective how if people act on their outlandish crazy ideas, then they just give up and figure deal with it later. This article goes with my paper because my solution and call to action will be mainly proposing common sense gun laws and sensible solutions that actually have a chance at battling the problem. Suggesting things that can actually be done is one of the biggest things that we need to focus on instead of things like banning gun shows and normal every day things. Violence  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 30 Nov. 2016. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. This article is about data and statistics on school shootings. It analyzes different reasons behind school shootings and the different things that went into making the tragedy a reality. Its mostly about youth violent crimes and the different attributes of the situation and the characteristics of how the kids came to do the different crimes. This article wholey about how gun violence attributes to school shootings but I think that putting some psychology behind it might interest my audience. Putting things about how they can prevent the gun violence from happening like looking for signs and how to help when they spot them is a huge part of the solution. Especially with how younger people wont be able to do as much as more invested and capable adults could do. Mamiverse Team. 10 Chilling Quotes About the Columbine Tragedy - Page 2 of Mamiverse. N.p., 05 Aug. 2016. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. <http://mamiverse.com/columbine-high-school-quotes- 60231/2/>. Martinez 5