1 Official Language of America Whether English should be the Official Language of America or Not Nikhita Lal University of South Florida 2 What is the official language of America? Communication is key. This is a statement that is used quite frequently throughout society. no doubt that whether you are talking about businesses, politics, doctors, or even artists, the best ones are the ones that can communicate best. Communication is an outlet for us to express how we truly feel. Fred Rogers explains it like, human is mentionable, and anything that is mentionable can be more manageable. When we can talk about our feelings, they become less overwhelming, less upsetting, and less scary. The people we trust with that important talk can help us know that we are not Well what about the United States of America? In a country filled with a diverse population, communication is essential to peace and success. A main component of communication is language. The United States of America till this day does not have an official language. This is a common debate across the country and its citizens because it effects many people and factors. The U.S. English organization has been recognizing this major issue and wants to work and dedicate itself to making a difference by making the citizens of America are aware of the issue in this first place. To do this, U.S. English, a non-profit organization hosts campaigns, signs petitions, and even contacts Congress and the White House all to see a change that you can easily get involved in by a click of a button. U.S. English is an organization that is work with two American political advocacy groups founded in 1983 by former ophthalmologist John Tanton. The purpose of them are to defend the United States having English as the official language of the United States. The organization has intentions to make English the official language of the United States meaning that all government business or documents must be conducted in English unless in a specific 3 situation where that is not applicable. group operates two separate nonprofit entities out of its headquarters in Washington, English, Inc. and the U.S. English Foundation or native English speakers. Both would want to change the official language to English because it would bring unity across the country and to reduce federal Jan 24, 2017) The United States is a country made up of many immigrants till this day there are many citizens that cannon speak English. This is simply not practical because it impairs communication among citizens. Through making all the documents to be in the English language it will then encourage and make people put in more effort to learn English to promote a common culture. They believe that every citizen should be able to speak English because it provides a sense of unity and similarity between all citizens and will allow communication to go more smoothly. There would be a significant number of savings involved with government spending with English being the official language. According, to the Washington Post, Brandon Brice said as the official language would save billions in federal spending. The direct cost of translators and bilingual education alone are billions, and many of these costs are born by local Los Angeles in 2002, $15 million, or 15 percent of the election budget, was devoted to printing ballots in seven languages and hiring bilingual poll workers. Los Angeles county hires over 400 full-time court interpreters at a cost of $265 per day. In 2000, President Bill Clinton signed into law Executive Order 13166, which forces health care providers who accept Medicare and Medicaid payments to hire interpreters for any patient who requires one, at the own There are billions of dollars spent each year that America can save just by changing the official language. It is transparent that English being the national language would save the United States from several issues and can even make the country stronger. As U.S. citizens we should be 4 wanting what is best for our country. Therefore, U.S. English is the most reliable and resourceful way to get involved with this issue. There are many ways to take an action and some can be as small as donating a dollar and some can be as big as signing a petition and calling the White House. Either way each effort and person that is made more aware of this issue will make a difference! According to U.S. English Action Center, English legislation is common sense for America and supported by a clear majority of Americans, and our elected officials need to hear the will of the people and act on One way you can contribute is donating money to this non-profit organization because without funds they cannot continue to exist and fulfill its goal of making English the national language. Campaigns and petitions cannot exist without money! A bigger step of getting involved would be participating in one of their campaigns or signing a petition to allow for your voice to be heard. If people are even more intrigued by this organization and what it does, they can start making calls and writing letters to their U.S. Representative and Senate members so that the people in charge or making this difference can be aware as well of what the citizens of America want. Having English as the national language will make the United States a stronger country. With the chaos and destruction that is occurring now a day, unity of citizens is a very important factor. There are several problems such as expenses that the country can avoid if they make English the national language. up to the citizens of America to make a change with this long lasting issue. Getting involved with the U.S. English organization dedicated to making English the national language will definitely be a start. A simple donation of a dollar or a call and letter to the White House is all a step to moving forward and achieving the goal. 5 References 08/10/10, M. S. (n.d.). English: a solution in search of a problem. Retrieved February 9, 2017, from https://www.minnpost.com/community-voices/2010/08/official- englishsolution-search-problem Action Center. (2017, April 04). Retrieved April 18, 2017, from https://www.usenglish.org/join- us/action-center/ Crawford, J. (n.d.). Retrieved April 18, 2017, from http://www.languagepolicy.net/archives/question.htm Why English should be the official language of the United States. (n.d.). Retrieved February 9, 2017, from http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2014/dec/31/why-english-should- beofficial-language-united-sta/