Student 1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 5 April 2017 The Growing Issue of Food Waste Many American households are unaware of the effects of food waste. A researcher, David Evans, goes further to suggest that, waste is a compelling any yet hugely under- researched area of interest for social as well as normal households (5). Food waste or food loss is food that is discarded or lost uneaten. The causes of food waste or loss occurs at the stages of production, processing, retailing and consumption. Wastage occurs at all stages of the food supply chain or value chain and the excess ends up in landfills (Chandler). The minimal concern for food waste has caused a surplus of food to go to landfills that could be better used in foodbanks. Companies and households lack awareness on how to efficiently produce and take care of food. Much of the food that is wasted causes environmental and economical damage. Non-engaged stakeholders need to join the fight against food waste to raise awareness, create production plans, and to send left over food to food banks. Food waste has dramatically increased over the past century. After the industrial revolution of the 1800s, food production began to change. Companies and farms began producing a lot more goods in less time than before. Then after World War II, entering the 1950s, food policies began to transform, marking a pivotal point for an upwards growth in food production (Evans). The large increase in food production in America over the past century has led to excess food going to waste. With the abundance of food, American culture began adapting to show less concern for unneeded food going to waste. Change occurred when American culture Student 2 adapted to the heavy amounts of food being produced by the rising food industry. Based on the concepts of supply and demand, the high supply of food shifted the demand, leading to extra food that would go to waste before it could be used. Food waste is then taken to landfills to decompose. The lack of concern with food waste has also caused food production companies to have less effective methods of producing food (Evans). The increase of food waste over the past century has continued to avoid the concerns of most Americans. About a third of the food produced in America is wasted every year (Chandler). Most of the excess food goes to landfills, affecting the ecosystem and well as the economy. When food waste is in a landfill, it is not able to decompose properly due to a lack of air and sunlight. The improper decomposition has caused an excess amount of methane to produce. An article by Johnathan Bloom states that, is about 23 times more potent at trapping heat in our environment than carbon (Bloom). The extra methane gas is emitted into the atmosphere and contributes to global warming (Bloom). Also, much of the food wasted by food companies is perfectly edible food. Companies often determine what produce to sell or throw out based on size ratios. If the food does not fit a certain size or shape they throw the food out, even though there may not be any actual defects in the food. The waste of edible food has had a negative economic impact on companies and households alike, compared to what they could save by being more efficient with food production and consumption 202-204). The effects of food waste on the economy and the ecosystems continue to increase as more food is sent to landfills. Food waste has been known to affect wildlife just as much as humans. During the 1900s, National Park was once famous for its garbage Waste is Trashing the since the trash attracted animals to the dumps for people to watch. Since there were Student 3 designated trash sites, this made it easier for people to know where to go to see the animals, such as the black bears and grizzly bears. Overtime, the National Park Service realized that the food waste that the animals were feeding off of was harmful for the health. In the 1970s, the food waste dumps on in the park were closed after the bear population Waste is Trashing the This example of food waste describes what can happen if food waste is not properly managed. In other areas in America, landfills and dumps are being overfilled with food waste, and work needs to be done to combat the issue. The food waste issue that occurred in Yellowstone is happening all around the county, with waste piles and landfills in each state and most counties being overfilled. Without help combatting the issue, animal life will continue to be affected. Currently, few people in America understand the full extent of the issue of food waste. More need to be involved to raise awareness in communities. There are many Americans still going hungry while the issue of food waste exists. In the past, stakeholders have tried to reduce the amount of food waste and feed the hungry by encouraging companies to donate their unneeded food to food banks. This method ended up being ineffective, because it would cost companies more money and time to donate food, rather than throwing the food out as waste. Another way to avoid food waste is to create gleaning programs for the needy. A study done by Lee offers an effective way to operate a food gleaning service for the poor, without causing expenses to companies (Lee 40). If people continue to avoid confronting the problem of food waste, or do not effective deal with the issue, then landfills will overflow, affecting the ecosystem, atmosphere, and economy. Stakeholders can begin getting involved by raising awareness campaigns, focused on households and individuals. The campaigns would serve to educate households on the issue, and offer advise on how they can help reduce food waste. Another way stakeholders can get involved is by developing plans Student 4 for companies to use to produce food more effectively. Along with the plans, transportation could be provided to companies to transport excess food from the production chains to food banks. If stakeholder join the fight against food waste, much of the needy in America can be provided with food. Non-engaged stakeholders are needed to help raise awareness, create production plans, and send excess food to food banks to combat food waste. Many Americans are unaware of the issue of food waste, and food waste occurs in every aspect of the supply line. Farms, company production lines, and households all need help on how to efficiently deal with food. If non- engaged stakeholders create campaigns to support the issue, then many more households and companies will be reached in America. Teaching individuals to change the way they shop will help to protect against a lot of food waste in the homes. Also, creating production plans for companies will help to improve production lines so companies waste less food. Then by sending trucks to supply chains to pick up excess food, stakeholders can provide a means for extra food to be taken to food banks. The incline of food waste that has occurred over the past 100 years can change with the help of non-engaged stakeholders willing to join the battle. (WC: 1202) Student 5 Works Cited Bloom, Jonathan. Food Dude Backyard Wasted Food. 1 Feb. 2017. Web. 1 April 2017. P., et al. Full Length Article: Economic Impact Assessment of Food Waste Reduction on European Countries through Social Accounting  Resources, Conservation & Recycling, pp. 202-209. 16 Feb. 2017. 11 April 2017. Chandler, Adam. Americans Lead the World in Food The Atlantic. The Atlantic. 15 July 2016. Web. 5 April 2017. Evans, David, et al. A Brief Pre-History of Food Waste and the Social  The Sociological Review, no. S2, 2012, p. 5. 6 April 2017. Food Waste is Trashing the Planet. Take Extinction Off Your Plate. Take Extinction off Your Plate. N.d. 11 April 2017. Lee, Deishin, et al. Combining Two Wrongs to Make Two Rights: Mitigating Food Insecurity and Food Waste through Gleaning  Food Policy, vol. 68, 01 Apr. 2017, pp. 40-52. 11 April 2017.