Al muntaser al sinani ENC 1101 Cat Modlin-Jackson 1/29/2017 College students are always in a constant pressure from balancing between their school work and their out of school life. The majority of college students thinks that the best way to eliminate or reduce this pressure is to overdrink alcohol, this can drive these student to alcohol over consumption problems. Alcohol over consumption results in a great loss in academic performance in their school. This is a serious problem that must be solved since it can cause injuries, property damage, fighting, unprotected sex, rape, suicide, death, and academic performance difficulties. There are many factors in which alcohol consumption affects students, three of these are, health problems related to alcohol consumption, social problems between the students on campus, and responsibility problems due to alcohol consumption disorders. During their life in the university, students needs there mental powers to acquire the information from their lectures and get good grades at the end of each semester. Drinking alcohol causes a lot of issues for the students regarding their health. One of these issues is memory loss which is a big one since student relay on their memory a lot to pass classes. According to drinking among college students: college responsibility for personal students have blackouts or forget where they were and what they have been doing at the time when they were drinking alcohol and having fun, they even forget what they studied earlier that day. In addition a lot of students actually die due to overconsuming alcohol. About 1,400 students between 18 and 24 die yearly due to alcohol poisoning or injuries related to alcohol consumption, and another 500000 have some serious injuries.(2017) Even sleeping and waking up the next day after drinking alcohol, and after blood alcohol concentration (BAC) has returned to zero, there will still be some effects of intoxication appearing on academic performance like low focus levels on exams or during class periods.(2010) Many heavily drinking students experience short term health problems like nausea, hangovers, and vomiting, also some long term issues such as reduction in infection resistance and some diseases like cirrhosis of the liver. All of these health issues are holding the students back and prevent them from getting good grads or even passing their classes. Some students prefer to live on campus due the advantage of having the classes very close and getting easy access to the services. Furthermore living on campus gives them the opportunity to make more friends. The campus life is beautiful, but it can be dangerous if mixed with Excessive drinking, because the last mentioned can contribute to fights, interpersonal conflicts and sexual violence. Every year over 670000 students are physically assaulted or became victims of alcohol related sexual assault by a binge drinker. Moreover some students who are nondrinkers are facing problems like interrupted study time and sleep loss because of other drinking habits. , 61 percent of students living on campus said that they had experienced study or sleep disturbances due to someone drinking, and some of the students had to another student who over consumed alcohol. One of the biggest social problems regarding heavy drinking is involving in unintended sexual activity or sexual harassment. The percentage of having unplanned sex, unprotected sex, and sexual assault can go up to 42 present for frequent drinkers. Sexual assault is very common on college campuses, and it most frequently occur by or to a heavy drinker. Women who experience sexual assault can affected greatly regarding their academic performance. After being sexual assaulted they might face depression or be afraid of going to the collage and attend their classes and they will end up staying at home and fail their classes. As grown up persons, college students have many responsibilities in their college life and their real life, they have to balance between the two. Time management is one responsibility that college students have to take seriously, because they have make sure that they have enough time studding for their school and also enough time for themselves to relax and socialize. Over consuming alcohol leads to time management problems. Alcohol consumption outcomes like blackouts, dizziness and alcohol poisoning are hard to predict. For example alcohol poisoning needs medical care to cure, so if a student had it, he might have to skip class or stop studding to visit a doctor and solve the problem. While drinking students may come up with some ridicules ideas like skipping classes, distorting public properties, and in the worst case scenario committing a sexual harassment crime, which will lead them to the jell. As a result they will get low grades or even get suspended. Some people may say that drinking alcohol will result in more social connections between students instead of creating fights. Yes indeed drinking alcohol with a class mate or a friend and chatting can improve the connection between the two persons, but the problem is when college students misuse alcohol, when drinking alcohol irresponsibly in huge parties. When students get drunk in these big parties they will not be able to control themselves and have fights with other students as a result. All in all, alcohol extensive consumption affects students negatively in many ways, their health, their social interaction with people, and their responsibilities in their school and out of school. All that drag these academic performance to the edge of the danger zoon, and eventually having them failing their academic life or even worse losing their own life. For that, this issue must be considered by universities directors. References Sullivan, Michael, and Ed Risler. Understanding College Alcohol Abuse And Academic Performance: Selecting Appropriate Intervention  Journal Of College Counseling Vol. 5, no 2, Fall. 2002, pp 114-123. Education Full Text (H.W. Wilson), doi: n.e Ezeokoli, Rita, and Ndidi M. Ofole. Measured Effect Of Sexual Activities, Alcohol Consumption, Smoking And Aggression On Health Risk Of Students In Rural Communities In Ikenne,  Journal Of Education And Practice, vol. 6, no. 23, 2015, pp. 30-35. ERIC doi: ne Butler, Adam B., Kama D. Dodge, and Eric J. Faurote. College Student Employment And Drinking: A Daily Study Of Work Stressors, Alcohol Expectancies, And Alcohol  Journal Of Occupational Health Psychology. Vol. 15, 2010, pp. 291-303. Kuntsche, Emmanuel, et al. Bullying And Fighting Among Adolescents--Do Drinking Motives And Alcohol Use  Addictive Behaviors, vol. 32, no. 12, dec. 2007, pp. 3131- 3135. PsycINFO. Doi: ne Howland, Jonathan, et al. Effects of Binge Drinking on College Next-Day Academic Test-Taking Performance and Mood Addiction (Abingdon, England), U.S. National Library of Medicine, Apr. 2010, www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2859622/. Accessed 2 Apr. 2017. Lorant, Vincent, et al. drinking among college students: college responsibility for personal BMC Public Health, BioMed Central, 28 June 2013, bmcpublichealth.biomedcentral.com/articles/10.1186/1471-2458-13-615. Accessed 2 Apr. 2017.