Student 1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Pet-companions as a treatment method for depression and PTSD. Complex mental disorders, such as depression and/or Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder have different treatment methods due to theirs complexity, various reasons that cause them and diverse responses on treatment methods. Since mental disorders are solely personal, the treatment also has to be picked up individually. Depression is a complex disorder which was described in article by National Institute of Mental Health as of the most common mental illness but serious mood disorder, that causes severe symptoms that affect the way people feel, think, and handle their daily activities, such as sleeping, eating, or working. The disorder has similar aspects with Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder. Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder, also known as PTSD, is a mental disorder caused by a shocking and/or life-threatening event, like natural disaster, sexual assault, combat, etc. The similarities between these two mental illnesses are in the way how they affect people. Everyone, despite his or her age, gender and social status is at the risk of developing mental disorders. Depression as well as PTSD may cause trouble sleeping, keeping the mind focused, greater irritability or panic attacks. Moreover, it is possible to have both disorders at the same time or develop as an additional symptom of each other. As was mentioned before, the main issues with mental disorder of a similar spectrum is that they are solemnly personal and require only individual approach and treatment. Therefore, engaged in helping people who suffer from those psychological illnesses stakeholders have different points of view on how those mental disorders should be treated. Variety of treatment Student 2 methods creates disagreements between stakeholders beliefs. Some stakeholders, such as The Center A Place of HOPE believe that their clients need a place to rest and recollect their state of mind to overcome the illnesses. Those stakeholders offer a place such as a sanatorium to people who need to take a break from their daily life and get some rest from the world. In those centers stakeholders offer vary treatments, activities and the most significant feature: isolation from stressful daily life and possible triggers. On the other hand, some stakeholders believe that people with depression and/or PTSD should keep participating in everyday life, learn how to cope with mental disorders and be able to live their life without breaking daily activities. Those stakeholders also offer a treatment called treatment since it engage their clients to overcome their mental issues by having a permanent supporter and companion a pet. As an example, The Human Animal Bond Research Institute and for Warriors actively engaging this type of alternative to help their clients overcome depression and PTSD. This difference in treatment methods between two types of stakeholders causes a conflict in beliefs and a serious dilemma: which treatment method helps better. Since treatment methods for depression and PTSD vary, the difference in stakeholders beliefs is causing disagreements. The Human Animal Bond Research Institute, which is also known as HABRI, has studied and collected scientific evidence, which proves the positive impact of pets on theirs owners mental and physical health. HABRI shares one ideology with for Warriors. Both organizations believe that service animals are able to help people to cope with mental disorders. Furthermore, both stakeholders try to help not only humans, but also save their canines from shelters. for Warriors train rescued canines to provide them to people who suffer from mental issues. Thus, HABRI and for Warriors provide life- Student 3 supporters and rescue dogs from sorrowful fate. Those stakeholders provide their own alternative treatment method to help people who suffer from depression and PTSD. On the contrary, some stakeholders, such as The Center A Place of HOPE or The Refuge believe that people with PTSD or depression need some rest from busy everyday life and avoid triggering moments as much as possible in a quiet place. These organizations believe that complete rest and some activities away from the modern commotion can help their clients to recollect their state of mind to overcome mental disorders. As a result, the differences between beliefs and the way that they approach the question of curing mental illnesses cause a conflict of interests. The Center A Place of HOPE strongly believe that their treatment method helps people. Surely, a peaceful sanatorium with everyday activities and treatments can help to cope with mental illnesses. According to the official website and some unreliable sources, sanatoriums help people with PTSD and Depression to overcome mental illnesses. Nevertheless, no official researches have been found to prove the positive effect of isolated sanatoriums. In fact, according to the article Clinician-Identified Depression in Community Settings: Concordance with Structured-Interview by Ramin Mojtabai, most people who have been diagnosed with depression afraid to ask for help or visit a psychiatrist due to the fear of being socially judged or misunderstood. Considering this fact, isolated sanatoriums may scare a decent amount of people with mental disorders to ask for help. In addition to that, Carlos Nordt, Wulf and Christoph Lauber made a research and summarized the information they found in the work of Mental Health Professionals Toward People With Schizophrenia and Major In their research they pointed at the fact that most psychiatrists and people related to medicine and psychology are tend to have stigmatized opinions towards their patients. Therefore, people with Student 4 mental disorders simply afraid to ask for help because of the fear of being judged. Considering this fact, the reliability of isolated sanatoriums and similar types of treatment methods significantly decreases. In contrast to decreased reliability of The Center A Place of HOPE treatment methods, the alternative treatment that for Warriors and HABRI provides has more positive effects on their health. According to Erica Friedmann and her work effects of pet ownership on some aspects of human health and psychological treatment for PTSD and depression that includes a pet ownership helps patients to cope with their psychological issues and that this treatment method has a better chance to cure mental disorders. The alternative treatment, which is having a friend, support and a companion at the same time as a pet, that the stakeholders provide, helps the patient to overcome mental disorders and increases the possibility of recovering from psychological illnesses. The psychological help that service pets render increases the chance to recover from mental disorders. Furthermore, according to U.S. Department of Health and Human Services statistics, companion animals improve mental and physical health (pic 1.). When comparing the two treatment methods, it is clear that the alternative treatment method has more adantages than the treatment that includes sanatoriums and isolated centers. There are at least three main benefits of the alternative treatment method compare to the non- engaged stakeholder treatment. The first advantage between the two treatments is that the alternative treatment method has extra credible sources to prove the positive impact of pet- companions, while the treatment method that includes have no official records of physical and mental health improvements. The second advantage, as was mentioned previously, is in the fact that since some people with depression and/or PTSD might possibly be afraid to visit those Student 5 healing centers or ask for help, while pet-companions will not cause any social judgments or misunderstandings. The third advantage is that the alternative treatment method does not require withdrawing from daily routine and disturbing normal life, as it does isolated sanatoriums. Additionally, as Becky Chung states it in her article, people who chose a pet- companion as a treatment method are able to get help and support whenever they feel the necessity in it and be able to cope with triggering situations and issues on their own. The article provides an evidence of that the people who suffer from mental disorders are able to reduce negative effect of their psychological issues and actually cure the illnesses. In conclusion, the best solution in order to find a compromise between two stakeholders consists of two-step actions. The first step to achieve a compromise for the non-engaged stakeholder will be to make healing center less isolated, so people will not feel like they are locked at a sanatorium and socially judged because of that, or be urged to withdraw form their normal life. Next step is to that the non-engaged stakeholder should include the alternative treatment method as a part of the treatment, so the patients will have a companion and supporter on the daily basis, which will also be associated with a calming and relaxing experience at the healing center. These steps to the better solution will show to the society that people with mental disorders do not have to be kept apart from society or that these people are dangerous, in fact, since pet-companions are included in the picture, it will underline the fact that people with mental issues need more love and support to overcome their issues. Student 6 Works Cited Becky Chung, The Veteran And The Labradoodle: How A Service Dog Helped A TEDActive Attendee Step Back Out Into The World, TEDBlog, 4 September, http://blog.ted.com/the-veteran-and-the- labradoodle/ Friedmann, E., Katcher, A. H., Lynch, J. J., & Thomas, S. A. (1980). Animal companions and one-year survival of patients after discharge from a coronary care unit. Public Health Reports, 95(4), 307- 312. K9s for Warriors, 2011, web, https://www.k9sforwarriors.org/ Human-Animal Bond Research Institute, HABRI, web. https://habri.org/ PTSD: National Center for PTSD, U.S. Departament of Veterans Affairs, web. http://www.ptsd.va.gov/index.asp Mojtabai Ramin, Clinician-Identified Depression in Community Settings: Concordance with Structured Interview Diagnoses, Psychotherapy and Psychosomatics, Karger Publishers, 27 Mar 2013, web. http://www.karger.com/Article/Abstract/345968 O. Paige, R. H. Moos, J. W. Finney, PTSD treatment and 5-year remission among patients with substance use and posttraumatic stress disorders, Journal of Consulting and Clinical Psychology 71.2, pr, 2003, 410-14. PsycARTICLES, web, http://psycnet.apa.org/journals/ccp/71/2/410/ U.S. Department of Health and Human Services flyer, web,