Student 1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Art Education and Its Importance The arts have power. Art education is a source a creativity, and students can pursue it in any direction. Art is an accepting subject and should be valued as high as other subjects, it brings cultures together and even creates businesses (Americans for the Arts). Many stakeholders do not recognize the importance of art education, they do not realize that art is just as important as subjects such as math, science, or technology. Art deserves to be valued as much as math and science because it teaches lessons other classes cannot, compliments other classes, and inspires students. A common misconception is that art education is a waste of taxpayer money, this idea first came into play in the but the debate on value in education is still continued today (Addison). According to a website created by University of North Texas graduates in art history, much of education was focused on math and science, in the twentieth century, possibly due to current events. For example, the launch of Sputnik increased the incentive for Americans to dedicate all their time to math and science. Towards the end of the twentieth century, the concern of American education grew; with the reform to improve schools came the arts debate once again, and whether the arts would help improve the schools. of Art One huge step for art education was in 2002 after the pass of the No Child Left Behind Act (NCLB), this act was made to close the gap between success in students who came from Student 2 different areas and had different income rates. Part of the NCLB was its recognition of arts as equal to English, math, and science. (Ruppert) Despite this, art education has decreased due to budget cuts and standardized testing (United States of America). Sandra S. Ruppert states in Critical Evidence: How the Arts Benefit Student Achievement that when schools adopted art-integrated classes, student performance has improved (Ruppert). Randy Cohen of Americans for the Arts also stated that students who participate in art have a a lower chance of dropping out and higher grade point averages (Cohen). Lois Hetland, Professor at the Massachusetts College of Art and Design, argues there is no direct evidence to tell that engaging in the arts increases performances in school. Hetland states that there is no way of knowing whether students are succeeding because of the arts, or because successful students just happen to engage in the arts. (Hetland) It is hard to prove that the arts are what caused increase in performance, but this is a common outcome of many studies; such as the fact that students who are involved in the arts have higher SAT scores (Ruppert). There is even evidence to suggest that many Nobel Peace Prize winners were involved in some type of art, Because it is hard to tell whether the studies prove that art equals academic success, the debate for art education continues. Even though these may not be correlated, the arts compliment other classes by teaching lessons in a different way or, for example, giving a visual representation to a history lesson; complimenting does not necessarily mean it improves grades, but it may help teaching and learning (Hetland). The relationship between art and good grades is not the only argument that art education brings up and conclusion does not limit the abilities of art education. Heltand goes on by saying that the arts allow students to connect rational with the (Heltand), a connection not influenced by any other subject. The Student 3 Committee on the Arts and the Humanities explained the arts compliment other subjects, lead to creative thinking, and support brain development (United States of America). In Robert F. Seismic Shifts in the Education Landscape: What Do They Mean for Arts Education and Arts Education Policy he lists the ten things that art education teaches to students. The list included the fact that art teaches students how to solve problems with more than one answer, acknowledge more than one perspective, recognize the impact of small differences and details, and express what cannot be verbalized. (Sabol) Students should learn that the of our language do not define the limits of our (Sabol), meaning just because something cannot be said, does not mean it cannot be expressed artistically; this type of experience cannot come from any other source. Americans for the arts is an organization that advocates for art education to be available in all schools; the organization has a multitude of sub-groups with more specific goals. (Americans for the Arts) On the ArtsBlog page, a page with art-related posts, the nonprofit supplies a post titled 10 Reasons to Support the Arts by Randy I. Cohen. In this post, along with his comment earlier mentioned about students involved in the arts tend to have higher grade point averages, Cohen states that the art is a source of inspiration that benefits the economy. argument that art is good for the economy is backed up by the statement that arts and culture supplies 4.2% of the gross domestic product. Cohen also states art attracts tourists and is an export industry, both are aspects that benefit the United States economy. Art and creativity have been the sources of the start of businesses throughout the United States, employing roughly 2.9 million people. (Cohen) Robert F. Sabol wrote that they made creative discoveries that might not have been made had they not accessed the habits of mind and neurological pathways in which engagement in the arts (Sabol). The arts, in this case, Student 4 have inspired the winners. The arts also inspire through business opportunities, as the arts create new businesses often in America (Cohen). Currently, the drop-out rates in America are extremely high, in some areas the rate can reach up to fifty percent. The debate about art education has also continued as high school alumni in America are becoming more generalized, and less creative. The Committee explains in a publication about art education, titled Reinvesting in Arts Education: Winning Future Through Creative Schools, that employers are expecting more from applicants; people in the work force need more than just common knowledge, they need something that will set them apart from the rest. Students who are preparing to enter the work force need help, they need inspiration. Because more and more high school graduates are becoming generalized, art education is more important now than ever. (United States of America) Education concerns that do not address art tend to be centered around science, technology, engineering, and math based classes. The quality of education in those classes in America are rising, but compared to other countries there is still some work to do. Seeks of improvement include the teachers and making the subjects look more appealing to students. The United States is considered to perform poorly compared to other countries in these subjects. (Gonzalez) Art may be the subject for the students in the United States that fail in math or science based classes. Because art is beneficial to the economy, it is not a bad idea for art to be valued as highly as other core subjects (Americans for the Arts). According to Lois Hetland, there are multiple ways to add art into education, including art classes or implementing art into the curriculum. Either way, art education should be a prominent part of American schools. Students should be given the option to pursue art, or learn about art through other classes. There are even goals that can be achieved through art classes that Student 5 Hetland calls the studio habits. These goals act as a direction for art teachers to direct their classes in, in order to achieve the best quality of art education. (Hetland) Art should be valued as much as science, technology, engineering, and math; this can be achieved by advocating for art as much as the other core subjects. Through creativity and expressing themselves, students can grow through art education. Lois Hetland states that the arts are essential for thinking and communicating, because of this art should be highly valued (Hetland). If schools need motivation, and many students are not succeeding in the current subjects, they should be offered the opportunity to pursue the arts. The arts teach unique lessons, inspire students, and compliment other subjects. value should be recognized, because it is crucial for American education. (WC: 1399) Student 6 Works Cited Americans for the Arts. Americans for the Arts, 2015. americansforthearts.org. Accessed 21 Jan. 2017. Addison, Nicholas, Lesley Burgess, John Steers, and Jane Trowell. Understanding Art Education: Engaging Reflexively with Practice. London: Routledge, 2010. Taylor & Francis EBooks. Informa UK Limited, Jan. 2010. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Cohen, Randy. Ten Reasons to Support the Arts. Americans for the Arts, 4 Mar. 2016. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. http://blog.americansforthearts.org/2016/03/04/10-reasons-to-support-the-arts- in-2016 Gonzalez, H. B., &Kuenzi, J. J. (2012). Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (STEM) Education: A primer. Congressional Research Service. Retrieved from http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/misc/R42642.pdf. Hetland, Lois. the Goals and Outcomes of Art Interview by Rafael Heller. Phi Delta Kappan Apr. 2017: Vol. 98 Issue 7 p15-20. Web. History of Art  History of Art Education. University of North Texas, n.d. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. <https://ntieva.unt.edu//HistoryofArtEd/index.html>. Ruppert, Sandra S. Evidence: How the Arts Benefit Student Eric Institute of Education Sciences. MetLife Foundation, 30 Nov. 2005. Web. 9 Apr. 2017. Sabol, F. Robert. Shifts in the Education Landscape: What Do They Mean for Arts Educations and Arts Education Arts Education Policy Review 115. (2013): 33- 45. Taylor & Francis Group. Web. 9 Apr. 2017. Student 7 United States of America. Committee on the Arts and Humanities. Reinvesting in Arts Education: Winning Future Through Creative Schools. Committee on the Arts and Humanities, 6 May 2011. Web. 9 Apr. 2017.