Lankford 1 Caroline Lankford Professor Staiger ENC1102 15 April 2017 The Benefits of Napping for USF Students According to the National Sleep Foundation, Americans are becoming more and more sleep deprived (1). Nowhere is this more evident than among U.S. college students. This unique group of newbie adults must learn to juggle the responsibilities of work, school, family, friends, and health for the first time on their own. Unfortunately, as a consequence, health is often the first compromise. One significant way is through sleep loss. Students may stay up very late finishing homework or catching up with a friend, only to wake up for a morning class or early work shift the next day feeling exhausted and feeble minded. Learning to find a balance and manage time wisely can prove challenging for many. Although it may seem impossible at times, there is a way for these students to meet all of expectations while staying fully rested. In order to optimize learning and cognitive performance in school, students attending the University of South Florida (USF) should find a quiet place to lie down and take a 20-30 minute nap daily. The major benefit that napping offers is that it stabilizes mental well-being. A study was conducted by the University of Michigan where psychologists Jennifer Goldschmied, Philip Cheng, Kathryn Kemp, Lauren Caccamo, and Julia work concluded several benefits of napping on the mind (1). Research showed napping to be correlated with an increased positive mood, improved immune functioning, and a reduction in sleepiness and fatigue (Goldschmied et al. 4). Additionally, part of the research specifically aimed to observe the impact of daytime sleeping on emotional control. Results from this area indicated greater loss of emotional control Lankford 2 in subjects who did not nap versus those who did (Goldschmied et al. 5). Napping demonstrated a decrease in self-reported impulsivity and an increased tolerance for frustration, while those who did not nap showed the opposite pattern (Goldschmied et al. 5). These findings were confirmed by another academic article published in the Journal of Sleep Research by psychologists Julian Lim, June Lo, and Michael Chee (2). Overall, these results indicated that napping partially reverses the detrimental effects of sleep limitation on processing speed (Lim et al. 3). Emphasis was placed on the importance of taking rest breaks in situations where sleep loss is unavoidable (Lim et al. 3). As was touched upon earlier, college students are notorious for having terrible sleeping schedules due to the demands of rigorous courses and new responsibilities as they transition from high school to adulthood. This experience can even be upsetting at times. Napping, however, has the potential to equip USF students with the tools needed to thrive academically. Being able to have a positive mood despite adverse circumstances, avoiding sickness by maintaining a robust immune system, escaping sleepiness during class, and maintaining emotional control in the midst of stress could benefit every USF student. Behavior that is guided by these traits in addition to low levels of impulsivity and increased tolerance for frustration will likely be reflected in better grades and success in relationships with others. Another benefit of napping includes improved cardiovascular health. Daytime sleep may be used to regulate autonomic cardiovascular patterns in young adults according to a study conducted by psychologists Nicola Cellini, Lauren Whitehurst, Elizabeth McDevitt, and Sara Mednick, at the University of California (2). The study measured the heart rate variability during daytime naps of a sample of healthy young adults. Results suggested that beat-by-beat resting heart rate values decreased and normalized as a result of napping (Cellini et al. 3). This could be Lankford 3 promising news to at-risk young adult populations dealing with high blood pressure and other autonomic cardiac activity related issues .With the stress of college, high blood pressure is becoming more and more prevalent in young adults (Cellini et al. 2). Napping could be a solution to keeping it under control for USF students. In order for USF students to get the most out of napping, naps should be limited to once a day for about 20-30 minutes. It is a common misconception that since a single nap is good for health, more must be better. Psychologists Elizabeth McDevitt, William Alaynick, and Sara Mednick, conducted a study concerning the frequency of napping for the University of California that clarifies this fallacy, however (1). They monitored the sleep-wake patterns of a sample of people for one week during daytime napping to observe daytime sleep architecture (1). What they found was that greater nap frequency was correlated with increased Stage 1 sleep and decreased slow wave sleep (SWS) (McDevitt et al. 2). This is problematic since Stage 1 sleep, also referred to as drowsy sleep, is characterized by biologic restlessness (McDevitt et al. 2). SWS, on the other hand, is the stage that contributes to the feelings of rest and refreshment normally associated with sleep (McDevitt et al. 2). The conclusion overall was that frequent napping was associated with increased levels of reported sleepiness throughout the day (McDevitt et al. 1). Therefore, one nap a day was the recommended amount, according to McDevitt and her collogues (3). This is important information for USF students who wish to boost their levels of productivity during the day through daytime sleeping. While nap taking reduces sleepiness in general, it must be done in moderation so as to avoid the counterproductive losses associated with napping too frequently. The duration of a nap is equally important to consider. Tomohide Kubo and others published a journal article study through the National Institute of Occupational Safety and Health specifically dedication to the topic of napping Lankford 4 duration (3). In particular, this study focused on how varying nap lengths impacted early morning performance (Kubo et al. 3). Performance was tested across many variables, including vigilance, logical reasoning, fatigue, and sleepiness (Kubo et al. 3). The results revealed that a 30 minute nap sustained early morning performance better than a 60 minute nap (Kubo et al. 4).The neurobehavioral ramifications of better early morning performance could greatly impact USF students who have early morning classes and/or exams. This is also applicable to USF students who must wake up early to commute to school or even those students who may work an early job. Taking a 20-30 minute nap once a day can greatly improve the mental, immune, and cardiovascular health of USF students. This practice can be utilized by all students, but especially those who often lose sleep due to staying up late studying or socializing. Procrastination and poor judgment lead many students to stay up very late into the night, ultimately resulting in sleep deprivation. This can be detrimental to the health and success as a scholar. Napping is easy to do and requires nothing except a relatively quiet and dark space to lie down. The reward of staying well-rested and healthy throughout college is overall success in the pursuit of a degree, and subsequently, a career. Lankford 5 Works Cited Cellini, Nicola, Lauren N. Whitehurst, Elizabeth McDevitt, and Sara C.Mednick. Heart Rate Variability during Daytime Naps in Healthy Adults: Autonomic Profile and Short-Term  Psychophysiology, vol. 53, no. 4, Apr. 2016, pp. 473-481. EBSCOhost. Accessed March 28, 2017. Goldschmied, Jennifer R., Philip Cheng, Kathryn Kemp, Lauren Caccamo, and Julia Roberts. Napping to modulate frustration and impulsivity: A pilot  Personality and Individual Differences, vol. 86, Nov. 2015, pp. 164-67. ScienceDirect. Accessed 28 Mar. 2017. Kubo, Tomohide, et al. Impact of Nap Length, Nap Timing and Sleep Quality on Sustaining Early Morning  Industrial Health, vol. 45, no. 4, 2007, pp. 552-563. EBSCOhost, doi:10.2486/indhealth.45.552. Lim, Julian, June C. Lo, and Michael W. L. Chee. Assessing the Benefits of Napping and Short Rest Breaks on Processing Speed in  Journal of Sleep Research, vol. 26, no. 2, Apr. 2017, pp. 219-226. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1111/jsr.12497. McDevitt, Elizabeth A., William A. Alaynick, and Sara C. Mednick . The Effect of Nap Frequency on Daytime Sleep  Physiology & Behavior, vol. 107, no. Tufts University special section, 20 Aug. 2012, pp. 40-44. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.physbeh.2012.05.021. Napping Benefits & Tips, National Sleep Foundation. Accessed 14 Apr. 2017.