Asiya Ahmed Ahmed 1 Prof. Poston ENC 1102 16 April 2017 The Muslim Ban? The Muslim Ban. Immigration has contributed to the colonization and establishment of the United States of America in a plethora of ways. This nation was manifested on immigrants and continues to thrive due to them. Throughout history, issues regarding immigration policies have continuously elicited controversy . The 45th President, Donald Trump, released an executive order on immigration, early this year, which authorized a ban that prohibited individuals of selected countries from entering the country. The order received some support, yet battled with a lot of opposition and outrage, specifically when protests erupted. One can evidently justify that President executive order on immigration is not only unconstitutional but inhumane by using rhetorical strategies such as logos, pathos and ethos. The order discriminates against Muslims of the religion, Islam. However, not being affected directly by this order does not make it insignificant. Being privileged or having not experienced the prejudice that others do makes the issue more important for you have the voice, the same one too many have been punished for using. The order may not affect individuals explicitly but it compromises the foundation of the country, human rights and decency, and morals. The initial executive order, released on January 27th, created a substantially large legal and political crisis, just in the first week of his presidency. The order, titled the Nation from Foreign Terrorist Entry into the United included multiple points on immigration reform. The immediate executive order states other actions, Executive Order 13769 suspended for 90 days the entry of certain aliens from seven countries: Iran, Iraq, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria, and Yemen. These are countries that had already been identified as presenting heightened concerns about terrorism and travel to the United (The White House). In other words, Individuals from seven the countries including Syria, Iran, Iraq, Sudan, Libya, Somalia and Yemen have been barred entry into the United States for Asiya Ahmed Ahmed 2 Prof. Poston ENC 1102 16 April 2017 90 days. The order then states that Order 13769 also suspended the USRAP for 120 The U.S. refugee resettlement was cut in half and the U.S. Refugee Admissions Program (USRAP) has been suspended for 120 days. In addition, the order indefinitely bans Syrian refugees from entering the United States. The executive order was revised on March 17th, removing Iraq from the countries affected. The White House states that Iraq has taken steps to increase their cooperation with the United States in the vetting of Iraqi  and there is a significant presence of U.S. forces in  Although the order claims that it does provide a basis for discriminating for or against members of any particular nor does it affect United States citizens, multiple cases have shown that claim clearly at fault. Following the release of the initial order, visitors, permanent residents with green cards, students, and refugees not from the countries, were halted at U.S many forced to return overseas to Egypt, DubaI, Germany, and more. Uprisings quickly sprung across the nation and lawyers stationed at airports, taking on cases, while citizens marched in the streets. Federal Judges and the Department of Homeland Security declared rulings that blocked some of the events happening in airports such as green card holder and individuals being sent back, however, it is questionable whether the rulings were complied with (Stack NYTimes). Demonstrations continued for weeks with crowds shouting chants such as hate, no fear, refugees are welcome and ban, no referring also to a different part of the executive order on immigration released. Although Administration has denied that the order is religiously discriminating or a ban on Muslims, it stipulates the contrary. This matters to every single human, for not only are constitutional rights being explicitly compromised such as the first freedom of religion clause but human rights are violated. The Trump Administration has decided to evade such issues by announcing it as a ban based off nationality not religion. The American Civil Asiya Ahmed Ahmed 3 Prof. Poston ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Liberties Union (ACLU) states the to discriminate on the basis of religion, even hidden behind pretextual religious neutrality, violates the Establishment Clause and Equal Protection The President has openly demanded for a Muslim ban throughout his presidency and with the history of this proposal and the continuous negative claims and focus of Muslims in his public statements, the objective has been further proven. In addition, President Trump and his administration have also unequivocally advocated preferring Christian refugees over those of the Islamic faith (HumanRightsFirst). When have we allowed it right for discrimination and prejudice to thrive in our country? America: Land of the Free has been rendered false, for we have turned away not only our own citizens, our own people, but groups of people in need of aid literally struggling to survive. When have we allowed constitutional rights, the foundation and rock of this country, to be so unquestionably violated? It matters to you, because it matters to Muslims. Whether directly affected such if your neighbor, family member or friend is muslim and/ or a refugee, or not, it must be of importance to you . During a press conference, Nihad Awad, the National Executive Director of the Council on Relations (CAIR), proclaimed, that of our darkest moments was during World War II when we turned away Jewish refugees seeking our protection. We cannot allow religious bigotry to affect our willingness and ability to welcome those fleeing violence and The orders are a horrid confirmation of Islamophobia in this country. For the issue of terrorism should be tackled not based on race or religion, but on data and facts. He said, ban does not make our country safer. Instead, it serves to stigmatizes Muslim refugees and the entire American Muslim community. It will hand a propaganda tool to our enemies who promote the false narrative of an American war on Following the release of this order, crime has spiked not only nationally, but globally, for people have seemed to reason that their hatred is normal and alright too many cases of bigotry and hate crimes have Asiya Ahmed Ahmed 4 Prof. Poston ENC 1102 16 April 2017 gone unnoticed by the public for the media has never and continues to not shed light on pressing and serious issues such as that of Islamophobia. This must be dealt with, for silence has never been and never will be the answer to any problem, evident from history. American values, law, and order have all been compromised, yet there are still many actions the public can still take to fight back on this executive order. First, there are numerous exceptional advocacy organizations to help Muslims and other refugees during this time that one can contact for information or to offer donations. CUNY CLEAR (Creating Law Enforcement Accountability & Responsibility), located in New York City, offers free legal services and Your workshops at Muslim student associations, mosques, and community centers. CAIR, which has multiple chapters in various cities, combats cases of discrimination and works to solve them through negotiation, public pressure, mediation and legal action. The ACLU handles cases on privacy, discrimination based on race, gender, sexual orientation or disability, police misconduct, censorship in schools or libraries, and their legal services and workshops are free as well. All of these organizations are and are present to ease struggles and battle all of which accept donations. In addition to contacting organizations, another effective action that fuels change is contacting local legislators. If never made such a call and are unaware of what to say on the call, sample speeches are provided by Muslim Matters and a few other organizations. Urge local elected officials, such as mayors, city council members and school boards, to publicly challenge President executive orders on Muslims, immigrants, and and to fight for those being unjustly victimized call them out to stand up for what is right. Lastly, the simplest action one can take is to go out and support those affected during marches and protests taking place in local cities. Show those targeted that they are not alone in the most direct and empowering way. We are one. As the chants go, take one, they take us Asiya Ahmed Ahmed 5 Prof. Poston ENC 1102 16 April 2017 One can explicitly justify that President executive order on immigration is not only unconstitutional but inhumane. The order clearly discriminates against Muslims. However, not being affected by this order does not make it unimportant. The order may not affect individuals explicitly but it compromises the foundation of the country, morals and human rights and decency. Just as any other prejudice, this must be challenged. There is a piece of action for everyone to take, for this nation has to be unified in its efforts to be truly free. Asiya Ahmed Ahmed 6 Prof. Poston ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Works Cited Combating  CAIR New York . N.p., n.d. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. Executive Order Protecting The Nation From Foreign Terrorist Entry Into The United  The White House . The United States Government, 06 Mar. 2017. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. 50 Ways to Practice  PROJECT LOVE . N.p., 14 Feb. 2016. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Jbastidas. What Is DNA, a Gene, a Chromosome and a Genome PotatoGENE . N.p., n.d. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Naeem, Nabeelah. Press  CAIR Council on Relations CAIR . N.p., n.d. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. Stack, Liam. Executive Order on Immigration: What We Know and What We  The New York Times . The New York Times, 29 Jan. 2017. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Tell Your Representatives: Say No to Ban on Muslims & Shutdown of  TAKE ON HATE . N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Executive Order On Immigration,  NPR . NPR, 31 Jan. 2017. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. Refugee and Immigration Executive  Human Rights First . N.p., n.d. Web. 14 Apr. 2017.