Nipper 1 Taylor Nipper Brendan Jackson ENC 1101 4-5-17 Dissociation and its Disorders Dissociation is defined as the disconnection or separation of one thing from another, or the state of being disconnected. In a world where mental disorders are the topic of much research and attention, the possibilities seem almost endless, and we have no shortage of cases to study. One study shows that 18.5% of the world population is suffering from a mental illness of some sort. Illnesses such as anxiety and depression are two of the most common, and while their relevance and legitimacy have been proven, diseases of the dissociative nature sometimes are written off. As a disease is newly introduced to the psychological realm, many people often describe it as as it get the coverage it deserves. However, for dissociative mental illnesses, there are many causes for the symptoms and various ways of treatment. Dissociative disorders are naturally occurring phenomena that have been documented in numerous parts of the world and in patients with a variety of symptoms and previous traumas. It is important that people are educated on this fascinating category of disorders as it will remain controversial for years to come. Although dissociative disorders were earlier viewed as being iatrogenic with little validity, both doctors in the field pf psychology/psychiatry and the Nipper 2 general public have since learned that the disease is in fact legitimate and can be studied as well as treated. When people are faced with an overwhelmingly traumatic event, they will sometimes turn to dissociation to evade that stressor. Dissociation can be described as splitting the event from the conscious mind (Prerost 1). In this case, the anxiety becomes too much to cope with and the patient experiences a loss of memory in relation to the trauma. The three types of dissociative disorders include dissociative amnesia, dissociative identity disorders, and depersonalization/derealization disorder. A patient is diagnosed with dissociative amnesia when they are limited to that as their only symptom. The patient is unable to remember information regarding trauma, but it cannot be written off as forgetfulness. Instead, it needs to be recognized as a defense mechanism to escape the stressor. Identity disorder is also referred to as multiple personality disorder; the person will have at least two distinct personalities and it is common for the patient to be unaware of the personalities while having the ability to change at the drop of a pin. Depersonalization/derealization is characterized by the perception of the physical environment being unreal or strange. During this change in perception, it is reported that everything seems different, as if it were a dream or fantasy. One of the strongest predictors of dissociation is trauma, particularly in childhood. People with dissociative disorders most likely have faced some type of distress including but not limited to rape, a physical or mental accident, combat, incest, or a natural disaster. Symptoms of these illnesses can include detachment from self and emotions, memory loss and amnesia, perception of people and things around you as distorted and unreal, anxiety, depression, suicidal thoughts, and the inability to cope with daily stressors. Treatment can Nipper 3 range from 1-on-1 counselling that most likely will last for several years, to clinical research trials which attempted to the patient. In a clinical research article by the Department of Psychology at Towson University, the researchers attempted to treat patients using a The participants for this study included the patients and their therapists, upon consenting to participate, the patient was given a series of confidential online surveys adopted from a study of borderline personality disorder (Cronin el al. 4). By using this affective bond and focusing on agreement of goals and tasks between the therapist and the patient, the researchers found that the therapeutic alliance was significantly correlated with fewer symptoms and better overall function (Cronin et al. 9). Using this as a reference to create new treatments for other illnesses strengthens the comprehensive knowledge doctors and professionals have in this field. It has been said that multiple personality disorder is just a construction of problems from childhood and their consequences in adulthood (Leudar, Sharrock). It has also been said that dissociative disorders are a type of iatrogenic disorder meaning that they are relating to an illness caused by medical examination or treatment. Ian Hacking, a Princeton graduate wrote that a traumatized person can develop these multiple identities in therapy, and even more alarming, some critics say that that the memories of sexual or physical traumas resurface in therapy (Leudar, Sharrock). However, the proponents of dissociative disorders argue that it is a true condition with the first detailed account dating back to 1791 (Tracy 1). This study was on a 20-year-old German woman who began to speak perfect French, when she was the she remembered everything she did, but when she was the she denied any knowledge of the other. In the the diagnosis of dissociative identity disorder Nipper 4 rose drastically when the 1973 book Sybil came out (Tracy 1). Between 1991 and 1997, over 500 cases were admitted to a dissociative disorder treatment center in Texas. To add to this, dissociative disorders were published for the first time in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental disorders in 1952, listed as psychoneurotic disorders (Tracy 1). The term dissociation was introduced as a class of disorders in the DSM-III in 1980 as the science around the topic evolved. To conclude, dissociative disorders are obviously something that should be on our radar; although some people believe in the disease when it first came about, research and experimentation has led to data that be refuted. As stated before, dissociative type disorders are almost always developed during childhood and due to some kind of traumatic event or PTSD. Some people used to believe that it was an exaggerated effort for attention that stemmed from other disorders (anxiety, depression, derealization) and was made worse by treatment. However, over the last few decades, copious amounts of data have been collected on dissociation and its disorders that is accurate, relevant, significant despite earlier or uneducated ideals that the disease is invalid. Treating this disease is important because with the increase in terrorism, crime rates and overall negativity in our world today, our children are going to be exposed to it more than ever. It is important that we are aware of this class of disorders as it comes with legitimate hardships that need and deserve attention. Works Cited Nipper 5