Javon Hodges Modline-jackson ENC 1101 4/10/2017 Parental knowledge of the importance of a college degree can directly impact their children in the process of graduating and obtaining a degree by provided help whenever needed on a Financial, Emotional, and Academic bases. America has always been one of the more advanced and civilized countries in our world for some time now. We the people, of America sort of live in our own little bubble which is pictured to be perfect and the Holy Grail for many foreigners but little do they know, the grass always greener on the other side. The biggest issue of the country we live in today is that many minority families are falling really behind In terms of holding a high end job and maintaining a successful lifestyle. This begins to take place a very young age. While most white Americans earned their family fortune early on and learned to survive in this newly colonized America. The minorities who lived here were not welcomed and were held at a significant disadvantage by Native Americans early on. Our world has significantly changed but minorities, mainly black people living in urban areas, seemed to teach the importance of college to their youth. Kids growing up usually want to do anything more than being just like their parents. Parental knowledge of the importance of a college degree can drastically impact their overall success in college or even life at that matter. According to and article, Parents at Step One in the Freshman Engineering College can be very difficult Freshman year and even more difficult for first generation students attempting to conquer the next four years of obtaining a degree. The authors of this article suggested that the parents of these first generation student can advocate on the behalf of their college kids by learning all the little things a parent should know about college and walk this new path all the way through their first year. One of the main stresses of an average first year student in college is figuring out how to productively manage their financial accounts. Parents who have first-hand personally experienced this problem can understand the things us freshman go through. Parents who are knowledgeable of this and understand how tight things can get in college usually are more lenient with paying bills and other needs in order to make the college process just that much easier. According to and Research article association between neighborhoods and educational achievement, a systematic review and These authors suggests that a combination of a unhealthy living habits, and a consistency of watching after negative role models in combination with uneducated parents is the main cause of kids giving up academically in school. All of these things listed by these researchers each plays their turn of stress in a life. Imagine stepping back into the shoes of your once college freshman self and think about how confused, excited, and filled with mixed emotions you were. Well you the only one feeling that way. The majority of college freshman students felt the exact same feeling. Speaking for myself now, I want to stay latched onto my friends from high school so I kept a good distance from contacting them on the regular, so at that point I was all on my own with no one to call. Then I soon thought to myself, not give my parents a Talking to someone I familiar with was such a great feeling and gave me confidence and inspiration to go out and have fun. This was nice knowing I had someone to call whenever I became a little too emotionally overwhelmed and just needed a familiar voice to talk to. According to and research, of Parental Encouragement on achievement motivation of They suggest that parental encouragement on motivating their kids is the single most important aspect of influencing a overall success. In other words, the higher the level of parental encouragement, better the achievement motivation of the student. The last and final aspect I would like draw upon parents can influence their children academically. At the end of the road, every graduate student receives the exact same paper by the ones who put in the most work academically will be the ones who are able to do more with their degree. According to article, Generation College Students: Motivations and Support argues that parents who stay circulated in the lives of their kids from early on and monitor their activity closely, are aware of the things they get into. Study habits start early on, and for those of us who have never had someone to teach them to us early on have to quickly adjustor expect to fail. But every kid in college have a mom or dad they can call on too whenever in time of need. Well According to Stephen research article, Effects of Relationships With Mentors on College stated that every college student does not have the luxury of talking to their parents when in time of need, therefore they suggest bonding strong ties with peers and mentors who you can positively look up to. Personally I have never had my father in my life but that stop me from becoming a man. Many college students have to go through college without any guidance and are forced to figure it out all on their own. Although this is very difficult, at the same time very possible. For the ones who do actually manage to make it through all on their own, all hats should be tipped to them. This Research was conducted, in hopes of drawing attention upon the main obstacle hindering minorities from reaching their full potential. If attention is drawn towards this subject and parents realize what they can do to better their younger generation, our society can then truly strive towards equality. Charles, Camille Z. Roscigno, Vincent J. Torres, Kimberly C. inequality and college attendance: The mediating role of parental In Social Science Research 2007 36(1):329-352 doi: 10.1016/j.ssresearch.2006.02.004 Yamamura, Erica K. Martinez, Melissa A. Saenz, Victor B. beyond high school expectations: examining responsibility for increasing Latina/o college High School Journal. Spring, 2010, Vol. 93 Issue 3, p126, 23 p. Budny, Dan D. Paul, Cheryl A. Newborg, Beth B. Parents at Step One in the Freshman Engineering International Journal of Engineering Pedagog, Vol. 4 Issue 2, 2014,p10- 17, 8p. doi: 10.3991/ijep.v4i2.3365 Curry, Katherine A. Jean-Marie, Adams, Curt M. Networks and Parent Motivational Educational Administration Quarterly; Dec2016, Vol. 52 Issue 5, p841- 877, 37p DOI:10.1177/0013161X16659345 Nieuwenhuis, Jaap. Hooimeijer, Pieter. association between neighborhoods and educational achievement, a systematic review and Journal of Housing & the Built Environment; Jun2016, Vol. 31 Issue 2, p321-347, 27p Chabra, Sonal. Kumari, Lalita. of Parental Encouragement on achievement motivation of International Journal of Education & Allied Sciences; Vol.3, Issue 2, Jul Dec. 2011, p73-78, 6p, 2 Charts.