MacFarquhar 1 Dylan MacFarquhar Professor Kevin Ip ENC 1102 17 April 2017 Project 3: Intermediate Draft With a total of $1.2 trillion, student loan debt is the largest form of personal debt in the United States. According to the Federal Reserve, the average monthly student loan payment for borrowers ages twenty to thirty is $351 (Federal Reserve). For many, this extra financial burden is the factor which keeps borrowers from buying homes and cars, or living their lives freely without the pressures of student loan debt. In society, having a college degree is a necessary qualification in order to get a respectable job. Unfortunately, with incremental rises in college tuition, it has become harder and harder to pay for a college education. According to College Board, the average cost of attending an in-state public university is $9,650 per year and $33,480 per year to attend a private college. These prices have increased by over 10% in the last five years and by over 1120% in the last thirty years (College Board). Due to these high rates of inflation, it is harder than ever for students to attend a good school and receive a quality education. Also, recent scholarship and Pell Grant cutbacks have left very qualified students unable to attend school at all. With limited funds, these scholarship programs cannot provide financial aid to all those in need, leaving many students on their own or forcing them to apply for student loans. It is because of this that 71% of students graduating from four-year colleges had some form of student loan debt (Student Loan Hero). Not only is this a staggering percentage, but according to Allie Bidwell of US News, it takes an average of MacFarquhar 2 21 years to pay off these loans (Bidwell). It is clear that student loan debt is a major issue which has led to government intervention in recent years. While there are many different viewpoints on how to correct the current system and make college debt-free, there are a few constant ideas that are seen in various platforms. According to On the Issues, the Democratic Party has become the most aggressive in fixing this crisis, and believe that the most appropriate way of doing so is by increasing funding for Pell Grants which are the main source of student financial aid in the U.S., making in-state public schools tax deductible for state residents, and by monitoring private sector inflation for corporations which facilitate student loans (On the Issues). By incorporating these solutions into government regulations, the student loan debt crisis will be greatly impacted for the better of students all across the United States. It is imperative that qualified students are able to attend good schools so that innovation continues. Students should not be penalized for pursuing higher education because as stated earlier, having a college degree is an almost necessary qualification in order to enter workforce. This is why we must make it far easier for students to get the education they deserve, especially for students who attend in-state public universities. All in-state students who attend these universities come from families who pay taxes which go towards the same in-state public universities. It is only right that these students are reimbursed for this money by rewarding the students back the money their families pay in taxes which go towards these schools. It is also important that the tax money which goes to these schools is closely monitored in order to assure that funds are going towards students and scholarships, rather than unnecessary expenses. It is only right that the tax dollars paid by families go MacFarquhar 3 back towards benefiting students and helping them pay for their education, not overpaid athletics coaches or unneeded facilities. There are many ways of correcting this issue but the most influential will be creating a tax deductible program for students attending in-state public universities. Rather than allocating all money for public universities back to the school, we can give a percentage of this money back towards the taxpayers if their children attend one of the schools. This will be far more beneficial to the students because as stated earlier, you will know that the money is going towards a needed cause rather than unnecessary expenses. This route would also take away the need for students to take out loans which will in turn put them into debt. Another way of accomplishing this goal of making college debt free is by increasing funding for Pell Grants. There has been a steady decrease in funding for Pell Grants over the last decade which is of great concern as it is the primary source of financial aid for many college students in the United States. With a very uneven federal budget, a more even distribution of taxpayer money will allow the government to fund Pell Grants at a much higher level. The final solution that could be used to correct this issue is monitoring private sector inflation to assure that student loan interest rates do not increase. According to Sophie Christie of The Sun, student loan interest rates are expected to continue to increase and eventually climb up 33% in the next five years. Many student loans are not government issued, but are instead distributed by private corporations which fluctuate their interest rates based on global market trends and consumer demand. If private sector inflation is regulated, it will ensure that student loan prices will not continue to increase and put future generations in even more debt than current students. MacFarquhar 4 By making in-state college tuition tax deductible, increasing Pell Grant funding, and regulating private sector inflation we can put an end to, or at the least diminish the student loan debt crisis and make public college debt-free. This is an issue that needs to be corrected as soon as possible for the longer we wait, more and more students are unable to reach their full potential due to financial reasons. However, if we implement these programs, many students will be given the opportunities they deserve and will go on the be innovators and outstanding members in society. MacFarquhar 5 Works Cited A Look at the Shocking Student Loan Statistics for  Student Loan Hero. N.p., n.d. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. Bidwell, Allie. Loan Expectations: Myth vs.  US News. N.p., 7 Oct. 2014. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. Christie, Sophie. Loan  The Sun. N.p., 13 Apr. 2017. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. Democratic Party on  On the Issues. N.p., n.d. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. the Price Tag for a College  College Data. N.p., n.d. Web. 17 Apr. 2017.