Alyssa Rader ENC 1102 Ms. Lay 4/16/17 Marijuana for Student Athletes Athletes do a lot in their day-to-day college life, except for ending their long weeks and long sport season with a college student weekend because of their chances for a random NCAA drug test, no matter their sport or season. In time of the college lives, it is well known that drugs and social aspects of entering college are on a rise, especially marijuana use (Roditis, p. 179). Despite the efforts of athletes wanting to live the college experience that their classmates do, the NCAA has strict policies on what athletes can consume. There are many reasons why marijuana has been looked down upon, but there are also many reasons of how it has and can continue to help people everyday. These reasons are why everyone in the United States should care, but also the coaches and athletes in college should care. These reasons are important for the successes of college student athletes and the universities they represent. The benefits of a student athlete in college using marijuana out weigh better benefits than costs. Through the uses of marijuana, the agents and side effects it has can help the college student athletes succeed in their careers of all types The student life is a very busy and very stressful one, and it is well known that drugs and the partying is a part of almost every college experience. Despite the efforts of athletes wanting to live the college experience that their classmates do by using substances like marijuana, the NCAA has strict policies on what athletes can consume, especially when it comes to street drugs, like marijuana. Athletes do a lot in their day-to-day college life, except without a college student weekend because of the NCAA drug testing. Because of this it is important that the athletes and Coaches of the NCAA speak up. The reason that the athletes should speak up is not just to enjoy their college lives, but also to do with their performance. It is proven that marijuana can calm and stimulate the mind and body for the people who use or consume it (Depression Health). With this being said, marijuana can and should be used to simulate the anxiety and stress that the college student athlete faces. while college student-athletes do struggle with depression and anxiety, the data indicate they are less likely than their non-athlete peers to report issues with (Rpowell). As the quote stated from the website says, it may be a struggle for athletes to get help when they might need it, unlike the normal college students. As a result, we should think about how to help prevent the anxiety and stress of student athletes getting to the point where they need help. The way in which that can happen is allowing marijuana to take on its calming remedies to help student athletes with their stress and such. Once that is done, there would be a visible change in all aspects of the lives of these student athletes, between their school work and performance in their given sport, which is because they feel as if whole world is not sitting on their because that is how a lot of college student athletes feel when it comes to their time and energy they give for four years. It is important to student athletes to speak up and help the movement for marijuana being legal through the NCAA for their well-being and their performances. Along with the student athletes associated with the NCAA, the coaches should be invested into making marijuana a legal substance within the organization. Coaches should care for the same reasons that athletes themselves should. These reasons are self-preservation and safety of the mind and body of the hard working student athletes. The other reason is that it will overall help their performance on the line of sport through the long time saying, look good, you feel As for as the coaches go, many agree that marijuana can be a useful tool, including Adam Silver, the head commissioner for the NBA and Steve Kerr, the head coach of the Golden State Warriors. an NFL player, in particular, and you got lot of pain, I think any question that pot is better for your body than  (Haynes). Yes, these are two men within the ranks of professional basketball, but they exemplify the goals and dreams of all student athletes trying to play professionally after their four-year college career. While the rules stay strict on drug use in all leagues, professional and college, there are movements happening to unblock those rules for the athletes to be more comfortable while doing what brings them, their coaches, and millions of fans around the world joy. The ways to take action on a matter as such, it is difficult because there are no step-by-step instructions. To take action of this matter of helping legalize marijuana through the NCAA first comes with spreading the world and getting the research out that the benefits of marijuana can do more good than harm for the college student athletes across the United States. Once the NCAA keeps getting their attention turned to these facts, it is important to have numbers behind the statements to help persuade the NCAA. These persuasions can come through petitions and other form of appeals. The attention need to be turned towards what can help their student athletes succeed, and their way of succeeding in time is through the use of marijuana. Through the uses of marijuana, the agents of its pain and stress relieving can help the college student athletes succeed in their careers of all types. The way this movement can get done is by the help of the athletes and coaches within the NCAA because they are the ones getting the most affected. In a time where the NCAA is trying to get the most out of student athletes and colleges, form the heightened media spikes here in 2017, it is important to take care of the student athletes. These athletes need taken care of mentally and physically, and the side effects of marijuana can help make that possible. Works Cited Depression Health. How Marijuana Helps Relieve Stress and  Leaf Science. N.p., 18 Mar. 2016. Web. 12 Apr. 2017. Haynes, Chris. Steve Kerr Says He Used Marijuana for Back Pain, Hopes Leagues Soften  ESPN. ESPN Internet Ventures, 04 Dec. 2016. Web. 12 Apr. 2017. Roditis, Maria L. and Bonnie Halpern-Felsher. Perceptions of Risks and Benefits of Conventional Cigarettes, E-Cigarettes, and Marijuana: A Qualitative  Journal of Adolescent Health, no. 2, 2015, p. 179. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.jadohealth.2015.04.002. Rpowell. Mind, Body and Sport: Depression and Anxiety Prevalence in Student-  NCAA.org - The Official Site of the NCAA. N.p., 10 Nov. 2014. Web. 12 Apr. 2017.