Huang1 Yi Huang ENC Class 4/16/2017 Ari Pollution Ecology is part of the important factors that affect health. With the development of science and technology and the progress of the society, living standard to improve every year, but the air pollution is increasingly serious. Air quality directly affects the quality of health, the effect is invisible, but it is inevitable. That is why everyone should be aware of the seriousness of the air pollution and protects it; people let air pollution continue to deteriorate. Air is invisible, so its damage is invisible to people. From the quality of life can be seen, the impact of air is the main cause of fossil fuels and vehicle emissions. People are using cars instead of daily traffic tools. And every day there are a large number of aircraft, ships and trains is running. They all need fossil fuels provide normal work; in their operations at the same time, the exhaust emission is inevitable. Vehicle exhaust is directly into the air, causing air pollution. Seventy-five percent of carbon monoxide emissions come from automobiles. In urban areas, harmful automotive emissions are responsible for anywhere between 50 and 90 percent of air pollution. (Michael 2015). This is a very Huang2 horrible data. Vehicles emit carbon dioxide is a toxic gas, it will make people slowly infected with lung disease, such as: asthma. Carbon dioxide is like chronic poison, it will not immediately kill you, but it will slowly erode your health, so that life is reduced. But many people realize the seriousness of the problem, and continue to destroy the air environment, this is very terrible Now, the whole world is facing up to serious problem - global warming. Due to large amounts of vehicle exhaust emission, make a lot of carbon dioxide into the air, causing the ozone hole, because the sun directly to illuminate in the earth; cause the greenhouse effect, leads to global warming. The effects of global warming are already visible in many areas of the world. For example, in Glacier National Park, where about 150 glaciers were once located, only 25 glaciers larger than 25 acres remain, according to the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS)(live science). But air pollution is not only the only cause of global warming. It also can bring many hazards, such as acid rain and fog. In some Chinese cities; such as Beijing. In Beijing, the fog is expected to be very serious. Haze contains toxic particles, if people breathe the air, often can cause various respiratory diseases and heart disease; this is a very terrible facts. Also bring people to the dangers of the most direct air pollution. Is carbon dioxide directly led to the formation of acid rain, acid rain will not cause harm to the environment, but will make the soil acidification and caused the pollution of groundwater, which indirectly led to health, the most important thing is that the land once destroyed, people grow ecological plants, it makes food shortages. Animal habitat is (WWF). People can know that many reports; glaciers Huang3 are melting. This is also brought about by global warming. And melting glaciers, caused many animal habitat is shrinking, and countless animals are a lot of extinction. If people do not adopt measures to protect the air, air pollution will affect people one day their habitat. Although the vehicle caused a lot of pollution, it is not the only reason. Traffic tools to work requires a lot of fossil fuels, so in the modern society. There are many chemical plants and Fuel Company. They are not only providing fuel for transportation. At the same time also will produce a large number of arts and crafts (steel and plastic) these are essential to human life. But it makes the air environment carry a lot of pressure. The harmful emissions of these plants directly affect air quality. Depending on scientific research report, the toxic gas can exist in the environment for decades(Chris Woodford). Although this is inevitable, it can narrow the air pollution. Maybe people have been used to such a life. The toxic gases will not affect normal life. However, the air carrying capacity is a definite limit. If one day the air quality in the future becomes very distressing, it affects not only people themselves, but also affect next generation. These toxic gases will be ubiquitous. According to the medicine, these gases are carcinogenic. People cannot live in such an air environment. If long-term living in such an environment is tantamount to suicide. However, people can reduce air pollution. Now, many people have realized the air quality becomes poor, so start the corresponding protective measures. Each country also began to formulate policy for the protection of the air environment. Huang4 Actually, want to improve air quality, first of all have to use clean fuel; the neat fuel air will not cause a big impact, because the air has its own resilience. Second, now many firms have begun to develop the  use electricity instead of fossil fuels, such both neither are affecting the air quality, also bring not convenient to daily life. Many people protect air environment consciousness has been stronger and stronger, so they set up many protect air quality association, they use their own efforts to call for more people together to protect air environment, such as: many people will raise donations allowed scientists to protect air quality have more money to study the air quality. Many people began to plant trees, because plants can absorb the harmful gas in the air; there are many countries began to classify the garbage and because of the garbage can produce much gas, also can affect the air environment. Although a ability is limited, but if they call for more people to protect air environment, one day the air environment can be improved. In conclusion, air pollution is one of the most serious problems today. In fact, the causes of air pollution are not only transportation and fossil fuels; damage to the ecological environment is one of the causes of air pollution. In order to reduce air pollution, people should immediately take steps to protect air environment. health has been threatened, air pollution has caused a series of chronic respiratory diseases, so it is necessary in order to start the air environment is destroyed, no longer otherwise people will be living in the invisible health threats. Improve the air environment is responsibility. Everyone can into the protection of the air environment, which is to protect health. If human friendly to air environment, Huang5 and the air environment will be friendly to humans. Destroy the air environment is to injure a human being themselves. Everyone wants a healthy life, why we began to improve the air environment? Huang6 Work Cited Richard, Michael Graham. 25% of cars are causing 90% of the air pollution that we breathe, new study  TreeHugger. N.p., 28 Apr. 2015. Web. Bradford, Alina. What Is Global  LiveScience. Purch, 15 Dec. 2014. Web. N.p., 12 Feb. 2012. Web. Air pollution - A simple introduction to its causes and  Explain that Stuff. N.p., 16 Feb. 2017. Web. Species  WWF. World Wildlife Fund, n.d. Web. Center, Ohio EPA Public Interest. 30 Ways to Protect the Environment. N.p., n.d. Web.