Yeidi Martin Eng. Composition II Kevin Ip April 16, 2017 Fighting for Animal Rights and Animal Welfare. Animal rights are an important topic. Throughout the years, animal have improved. There are no a lot of companies that do not test on animals. There are also farms that have taken the steps to try and improve farm life for cattle. Many people are becoming vegetarians, people who do not eat meat, or vegans, people who do not eat any animal products, in order to try and save more animal lives. More people are involved in volunteering at animal shelters and help with taking care of the animals. There are also more people who look to adopt animals from their local shelters, instead of going to a pet shop or breeder. Although animal rights have improved slightly in recent years, steps that protect animals should be taken to improve animal lives and change the perceptions of how animals should be treated. Although many people have heard about animal rights, many do not understand exactly what it may mean. Some people may consider the term to be self-explanatory; that animal rights simply means rights for animals, but that is not the case. Animal rights can be defined as a belief that an interests should be respected. The animal rights movement is simply a movement that believes that moral consideration should be extended to all living animals, not just humans (friendsofanimals). For example, no animal should have to be considered useful to humans in order to be shown consideration (friendsofanimals). Another term that is usually used hand-in-hand with animal rights is animal welfare. While they may seem like the same thing, they are not. Animal rights deal with extending consideration to animals, while animal welfare has to do with trying to lower animal suffarage. Someone who cares about animal rights will, most likely, also care about animal welfare. The animal rights movement, which includes animal welfare, is fighting to try and improve animal lives. This includes saving dogs from puppy mills, improving farm conditions, stopping animal testing, and finding new homes for animals that have been rescued. There are many ways to get involved and help animals in your neighborhood. Animal rights are an important topic because, although they have improved slightly over the years, there is still animal suffering happening all around the world, including in the United States. One example of animal cruelty happening in the United States are puppy mills. Puppy mills are places where dogs are kept in horrible conditions for the sole purpose of providing animals to pet shops (caps-blog). There are over 10,000 puppy mills in the United States with over 2 million puppies bred there every year (puppymillproject). Around 1.2 million dogs are euthanized in shelters every year because of this (puppymillproject). Although puppy mills are usually focused on, there are kitten mills as well and the conditions are not any better. Another example of animal abuse, and perhaps the better known one, is animal testing. Animal testing is scientific experiment or test in which a live animal is forced to undergo something that is likely to cause them pain, suffering, distress or lasting (crueltyfreeinternational). Each year, around 115 million animals are used in animal testing around the world (crueltyfreeinternational). Most beauty brands, ranging from high-end to drugstore brands, use animal testing. Animal testing usually involves purposely using harmful behavior towards animals in labs, which can include: exposing animals to radiation, forcing animals to inhale toxic gas, forcefully injecting or feeding animals harmful substances, and subjecting animals to frightening situations which can cause anxiety or depression (crueltyfreeinternational). Therefore, animal rights and animal welfare are important because all living creatures deserve to be treated fairly. There are many things that someone who wants to help can do. The first thing that they can do is look into different animal rights groups. There are plenty to choose from and they can range from very controversial to more passive groups. One animal rights group to consider joining is the Humane Society of the United States. The Humane Society of the United States (HSUS). The HSUS is a non-profit organization that is fighting for animal rights and trying to improve animal welfare. are slowly trying to improve animal rights by helping animals in need, improving life conditions, and giving new homes to rescued animals. By donating your time or money to this organization, you can help improve or save lives. Another way that you can help is by buying brands that test on animals. But supporting brands that do not test on animals, it can send a message to big brands that do test on animals. It can show brands that do test on animals that people truly care about cruelty-free products and the ethics that go into making the products. There are also ways to help without donating money. One way to help without donating money is to donate your time. Many shelters accept volunteers to help take care of the animals or simply just take the animals on a walk. Another way to get involved without spending money is to donate goods. Many people have things laying around their houses that they will never use. Instead of letting these goods go to waste, you could donate them to your nearest animal shelter. The last way to get involved, if there is no time to do any of the things mentioned before, is to sign an online petition. These petitions try to improve animal rights and all you have to do is write your name and email address. While one signature may not influence the big brands to change their rules about animal testing, thousands of signatures can. Getting involved not only helps the animals but it can also help you feel better about yourself as well. Animal right are an issue that still occurs in our world. Although animal welfare and rights have increased in recent years, people should get involved to help improve the rights of animals and change the perception of how animals are treated. Animal abuses, such as puppy mills and animal testing, still occur in modern countries like the United States and all over the world. Getting involved is the only way to help stop these terrible actions. Although you may think that doing something as little as signing an online petition to stop animal testing do anything wrong. One signature may not make a change but thousands of signatures can. The same goes for donating your time or money to animal rights groups. For example, donating time to your local animal shelter and it could help with the costs and treatment of the animals. Therefore, all you have to do is make a small choice to help improve animal rights/lives and it might just save or improve an life. Works Cited: About Puppy  The Puppy Mill Project. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Cruelty Free International. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Lin, Doris. 8 Arguments Against Animal  ThoughtCo. N.p., 01 Sept. 2016. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. What Is Animal  Cruelty Free International. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. What Is Meant by Animal  Friends of Animals. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Whitehouse, Russell. The Hypocrisy of the Animal Rights  International Policy Digest, vol. 3, no. 1, Jan. 2016, p. 112. EBSCOhost,