Cremi Patel Hannah Lay ENC 1102 April 16 , 2017 Vegetarianism Good health is a choice, a lifestyle, that many see as paramount to all aspects of daily living. Being a vegetarian is a choice many people make to be healthy. A vegetarian does not eat any meats, poultry or seafood. There are many health benefits to becoming a vegetarian, such as having lower cholesterol and reduced risk of health disease, obesity, stroke, and cataract development (Dr. Edwards). Organizations like People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) are trying to bring awareness to vegetarianism and help people with their transition to a different lifestyle by including steps on their websites. The USF student body can become more aware about this choice and take simple steps to become a vegetarian or to learn more about the issue and why it is important. It is an issue that affects not only our health but also the environment around us. Some ways more people can become involved is by spreading the word about what they know, being active in the community and volunteering or by trying to make healthier decisions in their current diet. Many people do not know what a vegetarian diet consists of and believe that there are not enough options out there to staying healthy and get the right amount of vitamins. This is a common misconception because even with a vegetarian diet, there are many supplements as well as many vegetables that can provide people of the necessary vitamins and minerals. It is simple to transition into a vegetarian lifestyle by making small changes in the foods you eat every day: for example, ordering a cheese pizza instead of a pepperoni pizza. There are many reasons people go vegetarian, whether it is to save the animals, to become healthy, and/or to protect the environment. Many people do not know the negative effects associated with meat on our health and the environment around us. According to ASAPScience, A vegetarian diet would greatly reduce water consumption; around 70% of global freshwater consumption is used in agriculture. takes 15,000 liters to make a kilogram of beef, 6,000 liters for pork and 4,000 liters for chicken- compared this with 1,600 liters for cereal crops, 900 liters for fruit and 300 liters for garden (AsapSCIENCE). As for the health aspect of being a vegetarian, studies show that eating high amounts of red meat is with type 2 diabetes, coronary heart diseases, stroke and certain in Red Furthermore, it is important to be aware of the problems that vegetarianism solves as well as reduces. Knowing the effects of your eating decisions as well as changing them even slightly can significantly help reduce environmental problems. The meat industry produces 14.5% of our greenhouse gases. (Dr. Edwards). is more than all the planes, trains and automobiles put (AsapSCIENCE). More than just protecting animals, cutting the amount of meat you consume can also protect ourselves. The amount of greenhouse gases can be easily reduced if everyone becomes aware of these statistics and start taking small steps to solve this. The problem of increasing methane in the atmosphere is currently affecting everyone living on this planet so it is important that everyone knows the consequences of greenhouse emissions. This along with health problems are at stake for people who eat meat daily. Caring about this issue and informing someone you care about can be the first step to getting people involved. The future can still be saved from greenhouse gases, pollution, as well as many problems that are caused by meat. If everyone went vegetarian, the amount of water we use on meat industries can be drastically reduced. Additionally, the future without meat industries can save much of the land that animals are raised on which is currently dry. The small changes we make to our present can save the earth and the people living on it. Getting involved with local schools to go inform the kids as well as adults can be the first step in spreading the word about vegetarianism. Also, volunteering opportunities are a great way to get involved. The Vegetarian Resource Group has made it easier to become vegetarian by working with health professionals, educators, students, food services, media, and consumers (The Vegetarian Resource Group). Organizations such as PETA also include step by step instructions on what to buy, what to make and where to eat for an easier way to go vegan or vegetarian (How to go Vegan). A great way to change your lifestyle is to slowing transition from a meat eater to a weekday vegetarian and then to become a full vegetarian. Graham Hill, founder of treehugger.com, has a TED Talk on why he is a weekday vegetarian. In the video, he talks about how a hamburger a day increases his risk of dying by nearly a third and how 10 billion animals are raised in factories where they are tortured, despite knowing these facts, many people take time to think about the overall impact and the footprint it leaves on the earth. A simple solution for this is called This means people can eat meat on the weekends but not on weekdays. This helps lessen the footprint, decreases pollution, improves health as well as helps the animals (Graham Hill). Another simple action can be to organize special events in your community with vegetarian foods so people know that the options for vegetarian foods are also unlimited. Ultimately, there are many reasons to start changing our diets and lifestyles. The future is now and with everyone making small changes, it can have a big impact on the way we see food. Work Cited: AsapSCIENCE. If The World Went YouTube, YouTube, 24 Mar. 2016, www.youtube.com/watch?v=ANUoAdXfA60. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. Dr. Edwards. Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Livestock Can Be Cut by 30%, Says  The Guardian. Guardian News and Media, 26 Sept. 2013. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Hill, Graham. a Weekday Vegetarian - Graham YouTube, YouTube, 22 Feb. 2013, www.youtube.com/watch?v=aUJD3sGppUo. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. Risk in Red  National Institutes of Health. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, 02 July 2015. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. The Vegetarian Resource Group  Return to Vrg.org. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. How to Go  & Why in 3 Simple Steps PETA.org. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. 9 Health Benefits of a Vegetarian  Dr. Healthy Living Articles. N.p., 30 Sept. 2015. Web. 17 Apr. 2017.