Kevin Fee Fee1 Mrs. Theodosiou Composition II April 10, 2017 Funding for NASA I believe discontinuing the budget for NASA was a huge mistake. NASA has made many important discoveries we take for granted in the last century that we use every day. With growing support for this field and the continuation of funding, society would be able to continue to benefit from discoveries such as developing new technologies, increase our knowledge in science, and discover more about the depths of space. To help support this cause there are many things we can do such as donate to NASA on their website as well as contact our local governor for support. Much of technology we use on a daily bases was developed from government funded scientists working for NASA. One example of an invention we may use in our daily life is memory foam which is most commonly found in Tempurpedic mattresses. This was used to reduce impact in landings for astronauts. Another important invention we use in our daily lives is insulation to keep our homes a certain temperature without using too much energy. This essential invention was used to protect the astronauts from extreme temperature changes as they reentered Earths atmosphere. Without this invention, we(including our family members) would live in uncomfortable temperatures in our own homes. Another invention that NASA scientists have developed is the insulin pump. This was developed to monitor an astronauts blood sugar levels from a distance while also giving insulin when needed. If you or anyone you know has diabetes Fee2 then you can understand how important this invention can be. Another great technological discovery that was made by NASA scientists was the water filter. We need to consumer water in our daily lives for basic survival and the water filter improves the waters quality and overall taste. Shishko wrote, filter technology has actually been around since the 1950s, but NASA needed to know how to clean water effectively and to keep it clean for extended periods of time, the reason being that astronauts require a way to cleanse the water they took with them to space because sickness as a result of bacteria would obviously be a massive 4). The water filter has not only benefited the astronauts but also less wealthy countries who do not have access to clean, drinkable water. An increase in knowledge of science can open doors to all kind of things such as an increase in better modern health as well as better efficiency. NASA administrator Michael Griffon said in the opening of a speech, of the top twenty five scientific breakthroughs that have been discovered in the last twenty years, nine of them have come directly from space travel research and eight directly from 3). These are all life saving capabilities we see all around us today. We see this in satellites that track weather patterns and warn us about dangers such as hurricanes as well as more advanced knowledge of climate change and weather patterns. NASA has also helped create more efficient ways of saving agricultural and environmental resources as well as increasing productivity in industries and agricultural yield. One of most important primary goals is to discover more about the depths of space and what exists out there other than us. Even traveling to places in our own solar system can give us many more discoveries. This will bring us closer to finding the answers to questions Fee3 humanity has always asked. People have always wondered and theorized where life on Earth came from and how and why it exists, but no one has a definite answer. To come closer to finding these answers, much more research must be done and funded to get there. White wrote, is the beginning of new era in space exploration in which NASA has been challenged to develop systems and capabilities required to explore beyond Low-Earth orbit, including destinations such as translunar space, near Earth asteroids and eventually 5). Humanity has already made it to the moon and even has the international space station for research now but the next step is for humanity to step foot on Mars. This trip would be much more long and dangerous then going to the moon but much more research would be made which would bring more benefit then harm. Steinberg wrote, and scientific robotic missions have shown that Mars has characteristics and a history similar to but we know that there are striking differences that we yet to begin to 4). The more knowledge we have about Mars, the closer we can come to possibly inhabiting the planet and producing resources there. This could be necessary to continue human life from dangers such as larger asteroids approaching Earth. This study can also bring closer relations to different countries that are working on the same issues. Knowledge and reasoning are some of the most important aspects of human life so the more we focus on gaining knowledge the better it will do our humanity no matter what the short term expenses of it will be. If you agree that NASA should have more funding and think there is nothing you can do to support this cause then you are wrong. To learn more about NASA and space exploration you can visit Kennedy Space Center located in Cape Canaveral to see real examples of how Fee4 technology has developed through out the years and the amazing discoveries found. This is important especially if you enjoy learning about how technology to get to space works and some of the challenges scientists faced when researching. Another great way to gain support is to contact your local political representatives such as governors and ask for help and awareness to this cause. You can also donate to NASA or any space exploration organization on their website. No matter how small your contribution is anything helps if more people get involved so spreading awareness is one of the most important things you can do. Overall, the more people realize how important space exploration is, the better off society will be from the many benefits created from it. The technology that has already come from NASA research has helped humanity greatly and could just be the beginning for technological development. More funding will also bring much more knowledge about science and space travel will give us more understanding of what is in the depths of space. Gaining this knowledge will increase human advancement in healthcare as well. There are possibilities of gaining information to make better treatments and even possibly cures for diseases and health issues that have not been discovered yet. Fee5 Annotated Bibliography Kenneth S. Casey (1), Tess B. Brandon (1), Peter Cornillon (2), and Robert Evans (3). The Past, Present, and Future of the AVHRR Pathfinder SST  Springer. Springer Netherlands, 01 Jan. 1970. Web. 12 Apr. 2017. This article explains information on the space program and its development in great detail in history to modern times. It gives pros and cons of funding for the space program as such as taking away money the government can be spending in other ways and also furthering our technology. Information on discovery is also shown. I believe this article will be useful to me because it give a lot of historic information I will be able to use to support my claims and prove my point. It also shows both sides of the argument so I can determine the best solution in my action plan. Shishko, Robert, Donald H. Ebbeler, and George Fox. NASA Technology Assessment Using Real Options  Systems Engineering. Wiley Subscription Services, Inc., A Wiley Company, 01 Dec. 2003. Web. 12 Apr. 2017. This article explains technological advancements created by the uncertainty of space missions which motivated scientists to work harder and create more for a higher success rate for the mission. It also explains the progress that technology has made due to the influence of NASA and space exploration. Fee6 I believe this source will be useful to me because it shows that the space program has made a huge positive impact on the progress of technology which is one of the key points in my essay. It also talks about why the rate increased as well as the possibilities of what the future could hold if funding was increased. Steinberg, Alan. Space Policy Responsiveness: The Relationship between Public Opinion and NASA  Space Policy Responsiveness: The Relationship between Public Opinion and NASA Funding. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Apr. 2017. This article is about who the primary supporters of NASA are and the main people who fund it. They discuss what these motivations are to support the funding. This article also goes into detail about the percent of the budget the government uses on NASA funding how how it is progressively decreasing over time. I believe this will be a useful source for my paper because it talks about motivations to want to have funding for this program and how possibly there will be ways to increase that motivation. Also it touches on how funding is decreasing every year and reasons why. White, Ronald J., and Maurice Averner. Humans in  Nature News. Nature Publishing Group, 22 Feb. 2001. Web. 13 Apr. 2017. This article talks about how over the years technology increased progressively for space travel the farther we try to travel. The farther distances we travel the more safety features are needed so the more technology is invented. This technology can also be utilized in society in many other ways as well. Fee7 This source will be useful to me because it talks more about he human exploration aspect of NASA. This source gives more examples specifically related to space travel and its importance and will be very useful in backing up my claims. There are also examples of dangers humans face such as radiation and how technology can still be advanced to eliminate al lot of those types of risks.