Student 1 Jonathan Calise Professor Thornton Composition II 16 April 2017 Homelessness in America Homelessness in America is a serious problem that has continued to grow over the years. The biggest problem that we have is that each year the rate of homeless people continues to increase and less people are donating to companies like HandUp and National Association for Homeless. In order for people to get off the streets and have a chance in life, we need to confront the issue and try to help as many people as we can. The National Alliance to End Homelessness states that there are 564,708 people experiencing on any given night in the U.S. There are 36,907 children, 47,725 veterans, and 269,991 are disabled and unable to work (U.S Homeless Facts). The main factors that contribute to a person becoming homeless are the following: lack of affordable housing, job loss, domestic violence, and mental illness. It is important for non- engaged stakeholders to adopt the position that I am taking because it spreads the word about homelessness which hopefully will soon put an end to it. The actions that can be taken to bring a positive social change for the issue of homelessness is you could donate to a website like the stakeholders that I listed, help your local community out, and try to help homeless people when you see them on the streets. The first major step to helping homelessness is by donating food or money to companies or even homeless people you see on the streets. The two biggest donation websites that advocate for homelessness are HandUp and the National Homelessness Association. HandUp, is a stakeholder where you can choose a person to donate to, which makes it much more Student 4 personal. They have it set up so you can get an idea of that background and also a picture. HandUp is very technological advanced, by having their own app that you can download and donate straight from that and receive alerts on your phone of local homeless people (HandUp). The National Association for Homelessness, is a very well-known association that helps many thousands of homeless people throughout America. They have a unique website as well, by how they include an updated number of homeless people each week and also news that is affecting the rate of homeless people to increase or decrease (National Association). It is not as personal, when you donate, but it is still a great way to helping end homelessness. Overall both stakeholders are impacting the rate of homelessness and by them continuing to improve they are helping everyone else. So get online and donate, and make an impact on life that will not only change theirs but yours as well. The second major step to helping homelessness come to end is to help your local community homelessness. There are many different ways to help decrease the rate of homelessness where you live. The first is to volunteer at an organization that helps homeless people. There are advocacy groups or organizations which focus on finding homeless people homes, jobs, and education. Volunteering your time to help improve someone else life is just as meaningful to making a donation. You can volunteer at a soup kitchen, a shelter, a habitat for humanity, and maybe volunteer your property (Ending Homeless Today). All of those are great ways of giving back to your community and spreading the word. Like, anything else you have to start locally and work your way up to nationally. It does not matter how many hours you put in, at the end of the day you are doing something and trying to help decrease the rate of homeless people in your local area, which is amazing. Student 3 The third major step to helping homelessness come to an end is taking action when you see a homeless person on the street while driving or walking throughout the day. There are so many people that just ignore homeless people when they see them and make comment like, get a or Those are the type of people that want to see a decrease in the amount of homeless people that are on the streets. If you are at a red light and a homeless woman is holding a sign that says, no job and no role up your window instead look around your car for food or money and give something to that person (Laura, Kelly). By giving money or food to that person it will not only make them so happy but, it will give you such a rewarding feeling that you helped someone less fortunate then you are and made an impact on their life by doing something so simple. Homelessness is an issue that not only stakeholders that are engaged should care about but all stakeholders should care. If we had big companies like Apple, Google and Microsoft donate a percentage of their revenue each year to multiple homelessness association we would decrease the rate so much faster and change so many lives. Not many companies like them see how bad the homelessness rate is and how we need that to change quickly. If those big companies started spreading the news about giving back, it would get a lot more people to pay attention to the need for donations (Growing Films). Homelessness is a huge problem and we need to fix it. By having people spread the word and raise awareness we can get people off the street and give them the chance that we have in life. It does not matter how much you donate, no matter what it is going to help a homeless person out. The more you spread the news to others, the more donations and impact we will have on getting the homeless rate lower then it is now. Donate! Help! Next time you see someone on Student 4 the street on a light, role up your window, instead look around your car to maybe give that person, it will impact both of your lives in a meaningful way. Student 3 Works Cited Ending Homelessness  National Alliance to End Homelessness. N.p., n.d. Web. 02 Apr. 2017. Friedman, Thomas L. Homeless in  The New York Times. The New York Times, 08 Nov. 2016. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. GrowingFilms. Without A Roof (Homelessness in  YouTube. YouTube, 27 June 2014. Web. 02 Apr. 2017. HandUp  HandUp Campaigns. N.p., n.d. Web. 23 Feb. 2017. Kelly, Laura. Homelessness Is Not : TED Talk from Street Roots  INSP. N.p., 24 May 2016. Web. 02 Apr. 2017. State of Homelessness in America National Alliance to End Homelessness, n.p, n.d. Web. 21 Jan. 2017. U.S. Homelessness  Front Steps. N.p., 23 Jan. 2017. Web. 25 Feb. 2017.