Student 1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Taking Depression Seriously Over the course of time, depression has become more prominent in society. For example, someone in the news has just suffered from a depressive episode and took their life because of it. Because depression has slowly become more prominent in society, why are the statistics of suicides by depression still growing? bigger movements and protocols be brought about to invoke change. According to Web MD, there are many types of depression that occurs in different age groups and genders. The disorders are but not limited to: Major Depression, Persistent Depressive Disorder, Manic Depression, Seasonal Affective Depression, Psychotic Depression, Postpartum Depression, Premenstrual Depression, Situational Depression and Atypical Depression (WebMD). The main and most common is major depression, which is a person feels depressed most of the time for days of the and shows thoughts of suicide, loss of interest and feelings of worthlessness (WebMD). The problem is that people need to be aware of the brutal symptoms of depression and treat is a legitimate illness in order for beneficial treatments to become active. Legitimacy in Depression should occur because it would be saving countless lives; people would have the means to report any symptoms right away; and, new beneficial treatments can become available right away. In order to set the stage for this argument, we have to go back to first sightings of depression to see the evolution of this mental illness. Actually before the term depression was coined, in ancient times, the mental illness was originally called melancholia (Bourke). Student 2 Melancholia was described as to the humours (blood, black bile, yellow bile and phlegm) that made up the (Bourke). In Mesopotamian civilization accounts (2 millennium B.C), illnesses were attributed to demonic possession, attended to by which lead to the fact that melancholia was more spiritual/mental than physical (Nemade). Fast forwarding to the 18 th and early 19 th centuries, depression was thought to be inherited and a illness with no cure. Because of this, people thought others showing signs of depression should be shunned and committed to institutions (Nemade). In the current century, depression is normal but not many people are reporting their symptoms in order to get help. Because of people in society not reporting right away when they start to go through some of the symptoms, this directly leads to the increasing rates of suicide in different genders and age groups. According to troubling statistics, rate of suicide in America has tripled over the last 60 (Malcore). Once age group that was particularly been on the rise in depressive symptoms is teenagers and adolescents. 70% of teenagers will have more than episode of depression before adulthood (Malcore). Most episodes can go unnoticed and the teen will never confide in someone like their parents or doctor for help. 1 in 5 teens with depression get (Malcore). Speaking on depression in general for all age groups, the statistics are still as daunting. is a coniditon that affects 1 in 10 Americans at one point or (Healthline). In addition to that of the people that have symptoms of clinical depression are not receiving any treatment for their (Healthline). As a result of these statistics, negative effects, like suicide and self-harm, have been the results of this. Mental illnesses, especially depression, can be and emotional topics to converse about. As stated before, the rates of suicide have grown tremendously over the past couple of decades. Also stated before, teenage and adolescent depression has been becoming Student 3 more and more of the forefront of society and culture as of late. Different media, such as the news, movies, songs and TV has brought these real tragedies to life. One stakeholder, Lighthouse was founded on the basis of sudden tragedy that the founders encountered. On the website under the to Know tab, it explains how this stakeholder founded in 2004 by Virginia (Ginny) and Thomas (Tom) Neuckranz after their daughter Erika lost her life to the illness of Lighthouse). Through their grief and pain, they turned it into hope and trying to save the lives of countless of other teenagers going through depression and their families. Put yourself in the shoes of Tom and Ginny, how would you feel if your child was taken unexpectedly from the wrath of depression. Through the testimonies of family members, you are able to put yourself in their shoes and get a feel of how it actually feels to lose a loved one. In another stakeholder, Postpartum Progress, it is an organization that helps new mothers dealing with postpartum depression through a sense of community and knowledge. One mother wrote under the Progress that she lived and suffered with postpartum a year after giving birth in silence. She states that the and information gave confidence and encouragement to talk to husband and doctor about what has been going (Postpartum Progress). People often overestimate the power of postpartum depression because of the fact that they are bringing life into the world. But postpartum is a real thing that impacts many women. Engaging other people in a topic as serious as depression is very important because as stated before, it can save a countless number of lives. People and non-engaged stakeholders should really care about this heartbreaking issue because a vast amount of people are impacted by depression and the risks of it effecting themselves or anyone in their family. According to the statistics above, there is a high chance of anyone have to deal with symptoms related to Student 4 depression, some more severe than others. According to a Huffington Post article released in 2015 around 350 million people are affected by some form of depression. The odds of it happening to someone you know or yourself is high. Solutions that have been given for depression is through controversial treatments like electro conclusive therapy and different antidepressant drugs. The only thing is that they are super controversial and have a lot of dangerous side effects. The consequences for not confronting the problem of depression will just raise the suicide and self-harm rates from where they are now if the problem correctly addressed. Action is very much needed in helping others combat this mental illness. Some simple ways to make a difference in the movement for depression is to definitely first become well aware and educated in the field of mental illnesses. Read up on information online, pick up packets and talk to a health professional. Anything will help and at the same time will help to notice signs in yourself and the people around you. As a newly engaged stakeholder well aware in information about depression, they should publicly come out and support other involved stakeholders who are working with help people who are dealing with depression. To conclude, depression is a serious legitimate mental illness that needs to be brought more into the public eye and taken seriously more. The discrepancies are shown in different evidence that was explained before. As stated in the previous paragraph, action is very important in this movement. For one, is that depression is no joke and that yourself or people around you are showing signs of depression to get help immediately. Dealing with depression all that when people are going through the same journey together. You are not alone. (WC: 1234) Student 5 Works Cited Bourke, Joanna. A History of  A History of Depression History Today. History Today, 9 Sept. 2012. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Nemade, Rashmi, Ph.D, Natalie Staats Reiss, Ph.D, and Mark Dombeck, Ph.D. Historical Understandings Of  Mental Help Historical Understandings of Depression Comments. Mental Help.net, 19 Sept. 2007. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Malcore, Paul. Teen Depression: Troubling Statistics and  Rawhide. N.p., 20 Jan. 2017. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Depression  Healthline : Power of Intelligent Health. Healthline, 2012. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Postpartum  Postpartum Progress. Postpartum Progress Inc., n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Teenage Depression  Lighthouse. N.p., n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Types of  WebMD. WebMD, n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Student 6