Student 1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 16 April 2017 The Benefits of Solar Energy for Large Companies Pollution is an everyday occurrence that is essentially deteriorating our ecosystem. This pollution is found to be one of the causations for global warming: rise in temperature has the potential to cause drastic changes in climate and weather patterns worldwide by disrupting the equilibrium between incoming solar energy and the thermal energy that is reradiated away from the (Keating). Due to the severity of global warming, precautions should be taken to prevent mass pollution. One way to do this is to use solar energy instead of energy coming from the burning of fossil fuels. Although some might find switching to solar energy as insignificant or inconvenient, large companies should start implementing solar panels onto their buildings; this can help lower emissions, lower company costs, and even attract new customers. Burning fossil fuels to acquire energy, although effective, is very harmful to our ecosystem; change in the United States related to burning fossil fuels indicates a high likelihood of dramatic increases in (Sommer). The pollution coming from burning fossil fuels is essentially causing global warming. Global warming can be very devastating and lead to numerous problems with the earth in the future. One of the obvious examples of the effects of global warming is the melting ice caps. Due to the increase in water, the animals in the arctic ecosystem are threatened heavily. To prevent or slow down the effects of global warming, people can switch to using only solar energy to power their houses and businesses. power systems derive clean, pure Student 2 energy from the sun. Installing solar panels on your home helps combat greenhouse gas emissions and reduces our collective dependence on fossil (SolarCity). Not only does solar energy lower emissions, it is also cheaper than fossil fuels. Once the solar panels are paid off, there is no further payments besides maintenance on the panels. There are also different financing programs to help people afford the switch to solar energy. Solar panels are such a good investment because solar energy is essentially free, in the long run it is a better investment than using fossil fuels for energy. Fossil fuels are also a finite resource and will run out eventually, availability creates a volatile market in which energy prices can skyrocket in a short period of (SolarCity). Switching to solar energy not only is cheaper than traditional energy, but it can help preserve fossil fuel resources for cars and other utilities. Tesla is one company that dedicates their time to find effective ways in creating innovative cars that not only are efficient, but run entirely on electricity. To further help with the environment, Tesla is actually working with SolarCity to provide solar panels to help charge the cars. Using electric cars instead of gasoline powered cars can help save money, Tesla states that for every mile, people save around $.09 to $.08 on gasoline (Tesla). Due to the cost savings on gasoline, innovative technologies and amenities, as well as the lowered emissions of vehicles, they have been seeing massive growth over the past few years. SolarCity is another company working hard to lower the worlds emissions, while providing cheap, affordable energy. SolarCity is a company that mass produces and sells solar panels. A lot of people choose to switch to solar energy due to its cost savings, you go solar you can save on your monthly utility bill and secure lower fixed rates for years to come. The savings over time add up and allow you to plan for your (SolarCity). Along with the cost savings that come with products, there is also a large decrease in emissions. Student 3 carbon footprint per unit of energy production is 95% lower than that of fossil fuel power (SolarCity). Due to their strong business model, they effectively achieved their goal for providing clean, affordable energy. In 2015 they prevented around 32 billion gallons of water from being used in power plants, they also produced over 1.7 billion kilowatt- hours of pollution-free energy (SolarCity). SolarCity has affectively helped lower the earths emissions with their products, with their hard work and dedication, they have seen large growth over the past years. Solar Advantage is yet another company that seeks to lower the worlds emissions. Based out of Tampa, FL, Solar Advantage is a company that installs solar panels onto residential and commercial applications. Solar Advantage believes that matter who you are, you can benefit from solar power at your home or business. Achieve true energy independence with solar power and experience peace of mind and extra cash (Solar Advantage). Much like Tesla and SolarCity, this company truly believes that by switching to solar energy, people can save plenty of money while preserving the environment. Due to their constant dedication to the cause, they have received numerous awards, one of these awards is for being highest rated solar power installer (Solar Advantage). Because they have dedicated years to installing quality solar panels that not only save people money, but reduce carbon footprint, they have seen numerous amounts of growth in their company. These three companies have seen a lot of growth due to their valiant efforts in providing solar energy that effective saves money and lowers emissions. Their customers have also seen huge benefits from using their products. This only gives more reason for large companies to start switching to solar energy. After the company makes the big purchase of the actual solar panels, they will see a massive decrease in the cost of energy bills. They will also be considered an Student 4 environmentally friendly company, which will help bring new customers. If some of these large companies decide to team up with companies like SolarCity, some of customers might become customers of that other company. Also people heavily concerned for the environment will definitely notice the effort the large company is putting in to lower their emissions and become customers. There are generally no downsides to switching to entirely solar energy for large companies, they will gain new customers, become environmentally friending, and decrease their monthly bills. To start the process of actually being a solar energy powered company, they will have to contact companies like SolarCity or Solar Advantage. With the numerous financing deals offered by these solar companies, the large company can find the best suited way of purchasing the units. The solar panels will then be installed onto the commercial building and immediately help lower the costs. To help gain new customers, the large company can reach out to news outlets to possibly write a story on how the company is going green and is only using solar energy. This will help spread the word for the company and further provide more income for that large company. On top of all of that, the company can enjoy the fact they are helping to lower the earths emissions. Burning fossil fuels to obtain energy causes many negative effects in the environment, but using solar energy does not. Companies should switch to solar energy because it is cheaper, better for the environment and can help attract new customers as well as an advertising technique. Companies like Tesla, SolarCity, and Solar Advantage are already seeing major growth in their companies due to their innovations and plans to help lower their emissions. Currently, the topic of global warming is prevalent, and helping stop it will only bring good media to the companies that decide to go solar. (Word Count: 1249) Student 5 Works Cited Environmental Impacts of Natural  Union of Concerned Scientists. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Mar. 2017. Foster, Robert, et al. Solar Energy. [Electronic : Renewable Energy and the Environment. Boca Raton : CRC Press, c2010., 2010. Go Solar with SolarCity! Discover Solar Power Energy  SolarCity. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Keating, Christopher. Global  Salem Press Encyclopedia of Science, January. Lakatos, L., et al. Advantages and Disadvantages of Solar Energy and Wind-Power  World Futures, no. 6, 2011, p. 395. Learn More About SolarCity, the Top Solar Energy  SolarCity. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Mackay, Michael E. Solar Energy : An Introduction. Oxford : Oxford University Press, 2015., 2015. Shuman, R. Baird. Hybrid  Salem Press Encyclopedia, January. Solar Energy. [Electronic [Washington, : Library of Congress, Science, Technology & Business Division, Science Reference Services, 2006. LC science tracer bullet: TB 06-5. Solar Installers in Florida Solar  Solar Installers in Tampa Solar Advantage. N.p., n.d. Web. 02 Apr. 2017. Sommer, Alfred. Burning Fossil  International Journal of Health Services, vol. 46, no. 1, Jan. 2016, p. 48.  Tesla, Inc. N.p., n.d. Web. 02 Apr. 2017. Student 6