Heath 1 Baylei Heath Professor Kevin Ip ENC 1102 27 April 2017 Assisted Suicide Should Not Be Legal for Terminally Ill Patients Recently, several states have modeled Right to Die Laws and have added laws that allow assisted suicide, and many more are considering some form of legislation to legalize assisted suicide and euthanasia. With modern technology, advances have been made in medicine that allow people to live longer. Coupled with medical advances that often extend the lives of the terminally ill, assisted suicide has become an alternative for some. As a consequence, there are far more terminally ill patients than ever before. Doctors and other care-givers should not be allowed to assist terminally ill patients end their lives prematurely. Laws that legalize assisted suicide for terminally ill patients should be overturned because they allow a doctor to play God and have other, unintended consequences that outweigh any benefits. Physician assisted suicide is described as, euthanasia, in which a doctor intentionally kills a person by the administration of drugs, and (2) physician assisted suicide (PAS), whereby a doctor helps a person commit suicide by providing drugs for (Tomlinson et al. 724). Allowing a doctor to engage in physician assisted suicide is wrong and should be illegal. Such laws violate the very nature of a profession. Doctors are supposed to treat a medical condition, not assist them in killing themselves. When a doctor becomes licensed, he or she is required to take a Hippocratic oath, which requires him or her to uphold certain ethical standards of their profession (Tomlinson et al. 723). Specifically, the Hippocratic oath requires the doctor to swear to, dietetic measures for the benefit of the sick according Heath 2 to my ability and judgment; I will keep them from harm and (National Library of Medicine 1). Assisting a patient, terminally ill or not, with taking their own life, is a direct violation of the Hippocratic oath, as it most definitely causes the patient harm and injustice. The Hippocratic oath dates back to ancient Greek society, and should not be ignored, or changed to allow assisted suicide. Allowing a doctor to assist a patient in taking their own life allows that doctor to play God, something they have no right to do. Human life should come to a natural end. A doctor should not have the option of deciding when it is time to assist someone in taking their own life. Doctors are not perfect. A doctor might misdiagnose a patient, causing them to believe that they are terminally ill, when in reality they were healthy or had a much longer time to live and a better quality of life than anticipated (Not Dead Yet 2). Medicine is not a perfect science. No one can predict with one hundred percent certainty who will live and who will die. Although it is rare, some terminally ill patients can and will get better. A misdiagnosis may lead a patient to request assisted suicide and could end a life far too early. Human life is far too precious to risk a needless death. There are viable alternatives to physician assisted suicide. Instead of allowing doctors to assist patients in ending their lives prematurely, more focus should be placed on better care for the terminally ill patients. Studies by Sachs show that patients that require end of life care are often left without proper care (Sachs et al. 554). Only one-third of patients are given home health care as an alternative to hospitalization (Sachs et al. 554). Changing the way that terminally ill patients are treated and allowing them to be cared for at home, in their own environment, surrounded by the people they love, should be more common place than it is. A terminally ill patient would have the opportunity to die peacefully, at home, surrounded by those that love them. Forcing a Heath 3 terminally ill patient to remain in the hospital takes all the dignity away from them. More patients would be less likely to consider options to prematurely terminate their lives. There is support available for patients and care-givers that have made the choice to die naturally, without the assistance of a physician. Hospice is an organization that provides support for terminally ill patients, through palliative care and end of life care (Vitas 1). Palliative care is also known as comfort care. Palliative care focuses on providing painkillers to make a patient more comfortable, preventing too much suffering. Studies by Sachs indicate that only about one-third of terminally ill cancer patients utilized the services of hospice (Sachs et al. 553). All terminally ill patients should be educated on the availability of hospice services. Most dying patients would prefer to have their pain managed at home, outside the hospital setting, allowing for a more dignified and peaceful death. If terminally ill patients are provided with palliative care that allows them comfort and freedom from pain, physician assisted suicide would not be necessary or considered by the patient. By legalizing physician assisted suicide, legislatures are opening the door for an unintended result. Where does the right to physician assisted suicide end and begin? Dr. Herbert Hendin, a professor in the Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences at New York Medical College, describes this risk, pointing out that in the Netherlands, where assisted suicide is legal, they have moved from suicide, to euthanasia, from euthanasia for the terminally ill to euthanasia of the chronically ill, from euthanasia for physical illness to euthanasia to euthanasia for psychological distress and from voluntary euthanasia to involuntary euthanasia (called of the patient without explicit (Hendin 2). Once legalization of physician assisted suicide begins, it is a slippery slope of just how far it can go and when it can be applied. Heath 4 We want the same occurring in the United States. We need to learn from the mistakes. Furthermore, in Oregon, where physician assisted suicide is legal, some medical systems are already offering people assisted suicide instead of chemotherapy. One such patient, who suffers from cancer, received a letter from the state saying it would pay for his assisted suicide or painless death, but not his chemotherapy (Fox News 1). If physician assisted suicide becomes legal in all of the United States, this view is likely to expand. Next, health insurance companies will be doing a cost/benefit analysis and denying preventative medicine or life-extending medical treatment to patients, and instead offering to pay for assisted suicide or painless death. Many patients would be denied their right to medical treatment, because more emphasis would be placed on lowering health care costs. We cannot allow insurance companies to pick and choose what patients live and what patients die. We cannot put a price on a human life, it is invaluable. Physician assisted suicide is completely wrong and should not be legal. We want doctors going around playing God, it is ethically against their Hippocratic oath. We want to take the chance of prematurely ending a life due to a misdiagnosis. We want health care insurance providers refusing to pay for palliative or comfort care, all because it costs too much money. Allowing doctors to assist their patients in committing suicide is too risky, and opens the door for too many unintended consequences. Heath 5 Works Cited Fox News, Oregon Offers Terminal Patients Doctor-Assisted Suicide Instead of Medical Care, 2017, foxnews.com/story.0,2933,392962,00.html. Web. 16 April 2017. Hendin, Herbert, Suicide and Euthanasia in the Netherlands: Lessons from the Journal of the American Medical Association, 1997: 1-5. Web. 16 April 2017. National Library of Medicine, Greek Medicine, 2017, Web. 15 April 2017. Not Dead Yet, The Resistance. 2017, notdeadyet.org. Web. 14 April 2017. Sachs, G.A., J. C. Ahronheim, J.A. Rhymes, L. Volicer, and J. Lynn, 1995. care of dying patients: The alternative to physician-assisted suicide and Journal of the American Geriatrics Society 43: 553-62. Web. 15 April. 2017. Tomlinson, Emily, et al. Euthanasia And Physician-Assisted Suicide In Dementia: A Qualitative Study Of The Views Of Former Dementia  Palliative Medicine 29.8 (2015): 720- 726. PsycINFO. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Vitas Healthcare, Palliative Care vs. Hospice Care. 2017, vitas.com/resources/palliative-care-vs- hospice-care. Web. 12 April 2017.