Student 1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 April 16, 2017 Making Change: With Coins or With This Country The United States has started to consider the effects of the one-cent coin on the economy and the public. The one-cent coin, also known as the penny has started to become history. Many coins have come in and have been taken out of circulation for many different countries, including the half cent coin used in the United States in 1857 (Jeff Gore, What Can You Buy with a Penny). It is time for Americans to follow trends around the world and drop the lowest denominational coin because it is costing Americans more money to make than what it is worth, it is not being used as much anymore, and it is costing businesses and customers more time than realized. Americans are using a coin that costs over double its value to make (Josh Sanburn, Waiting for Change). The United States Mint has also already dramatically changed what metals are used to make the penny (Tom DiChristopher, Time to Kill the Penny). As stated by the United States Mint Director in an interview with CNBC, the penny is made up of 97.5 percent zinc and only 2.5 percent copper (DiChristopher). Copper and zinc prices have both increased, causing the price to increase to 1.8 cents to create (Gore). America loses money with every penny created these days. It is argued that pennies could be made with cheaper metals, but this causes the pennies life to shorten tremendously. This means Americans would not be saving money because more pennies would have to be made to replace the pennies as they fall apart or are no longer usable (Sanburn). Student 2 Americans would also be personally saving money because the governments tax to make the penny would vanish (Jacqueline Lewis and Justin Yun, Penny Production Does Not Make Sense). Jacqueline Lewis and Justin Yun claims, is $900 million in taxpayer money Americans could use to feed their families, start businesses, create jobs or donate to (Lewis and Yun). Americans can save money or help those in need. Either way, the money would be put to better use because Americans would be spending the money instead of losing the money (Lewis and Yun). Not only are Americans losing money while the penny is being produced, it is simply not being used as much. Vending machines no longer accept pennies and businesses are starting to stop using them as well (J Scott Orr, Does Keeping the Penny Still Make Sense). On top of that, the United States military have not used the penny for over thirty years because it is too heavy and not cost-effective to (Gore). Jeff Gore, founder of Citizens to Retire the Penny, states same logic applies in the States, as five pennies weigh 12.5 grams compared to a 5- gram (Gore). This is a big weight difference that Americans should be aware of. Many Americans are not fond of caring around heavy purses and wallets so why add the extra weight of a coin that is not being used? Other countries, including Canada have decided to retire their one-cent coin (Steven Chase, The One-Cent Solution). These countries have decided the coin was causing the economy to suffer more than it should, as shown by Canada now that they save over $11 million in tax money (Chase). However, Americans have not made any changes because over half of the population wants to keep the penny (Lewis and Yun). Kevin McManus wrote an article comparing Canada and the United States and he believes that Americans would not work well with retiring the penny because they do not work well with change (Kevin McManus, The Great Student 3 Penny Elimination). America has been a leading country in keeping up with modern customs, but this is one aspect that has taken the country back a step because Americans are afraid to change their daily life; but Americans need to understand the harm the penny is bringing to the country (McManus). Along with losing money, time is lost when using pennies. When time is lost, more money is lost (Orr). and the National Association of Convenience Stores estimated that handling pennies adds an average of 2 seconds to each cash as stated in a study conducted by Jeff Gore (Gore). Gore concluded the economy loses roughly $2 billion dollars a year due to the time lost in these transaction (Gore). Both the customer and the cashier lose time in each transaction; adding up to about 120 million hours annually (Gore). This time and money could be saved if the penny is taken out of circulation. It has also become a fear that prices will go up because of the lack of the penny (Gore). This is a according to the Citizens to Retire the US Penny website (Gore). However, recent study, by Robert Whaples, Chairman of the Economics Department at Wake Forest University, confirmed that rounding is (Gore). Business can choose to round up or down and many have to take into account if costumers will buy something that is more expensive than before (Gore). In fact, Tom DiChristopher wrote in a CNBC article that businesses are more likely to round down instead of upsetting the costumers (DiChristopher). Many other countries have discontinued their one-cent coin with little to no and America can do the same (Gore). It also worth mentioning that not all transactions would be affected due to credit card and other electronic transactions (Orr). In fact, reality is that about 25 percent of all transactions are now in cash. The other 75 is in electronic forms of one type or  as Student 4 stated by J Scott Orr in a Seattle Times article (Orr). This means 75 percent of transactions would remain the same; prices would not be effected. If the transaction is electronic, then the price can still use one-cent intervals because no cash would be transacted. This will help keep the balance of prices and once again, help save time (Orr). The fear that Americans have is causing a halt in making a decision about the penny (Gore). Well-known Americans, including former president Barak Obama and YouTube sensation and author John Green support the idea of retiring the penny (Gore). They find it to be a coin that is no longer being used to its full potential (Gore). Both people have chosen to speak their opinions about the penny, and now it is time for other Americans to voice their opinions. Using facts and statistics, the idea about retiring the penny can expand. Creating a petition and taking it to local, state, or federal legislation can help speed up the process so Americans stop losing money. It is time for Americans to retire the penny because Americans would save money, time, and would not have carry around extra weight. The penny has already started to fade out of circulation and is said to eventually be taken out completely (Tim Cavanaugh, Penny Reign: least valuable coin endures). With this said, why not discontinue the coin now? Americans fear the idea of change but the fears are myths (Gore). It is time for change, to keep up with modern customs but it is up to Americans to speak up. Legislation has not been passed because too many Americans support a coin that just lies around the house (DiChristopher). The penny is no longer useful, time should not be wasted, speak up and inform others to think about what retiring the penny can do for Americans. (Word Count: 1,254) Student 5 Works Cited Chase, Steven. The one-cent  Globe & Mail [Toronto, 30 Mar. 2012, p. A11. Opposing Viewpoints in Context, link.galegroup.com/apps/doc/A284637600/OVIC?u=tamp44898&xid=0dd84d73. Accessed 2 Mar. 2017. Cavanaugh, Tim. Penny reign: least valuable coin  Reason, Jan. 2011, p. 70+. Opposing Viewpoints in Context, link.galegroup.com/apps/doc/A243525211/OVIC?u=tamp44898&xid=c7dec6e5. Accessed 2 Mar. 2017. DiChristopher, Tom. Time to Kill the Penny: Fmr US Mint CNBC, CNBC, 30 Dec. 2015, www.cnbc.com/2015/12/30/its-time-to-kill-the-penny-fmr-us-mint director.html. Accessed 27 Mar. 2017. Gore, Jeff. Can You Buy with a Citizens to Retire the U.S. Penny, www.retirethepenny.org/. Accessed 27 Mar. 2017. Lewis, Jacqueline, and Justin Yun. Production Does Not Make The Chimes Biola University, Biola University, 5 Apr. 2016, chimes.biola.edu/story/2016/apr/05/penny-production-does-not-make-cents/. Accessed 27 Mar. 2017. McManus, Kevin. great penny Industrial Engineer 2013: 16. Academic OneFile. Web. 18 Feb. 2017. Student 6 Orr, J Scott. Keeping the Penny Still Make The Seattle Times, The Seattle Times Company, 4 June 2006, Accessed 27 Mar. 2017. SANBURN, JOSH. Waiting for  Time, vol. 181, no. 4, 04 Feb. 2013, pp. 36-40. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=r m&AN=85504546&site=eds-live.