Student 1 Student name ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Healthy for Happiness Stigmas prevent people from forming their own opinions. Due to the negative stigmas surrounding depression and its treatments, many people refuse seeking treatments for their depression. Because of depression, many people are refrained from living a healthy and happy life. Being happy is being characterized as and (Merriam-Webster). People are not truly living in contentment if they are being engulfed by negative thoughts and have a lack of motivation. To help heal those with depression, they need to seek treatments for depression. Seeking treatments and an education about depression and its treatments will help people head towards the path of happiness. Being educated about depression should occur because it helps one seek treatments, it teaches the benefits about treating depression, and it brings the opportunity of living a healthy and happy life again. Moreover, those against depression and its treatments need to understand that having a negative stigma on this topic will jeopardize health and happiness (Takashi et al 2). Because depression is treatable, it is important to take advantage of the treatments and find one that will help one become happy and healthy again. Companies that do not care for their mental health and those that do not care for treating depression do not realize the harm that they are making people go through. Performances in life depends on mental health state. By having a poor mental health state, it will affect performance in life, work, and relationships. The stigma about depression and its treatments need to be replace by an encouraging perspective to make people realize the positivity about treating depression. Student 2 Furthermore, depression have been one of the leading illness of the world with over million people (WHO). It has also been predicted to affect of adult by year (Martin, Angela et al 50). As this illness becomes more dominated, more people will be living in agony especially without realizing the benefits of treatments for depression. Depression can affect anyone for any reason. People, especially employers should care about mental health because a happy person means a dedicated performance in life. It has been studied that of leaders or employers have worked with people who have experienced or was experiencing (Martin et al 51). Dealing with depression would mean that people have poor performances at work due to the lack of motivation. If employers put effort into helping their employees seek treatment, it can also help the employer by having employees become motivated to work their best again. With employees working their best, it would mean customers would be satisfied with the company. Depression not only affects the person experiencing depression, but also people around them as well. Despite depression being a social stigma to many, many stakeholders such as the Anxiety and Depression Association of America (ADAA), promotes the idea of people being educated about depression and its treatments to encourage people to seek treatments. Depression and its treatments is a subject that needs to be explained. It has been surveyed that of people concluded to refuse treatments due to the stigma and other social (Van Voorhees et al 750). Stakeholder like the ADAA promote healing depression with treatments such as medication and cognitive therapy-based treatment to help guide people down a positive path instead of paths such as suicide. Japan, ninth highest suicide rate country is due to the high numbers of people with (Takashi et al 2). Suicides can be avoided if people become educated on how treatments can help them and that facing depression is accepted in society. Student 3 Suicides affect everyone. Imagining have life without a loved one becomes heartbreaking, thus people who carry the negative stigma need to rethink their perspective about depression. Mark Henick, from his Ted Talk We Choose talks about his previous path down towards suicide due to his intense depression. He understood the pains people go through and the desire to be gone from life due to the immense hardship with depression. However, he found hope when people kept providing support for him. Support is a way of treating depression as it helps people realize they are not alone and there are many who love and need them. Depression is not a simple cold that can be cured with medication within forty-eight hours. It is a mental illness that prevents people from enjoying life to the fullest. Hunter Kent in her Ted Talk, depression: How I became my own talks people through her journey of depression that started within her early days of high school. She was not motivated to finish high school and no hope for the future. However, when she found people to talk to and lean on, she found hope and began seeking treatments to bring life back into her life. People find a way to authentically live again after seeking treatments and find ways to overcome the negative stigma surrounding depression. Ali Shulte came to terms with her depression and decided to fight against it. In her Ted Talk, The Real Me: The Stigma Surrounding witnesses story about how she hid her depression due to the stigma. Coming to an agreement that she has depression encouraged her to find a way to fight it. Even though she is not completely healed, she is on the path towards happiness again. These stories witness the importance of people finding happiness again due to finding support and seeking help. If they had not seek help, they could still be living with immense sadness, no motivation or even death. The harsh reality is what people need to truly see about depression as death could happen to a love one due to no support and treatment. Student 4 People and employers with such negative stigma need to acknowledge the importance of a health mental state. Depression causes many high death rates even though there are way to help one heal from depression. It is not weak to be ill. It makes a person stronger when he/she can overcome a challenge. Many people are afraid to seek help because it is not acceptable or their work place do not care for mental health, thus does not provide any resources. Society needs to realize that by helping people become mentally healthy, success rates are more likely to rise due to the immense motivation people will have to work with a healthy mental state. Companies that did not care for mental health needs to take action and provide their employees with a mental health program promotion to ensure the employees are mentally happy to put their best effort in to their work for the company (Martin et al 51). Companies are not the of are that need to promote healthy living, but also people who have the negative stigmas need to attend workshops to learn about depression and its treatment. Obtaining a simple education about depression and it treatments will shine light to those who oppose depression and its treatments because of social pressure. While being social accepted is important to many, having a healthy mental state is the only way to strive through life with happiness and motivation. Ultimately, depression is an illness that can affect anyone, thus everyone needs to be prepared to decide how to face depression. While opinions can stay opinions, it is important to realize the importance on treating depression for an opportunity of a happy, healthy life. The only way to realize the importance of treatments is to have an education about depression and its treatments. By having an education about depression, it can lead one to many pathways to success and happiness. Happiness is achieved through contentment and loved ones can be happy with a healthy mental state. Student 5 Work Cited Anxiety and Depression Association of America. Anxiety and Depression Association of America, 2010, https://www.adaa.org . 14 Apr 2017. Henick, Mark. We Choose YouTube, uploaded by Tedx Talks, 1 Oct 2013, https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=D1QoyTmeAYw . 14 Apr 2017 Kent, Hunter. depression: How I became my own YouTube, uploaded by Tedx Talks, 21 Jan 2015. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Rv9SwZWVkOs. 14 Apr 2017. Martin, Angela, et al. Managing Employees with Mental Health Issues: Identification of Conceptual and Procedural Knowledge for Development within Management Education  Academy of Management Learning & Education, vol. 14, no. 1, Mar. 2015, pp. 50-68. EBSCOhost, doi:10.5465/amle.2012.0287. 14 Apr 2017. Shulte, Ali. Real Me: The Stigma Surrounding YouTube, uploaded by Tedx Talks, 1 Jun 2016, https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uk-8T7p2WMQ . 3 Apr 2017. Van Voorhees, Benjamin W., et al. Attitudes and Illness Factors Associated with Low Perceived Need for Depression Treatment among Young  Social Psychiatry & Psychiatric Epidemiology, vol. 41, no. 9, Sept. 2006, pp. 746-754. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1007/s00127-006-0091-x. 2. 14 Apr 2017. Takashi, Yakushi, et al. Usefulness of an Educational Lecture Focusing on Improvement in Public Awareness of and Attitudes toward Depression and Its  BMC Health Services Research, vol. 17, 10 Feb. 2017, pp. 1-9. EBSCOhost, 14 Apr 2017.