Student 1 Student Instructor Lewis ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Girl Power When you imagine a serviceperson fighting for your country, are they muscular, strong and aggressive? Many would say yes because of the masculinity associated with these adjectives. Though, to be a fighter there is more effectiveness in someone who is brave, courageous and determined. For many decades, female service members have not had the same opportunity as men based on science, physiology and military expertise that resisted against women fighting in combat zones. But on December 4 th of 2015, Secretary of Defense Ash Carter stated long as they qualify (women) and meet the standards, women will now be able to contribute to our mission in ways they could not This statement opened all combat positions to women of the military. For many this meant fairness but for others it meant a less effective military. Without further action, women in combat positions may continue to feel unsupported and unappreciative. In order to keep the military strong, women can take action to confront the problem by satisfying all gender-neutral physical standards and provide America with a selected crisis-response force that is always ready to fight and win. The journey to allow women in combat positions has not been easy. Women have served in the military for many decades beginning in the Revolutionary War as followers of their husbands out of necessity. Then in January of 2013, combat jobs for women began its introduction (Paul). Before removing the band on women allowed in combat positions, many felt uncomfortable with the idea of women as fighters. Not only did this steer away from tradition, Student 2 but there were concerns that women would intrude on group bonding and cohesion. According to Retired United States Marine Corps Colonel William T. Hewes, women are of bonding with men in a manner that contributes to unit (2). This opinion does not take into regard the many mix-gender bonding that frequently takes place among police or fire departments. On the contrary a U.S. Army commander of a combat support company in Iraq, Captain Cynthia Mosley, mentions the action starts, every soldier does what been trained to cares whether male or female. you do the Bonding and cohesion have nothing to do with men or women but with a greater focus on group solidarity, leadership and circumstance. Other stakeholders argue that war is the exclusive territory of men and that this reflects the nature of warfare itself. A retired military officer claims, physical, emotional, and social qualifications of those best suited to the waging of war are unarguably the forte of the male of the (Roger, 972). Today females can physically perform at higher levels. Training will only considerably improve the physical performance of a women even to the point where it matches or exceeds that of men. It is apparent that men have an average greater upper body strength than women. Although women can use their bodies in ways that are close to impossible to be achieved by men. Success and survival confined in the ability to carry out rapid sequences of small motions. This is an ability that women tend to transcend in, opposed to masculine like upper-body strength. Additionally, technology specifically involving weaponry has shifted toward miniaturization. This means that smaller bodies have become better adapted. Regarding the emotional and social aspect of the above claim, evidence suggest greater gender similarity than difference. A behavioral neuroscientist at Tel Aviv University in Israel, Daphna Joel, explains that there is no one type of male brain or female brain. Daphna Joel explains is Student 3 no one person that has all the male characteristics and another person that has all the female characteristics. Or if they exist they are really, really rare to This invalidates the idea that men and women are not similar emotionally and socially. As follows, although men are usually more aggressive than women, they too can be just as aggressive as men. In her TedTalk video, Gayle Tzemach Lemmon, begins her story discussing how Special Operations leaders declared the need for more women in the war for more knowledge and understanding. In conservative societies like Afghanistan, it is difficult for men to talk to women without causing grave offense. For this is another reason, the military needs women out there. In 2011, the call went out soldiers: Become a part of history. Join Special Operations on the battlefield in Women could compete for a spot on these teams (Army Rangers and Navy Seals) to be put on Special Operations front lines. Among these brave women was Kate, who played football in high school because boys told her that girls could not play. She decided to continue for all the other girls who would want to play. For women like Kate, biology shaped part of her destiny. To them it seemed as if everything noble was out of their reach. Finally, they had the opportunity to serve with the best on a mission, not despite the fact that they were female, but because of it. Day and night, they went out to prove themselves, for one another but more importantly for all the females who would follow in their footsteps. Likewise, for the men who served by their sides. Men who wanted to see them succeed. There is no question why there is a phrase, behind every great man there is a good woman. Despite that there are still many Americans who are uncomfortable with the lifted ban which discriminated females in combat positions, men and women can continue to take positive action in supporting a stronger military. Men and women can take a step towards social change to combat this fallacy by joining Academy Women, a global leadership and professional Student 4 development organization that empowers aspiring, current and past women military leaders and their families through mentoring, training, and growth opportunities to impact positive change locally, nationally and globally (Academy Women). Furthermore, men and women can work together to initiate conversation that promote the power of a gender mixed military. These steps will contribute towards the opening of discussion that will shed light on the true value of what women can add to the military. It is possible to gain total equality within the military if women continue to reach mental and physical requirements put in place for both genders. Women must continue advocating for social change by testing the limits that have been created by the American culture. Failing to provide further action will leave the women of the military with a lack of support and appreciativeness from the nation they are defending. Today, circumstances have changed which is apparent because of the gradual movement towards equality, but women and men still have not reached that yet. Citizens of America can support the women and the equality of the military by becoming a part of Academy Women to promote a positive change on the view and the true ability of women that risk their lives to defend their country. Together the organization and the rest of America can help women get on an equal foothold with men. This will not just help the women in the military prosper but can help the United State of America succeed. (WC: 1,2018) Student 5 Works Cited Academy Women. Academy Women, 2017, academywomen.org. Web Accessed 2 Apr. 2017 Chapman, Roger. Culture Wars in America: An Encyclopedia of Issues, Viewpoints, and Voices. 2nd ed. Vol. 1-3. Armonk, N.Y: M.E. Sharpe, 2014. Print. Clonan, Tom. International Trends In The Deployment Of Female . Dublin Institute of Technology., 1 Jan. 2000. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Harris, Paul. in combat: US military officially lifts ban on female US Military, The Guardian., 25 Jan. 2013. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. Pellerin, Cheryl. Opens All Military Occupations, Positions to DoD News, Defense Media Activity. U.S. Department of Defense., 3 Dec. 2015. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. Ted Talks. Tzemack Lemmon: Meet the women fighting on the front lines of an America Online Video Clip. Ted Women. Ted Talks, 15 May 2015. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Wheeling, Kate. brains of men and women really that different, study Science, Science Mag., 30 Nov. 2015. Web. 16 Apr. 2017