Rataj 1 Richard Rataj Professor Erika Staiger English 1102 16 April 2017 Fishing But Not Catching Fishing stocks across the world are being exploited and depleted to the point of no return. Overfishing has been a major cause for this development, and is ultimately causing many people, in both developed and undeveloped regions to go without a vital resource to daily life. Both commercial and recreational fishing impacts the viability of fishing reserves, and by being aware of the issue, and how it can be addressed, the ability to stop the potential for destruction can be reached. Practices that can be adopted on a personal level can help bring an impact to the issue for the better, and awareness and being educated is the first step to solving the problem. Commercial fishing leads to a large decrease in fish in the open ocean, and using practices that are not sustainable for the growth of fish stocks, these fish have decreased in numbers and in size. Recreational fishing has lead to local stocks of fish being depleted due to the fact that recreational fishing occurs in areas where fish are often the most vulnerable. By being disturbed at the even the most local areas, fishing reserves decrease, and the ability to reproduce and grow is severely limited. By practicing proper recreational fishing habits and trying to eat fish that come from companies practicing sustainable fishing practices, these effects can be reduced. On an individual basis, by practicing proper fishing practices, and eating fish obtained in a sustainable matter, the issues that arise with overfishing can be reduced, and a more sustainable world can arise for future generations to come. The issues that arise from overfishing, both Rataj 2 recreational and commercial are often hard to see and are indirect, so an educated point of view is needed to understand and be aware of what the consequences may be, and how to avoid them. Overfishing is often looked over by individuals, as they assume that since they do not eat a lot of fish, that the problem does not apply to them. However, this looks over the issues that arise from overfishing indirectly, such as a growth in algae blooms or the dying off of other species that rely on fish. These issues that arise spread into other areas not normally related to overfishing, such as growth of algae and the loss of coral reefs, which then has a larger impact on other factors such as tourism and economic growth as well as a broader aspect of causing the natural beauty of the environment to be lost. lack of can lead to pronounced changes in the benthic community with shifts to algal dominated (Roth 62-63). In many coastal communities, this rise in algae blooms leads to a general negative outlook to the area, and may cause a decline in the overall general happiness of the community. Furthermore, many people assume that recreational fishing will have no impact on the general fishing stock populations, however this is untrue as recreational fishing often impacts fish stocks by decreasing the populations during spawning and mating seasons. One person catching too large or too small of a fish during the wrong time of the year may not seem to have any significant impact, but when this is compounded by hundreds of people doing this over the course of a season in a very specific area, this problem is exacerbated to the point where future growth potential of a species is affected negatively. Recreational fishing may be more of an issue than commercial fishing because recreational fishing impacts a more local community, and the fish impacted are often keystone species, or those species that are needed for the functioning of an ecosystem. Species depletion may occur faster due to the fact that certain species are favored in recreational fishing, and Rataj 3 during certain seasons, these species are most vulnerable as large numbers can be found in one place. Furthermore, during spawning and mating seasons, the future generations of the species can be inhibited on a larger scale compared to large scale, commercial fishing. Due to the fish that are often caught and sought after with regards to recreational fishing effects of recreational activities are predicted to be particularly acute because they selectively target top-level predators and are more likely to deplete species to a greater degree and with higher (Altieri 1408). By practicing sustainable recreational fishing practices, these effects can be greatly reduced. The joys of recreational fishing that have existed for generations have the potential to be lost if regulations are ignored. In order to allow this practice to be passed down to generations, these regulations must be followed and respected. Fish are a vital part to all marine ecosystems, and the services they impact stretch from tourism to agriculture. Although the impacts by individuals may seem to be negligible, the ultimate combination of many factors from many individuals leads to a destruction of fishing stocks, both for recreational uses as well as commercial. By being engaged in the topic, and being aware of the large impacts that overfishing may cause, these impacts can be understood, respected, and addressed. Many people here about the global impacts that overfishing has for many nations and peoples, however this information causes an overlook by individuals, as the problem is not personal or seemingly impactful directly. However, is also important to increase our understanding of the global participation and harvest in recreational (Cooke 103) as recreational fishing and harvesting is one of the most impactful in terms of its ability to cause destruction at a point source. Regulations are put in place for the ultimate bettering of the people, and by following these rules and regulations, fishing stocks can continue to thrive for future generations to reap the same benefits that past and present generations have. Rataj 4 Each and every individual can help to limit to potential destruction of fishing stocks. There are many intricacies that impact the breeding and growth of many fish species. These intricacies may be invisible to humans, or seem to not have an impact, however they may cause large differences in fish ability to mate and grow. Regulations for catching species may range from entire fishing seasons being closed to restricting the time of day some can be caught. Following these regulations is vital to the development of these fish, and ig they are not followed, these fish may not be around for much longer. Many families are bonded over fishing trips, many families use certain fish based dishes for special dishes, and many communities rely on the economic benefits that the fish cause, both directly and indirectly. If action is not taken to help preserve these fishing stocks, there may be no more fishing stocks to preserve. Furthermore, this issue extends even further to commercial fishing on a larger scale. Commercial fishing has shown its ability to almost entirely wipe out fish species, and by being aware of the issue, and providing business only to those companies that practice sustainable fishing practices and eating fish that are not in danger of being severely affected by overfishing, companies that cause this destruction can be discouraged. One person can make an impact just by being aware, and by bringing the outlook to protect and preserve, the idea can spread over time, and eventually, future generations will not have to face the consequences of a generation who exploited and destroyed such a vital resource. Works Cited Rataj 5 Altieri, Andrew H., Mark D. Bertness, Tyler C. Coverdale, Nicholas C. Herrmann, and Christine Angelini. A trophic cascade triggers collapse of a salt-marsh ecosystem with intensive recreational  Ecology 93.6 (2012): 1402-410. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Cooke, Steven J., and Ian G. Cowx. Contrasting recreational and commercial fishing: Searching for common issues to promote unified conservation of fisheries resources and aquatic  Biological Conservation 128.1 (2006): 93-108. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Roth, F., I. Stuhldreier, C. and C. Wild. Effects of simulated overfishing on the succession of benthic algae and invertebrates in an upwelling- influenced coral reef of Pacific Costa  Journal of Experimental Marine Biology and Ecology 468 (2015): 55-66. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.