Stephenson 1 Kaylie Stephenson Erika Staiger ENC 1102 16 April 2017 How you can end Animal Captivity. Animal captivity has been around since the very first public zoo was established in Egypt by Queen Hatshepsut in the 15 th century BC (Mason, 333). Ever since then, zoos have popped up all over the world. Most people think about zoos as a way to view and learn about exotic animals without having to travel the world. However, behind the bars and cages lies animals who have been torn away from their home and family. These animals are having to give up their normal lives for our entertainment. As a result of the harsh realities of zoo life, some captive animals have developed psychological disorders that severely alter their normal behavior. Fortunately, there is something you; as a usf student, can do to help end animal captivity. It is simple, all you have to do is not visit zoos. Instead, you can visit an animal sanctuary such as very own, Big Cat Rescue. If everyone does their part, we could one day live in a world where every animal gets to live the life they are supposed to; free. To begin with, there is more to zoos than meets the eye. The animals may seem at ease in their cages but they are actually dealing with a bunch of issues that most people do not realize. For example, in the animal world, group size is very important when it comes to social relationships, net food intake, and reproductive success. According to Elizabeth Price and Tara Stoinski, authors of a book on animal behavior, captive animals face different issues compared to wild animals. In captivity, food availability and survival is not an issue, however they still have to compete to find a mate. And because they are expected to get along with all the animals they Stephenson 2 live with, they are unable to successfully decrease social tension. Therefore group size effects their behavior, overall welfare, and reproductive success (Price and Stoinski, 1). Zoochosis is another example of the negative effects on animals from captivity. Zoochosis is a psychological condition seen in zoo animals. Symptoms include; repetitive pacing, swaying, biting, and self- harm. A case study performed by Konjevic Bata and Sindicic Njemirovski looks at a formerly captive tiger skull. The researchers found that the tiger had excessive damage on his canine and incisor teeth. Eventually they concluded that the wear and tear was a result of excessive biting and chewing caused by zoochosis (Bata and Njemirovski, 59). Overall, these studies prove that zoos have a negative effect on the animals they hold captive. In addition, you should care about this issue because no animal deserves to be locked up and held hostage, just like no human deserves to. There would be no way that human zoos would be allowed, so why do we think it is okay for our animals? There is a very simple way to help these animals in need. All you have to do is simply not visit zoos. By not visiting zoos, it keeps the zoos from making money, which will ultimately lead to their closure. If you really want to see wild animals without traveling the world, you can visit an animal sanctuary. For example, as a USF student you could visit very own Big Cat Rescue. Sanctuaries take in animals that come from zoos or who are injured and cannot survive in the wild. They usually offer a lot more space and more environments that more closely resemble the animals natural habitat. Sue Donaldson and Will Kymlicka, authors of Politics and Animals, say that sanctuaries allow animals to live the rest of their days in safety and to also serve as ambassadors to the public (Donaldson and Kymlicka, 1). Linda Brent, a contributing author to the Journal of Applied Animal Welfare Science, claims that sanctuaries can help improve the well-being of animals who Stephenson 3 have formerly been held captive ( Brent, 55). Therefore, you can visit an animal sanctuary and get to see amazing animals while also learning about them. In the end, there is a way that everyone can work together to end animal captivity. We can come together and be the voice that these animals need. By simply not visiting zoos you can stop captivity. The present and future generations of animals will be able to live a life of freedom, unafraid of being torn from their families and doomed to a life behind bars. Stephenson 4 Works Cited Mason, Peter. Zoo tourism: The need for more  Journal of Sustainable Tourism 8.4 (2000): 333-339. Brent, Linda. Life-long well being: applying animal welfare science to nonhuman primates in  Journal of Applied Animal Welfare Science 10.1 (2007): 55-61. Dean, et al. Zoochosis as a cause of excessive dental wear in captive Siberian tiger-a case  Veterinarska Stanica 46.1 (2015): 59-63. Price, Elizabeth E., and Tara S. Stoinski. Group size: Determinants in the wild and implications for the captive housing of wild mammals in  Applied Animal Behaviour Science 103.3 (2007): 255-264. Donaldson, Sue, and Will Kymlicka. Farmed animal sanctuaries: The heart of the  Politics and Animals 1.1 (2015): 50-74.