Student 1 Student 16 April 2017 ENC 1102 Dr. Jamie Thornton Every Penny Counts The motto goes penny saved is a penny but is saving the penny really worth it? In recent years, there have been many debates on whether the penny should be kept in U.S. circulation or removed. The argument being made is that pennies cost more than they are worth to make, therefore there is no need for the U.S. to continue wasting money on producing them. While it is true that pennies cost more to make than they are worth in value, creating them using less expensive material could solve this issue. Zinc is the primary material used to make pennies, which is what causes the production rates to be high. If the penny was switched over to a metal like steel rather than zinc the cost to produce a penny would be far less. The penny should be kept in U.S. circulation because it provides an immense amount of historical value to the united states, multiple charities rely on pennies, and sales tax would then have to be rounded up to the next denomination; raising prices for American consumers. . For over 200 years the penny has served the U.S. economy as the first currency authorized by the United states; its historical value far outweighs its monetary value. The first penny was minted in 1787, with the design of the first one cent coin thought of by Benjamin Franklin (pennies.org/penny-history). The penny has been around for more than two centuries making it a huge part of American culture. In the early at many companies even branded penny candies. These were candies you could buy for a single penny, some such as Hershey Student 2 kisses and tootsie rolls (Reference.com/food). In the early years of the penny, its value was enough to purchase many things on its own, and even more things could be bought with just a handful of pennies. The penny is not only a historic piece of U.S. history but also an important piece of the U.S. economy, with the penny removed from circulation all Americans will be affected. Without the penny sales tax would be pushed up to the next denomination, such as the nickel, meaning prices on products would go up. In recent years, it has been stated that with all the extra costs of production, when added to the opportunity cost of using the penny, the government loses around 900 million each year (Retirethepenny.org/Homepage). As of 2016 it costs about 1.5 cents to make a 1 cent penny, and in years prior to that the cost was even higher. In 2011, the cost to make a penny skyrocketed to 2.4 cents. Zinc is expensive to purchase by the pound, causing the production of pennies to be expensive; the solution- using steel instead. Steel costs a whole 60 cents less per pound than zinc, which does not sound like much but when considering pennies that is a lot of savings. (Livescience.com) Many organizations have been pushing to get the penny eliminated because not only is it costing too much to produce them, but the pennies value has gone down over the years. As with most anything, value does decrease over time. The value has dropped over the years, but it is not entirely stripped of its worth. Author Robert Whaples makes the statement that little would be lost from the elimination of the penny, rather there is more that could be (Robert Whaples). Pennies are used for rounding prices and for sales tax. Having a monetary value of only 1 cent, pennies cannot be used to buy anything on their own anymore, but they are still an important part of the United States economy. Losing the penny would mean losing the rounding system that keeps products affordable. Student 3 Common thought is that the Elimination of the penny would only affect lower to middle class citizens, when every American will be affected. According to Americans for Common Cents, if the penny were removed, sales tax would move up to the next denomination; so not only would average product prices go up, so would the sales tax. For example, rather than a product being $1.99 using the higher sales tax the price would raise to $2.05. With pennies kept in circulation, Americans can benefit from keeping lower sales tax, keeping prices affordable. If the penny were eliminated, only is there that overall direct effect, but disproportionately hurting the poor and those that can least afford (Mark weller for CNN newsroom) One of the main benefiters of pennies are charities. They often rely on pennies to further their existence and provide for their cause. Many charities realize that people cannot always afford to donate much to their cause, but pennies having a low denomination are often readily donated. Since pennies do have such a low value people are happy to give them away and this highly benefits charities. (Moneycrahsers.com) The one cent coin is a huge contributor to charities providing them with endless donations each year to support their causes. Specific charities that rely on coins like pennies are the March of Dimes, and Pasta for pennies. These organizations encourage people to donate their spare change, especially pennies, to help fight against premature births and leukemia/lymphoma. With pennies, these organizations can continue to promote and support their cause. (Smith Nancy) To allow for the pennies continued historical impact, and economical benefit, support is necessary. Due to the raised awareness of the penny and the debates surrounding it, multiple organizations have banded together to attempt to save it from elimination. Americans for Common Cents (ACC) is a group focused solely on educating the public on this important social issue, as well as provide ways for Americans to get involved. ACC gives a history of the penny Student 4 and its benefits on their website, allowing for Americans to educate themselves on the impact keeping the penny can have. Concerned individuals do have options to get involved. Getting involved with ACC, and sharing their message on social media sites will help the rest of the public get educated on why the penny should be kept. Social media is a huge and continually growing platform, therefore spreading information can reach all over the country providing maximum education on the issue. Vouching for the penny and getting voices heard is what will be most impactful. For individuals who wish to contribute to keeping the penny in circulation, reaching out to elected officials can get this issue heard. To make the most impact it is important the individual locates the specific representative and/or senator that represents their district or state. Once the government official has been identified, it is vital that the issue at and (keeping the penny in circulation) is expressed clearly in the letter. Including reasons why the penny benefits the economy, and how eliminating the penny would cause drastic economic and cultural downfall, will provide the best outcomes. The first step in preserving the United States economy is recognizing the problem at hand. Eliminating the penny would be a mistake; to benefit the economy the penny should be kept in circulation. Since 1787 when the first penny was minted, it has provided over 200 years of historical significance. From having the design first thought of by Benjamin Franklin, to having the latest and most popular design commemorate Abraham Lincoln. Pennies also help benefit the economy by keeping the sales tax low and providing charities with their main means of support. The benefit of keeping it in circulation outweigh the downsides. Reaching out to local government officials as well as helping spread the message of ACC can provide the penny with a promising future. Sending a letter to specific elected officials expressing why the penny should be kept and how it benefits the U.S. economy will begin to get movement going in the right Student 5 direction. Without the penny, the United States would lose a great source of historical significance and cause taxpayers (every American) to lose money. The debate is ongoing but with exposure and proper action, the American economy can be preserved. (WC:1346) Student 6 Works cited Copper Pennies. N.P., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Community Relations Information Olive Garden Italian Restaurant. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. CNN  CNN. Cable News Network, 01 June 2001. Web. 02 Apr. 2017.  Americans for Common Cents. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. <http://pennies.org/> for Babies Helps Every March of Dimes Fighting Chance For Every Baby. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Smith, Nancy. Why We Need to Keep the Penny (and Dollar Bill) in  Sunshine State News Florida Political News. N.p., 05 Apr. 2012. Web. 02 Apr. 2017. Whaples, Robert. Time to Eliminate the Penny from the U.S. Coinage System: New  Eastern Economic Journal, vol. 33, no. 1, Winter2007, pp. 139-146. What Can You Buy with a  Citizens to Retire the U.S. Penny. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. http://www.retirethepenny.org/