Shamari Robinson Karen Hanson ENC: 1102 4/13/2017 Time to Ratify the Equal Rights Amendment. Chances are throughout your life you will come across some discussions of equal rights, whether at work, with family or University. The term gender equality leaves all who hear it with a cringing feeling in the pit of their stomachs. The current political climate and radicalized activism have misled and annoyed the public to the point that anyone who hears the very utterance of the word gender equal, no longer has any interest in the conversation. The media has done an exceedingly poor job of presenting gender equality in an unbiased way, coupled with rights activist and feminists activist groups that usually push some kind of biased narrative deepening on their political affiliation (Staggenborg. Et al. 1). A proposed amendment titled the Equal Amendment (ERA) was created to bring equality between men and women, and try to establish equal laws between both genders. So, what is the Equal Rights Amendment and why should anyone care? Around the turn of the modern century a group of women calling themselves the National Party fought for the first time for equal rights among both genders, men and women, they tried to get the act ratified into the constitution, but obtain all votes needed. (Bernadette). Fast forward to today and as it stands there are some areas in society that men and women are still not truly equal in such as marriage, sexual health, abortion laws, maternity laws, custody of children, and the Duluth model, just to name a few. We have come a long way regarding these issues, but we still lack the final push to get us to a truly equal place and seeing as how most people identify as male or female those of you reading this are involved stakeholders. A report by Betsey Stevenson and Justin Wolfer shows that the rate of marriage for young men, roughly between the ages of 25-35 are falling. This could be attributed to many different factors, but one interesting fact that is a point of concern is that most men no longer see an incentive to get married, as marriage laws tend to favor the wife over the husband in terms of the divorce. These laws can range from, custody to alimony, and many other contributing factors (Stevenson et al. 3-30). These laws have created a term coined, It is a term that reflects the state of absent fathers from the household whose only connection to their children is by means of alimony support. This, in turn, increases the fatherliness rate in America, because of this image young men are rejecting the notion of marriage. The increasing rate of fatherlessness is contributing to the increasing rate of child poverty in America (Kriesberg). In a book, titled Divorce Court by Joe Sorge, the corruption and inequality behind the family law system in America are brought into the light. The film highlights how men are stuck paying alimony even if they get to the point of being unable to continue paying alimony, and this perfectly illustrates one of the disparities in a society that still exists between the genders. The Duluth Model, named after the area of its creation, Duluth Minnesota, is a feminist psycho-educational approach that seeks to try to identify how men try to seek control over women in abusive relationships, while the initial creation of the Model was started with good intentions it has now turned into a Model that only targets men as the only aggressors of domestic violence, even if men are the victims of domestic violence themselves (Herman. 3-40). On the opposite side of the spectrum women still also face areas of disparity in society, most notably in the areas of abortion and metricity leave. In an article written by Maya Manian, the author talks about how the Federal Abortion Ban and Miscarriage and its aim to restrict the ability for women to get abortions even if they were victims of sexual assault of if the pregnancy would result in putting the mother in dire peril. The ban puts a major strain on physicians, and it makes it more difficult for the physicians to carry out their jobs of adding the patients to the best of the medical acumen. (Manian. 1319-1330) The United states in the only developed nation that offer paid maternity leave for Of 186 countries examined in Heymann and (2013) analysis of the World Policy Analysis Centre Adult Labour Database, 96 percent provide some pay to women during maternity leave. The United States is the only high-income country, and one of only eight countries in the world (Heymann and McNeill 2013), that does not mandate paid leave for mothers of (Gault et al. 2). The largest corporations used to be run by mostly male members in the early they saw pregnancy see as a burden that mothers should be solely responsible for, and it come at the expense of the corporation. The Pregnancy Discrimination Act of 1978 and Maternity Leave was designed to prohibit employers from discriminating against pregnancy, but there was a loophole in the original drafting of the act; only if the company offers disabled pay leave is the only time they are required by law to offer paid maternity leave. This is a perfect example of how laws designed to destroy dated ideas get passed, but are hardly updated and are riddled with loopholes. It is clearly understood that there is still disparity between men and women in society which is exactly why the E.R.A needs to be ratified, there is a myriad of fallacious information and radicalized movements about gender equality floating around different mediums and the real factual evidence about gender equality is being overlooked, ergo the time to act has never been more important. The E.R.A will enable, you the reader, to never face the issues highlighted in this essay. Many large organizations have enacted petitions such as H. J.R.S.69 and are also campaigning for the ratification of the E.R.A, but they do it alone and need your help. If you volunteer a small amount of your time or money to help E.R.A organizations such as ERA coalition, you will be aiding in the effort to ensure that we never have to worry about these issues again, and can finally put the radicalized activism about gender equality behind us. Work Cited Bernadette Cahill. Alice Paul the National party and the vote. Washington D.C. McFarland & Company. n.d. Print. Kriesberg Louis. Mothers in Poverty: study of fatherless Library of Congress n.d. Web. April 15, 2017 Sorge Joe. Devoice Corp. Candor Entertainment. January 10, 2014. print Gault Barba et. al Parental Leave in the United Department of Labor. Institute for Herman Katherine et. al Outcomes from a Duluth Model Batterer Intervention Program at Completion and Long Term Follow. Up Taylor & Francis Group, LLC. January 1, 2014, Web April 04 2014. Manian Maya, The Consequences of Abortion Restrictions for Healthcare, 71 Wash. & Lee L. Rev. 1317 (2014), <scholarlycommons.law.wlu.edu> Stevenson Betsey & Wolfers Justin, and Divorce: Changes and their Driving Penn Libraries. University of Pennsylvania Scholarly Commons. n.d. Web. April 05 2017 <repository.upenn.edu> Staggenborg Suzanne and Taylor Verta, Happened to the n.p. Web. April 02 2017. Policy Research. n.d Web April 13, 2017. < www.dol.gov>