Student 1 Student Name ENC 1101 16 April 2017 Providing Effective Treatment for Soldiers with PTSD Combat veterans represent one of the most altruistic and noble cohorts in society today. These individuals made a conscious decision to sacrifice their lives, if necessary, to defend the freedoms that many of us take for granted. Even though many veterans understood the risks that they took in order to help maintain American values, many did not anticipate the implications of war on their mental health. Today, hundreds of thousands of military veterans that have served in conflicts throughout the late twentieth century live with posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD). These individuals did not ask for this disorder and many continue to suffer because they cannot find consistent and effective treatment. With these issues in mind, the current investigation seeks to provide a comprehensive overview of PTSD among combat veterans. The importance of treatment is emphasized along with the need to ensure that treatment is effective and useful for restoring the veteran to health. Overview and Scope of the Issue In an effort to demonstrate the importance of effective and consistent treatment for combat veterans with PTSD it is first necessary to provide an overview of the problem and its implications for individual health. Research regarding this disorder indicates that PTSD develops following exposure to trauma (Miller et al. 114). Trauma can include events such as abuse, assault, accidents, and violence (114). Not all individuals exposed to trauma will develop PTSD. Rather as noted by Miller and coworkers this condition develops in individuals that are not 2 capable of processing the traumatic event adequately (114). Posttraumatic stress disorder is associated with a cluster of symptoms that can markedly impact the functioning of the affected individual. More specifically symptoms of PTSD include avoidance of situations similar to the trauma, re-experiencing the symptoms of trauma, hyperarousal, changes in cognition, and emotional numbing/changes in mood (Woon et al. 1). More recently, research has demonstrated that PTSD does result in structural changes to the brain which can impede executive functioning (2). Although the experience of trauma can be quite common, statistics provided by the US Veterans Administration indicate that in the general population only about six to seven percent of all people develop this disorder during their lifetimes In the military population, however, the rates of PTSD are typically much higher. Statistics provided by the Veterans Administration indicate that as many as 20 percent of current veterans experience symptoms of PTSD Veterans struggling with PTSD face a number of pertinent challenges when returning from combat. In addition to requiring mental health care to address this issue, veterans must often seek employment and rebuild relationships with families (Fischer et al. 187). All of these issues can create considerable stress for the veteran making reintegration following deployment extremely challenging (188). Implications for Veterans The implications for veterans with PTSD are often quite substantial. Veterans who return home with posttraumatic stress disorder will often suffer from a wide range of mental health issues. In particular research demonstrates that veterans with PTSD are more likely to suffer from depression and attempt suicide (Haller et al. 160). In addition veterans with this condition are also more likely to suffer with substance use disorders (Bowe and Rosenheck 23). These 3 conditions can be exacerbated by a lack of treatment for the veteran (23). In short, if veterans do not have access to effective treatment, they may engage in substance use as a means to cope with the symptoms of PTSD. Over time, this may lead to the development of a substance use disorder and the inability of the veteran to successfully reintegrate into civilian life. What this data indicates is that posttraumatic stress disorder can have a systemic impact on the life of the veteran. Symptoms can permeate all aspects of the life and can result in the inability to function in critical occupational and social domains. Further, what is particularly challenging about this situation is that most veterans do not anticipate having this experience nor do they know how to overcome their challenges. In many instances, veterans are expected to demonstrate a tough masculine exterior; one that is not impacted by trauma. As a result, many veterans may find it difficult to acquire the mental health services needed to overcome the symptoms of this disorder. Additional challenges may exist with regard to ensuring that effective treatment is provided. Efforts to Provide Care Despite the challenges facing veterans when it comes to overcoming the symptoms of PTSD, a review of programs to provide treatment for this group does indicate that there are certain organizations that have been willing to offer help to those who have bravely served our country. In particular over the course of conducting research on this topic, the Soldiers Project was located. Data from the organization indicates that it was founded in 2004 with the mission of providing lifelong support for veterans suffering from PTSD The Soldiers Project is not only committed to providing mental health services for veterans with PTSD for as long as needed, but also the organization provides services to veterans at no cost 4 Mental health professionals working in the community serve as volunteers to provide counseling supports to veterans in need. The Department of Veterans Affairs has also developed treatment programs for improving the lives of veterans suffering with PTSD. The VA operating in conjunction with the Department of Defense has established evidence-based guidelines for the treatment of PTSD in veterans 3). More specifically, the VA advocates for the use of cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT) for the treatment of PTSD in veterans (4). This recommendation stands in contrast to the services provided by the Soldiers Project. More specifically, counselors working for the Soldiers Project note that a wide range of therapies are used for treatment with no type of standardized care. Why This Issue Is Important While it is evident that mental health support for veterans with PTSD is imperative, what is equally imperative is that this treatment is effective. Although supports provided by the Soldiers Project are useful, the lack of standardization in treatment brings to light the importance of establishing uniform treatment protocols to meet the needs of soldiers in distress. This issue is of paramount concern when considering all of the challenges facing veterans attempting to reintegrate into civilian life following deployment. The inability of organizations to provide effective treatment may serve to further imperil the physical and mental health of the soldier while impeding the reestablishment of vital connections with spouses, children, and parents. All of these issues need to be considered when developing supports for veterans struggling with posttraumatic stress disorder. The importance of the issue should also be framed in the context of a larger moral obligation to provide the best possible care for veterans. As noted at the outset of this 5 investigation, veterans assumed their role in the military with a conscious awareness that they could potentially die for their country. While veterans have survived the physical realities of war none anticipated that they would return home traumatized by their experiences. By providing the best possible care for those who have protected our freedoms, a moral duty is being fulfilled. No person should be able to stand by and watch veterans receive care that is substandard. Civilians should demand that veterans have access to the best possible care to ensure that they are able to enjoy the freedoms for which they fought. Conclusion What is demonstrated in this assessment is the fact that veterans should be provided with access to free and effective mental health supports to recover from trauma. While programs such as the Soldiers Project represent a step in the right direction, efforts are needed to ensure that veterans receive the best possible care, through the use of evidence-based supports. Each of us has a moral obligation to ensure that this care is made available to all veterans in need. Each of us further has a moral obligation to remember that our freedom has been made possible by those who were willing to step in way and to fight for us. Only by ensuring that treatment for veterans with PTSD is available and effective will it be possible for all of us to begin repaying our debt to this valiant group. 6 Works Cited About. The Soldiers Project, 2017, https://www.thesoldiersproject.org/about-the-soldiers- project/. Accessed 8 April 2017. Bowe, Adina and Robert Rosenheck. and Substance Use Disorder among Veterans: Characteristics, Service Utilization, and Journal of Dual Diagnosis, vol. 11, no, 1, 2015, pp. 22-32. Print. Fischer, Ellen P et al. of Family and Veterans on Family Programs to Support Reintegration of Returning Veterans with Posttraumatic Stress Psychological Services, vol. 12, no. 3, 2015, pp. 187-198. Print. Haller, Moira et al. Reintegration Stress Contribute to Suicidal Ideation among Returning Veterans Seeking PTSD Suicide and Life-Threatening Behavior, vol. 46, no. 2, 2016, pp. 160-171. Print. Homepage. The Soldiers Project, 2017, https://www.thesoldiersproject.org. Accessed 8 April 2017. Miller, Jessica K. et al. in Active Navigation from Trauma and Post-Traumatic Stress Neurobiology of Learning and Memory, vol. 140, 2017, pp. 114-123. Print. VA/DoD Clinical Practice Guideline for Management of Post-Traumatic Stress, 2010, Accessed 8 April 2017. Woon, Fu et al. Meta-Analysis of the Relationship between Symptom Severity of Posttraumatic Stress Disorder and Executive Cognitive Neuropsychiatry, vol. 22, no. 1, 2017, pp. 1-16. Print.