Jonathan Good Instructor: Brenden Jackson ENC1101 03/05/2017 How Music Affects the Brain My topic is how music affects the brain. To narrow my research, I have formulated a more specific Said research question is does music affect the parts of the brain that deal with influence, physical activity (i.e. sports or exercise), and stability (i.e. medical To clarify what influence means in my research question, I am referring to anything that influences subconscious mental activity. A good example of this would be music affects the time spent in a This exact example can be found in my essay. Overall music has been known to affect how people think, learn, and process information. A common test that is performed is how music effects the cognitive performance of certain age groups. Music has been theorized to affect the mind for centuries. As hard as it was to find supporting data for my essay I can confidently say that the psychoanalysis of music really hot topic in the psychological field. There been any prolific scientist on the topic of music psychoanalysis. Dastgheib, Samaneh, et al. The Effects Of Music On Interictal Activity In Epileptic Patients: Systematic Review And Meta-Analysis Of The  Current Neurology & Neuroscience Reports 14.1 (2014): 1. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Per Samaneh Dastgheib, music not only has a positive effect on the brain of the mentally sound, but also on the mentally unsound. Ms. Dastgheib conducted a test on epileptic patients. The test involved having 12 patients listen to various pieces by Mozart. The purpose of the test was to see if listening to Mozart would reduce the strength and the frequency of (interictal epileptic discharges). After conducting the test, it was to be found that 84% of the patients decreased in strength. However, even after these tests were done, Ms. Dastgheib still set on claiming that music was clinically efficacious. The source is tied to my topic in that it discusses the medical applications of music in mentally ill patients. This source is not only proof that music can help the mentally unstable, but also solid proof that music affects the brain in general. The source is credible since Ms. Dastgheib is a Research Assistant at the Shefa Neuroscience Research Center in Iran and is a member of the Society of Neuroscience and the International Brain Research Organization. Another one of the authors, Mr. Ramin Sadeghi, also makes the article more credible since he is a Nuclear Medicine specialist at Mashad University of Medical Sciences. Teppo Mari Tervaniemi, Sari Laitinen, Anita Forsblom, Seppo Soinila, Mikko Mikkonen, Taina Autti, Heli M. Silvennoinen, Jaakko Matti Laine, Isabelle Peretz, Marja Hietanen; Music listening enhances cognitive recovery and mood after middle cerebral artery stroke. Brain 2008; 131 (3): 866-876. doi: 10.1093/brain/awn013 Per the article, after experiencing a stroke, the brain will change, dramatically, over the next few months, and not for the better, however, music can apparently help with the mental changes since listening to music requires several parts of the brain to work together. This work was tested among various people who not only experienced strokes but also people with dementia, dyslexia, etc. and the tests yielded significant results. In the experiment conducted, 60 patients with a left or right hemisphere MCA (Middle Cerebral Artery) stroke were randomly assigned to a music group, a control group, or a language group. Over the course of two months, the music and language groups listened to self-selected music or audio books every day. The control group received no listening material what so ever. ALL patients, regardless of the group, received professional medical care and rehabilitation during the two-month long experiment. The results concluded that the music-listening group did make the most progress in their recovery. I find the article to be relevant in that it displays solid evidence proving that music can help keep your brain healthy overall, said evidence being that the recovery time was shortened in the patients that listened to music. I also find the source to be credible since every single author that helped write the journal article is either part of a Cognitive Brain Research Unit, works in the Department of Music at their appropriate University, or works in their Neurology or Radiology department at their corresponding University. Mokhtari, Pouneh, Zahra Chaharbaghi, and Ali Tayebi Meybodi. The Effect Of Music On Associative Learning Motor  Advances In Environmental Biology (2013): 4429. Academic OneFile. Web. 6 Feb. 2017. Doctors Pouneh Mokhtari, Zahra Chaharbaghi, and Ali Tayebi Meybodi conducted a series of tests based on the theory of specifically determining the effects of music on the associative learning of a three-step pivot layup. The type of test subjects used in the tests were very specific, all the test subjects were right-handed, female, non-athletes, that musicians, and were within the age range of 15 years old to 18 years old. All 90 of the test subjects were divided into six groups, each with 15 subjects. There were 5 experimental groups and one test group. The rules of basketball were taught to the test subjects in two sessions. After the preliminary sessions, the groups were separated and five of the six groups performed the same task of doing 12 exercise sessions. The control group get to listen to music, warmup, or exercise before performing their pre-layup test and their post-layup test. Each of the experimental groups had been influenced by either the introduction of stimuli or the lack of stimuli. (I.E. one group does exercises WITHOUT warming up, another group does exercises WITH a pre-exercise warmup). The results were that the fourth group performed the best out of all six. In the experiment, group 4 was the only group to listen to music while exercising and after exercising. This test makes it very apparent that music can affect how the body performs in sports and sports related activities. The source is connected to my topic in that music just affecting the body during the muscle memorization process, it is also affecting the mind. When group four was subjected to music during their exercises and after their exercises, they associated their muscle movements with music, just like memorizing things by turning them into a song. I find my source to be reliable since it was published by the American-Eurasian Network for Scientific Biology and it was written by three authors. One is Dr. Ali Tayebi Meybodi; He is a neurological surgeon and has a Ph.D. in Neurology/Neuroradiology. The other two authors Dr. Chaharbaghi and Dr. Mokhtari have both co-written an extensive list of reports that revolve around Psychology. Andersson, Pernille K., et al. Let The Music Play Or Not: The Influence Of Background Music On Consumer  Journal Of Retailing And Consumer Services 19.(2012): 553- 560. ScienceDirect. Web. 6 Feb. 2017. According to an experiment conducted by Mr. Pernille K. Andersson, music can affect how much time and how much money you spend in a store. Mr. experiment also tests the emotional influences of music playing in store, however, in the experiment, there was no meaningful difference in emotions between music in store Vs. no music in store. Mr. Andersson conducted the experiment out of curiosity that had stemmed from previous research conducted by two other scientists; these scientists were Albert Mehrabian and James A. Russell. Albert Mehrabian is the current Professor Emeritus of Psychology at The University of California, Los Angeles, and James A. Russell is an American psychologist. Dr. Russell graduated from UCLA with a Ph.D. Together these two men revealed the underlying theory of emotional stimuli. Mr. Andersson decided to test their theory with his own experiment. Mr. Andersson developed the hypothesis, many other variables are present, does music playing in the background still have a detectable He tested his hypothesis by running the tests in a Swedish home electronics store over a four-day period. In those four days, Mr. Andersson had the store alternate from playing music on one day to playing no music the next. He then had the consumers fill out a questionnaire after visiting the store. The test results concluded that when playing music in store, the consumer is more inclined to spend money and spend more time in the store. This source is relevant to my research in that it does prove that music has a profound effect on the mind in a seemingly uncontrolled environment. The shoppers were not actively thinking about the music. They went about their own business and the studies showed that the music yielded longer ventures in the store. The music affected the subjects on the subconscious level. The first thing I thought of after reading the article was is, on the most basic level, mind control! They are partially controlling how people My source is credible since Mr. Andersson was a Ph.D. candidate at Karlstad University in Sweden at the time the article was written. The co-writers Per Kristensson, Erik and Anders Gustafsson, are all professors at Karlstad University. Lammers, H. B. An Oceanside Field Experiment on Background Music Effects on the Restaurant  96.3 (2003): n. pag. Web. According to an experiment conducted by professor H. Bruce Lammers, music can affect how much you spend in a restaurant. The experiment took place at a serene restaurant in Ventura, California. The experiment was performed on 80 sets of patrons at the restaurant; all 80 sets were randomly subjected to classical music or rock music at varying volumes. The musical manipulation was pretested on the waiters and waitresses of the restaurant. This means that the definition of loud or soft was relative to the waiters and waitresses. The experiment was conducted on two consecutive weekdays. The results of the test confirm that the music did have a significant impact on the total. When soft music was playing the total of the tab was $21.63. The total of the tab when the music was loud was $18.57. The type of music had no effect on the total of the tab, only the volume of the music. The profound effect of the soft music was accredited to the setting as well. Since the restaurant had a serene atmosphere the soft music amplified the it, making the restaurants overall atmosphere generally more pleasing. Since the music affected the tab in tandem with the serene atmosphere, the explanation of the results has become speculative instead of intuitive. This source is relevant to my topic in that it does show that music does have some effect on the subconscious. Regardless of the setting, the test was cross-referenced with the total tabs before the experiment and it does show that music does have some influence. I find the source credible because the author, H. Bruce Lammers, is the Emeritus professor of Marketing Department of Marketing California State University, Northridge. Lim, H., G. Atkinson, C. I. Karageorghis, and M. M. Eubank. Effects of Differentiated Music on Cycling Time  International Journal of Sports Medicine 30.7 (2009): n. pag. Web. DOI: 10.1055/s-0028-1112140 According to an expansive experiment conducted primarily by Professor lim, music can affect your performance in sports, specifically, bicycle racing. The test was conducted on 11 physically fit males aged 19 to 30 with a body mass ranging from 68 to 86 Kg and a height ranging from 1.75 meters to 1.87 meters. The control group listened to no music throughtout the race. The two other groups listened to music at different points in the race. Group 1 listened to the music from 0-5 km, while group 2 listened to music from 5-10 km. According to the race results, the control group took the longest time, taking 16.78 minutes. Group 1 took longer with 16.85 minutes, but group 2 took only 16.5 minutes. As you can see the music had really no effect on race times, however, throughout the race, the groups did have a consistent variation in data with group 1 always being 3 rd , group 2 was always 1 st , and the control group was always 2 nd . Although the music had no profound effect on the participants, the music did generate consistent data, therefore, the music did effect the racers in some way, according to the test the music always yield a positive effect. The source is related to my topic because it does seem to provide a correlation between music and sports performance, not in one instance, but in the overall data. The data was consistent throughout the board. Group 2 was always the fastest, group 1 was always the slowest, and the control group was always the middle of the road. I find the source very reliable because it was published in the International Journal of Sports Medicine and the authors are all head professors at their respective universities.