Molano 1 Luis Molano Prof. Davis ENC1102 16 April 2017 Marijuana and Why It Should Be Legal In June 1971, the United States Government declared a on One of these drugs, classified as Marijuana was placed as a Schedule One drug. Schedule I drugs are defined as with no currently accepted medical use and a high potential for according to the website. Though through extended research these claims of potential for and currently accepted medical are found to be the complete opposite. The extended War on Drugs have been a failure since it was first carried out, it negatively impacts the amount of incarcerated per year, restricts medical use for people in need, and also prevents tax generated revenue to be made. Like the national prohibition of alcohol from 1920-1933, it was meant to reduce crime, and cure an ill society in families. However, it turned out as a failure, crimes increased through gangsters who controlled bootlegging and the speakeasies. Through legalizing marijuana, it will reduce crime, medicate those in need, and carry out tax generated revenue. Americans with a taste for drugs or even alcohol, will get ahold of it regardless if it is illegal or not. The first reason for marijuana to be legalized, is that number of incarcerated due to marijuana related offenses is on the rise. Just alone in 2015, 643,121 people were arrested due to a marijuana related offense (Drug Policy Alliance). This means that 29% of all arrests made in 2015 were due to marijuana (Drug Policy Alliance). With the number of incarcerated inmates rising, this means that there is less room for more serious offenders. A quote directly from Molano 2 Newsweek explains the process of overcrowding, prison overcrowding means that violent criminals are being released early to make room for non-violent drug This can also lead to more prisons being built, wasting more tax dollars on the construction of the prison as well as the hiring of more guards, and other resources. According to Newsweek, incarceration costs taxpayers $70 billion annually, while half these prisoners are in it for a minor drug charge. By arresting for more appropriate offenses, it will mean saving tax dollars on prisoners brought in for drug charges, and more tax dollars to be spent on schools, roads, and parks. An alternative to this incarceration overcrowding problem, is to carry out a Smarter Sentencing Act that would reduce mandatory minimums. According to the Justice Department, reducing sentences would save $24 billion taxpayer dollars over the next 20 years. At times, these offenders can also have their financial aid privileges taken away, preventing them from obtaining loans or any federal grants. Imagine wanting to go to school but not being able to afford it, leaving your only way to pay for school through loans and grants but the government took away your rights, which restricts you from going up the social ladder. The goal of the Justice Department should be to focus and target worst offenders on the street, protecting the lives and property of the innocent. Marijuana is not only a recreational drug; it carries medicinal traits that can help patients. Unlike alcohol and tobacco, there has yet to be a death related to marijuana. There is also no reported overdose resulting from marijuana. There are two medical components to marijuana, THC and CBD. THC is the cannabinoid that makes people though it can be used to increase appetite. CBD is a cannabinoid that does not make people and carries a plethora of medicinal traits. These medicinal traits range from treating HIV/AIDS, inflammation, pain seizures, substance use disorder, mental disorders, and many more that are still in research. Molano 3 Currently, the Food Drug Administration has not approved marijuana a safe and effective drug for any However, the FDA has approved two synthetic versions of the drug that are known as dronabinol and nabilone, which treat chemotherapy induced nausea and vomiting. Marijuana however is legalized medically in 28 states, one of them being California have found great results through doing so. By using marijuana medically, it helps patients that are on sets of pain killers to switch over. Pain killers leave patients in a brain deficient state, as well as an addiction to them which does more harm than good. A personal experience I have had with this is my older brother who dealt with brain cancer, every time after chemotherapy he would be exhausted and worn out so the doctors gave him pain pills to sooth the pain. This in fact made it worse, he was dependent on the pills and used them not in accordance with the intended drug label. The pain killers also left him speechless and dependent with someone always helping him. After hearing out from several doctors he made the switch to medical marijuana to deal with the pain, and rather than being dependent with painkillers he became more independent to carry out daily functions. With using marijuana as an alternative there is no need to worry about an addiction, or a brain deficient state. Through legalizing marijuana, the government can tax it and gain revenue to put in for schools and other needs. An example of this is Colorado, if you buy marijuana there are several taxes to it. The first tax is a wholesale tax, then a normal sales tax to the state and local government, and the last tax is a special sales tax meant just for marijuana. In 2015, pot brought in a total of 129 million in state according to Colorado 9 News. With the tax generated revenue, the first 40 million dollars goes to a state program called BEST, which awards grants to local schools to improve school facilities. Now the state tax generated revenue might not be billions, but it is still better than nothing considering that if it were sold illegally 0 Molano 4 dollars would be going to taxes. It makes more logical sense to make it legal and get a piece of the pie that is already happening under the table. The first step to taking action in the legalization of marijuana is to get out and inform others. Inform the uneducated that marijuana does more good than harm, include the benefits. Also state the facts that marijuana is safer than alcohol and tobacco, yet marijuana is still illegal. The second step to taking action in the legalization of marijuana is to talk to your local state legislators for example, senators and congressmen/ congresswomen. Speak up and voice out to them why marijuana should be legal, carry out peaceful protests to grab their attention and be consistent. Without being consistent there is no telling when legislators will give the people a chance. Most importantly when the time comes for marijuana to be on the ballot for legalization, vote for it. The legalization of Marijuana is bound to happen; it is just a matter of time. Through getting out and informing citizens to vote for the legalization of marijuana, the process of marijuana being legalized can be sped up. Through legalizing marijuana, it benefits taxpayers, those in medical need, and leaves more space for serious offending prisoners. Americans that use marijuana, will still get ahold of marijuana regardless if is legal or not, by taking action and legalizing it Americans can rake in many benefits. Molano 5 Works Cited 1. Abuse, National Institute on Drug. Marijuana as  NIDA. N.p., n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. 2. Alcohol Facts and  National Institutes of Health. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, n.d. Web. 12 Apr. 2017. 3. Carson, Ann E. Prisoners in  Bureau of Justice Statistics (BJS). Elizabeth Anderson, 29 Dec. 2016. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. 4. Drug War  Drug Policy Alliance. DPA, n.d. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. 5. and  Drug Policy Alliance. DPA, n.d. Web. 10 Apr. 2017.