Hodges 1 Nicholas Hodges Karen Hanson, PhD ENC 1102 16 April 2017 The Ugly Truth of Factory Farming While factory farming may not be a issue we as every day humans think about, it is a serious issue that has been kept in the dark for years. The fact of the matter is, many people do not care about factory farming because most people think it has no affect to their daily lives. I am here to tell you today, that factory farming not only affects the animals held in captivity, but it can also have a negative impact on people who buy meat from companies that own factory farms. While there are several societies out there that are trying to help this issue, like The Humane Society of the United States (HSUS) and People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA), their efforts are useless if we do not take action and help them in this fight for animals. Factory farming is wrong because it negatively impacts the lives of animals and humans, as well as goes against moral values of society. Factory farming takes animals out of there natural habitats and puts them in small, overcrowded warehouses where they are treated poorly and abused. Even though animals may not be humans, they still have feelings and families as well. Animals on factory farms are subject to painful procedures and surgeries, often done to prevent unwanted behaviors resulting from the frustration of living in barren, unnatural, and overcrowded environments. Egg-laying hens, for example, have the end of their beaks seared off when they are just a few days old to prevent  one another -- a consequence of living in crowded, close confinement. Similarly, pigs raised for meat are kept in bleak, dreary pens with little to do. These animals are Hodges 2 taken from their homes, and even born into these unnatural and depressing environments. Some animals have never known a life outside of the factory farm they are kept at. These companies want to make money, that is their primary goal. This means they are willing to sacrifice the health and well-being of these animals if it means they can save money. These animals are treated as production  with no regard for their basic individual needs, which is extremely important to the goals of producing the greatest number of animals in the shortest amount of time, in the smallest space, while using the least amount of food and other resources possible. As a result, billions of animals thus suffer immensely before their short, sad and unnatural lives end in slaughter. Aside from these animals being taken away from their families and natural environments, factory farming can be harmful to humans as well. According to Stephanie Brown, comprise the majority of animals raised for meat. Most are intensively confined spaces, which in result, greatly reduces their growth rate. The average chicken kept for meat -- known as a  -- lives less than six weeks. For some birds, it is as few as 30 (Brown 1). If these chickens are only living up to 30 days, this means they are not growing to their full potential, which means the companies housing these chickens are losing money. Brown goes on to say, bodies are pushed beyond their physical limits in a bid to cope with their lack of growth, with the aid of antibiotics which are commonly administered to these chickens to speed their growth and keep the birds alive in stressful, crowded conditions. The use of non-therapeutic antibiotics in farmed animals contributes to anti-microbial resistance in humans, where critical drugs lose effectiveness. It is unsafe to administer these antibiotics in massive quantities to animals who are not (Brown 1). As you can see. These companies would rather sacrifice the health of their consumers over the loss of some money to provide these animals with better Hodges 3 living conditions. We should not be afraid to eat the food on our plate at the end of a long day at work. These anti biotics can poison the food we eat, which can then poison us if we eat it. Most people do not like the idea of factory farming and the conditions these animals are put under on a daily basis. This is why when we see commercials from HSUS or PETA, we start to get watery eyes and want to pick up the phone to donate money. Why do we feel sad for these animals even though we have never met them and we do not consider them humans? It is because factory farming goes against our morals. As a society, we like to think that everything behind the scenes of the big picture is done right and that nobody or nothing was treated unjust in the process. According to Amanda Tolles, 1995 a nationwide public opinion poll conducted by the Opinion Research Corporation for Animal Rights International found that 93 percent of the adults surveyed believe animal pain and suffering should be reduced as much as possible, even though the animals are going to be (Tolles 19). So even though we ultimately know these animals will die and end up on our dinner table, most people do not want these animals to be treated poorly while they are being housed on these factory farms. So now you know the facts. So now what? What can we do with this information to help fight for these animals. There are several organizations like HSUS and PETA that are fighting for these animals and begging for your help every step of the way. The Humane Society of the United States is a non-profit organization that provides care for more than 100,000 animals per year through their rescue teams, sanctuaries and wildlife centers, free veterinary care for low- income pet owners, and other life-saving programs PETA is also a non-profit organization who focuses its attention on the four areas in which the largest numbers of animals suffer the most intensely for the longest periods of time: in the food industry, in the clothing trade, in laboratories, and in the entertainment industry. If you want to get involved in either of Hodges 4 these organizations, they offer internships and are also hiring new employees every day. You just have to apply on their website. You can also become an online member through their website if you do not want to work for them or do not have the time for an internship. Along with joining these organizations, they are always in need of more resources. You can go on their website at any time and donate money to help them fight for animals. Another option they provide is adoption. You can go on their website and apply to adopt an animal from their organization. These animals range from cats and dogs, to bunnies and birds. The power is in your hands. We all have the opportunity to make a difference in the world we live in. it is up to us to fight for these animals! Hodges 5 Work Cited Brown, Stephanie. Do They Not Bleed? Industrial Agriculture and the Cruel Fate of Farm  Canadian Dimension, vol. 45, no. 4, Jul 01, 2011, pp. 23-26. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ap n&AN=ALTP846436&site=eds-live. You Love Helping Animals. So Do  The Humane Society of the United States : The Humane Society of the United States. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Tolles, Amanda. Consumers Seek to Curb Farm Animal  Business & Society Review (00453609), no. 96, Jan. 1996, pp. 19-22. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=bft &AN=510390363&site=eds-live.