Holly Weber Bennington ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Why Go Non-GMO? Over the last 20 years, many Americans have become increasingly concerned about the food products they are consuming, and the ingredients that they contain. Many common foods, such as vegetable oils, artificial sweeteners, and cereals, contain GMOs (genetically modified organisms). GMOs are organisms that have been genetically altered to possess specific characteristics that are not only for biological and medical research, but also for farmers and food production companies (Facts About GMOs). These characteristics may include resistance to many herbicides, pests, diseases, and environmental conditions (Facts About GMOs). GMOs may also be engineered to reduce enzyme levels that cause browning and bruising, and also to increase the growth rate of certain organisms (Facts About GMOs). Although these genetic modifications may seem harmless and in the public interest, they often come with potentially serious health consequences and lasting environmental impacts that ultimately affect the lives of millions of Americans. Over 60 developed countries have recognized the health risks associated with consuming GMOs, and have implemented strict regulations to prevent their consumption. However, the USA is one of the only developed countries that does not require these regulations (Facts About GMOs). Because GMOs are prevalent in food products that Americans eat daily, many Americans are exposed to the health risks of GMOs without their knowledge. Genetically modified organisms may pose many health concerns, severely impact the environment, and continue to affect the lives of many individuals who do not currently live a non-GMO lifestyle. In an effort to educate and encourage people to make a commitment to protect their health and the environment by adopting a non-GMO lifestyle, Living Non-GMO, a non-profit organization, is a hosting a Non-GMO Challenge during the month of April, 2017, and you can make a pledge live non-GMO. Through the possession of unnatural genetic modifications and alterations, GMOs pose serious health risks that silently threaten the health and wellbeing of many Americans, due to the artificial nature of the engineered genetic modifications. The FDA does not require any testing of potentially dangerous genetic changes occurring within the genetically engineered organisms, which could lead many Americans to consume harmful food products that may be detrimental to their health (Lallanilla). Recently, the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations has stated that GMOs may have the to introduce new toxins and new allergens, or cause nutritional changes in (Lallanilla). The nutritional changes resulting from genetically modified organisms raise serious concern for consumer health, by failing to provide important vitamins and nutrients that are key to preventing disease and maintaining a healthy, balanced diet (Lallanilla). By conducting multiple studies on mice, scientists have shown that GMOs have also been conclusively linked to certain types of cancer, antibiotic resistance, loss of nutrition, and toxicity (McDermott). Although consumers may not notice an immediate change in their health as they consume GMO products, a lifetime of eating them could lead to potentially serious health conditions. A recent study conducted at the University of Vienna stated that when mice were fed genetically engineered corn within a twenty-week period, they showed significant infertility and severe damage to reproductive organs (McDermott). Furthermore, many of the offspring were shown to have decreased weight and abnormal GI tract functioning (Just Label It). Although it might be argued that the body chemistry of mice is vastly different than human body chemistry, it has been consistently shown that mice contract the same diseases as humans, providing important clues about the ways in which the human body may be affected (McDermott). Scientific studies have provided important indications of human health issues that may be associated with GMO consumption. Similarly, the health of the environment may be threatened by GMOs. The use of GMO crops has drastically increased in recent decades, severly threatening the fragile equilibrium of the environment and endangering the lives of individuals living in close proximity to these areas. GMO crops have been found to be toxic to many insects, such as bees and butterflies, with pollinate and feed off these crops (One Green Planet). The entire biodiversity of ecosystems, and the sustainability of many species, is being put at risk by GMO crop planting. Furthermore, GMO crops are often modified to be resistant to extremely toxic weed killers, therefore providing an incentive for farmers to use them as a more effective way to kill unwanted weeds, without harming the crops themselves (One Green Planet). However, when GMO crops are planted and treated with weed killers, many toxic residues from the weed killers saturate the soil, depleting the soil of all its nutrients, which is integral to the growth and survival of other beneficial non-GMO organisms (One Green Planet). Additionally, the irrigation techniques used to harvest GMO products carry the toxic soil into nearby water sources and into the air, causing contaminated drinking water and excessive pollution (One Green Planet). One such weed killer, 2.4-D, is known to be extremely hazardous to human health, and has been linked to causing brain defects as well as other serious developmental defects in young children (One Green Planet). The Environmental Working Group conducted a study that found over 3,200 elementary schools were within 1,000 feet or less of fields that used the 2,4-D weed killer (One Green Planet). A study conducted by One Green Planet on the environmental effects of GMOs stated that is reasonable to assume will become part of a larger ecosystem, meaning the problem of environmental damage done by GMOs is much larger than simply potentially harming our (One Green Planet). If genetically modified crops continue to be planted in large-scale farming plots, the risk that GMOs may permanently damage the environment, and either directly or indirectly, human health, is a very real possibility. Genetically modified organisms not only pose serious health risks to humans who consume them, but they also permanently damage the environment in which they are planted. GMOs are present in many food items that Americans eat on a daily basis, exposing people not only to the health risks of GMOs, but also causing environmental destruction through the cultivation of GMO crops. Therefore, it is imperative to adopt a non-GMO lifestyle to ensure the long-term health of humans and the environment that sustains them. Fortunately, the non-profit organization, Living Non-GMO, is hosting a Non-GMO Challenge this April. This challenge gives consumers the empowerment and opportunity to adopt a non-GMO lifestyle by pledging to for a day, a week, a month, or possibly for good (Non-GMO Challenge). The goal of the Non-GMO Challenge is to drive change across the and ultimately advocate for a non-GMO lifestyle, and to inform others about the harmful effects of GMOs (Non-GMO Challenge). The pledge is simple to complete, and consumers only need to go to the Non-GMO Challenge website to enter. Once an individual has made their pledge, they will be educated about the importance of eating non-GMO products, and the ways in which they can start their new, non-GMO lifestyle (Non-GMO Challenge). Consumers will learn how to critically read nutrition labels on the products they buy, as well as how to eat non-GMO meals at restaurants (Non-GMO Challenge). They will also be given the option to track their progress, and share their experience with others. By completing the Non-GMO Challenge, concerned Americans will become empowered and encouraged to live a non-GMO lifestyle not only to improve their own health, but also to sustain the health of the environment as a whole. Works Cited It, Just Label. Environmental  Just Label It. N.p., n.d. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. One Green  Environmental Impact of GMOs. N.p., n.d. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Non-GMO  Living Non-GMO : The Non-GMO Project. N.p., n.d. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Lallanilla, Marc. GMOs: Facts About Genetically Modified  LiveScience. Purch, 11 Jan. 2016. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Facts About  One Green Planet. N.p., n.d. Web. 15 Apr. McDermott, Annette. Why GMOs Are  LoveToKnow. LoveToKnow Corp, n.d. Web. 15 Apr. 2017.