Devura 1 Milica Devura ENC 1102 Prof. Davis 16 April 2017 The Fight Against Animal Testing When it comes to everyone on this planet, there is one thing that, for the most part, everyone takes part in. That one thing is the use of cosmetics, whether it be makeup, shampoo, conditioner, or any other cleansing products. They go out and get the best brands money can buy such as Benefit, CoverGirl, Aveeno, Neutrogena, Redken, and Dial, just to name a few. They know that these brands are dependable and high-quality, but what they do not know is that they all use animals when testing their products. They capture helpless creatures such as rabbits, guinea pigs, mice, and rats to use for the +testing of all of the products that they produce. Some of the tests they conduct will check for ingredients in the products that would cause skin and eye sensitization, irritation or corrosion, or acute oral toxicity. The result of these tests is year, more than 100 million mice, rats, frogs, dogs, cats, rabbits, hamsters, guinea pigs, monkeys, fish, and killed in U.S. laboratories for biology lessons, medical training, curiosity-driven experimentation, and chemical, drug, food, and cosmetics (PETA) Cosmetic companies need to reevaluate their methods for testing their products. They should not be using animals in these methods because it often severely injures or even kills the animals involved. There are many alternative options to this method that other cosmetic companies have already taken action in this situation. Devura 2 When people hear about how companies test on animals, people take it very lightly and do not think much of it. However, these tests are incredibly dangerous and often kill the animals that are being used for them. The tests that are used, besides the ones listed previously, include tests for allergic reactions on skin, tests for changes in the cells or organs caused by repeat exposure, tests for cancer, and test for effects on fertility. This is only naming a few as the list contains thirteen different tests that are used on animals. The actions that are performed on the animals are extensive and hard to think about. These include but are not limited to: applying substance to the surface of the skin or injected under the skin, applying substance to the shaved skin of an animal, substance applied to the eyes or ears, forcing substance down the throat using a feeding tube, or an animal is placed into a tube and forced to inhale the substance. Everyone needs to think about the severity of these tests. The animals often die from the chemicals that they are exposed to, and that is not at all what they want in their life. On the brighter side, there are already companies that have taken action on this issue, such as Lush, The Body Shop, Too Faced, and NYX. Lush particularly is a company that helps advertise their opposition on animal testing. It is a widely known cosmetics company that provides beautiful soaps, bath bombs, and many other cleansing products without testing on animals. They are avidly against the method of animal testing, and advertise it all over their packaging and website. When accessing their website, it asks right away to get involved by saying, better on top. Sign up for Lush emails and always be on top of all the freshest Lush This demonstrates that they really want everyone to know about the issue, and then they also get to advertise for their own company by displaying their products. When going through the website, they use a good amount of text to inform the readers about what they do. Devura 3 website also uses pictures to illustrate their accomplishments and important individuals that are apart of the Lush industry. By going through the entire Lush website, everyone can learn that with this particular issue at hand, it is important to fully explain the issue so that readers really understand what they are really fighting for. They use all of their packaging as a chance to advertise their beliefs on animal testing, and are the leaders of the army that is fighting against animal testing. So now the real question is, what are the alternatives to animal testing that everyone is talking about. There are many ways for cosmetic companies to do away with animal testing. Some alternatives include but are not limited to: in vitro testing, computer models and simulations, stem cells testing, and microdosing. In vitro testing is essentially the use of tests tubes that have human cell and tissue cultures in them, and the companies insert the substances that go into their products into the tube and see how the cultures react. Microdosing is when humans are given a very small amount of the substance that will affect the body on a cellular level, and will not actually harm them as a whole. These tests are much more accurate and efficient than using animals to test these products. Since the products are made for humans, does it not make sense to test them using human parameters? To use an example, on rats, hamsters, guinea pigs, mice, monkeys, and baboons revealed no link between glass fibers and cancer. Only after human studies related the two did the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) label these fibers as (NEAVS). This essentially means that some of the tests being performed on these animals are completely unnecessary. Additionally, cosmetic product tests that do not include animals are more friendly toward the wallets of the companies that use them, along with being more practical and not to mention faster Devura 4 results. According to NEAVS, which is an organization that protects animals whom are potentially in danger of being tested on and informs the public of alternative options to animal testing, Corrositex (synthetic skin) can provide a chemical corrosivity determination in as little as 3 minutes to four hours, unlike animal testing that often takes two to four (NEAVS). This information alone should be enough for companies to stop animal testing. If a test that does not use animals only takes minutes to get results as opposed to weeks, why is animal testing not obsolete yet? All in all, animals should not be tested in the processes of making cosmetic products. It is incredibly dangerous, and most of all unnecessary. As many as 100 million animals die every year from these tests, and that is not what they were put on this planet for. So to the reader, go out and fight against animal testing. Boycott companies that still use animals to test their products, and make sure they know that their products will not be purchased until a change has been made. There are so many alternatives to this method that are all around better than the method of animal testing. There are helpless creatures that need help, and the solution is not unreachable. Devura 5 Works Cited Companies That Test On Animals  N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Pacelle, Wayne. Cosmetics Tests That Use  Humane Society of the United Humane Society, n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Collins, Francis S. Experiments on Animals:  PETA, n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Society, New England Anti-Vivisection. Animals in Science /  Neavs, 2017. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.