Student 1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 14 April 2017 Depression Victimizing the Elderly Ever have the feeling of not being worth anything, a loss of interest in daily activities, distances oneself from close relative or friends (Center of Disease Control)? These may be the distinct signs of depression; a mental disorder that affects more than 16 million people across the country (Center of Disease Control). Depression affects all age groups, but individuals from the age range of 49-54 are at the highest to develop this disorder (Depression). A problem with depression amongst this age group is that many of the are uneducated with depression, do not know the sign of it and that psychotherapy is the most effective treatment option for them. Before discussing on this issue some words need to be define: psychotherapy, cognitive behavior therapy and Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HAM-D) to achieve a better understanding on the topic of depression. Psychotherapy is collaborative treatment based on the relationship between an individual and a (Understanding Psychotherapy and How It Works). There are several kinds of psychotherapy but in this paper cognitive behavior therapy will be the only one that will be discussed. The HAM-D is a questionnaire that rates an depression on a scale and if they exceed over a score of 20 then the person is diagnosed with depression (Rutherford). This stakeholder should adopt a position against depression because they are the one at a greater risk to develop depression; however, many do not want to because there is a negative stigma with depression. People feel ashamed and of their Student 2 depression and often isolate themselves which prevents them from seeking the appropriate treatment option. Educating this group on depression should occur because it will allow them to get the proper treatment- psychotherapy, and be able to help those who show signs of it. Although psychotherapy requires the individual to be committed to regularly visit their therapist, the payout is immaculate. This treatment option is much better than antidepressants because the individual will obtain skills to overcome daily obstacles. Even when they stop going to visit their therapist, the individual can use the skills they were taught unlike that of antidepressants where if they stop taking their medication they will have a higher chance to relapse. Cognitive behavior therapy is a kind of psychotherapy that on identification of distorted perception that the patient may have... changing these perceptions, and discovering new patterns of action and (Depression). A study was conducted by Lydia R. M French on a group of people who were taking cognitive behavior therapy session over several weeks (French). She wanted to see if the people still used the skills they learned from their session after they stopped going to the sessions. They were asked several questions that would determine their depression and it discovered that the people still used the techniques (French). This demonstrates how effective psychotherapy is long-term. Another reason why psychotherapy is a much better treatment than antidepressants is that it does not pose any side effects that can harm the individual. Common side effects antidepressants produce are headaches, vomiting and nausea (Anderson). People have a 16.8 percent chance of getting a headache when taking antidepressants (Anderson). However, this is not the case when it comes to the non-engage group because they are prone for heart and lung issues to arise (Depression). Therefore, psychotherapy is much more effect and a safer treatment option for the non-engage group. Student 3 While depression affects all age groups, people the ages of 49-54 have the highest chance to develop it. Depression also increases the chances for suicide attempts or suicidal thoughts to occur. is the third leading- cause of death related injury in elderly (Depression). Andrew Solomon is a well-known writer who became a victim of depression and he tells his experience of depression in a Ted talks Video. He discusses how losing interest in almost everything and want to do any of the things I previously wanted to (4 TED Talks on overcoming depression). What he just said is one of the signs of depression where an individual does not want to do anything anymore. Men have the highest chance of committing suicide (Depression). Mr. Solomon was on the verge of committing suicide because he no longer could bare the mental toll depression was inflicting on him. The only reason why he did not go along with it is because only reason not to kill oneself was so not to hurt other (4 TED Talks on overcoming depression). Mr. Solomon provides a first- hand experience with depression and how it affected him on a daily basis. For him to share this intimate experience with a group of individuals shows how serious this disorder is and wants people to not overlook it. In the end of his Ted Talks conference he found out that the more he talked to people about depression the more those people wanted to tell their stories. Though these people were not talking to a therapist about their depression, they instead talked to someone else about it. This suggests that just talking about it can reduce their depression. The non-engage stakeholder can talk to love ones or friends about their depression and it could possible improve their mental health. After providing information about depression and who it affects, the non- engage stakeholder should care about this matter because they are at the highest risk for depression. It is important to educate this group on the mental illness. Some ineffective solutions that have been Student 4 offered in the past or could be assumed is that as one ages their attitude changes to being grumpy, lifeless people. Therefore, once one see someone who shows these traits they are often overlook and are not considered to have depression. A consequence of failing to confront this problem or not acknowledge that the person has developed depression is that they may develop suicidal thoughts, self-inflict harm to themselves, or worse attempt to commit suicide. A way to prevent this problem is for the non-engage group to seek for help, without any hesitation, from love or friends to take them to a psychotherapist. The newly engage stakeholder can show their support for the position that psychotherapy is the most effective treatment option for people who fall in the age range of 49-54 by telling those people that there is no shame in admitting they have depression. There is nothing wrong with getting help from someone who wants to see one in a better mental state; in this case, a psychotherapist. Psychotherapy provides the most effective treatment to those the ages of 49-54 because it allows those individuals to obtain the necessary skills to overcome the daily obstacles without the need of antidepressant medications. The evidence provided in the paper offers both qualitative and quantitative data. The quantitative data cannot be argued false, and the qualitative information from Mr. Solomon offers an insight of how depression affects a person. People should not overlook individuals who show distinct sings of depression even though there is a social stigma that the older one becomes the more bad-temper they are. Assist those individuals by contacting a psychotherapist. Though depression is a serious matter, with the right therapist and support from people it can be overcome. (WC1211) Student 5 Work Cited Anderson, Heather D., et al. Pharmacotherapy: Rates of 5 Common Antidepressant Side Effects among New Adult and Adolescent Cases of Depression: A Retrospective US Claims  Clinical Therapeutics, vol. 34, 01 Jan. 2012, pp. 113-123. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.clinthera.2011.11.024. Bret R. Rutherford, M.D., author, et al. Patient Expectancy as a Mediator of Placebo Effects in Antidepressant Clinical  American Journal of Psychiatry, no. 2, 2017, p. 135. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1176/appi.ajp.2016.16020225. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 23 Jan. 2017. Web. 04 Mar. 2017. <https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/campaign/tips/diseases/depression-anxiety.html>.  University of Maryland Medical Center. N.p., n.d. Web. 02 Apr. 2017. de Roten, Yves, et al. Research Paper: Efficacy of an Adjunctive Brief Psychodynamic Psychotherapy to Usual Inpatient Treatment of Depression: Results of a Randomized Controlled  Journal of Affective Disorders, vol. 209, 01 Feb. 2017, pp. 105-113. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.jad.2016.11.013. French, Lydia R. M., et al. Long Term Use of Cognitive Behavioural Skills to Manage Their Depression: A Qualitative  Behavioural & Cognitive Psychotherapy, vol. 45, no. 1, Jan. 2017, pp. 46-57. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1017/S1352465816000382 Ted. 4 TED Talks on overcoming  Overcoming depression Playlist TED.com. N.p., n.d. Web. 02 Apr. 2017. Student 6 Understanding Psychotherapy and How It  American Psychological Association. American Psychological Association, n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.