Hineman Gabriel Hineman Spencer Bennington ENC 1102 4/14/2017 Outline Project 3: Introduction: to the Geneva-based Small Arms Survey the leading source of international public information about firearms the U.S. has the best-armed civilian population in the world, with an estimated 270 million total Call to To increase public awareness and minimizing the risks associated from guns falling into the hands of children, concerned citizens are encouraged to reach out to their local to push for providing comprehensive firearm education at the school level by hosting the Eddie Eagle Program. The phrase takes a applies in the sense that we must all unite as a community to minimize the potential risks if/when a child comes in contact with a weapon, whether one is a parent or not. Body Paragraph: Possession and Ownership of firearms in the United States of America has many benefits. If an armed intruder was attempting to break into a home, a properly armed and educated homeowner increases the chance that he/she could safely defend themselves. used 2.5 million times a year in self-defense. Law-abiding citizens use guns to defend themselves against criminals as many as 2.5 million times every year -- or about Hineman 6,850 times a day. This means that each year, firearms are used more than 80 times more often to protect the lives of honest citizens than to take Firearms are a major tool used by hunters for sport as well as to provide a food source for their The rash of public assaults makes a strong argument for concealed carry as this provides the innocent civilian a means of protecting oneself in the event they become under attack or find themselves in the presence of someone who threatens bodily harm while in public. Body Paragraph: While there are numerous benefits to possessing an easily accessible gun in personal abodes there are inherent dangers as well. the possibility that young children residing within the home, or even just visiting, may stumble upon the firearm and without the proper education may try to handle it to devastating consequences. information collected by the Gun Violence Archive, a nonpartisan research group, news reports and public sources, the media outlets spent six months analyzing the circumstances of every death and injury from accidental shootings involving children ages 17 and younger from Jan. 1, 2014, to June 30 of this year - more than 1,000 incidents in Considering the number of accidental firearm deaths of children occurring every year it may be reasonable to assume that gun ownership is on the rise but alas it is not so; has found that the number of people who say they have a gun in their home is at an all time low hovering around 30 percent, from a high of 50 percent in the 1970s. Hineman Body Paragraph: began in 1988 with one mission: teach children four simple, easy to remember steps so they know what to do if they ever come across a (NRA) When possible gun safety and education courses are mentioned, many erroneously believe they are just geared to adults specifically planning on handling them a few times or on a regular basis. This assumption is wrong! While a majority of gun safety courses are meant primarily for adults or those of age to handle guns, there are also some courses geared towards a younger audience, specifically children. This is where the Eddie Eagle Program comes to play an important role. a gun safety program specifically geared to educate children about the dangers of firearms and the potential consequences for handling them. The teaching style is based on learning the information from Eddie Eagle and his group of friends. During the course children will also complete some activities such as questions based on what they have learned while watching the shows, or just simple coloring exercises. Conclusion: Restate Call to To increase public awareness about the dangers of children handling guns and promote the education of firearm safety for children, advocacy is encouraged by concerned citizens visiting local school and pushing them to host the Eddie Eagle program. In areas where the local refuse to consider providing this program, Eddie Eagle has another option via accessing an online program that all children can complete from the comfort of home. Hineman Works Cited: Program, Eddie Eagle Eddie Eagle  Explore Eddie National Rifle Association, n.d. Web. 12 Apr. 2017. Morgenstern, Madeleine. How Many People Own Guns in America? And Is Gun Ownership Actually  TheBlaze, 19 Mar. 2013. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. AP. A Lot More Kids Killed in Gun Accidents than Says, Study  CBS Interactive, 14 Oct. 2016. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. Kirby, Brendan. Fact Sheet: Guns Save  Gun Owners of America, n.d. Web. 14 Apr. 2017.