Friese 1 Meghan Friese Brenden Jackson ENC 1101 Composition 1 3/31/2017 The Great Barrier Reef has been in constant decline for as long as researchers have studied it. Its extensive ecosystem and ability to enable life has drawn many diverse sea creatures to the coral reef. The main ability the reef gives to its surrounding creatures is life. The reef is off the coast of northeastern Australia and covers nearly 132,974 square miles. The expansive reef is home to over 600 various types of soft and hard coral (Bowen). The astonishing area covered by the reef makes it a candidate for the largest living structure on Earth. The impressiveness of this habitat, enabler of life, and living chain of coral is what drew me to research more about it. While learning about the extensive history of the reef I began to question its origins as well as its effects it has on our world. What impacts does the Great Barrier Reef have on its surrounding environment as well as what impacts does the surrounding environment have on the Great Barrier Reef? James Bowen, Studied environmental subjects in the United States, Canada, and Australia. He has published numerous articles and books on ecological subjects. James spent over a decade pursuing his interest in the Great Barrier Reef. He used, in his studies, archived research as well as underwater and field research to ensure his studies were accurate. He states that the creation of the Great Barrier Reef started as the collection of dead coral built upon itself in order to house newer organisms. The cycle of the reef continues as more coral dies and is molded into the wall (Bowen). This process in end creates flourishing life in the ocean. The reef Friese 2 provides a home and refuge to hundreds of various species. These species include a wide variety of birds, reptiles, mammals, crustaceans, fish, and many other animals. As humans, our environmental impact has always been substantial. Richard G. Pearson has written numerous articles focusing on climate change and extinction. His works include biodiversity, conservation, ecology, zoology, and climate change. Jon Brodie has been involved in many research projects involving water and the ecosystems both affected by the water and affecting the water. He has been a chief scientist in research projects pertaining to tropical water and climate change. Both of these researchers focus on the constant struggle between the reefs life and the declination humans have caused to it. From the very beginning of human contact with the reef, the reef has been progressively declining. Not only are people nearby the reef effecting it, but people thousands of miles away are also. Pollution has been a main cause of deterioration and bleaching. or quite some time, the reef has been deteriorating through a natural process called bleaching. However, the cause for this process to occur has not been natural. Bleaching of coral occurs when water temperatures are too warm for the creature to survive. This results in the coral expelling the algae inside of it in end transforming it into a white color. Over the previous century, the Great Barrier Reef has become, for the majority, bleached. This has resulted in the production of oxygen to greatly diminish and for a lot of sea creatures to perish (Woolridge). Another factor that humans have on the Great Barrier Reef is the human contact consistently applied to the reef. Tourism has been a benefactor to the reefs rapid and untimely deterioration. In 2004, scientists began to wonder if disturbing the reef for research affected it more so negatively then leaving it alone would. They then began a study on whether the amount of creatures and various types of creatures impacted the reef and the previous mapping done of Friese 3 the reef. Various sights were not used in mapping the reef. In order to gather data, scientist studied both the areas mapped out as well as the areas left alone. The data found was contradictory in the sense that the coral built up a resilience in the area that was touched by humans. However, the coral was flourishing more in the areas not touched (Maynard). In recent years, the disruption from tourism has declined leading the reef to rebuild itself again. Humans may be the most notable factor when it comes to the reef, but what people do not realize is the impact the Great Barrier Reef has on people. The various attributes that the Great Barrier Reef has on its surrounding environment is a main theme when discussing the reef. Not only does this include ecological, but it also includes economical. The Great Barrier Reef provides a needed environment for sea creatures, and also provides numerous jobs for humans. The Great Barrier Reef and its obvious ecological decline has led to numerous jobs being created. The subject of the reef has also led to the controversial topic of human prints on the Earth. People working on the reef focus on environmental impact that humans have had on the reef. They study the effects and implicate ways to reduce pollution and the reefs slow decline (Pearson). Many like to take the backseat to ecological and environmental problems. They believe that nature will correct itself. The various authors of this article support the idea that the reef is beyond natural repair. In order to fight climate change and the effects it has on the reef, we must also fight ourselves and the impacts we have made on the reef (Ecosystem Services). Many implications have been added to governmental policy in order to lessen the deterioration of the reef. The Long Term Sustainability plan is the main focus for the Australian government right now. This plan involves many smaller components. To lessen the impact humans have on the reef, the government in focusing on how they can help. Water quality, greenhouse gasses, and Friese 4 human disturbance are all areas that are being focused on. However, while the intentions are good, they are struggling in implementing these plans. Environmental problems in relation to the government typically takes a backseat to other forms of politics (Dale). The Great Barrier Reef is an important ecological and economical treasure to the world and should be treated as such. In order to live in a healthy environment, we must create that environment.