Student 1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 April 16, 2017 Mental illness: How It Affects Us All In recent years, the outbreaks in mental illness have swept the nation. There are many ways someone can develop a mental illness, some believe it can be self-inflicted but in fact there are many factors that affect this, one of them being it can be in your genetic makeup. crucial to come to an understanding that mental illness develops through no fault of the person who is suffering, most of the causes are out of their hands. The part of the population that enduring a mental illness should be sympathetic and not blame those who are suffering for an illness that in their control. With the support of family, friends, and community members, awareness for mental illness can be raised which will open up for opportunities and resources that will help so many who are going through this in the long run. The number of those who are suffering can be decreased and should be, because it not only affects that individual but everyone around them. America has a lot of medical and social problems, but out of all of them mental illness is one of the most prominent. Those with mental illnesses were not taken seriously in years past, so the technical categorizations of these illnesses are relatively new to society. Mental illness has always existed but it never got the recognition that it does now. The term started becoming a popular categorization by physicians in the early Mental Health And ) Mental asylum patients were receiving a lot of bad judgment when they were being compared to those who had physical injuries and the sick, so doctors started making the Student 2 distinction between those and psychiatric problems NAMI: National Alliance On Mental Illness Mental Health By The ). According to NAMI, 1 in 5 adults experience mental illness every year NAMI: National Alliance On Mental Illness Mental Health By The ). That means millions of people are diagnosed and affected by mental illness, this even include the number that go undiagnosed. Because of this massive number, advances in diagnosis and treatments for mental illnesses have increased steadily. There are support groups available all around and information about treatments and symptoms, so people always have somewhere to look for answers and never alone NAMI: National Alliance On Mental Illness Mental Health By The ). In 1979, The National Alliance for the Mentally Ill was founded to provide systems to improve the state of those with mental illness A Brief History Of Mental Illness And The U.S. Mental Health Care ). Those systems are various research services, advocacy, support, and education for those many people that are suffering, no matter what subcategory it is. Many of those who suffer from mental illness are from lower class families. Which means that health care is hard to come by, so not a lot of people bring attention to their mental illness in fear of being denied by health care providers. What most know is that there are government programs out there that specifically aid in health care, like welfare programs that seek to improve the access of health care A Brief History Of Mental Illness And The U.S. Mental Health Care ). Back in 1946, Harry Truman passed an act that distributed funds for the research into the causes and treatments of various categories of mental illness. An example of an everyday person living with mental illness is a woman named Cheri in the documentary Two In this film, telling her life story to show people what like living with a mental illness. She is currently suffering through bipolar disorder, which is Student 3 a disorder where you experience moments on extreme manic and also extreme depression. She recalls feeling so alone in her early years, she had no one to talk to or relate to. During one of her periods of extreme low, she wanted to end her life because of how alone she felt. She went through periods of self-harm and no one knew. Cheri able to get diagnosed with bipolar disorder until she was 31, this was because she have an income at the time and not very many opportunities for health care were offered for low/no income that she knew of. It took her years until she finally found a psychiatrist to diagnose her for free, and even when she did get diagnosed the office that she was being helped at said there was a three-month waiting period and there was nothing that they could do for her in that moment. This made her feel helpless in ways she never had before, knowing there was something out there to help her but it was just out of her reach. Later in the documentary she goes on to explain how social outlook on disorders have affected her actions and decisions regarding her mental illness. Society go through the trouble to understand the aspects of different disorders so in turn they really know what going through. So, the second you are diagnosed with a disorder they give you the label and at that point, those who are suffering feel at their all-time lowest. Because now their image with their loved ones is ruined, they will never be themselves again, they will always just be the label OF TWO MINDS - Documentary On Bipolar ) something important to take from story and it is that mental illness can happen to anyone. Real people with real fears of rejection, the future, and the unknown. These illnesses can come from anywhere and at any time. Failure to take action to help those who are suffering or might be suffering can lead to serious consequences as shown in story. Society needs to reach out and show everyone that it is okay to come out and ask for help. There is nothing to feel embarrassed about, society as a whole needs to accept this and come together. Student 4 No one should feel alone the way that Cheri did. Taking action means opening up to loved ones, starting support groups, or even educating those around you on different mental illnesses and ways you can help those. When we start taking these actions is when the real change will start. Mental illness is a controversial topic and with knowing that it can happen to anyone at any time is important in beginning to take action to help those who are suffering. Overall, not many know about the medical options for those with low income and those who need privacy with their mental illness. There are confidential support options that people can go to if they just need someone to talk to, as well as many free clinics that have the option for psychiatric care. This opens options for so many of those people out there that come forward about their illness in fear of judgment or because of their financial situation. If we continue government funding and the love and support from the community, the growth of mental health care will keep increasing. (w.c. 1205) Student 5 Works Cited Home Anxiety and Depression Association of America,  Home Anxiety and Depression Association of America, ADAA. N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Mar. 2017. YouTube. YouTube, 25 Sept. 2016. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. A Brief History Of Mental Illness And The U.S. Mental Health Care . Uniteforsight.org. N.p., 2017. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. NAMI: National Alliance On Mental Illness Mental Health By The . Nami.org. N.p., 2017. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. Mental Health And . Sciencemuseum.org.uk. N.p., 2017. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. Shonin, Edo, & Gordon, W. (2016). The Mechanisms of Mindfulness in the Treatment of Mental Illness and Addiction. International Journal of Mental Health and Addiction, 14(5), 6, 844.