Student 1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 13 April 2017 The New Source of Energy As times changes so does the way humans do things. Technology has been advancing very quickly specially this past century. With so many changes happening there have been many consequences that the earth has taken. The earth has had a lot of damage done to it by the way humans have extracted energy from it. After doing a lot of research on energy, the cleanest source of energy looks to be solar energy. Solar energy is one of the cleanest sources of energy which humans have unlimited amounts of. The production of energy through the rays is the best way to power the world to maintain the earth healthy. The earth is not in the best health state it could be in. Over the past century, humans have polluted the environment which has done a lot of damage to it. This damage is seen in the environment and things must change to be able to stay in this earth in the future. The main source of the problem is the oil extraction done all over the world. This oil which is used to power a lot of machinery has been helping our society expand and advance but not the earth. With technology advancing, a lot of this machinery has advanced and does not require oil to power it. A new source of energy can be found to replace oil to clean the earth. Solar energy is a great option as a replacement. It is a clean source of energy that which we will never run out of. The sun can be described as a big source of energy. The energy which comes from the sun will never run out and being able to harvest it will give humans a lot of power. The way to Student 2 harvest the suns energy is using solar panels. Solar panels are mats which can be laid out anywhere that receives light from the sun. These panels receive the light and convert the energy so it can be able to use by machines that need it. By being able to use this energy, the earth can be kept healthy and humans will still be able to power anything they need to. Many organizations have been created to convince their audience that solar energy is the best source of energy. To make solar energy the go to source of energy, many people have created organizations to make this happen. One of the big organizations that was created in order to convince people to start using solar energy is the Solar Energy Industries Association (SEIA). The SEIA has done a lot of research about solar energy and have presented a lot of their results on their website. Many other organizations have compatible goals to the SEIA and all work on their own to save the earth. The research respectively shows how much the earth has been damaged and how it is because of humans. Another organization that is involved in this conflict is World Nuclear Association. The WNA does similar work to the SEIA but instead of solar energy they are involved with nuclear energy. Nuclear energy is a very popular resource that has been used for a very long time. The earth has a lot of it which humans have taken advantage of. Like the SEIA they have a website where they have a ton of research they collected themselves. All their work supports nuclear energy but avoids talking about the health of the planet. The earth is in great danger by actions made by humans. The world changes all the time and so does technology. With technology advancing, humans expect more to be extracted from the earth and we are getting closer to running out of resources. Because of this we as humans must come together and make changes in the way we treat the environment. One big cause for the destruction of the earth is the way we extract energy from the earth. Humans mainly use Student 3 nuclear energy and oil to power electronics but this has had some big consequences on the environment. To improve the conditions, we must change and start using solar energy. Solar energy is one good option to replace the source of our energy. It is clean and there is a lot of it with the sun always shining on the planet. By starting to use solar energy, we will keep the planet safe and healthy and we will still be able to power our everyday appliances. Word Count:962 Student 4 Works Cited Page Hoang, Son and Pu-Xian Gao. Nanowire Array Structures for Photocatalytic Energy Conversion and Utilization: A Review of Design Concepts, Assembly and Integration, and Function  Advanced Energy Materials, vol. 6, no. 23, 07 Dec. 2016. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1002/aenm.201600683. How the World Energy Marketplace Is Changing  InsideSources. N.p., 09 Mar. 2017. Web. 26 Mar. 2017. Javascript  Nuclear Power Today Nuclear Energy - World Nuclear Association. N.p., n.d. Web. 03 Mar. 2017. A. and N. Installation of Solar Power Generation System on Building of Faculty of Science in  Bulletin of the Chemists & Technologists of Bosnia & Herzegovina, 02 Dec. 2016, p. 153. EBSCOhost, search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=aph&AN=120571473&site=ehost-live. Solar Energy Is Now Cheaper than Fossil  USA Today. Gannett Satellite Information Network, 26 Dec. 2016. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Victor, David G. Analysis The Energy Is Getting Cleaner (and Cheaper) - but Not Quickly  The Washington Post. WP Company, 22 Mar. 2017. Web. 2 Mar. 2017. Wei, Shen and Marcus Power. Africa and the Export of Clean Energy  Third World Quarterly, vol. 38, no. 3, Mar. 2017, pp. 678-697. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1080/01436597.2016.1199262. World  Welcome - World Energy. N.p., n.d. Web. 3 Mar. 2017.