Student 1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 16 April 2016 Choose Happiness The treatment of depression has been difficult because not everyone is affected the same way and treated the same amount of time. Depression has a different array of symptoms and not everybody who has depression displays the exact same symptoms, and sometimes these symptoms severe enough where antidepressants are needed but yet are still sometimes given. Typically a person living with depression will be prescribed an antidepressant and will go to a series of counseling sessions, when the answer does not need to involve any sort of medication. Counseling sessions can be just as effective as medications especially when the person goes to the right type of counselor. People with other types of problems like alcoholism and other types of substance abuse go to counselors for help without taking medications and it often helps, the same can be done for people suffering with depression. The treatment of depression through therapy needs attention because the health care system just wants to write off a prescription due to the rates of depression in the United States and worldwide increasing even though some of these people do not often need the medication but sometimes just need somebody to hear them and because someone you may know has been touched by this disease. From various TED talks to watching movies such as which deals with the topic in a more way, it is an issue that needs to brought to the attention of the world. Depression effects more than 6.7 percent of the American population alone (Facts). The signs of depression and the options available to help are what the world needs Student 2 to be educated in, in order to help solve the problem. Some signs include sadness, significant changes in appetite and sleep patterns, irritability, anxiety and thoughts of death or Is) just to name a few. To name a few options various forms of therapy are offered as well as the use of an antidepressant. However with both there are pros and cons. Aside from the alarming rates that prescription drugs have been being given out to patients, the amount of prescriptions being filled out for antidepressants in particular has increased roughly four hundred percent of the past 30 years, which is more than one in 10 Americans ages 18 to 44 (Wehrwein). Everywhere a person goes the topic of depression arises, usually the words kind of antidepressants are you using for The purposes of antidepressants are to stimulate and release certain hormones such as serotonin in the brain to create the allusion that the patient is not depressed (Rivas). The issue with taking any hormone is that once it is entered into the body, it must continue to be inserted into the body in order to maintain the desired effect, in this case the feeling of being happy. If that alone does not sound like an issue with taking pills, the consider the amount of patients who have reported feeling more depressed and have expressed increased thoughts of suicide. analysis of clinical trials in patients under age 18 found that SSRIs raised the risk of suicidal thinking when compared with a (Publications). Not only are there terrible side effects, but there is also studies showing that treated with placebos improve about seventy five percent as much as patients treated with antidepressants, suggesting that only a quarter of the improvement shown by patients treated with antidepressants (Kelley). This further proves that taking a drug like an antidepressant necessary. Student 3 It is important to know the risks about antidepressants in order to fully understand all the options provided to patients with depression. It is also important to understand that purpose of therapy/counseling whether it is individual or in a group is to make connections between the depressed community in order to help stop the feeling of isolation and loneliness. The University Counseling Center is a strong advocate that group therapy sessions will help students get through their depression. With roughly thirty percent of the college population are receiving treatment for depression, the testimonies that go along with the effectiveness further prove the need for therapy and how prescribing antidepressants is superfluous. (Claire) Some of the testimonies include; It helps people feel like not alone, that progress is being made, that someone out there who, if you need, you can give a  and My life felt like it was up in flames when I first started counseling. My counselor really helped  (Claire) The University of South Counseling Center, as well as many other mental health agree that by allowing patients to indulge themselves in an environment in which they feel safe and can relate to others whom are suffering in the same way allows for connections and improvements to be made. The connections being made through sharing experiences and thoughts creates a bond that will show support in relieving the sense of isolation that is associated with depression. Also, through expressing their thoughts hey will be able to find ways to motivate themselves through the motivation of others. Although the treatment is called to be more specific people suffering through depression often should seek cognitive - behavioral group therapy. behavioral therapy (CBT) works to replace negative and unproductive thought patterns with more realistic and useful (Depression). By interacting with one another, the familiarity to Student 4 the depression and the similarities between the thoughts and experiences people the groups allows for a safe environment for the patients and helps enforce the likeliness of overcoming the depressive thoughts in their minds. To continue on with the cognitive therapy, most facilities and studies such as the majority of Universities nationwide and psychological studies conducted by the National Institute of Mental Health will find meditation to be a significant part of the treatment process (Elkin). Meditation has been a known strategy used to de-stress and to help mental health for many decades. The process of emptying mind is effective when it comes to treating depression because it eliminates the negative thoughts that tend to be associated with the depressed population. Once faced with the problem of depression, one must accept it and distract their minds from letting the thoughts consume them. Multiple professionals and even Disney have spoken about this issue and how important it is. To be able to find an escape from a negative mind is essential to the process of treating depression. Through natural remedies such as group and individual cognitive-behavioral therapy and meditation it allows for distraction of the mind without the need to use artificial hormones/drugs. It is beyond important and necessary to be aware of the signs of depression and seek the proper help or referral to get the most effective help to cure this disease. It should not be necessary to have to take to be oneself. Everyone has the ability to be healthy and happy without the use of antidepressants. Know the options! SPEAK UP if someone they know or even if you, yourself are feeling depressed or acting strange, speak up! Communicate and let the person or yourself lose control to this disease. (Word Count 1200) Student 5 Work Cited Claire McNeill, Times Staff WriterLinkView All Articles. Take a Number: Florida College Campuses Swamped by Students Who Need  Tampa Bay Times. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.  Anxiety and Depression Association of America, ADAA. N.p., n.d. Web. 14 Mar. 2017. <https://www.adaa.org/understanding-anxiety/depression>. Elkin, PhD Irene. National Institute of Mental Health Treatment of Depression Collaborative Research  Archives of General Psychiatry. American Medical Association, 01 Nov. 1989. Web. 30 Mar. 2017. Facts &  Anxiety and Depression Association of America, ADAA. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. <https://www.adaa.org/about-adaa/press-room/facts-statistics>. Kelley, John. Antidepressants: Do They  or  Scientific American. N.p., 25 Feb. 2010. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Publications, Harvard Health. What Are the Real Risks of  Harvard Health. N.p., n.d. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Rivas, Anthony. How Antidepressants Work In The  Medical Daily. N.p., 03 June 2015. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Student 6 Wehrwein, Peter. Astounding Increase in Antidepressant Use by  Harvard Health Blog. N.p., 20 Oct. 2011. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. <http://www.health.harvard.edu/blog/astounding-increase-in-antidepressant-use-by- americans-201110203624>. What Is  Depression and Bipolar Support Alliance Greater Houston. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.