Student Professor Thornton ENC 1102 14 April 2017 Do You Know GMO? Genetically Modified Organisms (GMOs) have caused an enormous amount of controversy since the introduction of them in 1994 (Hemphill 2015; Potenza 2016). Because of this controversy, there are an abundance of people who are often mislead or simply uneducated about GMOs and what exactly they are. According to Millis, a Genetically Modified Organism is an organism that a new property it could have not obtained by conventional This is done by a small piece of DNA from one species (donor), it into the DNA of another species (host) with which it cannot cross, but in which the donor DNA is (2006). The new properties amongst the offspring of these two species can include herbicide resistance, natural insect repellants, drought tolerance, etc. (Millis 2006). When dealing with the controversial topic of genetically modified organisms, one problem that needs to be confronted is that GMOs are not entirely bad, especially when it comes to feeding the increasing population. GMOs are an essential resource when it comes to feeding a hungry world and should not be frowned upon just because they are different. If humans want to be able to thrive longer on this planet, it is essential to start thinking of alternative ways to feed everyone. In order for positive social change to occur with GMOs, more testing can be done to make sure that GMOs are not detrimental to human health. One misconception about genetic modification is that it is a new technique. Genetic modification has been around for the past 4000 years. Without genetic modification, major crop species, like rice and wheat, would not be as beneficial as they are today to the human species. If presented to modern societies, wild crops would be unrecognizable (Doebley et al. 2006). Every fruit and vegetable that we consume today once looked completely different before we manipulated the favorable features of those crops. Without the modification of these wild crops, modern crops would not be as nutritious or abundant as they are today (Millis 2006). When viewing the Bayer website, one main point used by this stakeholder is that we have a growing population with a limited about of land available, so in order to preserve land yet feed the growing population, we must use GM foods that are capable of doing this. By 2050, it is estimated that there will be 9 billion people living on this planet (Bayer). GM foods help to preserve land by producing more. According to Wolfenbarger and Phifer, genetically engineered crops increase yields, some suggest that environmental benefits will include the preservation of natural habitats because less land may be developed for (2000). It is essential that we decrease the amount of land being used for crops so that enough land will be available to house the increasing population. GM foods also benefit the environment by being herbicide resistant and insect resistant. Herbicide and insect resistant crops require less toxic chemicals, which result in less runoff (Millis 2006). Humans must take into consideration the ecological footprint that we have on this Earth. In order for humans to thrive, we must also take care of the only we know provides us everything that we need to survive. Another main point used by this stakeholder to support their position is that not one scientific study has ever indicated any risk to health posed by the use of genetic engineering in crop breeding per se (Bayer). According to Bohanec, there are over 1700 articles on GMO safety and not one has indicated any risk to health (2017). While the majority of Americans reject the idea of GMOs, one must take into consideration the rapidly increasing population of humans. Most Americans have the luxury of eating every day, and it is easy to forget that there are children in third-world countries who have not eaten in days. With only 7 billion people currently inhabiting this planet, world hunger is a huge issue already. In 2050, when the population increases to 9 billion, world hunger will be an even bigger issue to tackle. It is important that this issue be addressed because feeding an increasing population would be very difficult without GM crops. Failing to actively confront this problem could lead to consequences including not being able to sustain the food requirements of a growing population. If people are not educated about how much GM foods benefit people, there will be extreme havoc over the increased production of these foods when the population grows to 9 billion. Ineffective solutions to this problem have been offered before include using only organic foods. While this sounds like an easy, tasteful idea, this method would not work because the price for food would increase tremendously (Juma 2011). According to Juma, this Green Revolution, analysts estimate that crop yields in developing countries would have been 23.5% lower and prices between 35% and 66% higher in (2011). If people are not educated about how much GM foods benefit people, there will be extreme havoc over the increased production of these foods when the population grows to 9 billion. Genetically modified organisms have generated a feeling of disgust from the majority of the population, and the key to abolishing this predisposition is understanding its basis. Many humans perceive genetic modification as contamination, and its product a deviant from purely natural phenomena. Biotechnologists are accused of by manipulating what is intended by nature. The human mind is prone to favor intuitive beliefs over scientific facts thus, easy to develop the feeling of disgust and fear when envisioning a type of that the media portrays genetically modified foods to be. Education to the public about GMOs should be initiated at a young age, and should target common misconceptions. To abolish the preconceived notion that GMOs are unnatural and harmful, knowledge of what genetic modification actually is should be disseminated more proactively to the public. The best way to arm the public against unsubstantiated anti-GM messages might be to play into intuition as well. Aggressive action needs to be taken to inform the public on the current and future benefits of genetically modified foods, and need for it. For instance, stakeholders should illustrate ability to feed an exponentially growing population, the lack of need for carcinogenic pesticides and herbicides, and drought and virus resistance. Using this approach might have the best effect on changing minds. To show support for GMO, newly- engaged stakeholders could establish (or join an existing) non-profit organization to raise money and awareness about GMO and its research. When a population continues to grow at an alarming rate, land and food are the most worrisome factors to anticipate. Genetically engineered crops to yield a higher production rate, while also requiring less resources is what is going to help sustain the population and the Earth in which we call home. While some may never support GMOs, considering them as a potential resource to help with sustaining the hunger of an increasing population is the first step to bettering the world in which we live in. By raising money and educating the public, GMOs could potentially become a widely accepted resource and world hunger can be something of the past. Works Cited AG, Bayer. Bayer: Science For A Better  Bayer: Science For A Better Life. N.p., n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Bohanec, Borut. GMO controversies - science vs. public  Ted Talks. 09 Apr. 2017. Youtube. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Doebley, John F., Brandon S. Gaut, and Bruce D. Smith. The Molecular Genetics of Crop  Cell 127.7 (2006): 1309-321. Google Scholar. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Juma, Calestous. Preventing hunger: Biotechnology is  Nature 479.7374 (2011): 471- 72. Google Scholar. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Millis, Nancy. modified Department of the Environmental and Heritage, 2006. Google Scholar, http://155.187.2.69/soe/2006/publications/emerging/gmo/pubs/gmo.pdf. Potenza, Alessandra. battle over GMOs (Genetically Modified Organisms): are GMOs the answer to feeding a hungry world, or Frankenfoods that put the New York Times Upfront, vol. 148, no. 8, 2016. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Wolfenbarger, L. L., and A. P. R. Phifer. The Ecological Risks and Benefits of Genetically Engineered  Science 290.5499 (2000): 2088-093. Google Scholar. Web. 09 Apr. 2017.