Medina 1 Tomas Medina Bennington Composition 2 16 April, 2017 Intermediate Draft I. Introduction a. The Congo region bears an abundance of useful minerals that can be easily mined i. For many years, armed groups have enslaved innocents to work in their conflict mines and use profits to perpetuate the fighting. ii. Worse still, these minerals may be in your smart phone b. In 2010, the Dodd-Frank act was enacted and carried many regulatory provisions for banks and businesses. i. Section 1502 requires that businesses fully disclose the sourcing of any gold, tantalum, tin, or tungsten. c. In February, Donald Trump announced that he would suspend many parts of the act, including section 1502. i. Many people claim that the regulations only create costly, ineffective, unnecessary paperwork. ii. The effect has been evident in recent years, however, and companies that spearheaded the conflict-free movement stand by the act, even vowing to maintain their standards after been rescinded. Medina 2 d. Suspending section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank will reduce consumer confidence and undermine the efforts of activists promoting peace and order in the Congo region. Therefore, people must petition to unsuspend the law. II. One criticism of the law is that it is costly. a. The SEC once estimated that it would cost $4 billion to implement the law, and $200 million in the years afterward. b. However, the actual cost of implementation was actually about 80% lower than they estimated. Therefore, rescinding the act would not save corporations money. c. In fact, it may reduce consumer confidence and result in losses III. Another stated problem is that it is ineffective. a. Forbes contributor Tim Worstall, who once nominated section 1502 as the Law of the states that all the law does is request that companies ask their suppliers if their minerals are conflict free or not, with no further proof required. b. This is a gross oversimplification, however. The law also requires disclosure on due diligence measures taken to ensure the condition of the suppliers, which includes auditing. Furthermore, it requires consultation with other government agencies such as the Government Accountability Office and the Commerce Department. IV. Eliminating this law will undermine the advocacy for peace and the role in promoting transparency. a. It was due to advocacy from groups such as Enough that this section was included. Many organizations within the region are in support of this law. b. If this law is repealed, it would set a dangerous precedent and may eventually result in the disappearance of worldwide support for supply chain responsibility. V. Conclusion Medina 3 a. There are many sections in Dodd Frank that need to be reformed or rescinded altogether. However, unless someone can concoct a more viable replacement, 1502 should not be one of them. b. People should organize among their communities(university, religious, etc.), petition with their local representatives to support the section, and strive for a conflict-free lifestyle. Medina 4 Work Cited Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. Pub. L. 111-203. 124 Stat. 1376-2223. 21 July. 2010. Feldstein, Steve, and Sasha Lezhnev. Suspension of Conflict Minerals Rule Would Be a Big U.S. News, 24 Feb. 2017. Wolfe, Lauren. Dodd Frank is Failing Foreign Policy, 2 Feb. 2015. Worstall, Tim. Executive Order to Repeal the Worst Law of the Forbes, 9 Feb. 2017