Student 1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Take Action to Donate the Extra Food to the Hungry Food wastage is an issue that is among many households, corporates, and restaurants. It is a situation where people discard food that at some point was fit for human consumption either because it is spoilt or expired. In the United States, for instance, 38million tons of food went to waste in 2015 this is happening as millions of people go hungry as they cannot afford a decent meal. In 2015, 13% of Americans were going hungry due to lack of resources. Food wasted in the country most of the time is surplus food that is wholesome and edible but not needed by the individuals discarding it. This food would be of great importance for the group of people who go for days without a meal. Corporates and individuals can donate this food to charities to help feed hungry people. Foods that are mostly needed in charities are non-perishables such as canned foods, baby formula, dried fruits and canned vegetables (Rude Food). Saving food and donating extra food to the poor should occur because of food security that homeless people suffer from; the environment issue caused by extra food; and famine phenomenon that exists in the hungry people for a long time. Many people around the world do not know if at the end of each day they are going to eat. This mostly occurs in developing nations which have serious food security issues and can also happen in developed countries. In a country like the United States which is considered as being food secure, one out of seven people do not get enough nutrients each day, and some do not Student 2 know the source of their food. According to Cohen Chapman & Burt (p. 46), many homeless people suffer from food security. One of the things that brought the issue of food insecurity to the view is Kevin photograph dubbed the child and the In 1993, Carter traveled to Sudan to cover the famine that was affecting the land. He took pictures of the effects that was felt on the villages due to the famine. In the evening while heading out to the bush, he saw that a toddler had collapsed on the way to a feeding center. While taking the picture, a vulture landed near the child. Since he had been advised not to come into contact with anyone due to disease, he chased the bird away as the toddler struggled to walk to the feeding center. Such a photograph taken by Carter shows the world why it is important to save up little food that people feel that they do not need to help the people who need this food the most. Throughout the world, different kinds of people go hungry each day. It is important for the people who have excess food to come together and ensure that the help feeds these people. Each person is a stakeholder in this action and saving a little food each day can go a long way in ensuring that the people who go days without food have food on their table. The surest, safest and reliable way of donating food is by giving out the food that we do not need to the people who need it the most. In most occasions, people have surplus food in their homes and workplace. Instead of giving out such surplus foods, they remain with the food till it goes bad. Such a loss though not felt by these people is by all standards a loss in the energy that went into producing the food, as well as the source of happiness for another person. It is important that various stakeholders build a love for food and understanding that food should not be wasted especially in cases where people are going hungry each day. Various institutions make donations to ensure that people all over the world do not go hungry. According to Schneider (p. 756), many projects have been undertaken to ensure food security, but due to a lack of compiled data, scientific Student 3 literature about such projects is rare. Therefore, people should ensure that they save up the food that they need the least to ensure that it feeds the people who need it the most. As stated above, the Starving Child and the vulture is a description of current occurrences in the world today. Through this photograph taken by Carter, the world should sit and discuss food insecurity as a major issue facing the world today (Carter). This picture of the vulture standing nearby for the child to die so that it can feed on them presents the urgency of the matter. It is, therefore, crucial that the world through various institutions such as the United Nations come with specific programs to solve this issue urgently to ensure that the number of people suffering from food insecurity reduces drastically. The urgency of this matter should be felt even by the public. Apart from institutions, the public is other stakeholders in solving this issue. People should care about this issue and set up various projects at a community level to feed the homeless within their neighborhoods. Such acts of kindness and charity can improve the stature of the people within their communities. However, people should be careful to avoid any ineffective solutions to this issue, One of these ineffective solutions is the establishment of food storage centers as well as handing out food to the hungry. They should come up with projects that solve the needs of the homeless around them. A failure to tackle this problem will mean that the environment will be destroyed due to the wasted food and the social conflicts will be more rampant causing a variety of security issues. Lastly, it is crucial that organizations who have the capability to help fight this war join in to ensure that success is achieved. There are different roles to play in this fight. Normal people can join as volunteers to help in the food distribution to the people around them (Sustainable America). Additionally, different institutions and companies can join the cause as intermediary Student 4 agencies to receive the food donated by individuals and ensure that they manage the process of food donation to ensure its effectiveness (Davis, p. 6). They can also make monetary contributions to aid this cause or make advertisements to sensitize people about this issue (Cannon, p. 184). Consequently, institutions such as restaurants come up with feeding programs where they give out any excess food at the end of each day to the homeless and hungry people in the areas where they are located. Together, people can go a long way, and the fight against hunger can be won. In conclusion, it is the responsibility of each person to ensure that they save food and donate any surplus food to the hungry. As can be observed from the evidence presented, this is an urgent matter that requires attention from various stakeholders. People should strive to ensure that they do not waste any food and that they donate any excess food that they have to charity or organizations dealing with feeding the hungry. Saving and donating excess food protects not only the environment but also helps the starving people. Such an issue helps to maintain social security within certain communities. Therefore, it is the role of everyone within the community to save the excess food that they hardly need so as to help the people who need it the most. (WC: 1261) Student 5 Works Cited Cannon, Mae E. Social Justice Handbook: Small Steps for a Better World. Downers Grove, Ill: IVP Books, 2009. Cohen, Barbara E., Nancy Chapman, and Martha R. Burt. Food Sources and Intake of Homeless  Journal of Nutrition Education and Behavior, vol. 24, no. 1, 1992, pp. 45-51, http://www.jneb.org/article/S0022-3182(12)80139-7/abstract. Accessed 7 April. 2017. Davis, C. Food Recovery through Donations as a Response to Food Waste: A Case Study of Two Grocery Stores Participating in a Food Recovery Program in Boulder.2014. Undergraduate Honors Theses. Paper 74 Kevin Carter. Starving Time, 1993, http://100photos.time.com/photos/kevin-carter-starving-child-vulture. Accessed 9 April. 2017. Rude Food. n.p., n.d., http://rudefood.se/index.html. Accessed 7 April. 2017. Schneider, Felicitas. The Evolution of Food Donation with Respect to Waste  Waste Management, vol. 33, no. 3, 2013, pp. 755-63, https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23453166. Accessed 7 April. 2017. Sustainable America. 8 Ways to Take Action on Food Waste. Sustainable America, 2014. Accessed 16 April 2017.