Kago 1 John kago Mark Nusspickel Composition 1 April 2, 2017 Outline China pollution affecting the world I. introduction Due to increase in the green house gases such as the CO2 emitted from the factories affects the atmosphere. The temperature rise in china, also around the world in general has happened due to suns warmth getting trapped in the earth. Due to the increase in respiratory deaths caused by inhaling polluted air, China needs to do more about its pollution levels. People do not think they need to do anything about the china pollution? People feel that China should focus on the economy and population in the country and they have done enough with pollution. China uses sufficient cars that pollute less and also less polluting machines in the factories. But their other people who feel that China should still do a lot more. than 100 million people live in cities where the air reaches levels considered In a survey of 341 major cities in China in 2003, the academy found that 27% suffered from serious pollution, 32% had light pollution, and Kago 2 41% enjoyed good air quality. The academy blamed air pollution for 411 000 premature mostly from lung and heart-related diseases. The World Bank had earlier estimated the toll at 400 000 at the beginning of economic reform in the 1980s, Chinese cities already suffered from black smoke from heavy industry and high levels of coal- burning by power plants and winter heating units. This activity created extremely high levels of acid rain pollution in southern cities (He, Huo, and Zhang 2002). But the pollution challenge grew worse after the 1980s as Premier Deng Xiaoping launched a new economic development strategy. air pollution pollution can drift across regions, just as industrial water pollution can flow downstream. In major urban cities such as Beijing and Hong Kong, much of the air pollution is caused by emissions from nearby strengthened measures by the central government to improve air quality in China, air pollution continues to haunt the country and areas beyond its borders. The severity of air pollution in China is partly attributed to its heavy reliance on coal for energy Kago 3 Firstly, China has been having problems with the amount of pollution in the atmosphere increasing in a very high rate. As some of the research stated than 100 million people live in cities where the air reaches levels considered In a survey of 341 major cities in China in 2003, the academy found that 27% suffered from serious pollution, 32% had light pollution, and 41% enjoyed good air quality. The academy blamed air pollution for 411 000 premature mostly from lung and heart-related diseases. The World Bank had earlier estimated the toll at 400 000 This quotes states that a survey was done within the country and found out that almost majority of the people stayed in states that had a high level of air pollution showing that still China is air polluted. The number of people living in those states suffers from serious lung and heart diseases showing that people are inhaling dangerous air pollution. Secondly, Another factor to show that China is still highly polluted, one of the research stated at the beginning of economic reform in the 1980s, Chinese cities already suffered from black smoke from heavy industry and high levels of coal- burning by power plants and winter heating units. This activity created extremely high levels of acid rain pollution in southern cities (He, Huo, and Zhang 2002). But the pollution challenge grew worse after the 1980s as Premier Deng Xiaoping launched a new economic development strategy. air pollution this shows the reason why specific cities in China have been highly polluted over the years, because of the industries releasing a lot of black smoke. Showing that they had not been affected by pollution or think of industries are polluting the environment to use less pollutant machines. Kago 4 Thirdly, China has not just been air polluted but also through their city downstream as stated in a research pollution can drift across regions, just as industrial water pollution can flow downstream. In major urban cities such as Beijing and Hong Kong, much of the air pollution is caused by emissions from nearby In other words people living in the major cities such as Beijing and Hong Kong were in danger of consuming polluted water supply. This shows that its still happening. China hevent looked for ways to probably treat the water or change location where the industries pollute there waste. Fourthly, China is currently trying to do something about pollution as stated strengthened measures by the central government to improve air quality in China, air pollution continues to haunt the country and areas beyond its borders. The severity of air pollution in China is partly attributed to its heavy reliance on coal for energy In this case the government is trying to do something but it still not enough because the rate of pollution is still high. Kago 5 Work cited LI, ANTHONY H. F. Hopes Of Limiting Global Warming? China And The Paris Agreement On Climate  China Perspectives 1 (2016): 49-54. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Qian, Zhengmin, Hung-Mo Lin, and Walter F. Stewart. Seasonal Pattern Of The Acute Mortality Effects Of Air  Journal Of The Air & Waste Management Association (Air & Waste Management Association) 60.4 (2010): 481-488. Applied Science & Technology Source. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Suk, William A., et al. Environmental Pollution: An Under-Recognized Threat To Health, Especially In Low- And Middle-Income  Environmental Health Perspectives 124.3 (2016): A41-A45. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 5 Feb. 2017.