Al Omairi1 Ward Al Omairi Professor Mark J, Nusspickel ENC composition 1101 April 9, 2017 Outline I. Introduction: Background about fast food Thesis: Due to their convenience, affordability, and economical impact, fast food restaurants should not be banned. II. Counterargument: many people and scientists believe that fast food restaurants should be banned because they cause a lot of diseases, a main factor for obesity, and hurt the unskilled workers. For instance, Ann Pietrangelo and Elea Carey, stated that food frequently replaces nutritious foods in your diet, it can lead to poor nutrition, poor health, and weight This source shows that fast foods are main reasons for bad health. Moreover, fast food causes some diseases, which are related to heart issues. According to Ann Pietrangelo and Elea Carey, overweight is a risk factor for a variety of chronic health problems including heart disease, high cholesterol, stroke, and high blood However, banning fast food restaurants would lead to bad consequences for the people and economies because many people and businessmen depend on it. III. Subtopic 1: convenience, is one of the best effects of fast food restaurants because a lot of college students prefer to eat from fast food restaurants and it is easy to prepare. For instance, Natalie Stein mentions that fast food restaurants have home delivery Al Omairi2 service, drive through option, and they are almost in everywhere around the world (Stein 1). IV. Subtopic 2: The affordability of fast food made it popular and desired among the people, especially poor people.. According to Miranda Hitti, study of 600 adults and teens reported an interesting statistics about the reasons of fast food popularity among people. The findings show that 92.3% of the sample like fast food because it is fast, and 63.6% of them love fast food because it is V. Subtopic 3: fast food companies have a positive economical impact because they provide a lot of jobs and have huge income. According to Dylan Roach, McDonalds comes first with $35.4 billion revenue, Starbucks comes second with $12.7 billion revenue, and then Subway comes in third rank with $11.9 According to, Brent Gaspaire and Tony Wilsdon, companies that have applied this formula most successfully are Burger King, and Yum (Pizza Hut, Taco Bell, KFC). Together, these huge conglomerates dominate the industry, employing 3.7 million people worldwide and operating a combined total of 60,000 VI. Conclusion: all in all, banning fast food restaurants is unreasonable because they are spread around the world and popular between people. Banning fast food restaurants would lead to bad consequences such as unskilled workers lose their jobs, some economic losses, and prevent this kind of food from the people who cannot afford the expensive meals. However, fast food should be controlled because it has a lot of positive effects such as convenience, affordability, and economical impact. Al Omairi3 Works Cited Brent, Gaspaire. Tony Wilsdon. fast food industry and how it was Socialist Alternative. (5 February 2013). Retrieved from: https://www.socialistalternative.org/manifesto-of-the-fastfood-worker/fast-food- industry-how-it-was-built/ Hitti, Mirranda. 11 Reasons for Fast WebMD. (2 December 2008). Retrieved from: http://www.webmd.com/food-recipes/news/20081202/top- 11-reasons-for-fast-foods-popularity Pietrangelo, Ann. Carey, Elea. Effects of Fast Food on the Health line. (2 November 2015). Retrieved from: http://www.healthline.com/health/fast-food- effects-on-body Roach, Dylan. 20 fast food chains that rake in the most Business Insider. (18 August 2015). Retrieved from: http://www.businessinsider.com/the- 20-fast- food-chains-that-rake-in-the-most-money-2015-8 Reischman, Sara. food & Uncommon thought. (17 January 2003). Retrieved from: http://www.uncommonthought.com/mtblog/archives/2003/01/17/fast-food- socie.php Stein, Natalie. Are the Benefits of Fast Live Strong. (22 April 2015). Retrieved from: http://www.livestrong.com/article/259534-what-are-the-benefits- of-fast-foods/ Al Omairi4 Fast Food Should Not Be Banned Nowadays Food consumption is changing because now people have variety of food choices such as fast food, homemade food, and healthy food. Moreover, fast food nowadays is the most famous food choice around the world. Although that fast food has a lot of bad effects, but it still popular among people. This is because people believe in time efficiency and saving money. However, due to their convenience, affordability, and economical impact, fast food restaurants should not be banned. On the other hand, a lot of scientists believe that fast food restaurants are dangerous because they have a lot of bad effects on health, cause a lot of diseases and could hurt the unskilled workers. For example, fast food has a lot of sugar and fats, which could lead to obesity and bad health. According to Ann Pietrangelo and Elea Carey, food frequently replaces nutritious foods in your diet, it can lead to poor nutrition, poor health, and weight Moreover, this source is evidence that fast food is bad for health and it is a main reason for obesity because it consists of bad ingredients such as fats, sugars, and preservatives. In addition, fast food is a main factor for some heart diseases. According to Ann Pietrangelo and Elea Carey, overweight is a risk factor for a variety of chronic health problems including heart disease, high cholesterol, stroke, and high blood This source shows that the ingredients of fast food could hurt the blood vessels and lead to many heart diseases. Additionally, fast food restaurants could hurt the unskilled workers because they start to create machines that do work. According Sara Reischman, jobs now occupied by human employees are to oversee what a computer or machine is doing. The implementation of Al Omairi5 new technology into the work force has left a lot of people unemployed, and many more nervous about their job security, or taking wage or hour cutbacks to stay where they This source shows that the unskilled workers are afraid of losing their jobs due to the new technology in fast food restaurants. Nevertheless, dangerous consequences would happen for poor people and businessmen if fast food companies got banned because businessmen would lose a lot of money and poor people would lose their cheap meals. The convenience of fast foods is one of the reasons that fast food restaurants should not be banned. To illustrate, many college students and busy people prefer fast food than other kinds of food because it is everywhere and easy to get. For example, the researcher Natalie Stein says that fast food restaurants have drive through option, home delivery service, and they have clear menus with the calories and the ingredients (Stein 1). So, this is evidence that fast food is the best choice for busy people and college students, and people who do not have time for cooking. Moreover, by banning fast food, people are going to lose this easy choice of food and prevent the people who depend on this kind of food from it. Fast food affordability is one of the positive effects of fast food companies and it considers the main reason for this huge spread of fast food around the world. Moreover, the cheap prices of fast food meals have made it popular and favored by everyone, especially poor people because they cannot afford the expensive meals. These facts about fast food affordability make it unreasonable to ban fast food restaurants. However, Miranda Hitti mentions that, study of 600 adults and teens reported an interesting statistics about the reasons of fast food popularity among people. The findings show that 92.3% of the sample like fast food because it is fast, and 63.6% of them love fast food Al Omairi6 because it is This source shows that most of people love fast food because it is inexpensive and it is desired by all ages. The fast food restaurants have a lot of economical effects, which make it hard to ban it. Moreover, opening a fast food company would increase the job opportunities for unskilled workers and lead to enormous revenues for the owners. Also, the fact that the fast food restaurants are spread almost in everywhere in the world makes it easy for the owners to gain billions of dollars annually. For instance, Dylan Roach states, comes first with $35.4 billion revenue, Starbucks comes second with $12.7 billion revenue, and then Subway comes in third rank with $11.9 These facts show the huge incomes for fast food businessmen and how the fast food companies are succeed businesses. However, also fast food companies provide a lot of jobs for unskilled workers because the work that they do does not require any certificates or special skills. According to, Brent Gaspaire and Tony Wilsdon, companies that have applied this formula most successfully are Burger King, and Yum (Pizza Hut, Taco Bell, KFC). Together, these huge conglomerates dominate the industry, employing 3.7 million people worldwide and operating a combined total of 60,000 Thus, these facts are evidence that fast food industry provide enormous number of jobs for unskilled workers and banning fast food would lead to many problems. For example, banning fast food would increase unemployment rate and economic losses for fast food owners. All in all, Fast food industry should be controlled by strict rules and permanent follow up of the process of creating fast food. This is because the fast food is a convenient choice, affordable by everyone, and has a lot of positive economic effects. Al Omairi7 However, banning fast food is difficult because it would be the end for this kind of food, the unskilled workers would lose their jobs, and economic drawbacks. So, it is better to control fast food than banning it because of the prior reasons that were mentioned. Al Omairi8 Works Cited Brent, Gaspaire. Tony Wilsdon. fast food industry and how it was Socialist Alternative. (5 February 2013). Retrieved from: https://www.socialistalternative.org/manifesto-of-the-fastfood-worker/fast-food- industry-how-it-was-built/ Hitti, Mirranda. 11 Reasons for Fast WebMD. (2 December 2008). Retrieved from: http://www.webmd.com/food-recipes/news/20081202/top- 11-reasons-for-fast-foods-popularity Pietrangelo, Ann. Carey, Elea. Effects of Fast Food on the Health line. (2 November 2015). Retrieved from: http://www.healthline.com/health/fast-food- effects-on-body Roach, Dylan. 20 fast food chains that rake in the most Business Insider. (18 August 2015). Retrieved from: http://www.businessinsider.com/the- 20-fast- food-chains-that-rake-in-the-most-money-2015-8 Reischman, Sara. food & Uncommon thought. (17 January 2003). Retrieved from: http://www.uncommonthought.com/mtblog/archives/2003/01/17/fast-food- socie.php Stein, Natalie. Are the Benefits of Fast Live Strong. (22 April 2015). Retrieved from: http://www.livestrong.com/article/259534-what-are-the-benefits- of-fast-foods/