Robert Hall 1 Professor Davis ENC 1102 12 April 2017 Project 3 The average American consumes over 270 pounds of meat a year while the dairy industry pumps out a whopping 30 billion gallons of milk annually (Barclay). Obviously, these livestock industries play an important part in our diets and our economy, but the face of meat, dairy, and egg production in America may not be what most picture. Far from the image of cows grazing over rolling green hills of a humble Midwest farm, the reality is most of the meat products in the US come from factory farms where animals are forced into cages for life, restricted from movement, and fed an unnatural diet. These practices are not only ethically unacceptable in modern society, but also pose a myriad of health risks to the American population. In short, factory farming is an inhumane practice that is unnecessarily cruel to animals. However, through education, understanding, and engineering, we can redesign a production system that maintains our current food output ethically and put an end to factory farms. Until the meat production in the United States was conducted in a more traditional sense where cows were allowed to roam and graze on grass or hey. In the late egg suppliers discovered they could keep hens indoors season long, cutting space and cost significantly. By the early more than 60 large companies were keeping over 1 million hens per location (factory-farming.com). The pork and beef industry, noting this success, followed suit and began constructing massive facilities in the and to capitalize on the efficient factory-farming system. By the turn of the century meat production was almost completely unrecognizable compared to the farms of past. Robert Hall 2 Professor Davis ENC 1102 12 April 2017 Factory-farming brought economic prosperity to the major corporations involved while consumer prices for meat sank. However, when we stop to examine the moral costs in this system, factory-farming is anything but an improvement. To this day, animals are submitted to conditions that are simply unacceptable given our awareness of basic moral principles. For example, chickens are some of the most abused farm animals. Male chickens count for about 50% of all hatchlings but are nearly worthless to the chicken industry so each year over 260 million male chicks are killed each year through a variety of methods from electrocution by electric plate to being ground alive and fully conscious. (Farm Sanctuary) Of the female chickens that survive the sorting process, 95% are destined to spend the rest of their lives in battery cages and given a floor space less than that a letter-sized sheet of paper. (Farm Sanctuary) Once the egg production of the hen slows, the animal is then transported from the cage it had occupied for the past 1-2 years directly to slaughter. The dairy industry has a similar method for maximizing profits with their cows. For 5 years a dairy cow will be continually impregnated in order to induce milk production after which the calf will be separated from the mother. After countless cycles of this, the cow is considered and sent to slaughter. Again, these animals are restricted from movement for most of their lives and then slaughtered when their production slows. These conditions are made worse by the unnatural genetic modification that wreaks havoc on their bodies. Farm animals have been selectively bred over decades to better supply human needs by increasing production. That means that an average cow today produces more than 20,000 lbs. per year, more than double the production of cows 40 years prior (Farm Sanctuary). This unnaturally high level of production Robert Hall 3 Professor Davis ENC 1102 12 April 2017 causes damage to the udder, stress to the animal, and a severe reduction in life expectancy (Mercy for Animals). The animals tortured in factory-farming are not the only victims of the industry however. The human population also has a lot to lose if we continue with this means of food production. In addition to years of selective breeding, animals today are commonly fed food they did not evolve to eat and given antibiotics and hormones that are subsequently passed on to the consumer. There are six common hormones used by the dairy industry to increase yield that have all been shown to increase various cancer in meat consumers. (PETA) Antibiotics are effective at preventing disease, but global concern has been growing over exponentially increasing antibiotic resistant pathogens caused by the over prescription of antibiotics. To make matters worse, an estimated 70% of antibiotics given to cattle to increase their growth rate artificially rather than for therapeutic reasons. (Farm Sanctuary) This makes the meat industry one of the largest contributors to this epidemic of antibiotic resistance. If the concern over the suffering of animals is not enough to put an end to factory farming, then perhaps the growing health impact on humans will be enough to spark a change of mind. There is no doubt the modern factory farm in a feat of human engineering and efficiency, but with the medical and ethical concerns that accompany it, human ingenuity would be better spent on alternatives. Veganism and vegetarianism are some obvious solutions. While limited knowledge of diet contributed to difficulty sustaining a vegan diet in the past, modern science allows people to easily sustain such a diet today. There is nothing in meat that cannot be obtained Robert Hall 4 Professor Davis ENC 1102 12 April 2017 relatively easily through plant based products. For those that cannot imagine giving up meat, engineers and scientists may have a solution in the near future in the form of lab printed, but biologically identical, muscle tissue. While the technology is still in its infancy, (a hamburger worth of meat today would run about $300,000) we may be producing exclusively lab grown meat eventually. Factory-farms are a moral stain that will forever be a part of history, but it should to be allowed to continue into the future. Food production, like any industry, relies on supply and demand. While veganism might seem an extreme move for some, there are plenty of other ways to fight back against this evil industry. Organizations like Farm Sanctuary and Mercy for animals are at the front lines of education and legal battles and accept donations that go towards lobbying against factory-farming and informing the public about the atrocities committed at these facilities. Another way to help is to buy organic or free range products. There are still smaller farms that exist that treat animals in an ethical fashion, just be weary of misleading labels and always verify a claims. This is also beneficial organic food is usually locally grown which supports the surrounding economy. Factory farms cut costs significantly, but the true price of these facilities is far too great. Robert Hall 5 Professor Davis ENC 1102 12 April 2017 Sources Barclay, Eliza. A Nation Of Meat Eaters: See How It All Adds  NPR. NPR, 27 June 2012. Web. 18 Apr. 2017. <http://www.npr.org/sections/thesalt/2012/06/27/155527365/visualizing-a-nation-of- meat-eaters>. of Factory Factory Farming. N.p., n.d.Web. 12 Apr. 2017 Farm Sanctuary. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Apr. 2017. <https://www.farmsanctuary.org/learn/factory-farming/>. Government Regulation of Factory  Animal Welfare Nonprofit National Humane Education Society. N.p., n.d. Web. 18 Apr. 2017. <https://nhes.org/3372-2/>. Mercy For Animals Inspiring  Mercy For Animals. N.p., 30 Jan. 2017. Web. 18 Apr. 2017. <http://www.mercyforanimals.org/>. Other Health Risks of the Meat  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 18 Apr. 2017. <http://www.peta.org/issues/animals-used-for-food/health-risks-meat-industry/>.