Al Oraimi 1 Safa Al Oraimi ENC 1101 Mark J Nusspickel 2 April 2017 Word count (1008 without the outline) Environment sustainability and business succeed I. Introduction Nowadays, the idea of using environment sustainability has taken a wider range by most companies. Sustainability is one of way that helps business to development and country development. There are many people like the idea of using environmental sustainability but some people are rejecting this idea. Thus, the advantages of start include environment sustainability are Increase productivity and reduce costs, recycling and make the place healthy. However, there are many reasons for people reject such as they see it is hared to change, they think it not make any different and people thought will get less economically. In order to become more profitable and sake the environment more companies should take part in environment sustainably practices. II. Counterargument: There are many reasons why business does not invest in sustainability include the following some of them are The presence of too many metrics that are used to measure sustainability which are too confusing, this makes it harder to even tackle them up (Willared 2012). This also makes sustainability so hard to measure as they often affect people and the society at large at the macro level and their organizational implications as we see are unclear hence firms choose not to use it. Also, another factor is that government has several tools at their disposal such as taxes, regulations, and markets Al Oraimi 2 which at the end we see encourages; business to make sure that it steward environmental resources. This are not well applied hence moves on and makes the owners of an organization not to follow sustainability. Owners also do not encourage sustainability because it does not fit neatly into the business case; this is because the current decision making in the financial sector does not fully capture the value of sustainability-related investments in the community or even business (Pamela Laughland 2011).Owners of business do not accept sustainability because the managers whom they employ have problems in management and decision making and at the end; we see that a lot of companies have difficulty in discriminating between the most important opportunities and threats on the horizon which they face III Subtopic1: It offers transportation alternatives, especially around the given neighborhood. you still think bikes are for kids or competitive young people in tight pants. But adults are increasingly enjoying this childhood taste of freedom. Safe places to ride increase bicycling. And bike facilities increase your cool factor for attracting young 2012). IIV Subtopic 2: Helps in neighborhood solar, energy conservation as scale energy projects now are seeing to become more feasible. IIIV Subtopic 3: Starting off a community garden. Conclusion: 1- Summary of the reason why people against using Environment sustainability and other reject this idea, and the benefits of using sustainability. Al Oraimi 3 Business sustainability is the process through which firms manage their financial, social and even environmental risks, obligations and opportunities. This moves on and encounters accounting for environmental and social impacts of the given business (Pamela Laughland 2011). We see that sustainable business go on and create economic value, healthy ecosystems and even strong relationship within communities in which they lie. Although firms, which do not invest in sustainability, are no worse off financially than that invests we see this is the reason why owner business do not use environmental sustainability. They do this because their employees, customers and even investors are happier and more committed when they are not investing there. In order to become more profitable and sake the environment, more companies should take part in sustainably practices. There are many reasons why business does not invest in sustainability include the following some of them are The presence of too many metrics that are used to measure sustainability which are too confusing, this makes it harder to even tackle them up (Willared 2012). This also makes sustainability so hard to measure as they often affect people and the society at large at the macro level and their organizational implications as we see are unclear hence firms choose not to use it. Also, another factor is that government has several tools at their disposal such as taxes, regulations, and markets which at the end we see encourages; business to make sure that it steward environmental resources. This are not well applied hence moves on and makes the owners of an organization not to follow sustainability. Owners also do not encourage sustainability because it does not fit neatly into the business case; this is because the current decision Al Oraimi 4 making in the financial sector does not fully capture the value of sustainability-related investments in the community or even business (Pamela Laughland 2011).Owners of business do not accept sustainability because the managers whom they employ have problems in management and decision making and at the end; we see that a lot of companies have difficulty in discriminating between the most important opportunities and threats on the horizon which they face. The other reason why business owners do not advocate for sustainability is that the there is no common set of rules for sourcing up sustainability in the business sector and even the community in general. Although business owners do not use sustainability it has some benefits to the business and the public in general. One of the benefits is that it offers transportation alternatives, especially around the given neighborhood. This is done through developing a community by making it walkable at the end. This at the end results in cost minimizing the damage, which can be caused by cars. Her we are kindly advised to use a public transit system in making sure that we manage environmental sustainability. This is done through making sure that we increase ridership, cleanliness, relativity and even convenience of buses or even cars service, which is very helpful. A public transit system is another key piece in environmental sustainability. So anything you can do to increase ridership, cleanliness, reliability, and convenience of buses, trains, on-demand service, or car services is very helpful. (Willard 2012). Another benefit is that it helps in neighborhood solar, energy conservation as scale energy projects now are seeing to become more feasible. This is more applicable in areas where state laws are favorable. As we see, we need to ask for a smart grid so that we can generate electricity and sell it back to the utility but even while doing that a few Al Oraimi 5 communities might want to go for the big project. In this, there is a wealth of information available. Also, the solar energy have positive impact in the environment because it reducing greenhouse gases around the globe. Starting off a community garden is also another benefit of environmental sustainability. This is because of the negative impact of transportation on the environmental sustainability as many people are getting on the bandwagon about the presence of food, which is locally grown. The presence of the local food movement is a small but worthy contribution, which uses less energy and is environmental sustainability. We again see that from environmental and security standpoints, this is quite important for communities to even start considering how they could provide more food locally. Again we see that the implications of deciding to start a community garden which are decorative, entertaining, building the community and it is also practical in the real sense. (Willard 2012) This is because we know the source of food grown and if you go to the extent and start suffering from community poverty this benefit is great environmental sustainability activity. conclusion, the real success for the companies is not just to have an economic growth but is to have an environmentally sustainable future for these industrial organizations. Furthermore, the world will be such a perfect place if the companies started applying some of the environmental sustainability plans, and taking the companies that implied these plans successfully in their consideration. should know there are a lot of benefits of using environmental suitability to product the earth and health. For example, it helps to make the environment green and reduce the greenhouse guess. Also, it is important to persuade the owners business to include the environmental sustainability. Al Oraimi 6 We see that if even the owners of the business do not use environmental sustainability it is quite important and helps in many parts of the world. We have come to the extent of seeing that environmental sustainability is important in the transport sector. This is because it reduces pollution and congestion as people re advised to use public means of transport. This has also given the way forward for new energy alternatives, which have been able to help the community. Finally, through environmental sustainability, we have the creation of community gardens, which helps in educating people on the important of food, which is of high importance in the health of health of human being. Al Oraimi 7 Works cited Bansal, Pamela Laughland & Tima. The Top Ten Reasons Why Businesses More Sustainable by Pamela Laughland & Tima Bansal on  IBooks. Publisher: Richard Ivey School of Business Foundation, 01 Jan. 2011. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Fischler, Franz editor, editor Schmidpeter, and Christina editor Weidinger. Sustainable Entrepreneurship : Business Success through Sustainability. Heidelberg: Springer, 2013. Print. Miller, Kathy. Success for the Long Run: Sustainable Companies Are the  Environmental Leader. N.p., 30 July 2012. Web. 02 Apr. 2017. Stacey, Eric G, Jane Turville, Regina Hauser, and Karl-Henrik A Passion for Sustainability. Gresham, OR: Landfall Productions Inc, 2008. Sustainability is destroying the  Deep Green Resistance New York. N.p., 22 Oct. 2016. Web. 02 Apr. 2017. Willard, Bob. The new sustainability advantage: seven business case benefits of a triple bottom line. Gabriola Island, B.C.: New Society Publishers, 2012. Print.