Buschle 1 Charles Buschle ENC 1101 April 9, 2017 Outline I. Introduction a. In the world today, football is at the forefront of American culture. b. The NFL profits off of the big hits put on their players c. We fail to recognize the effects the game puts on these long term health d. Thesis: Concussions are a major problem in the NFL, having detrimental impacts on the physical and mental health of both current and retired NFL players. The NFL needs to go to all lengths possible to reduce the abundance and long term effects of concussions on their players. II. Counter Argument a. What: The NFL need to put any effort forth in reducing concussions b. Why: Athletes come across injuries all of the time, especially professional football players. Players recuperate until they feel they feel adequate to return, and they continue on in their careers. The concussion protocol can quickly take players out of action for weeks, months, even years. If the player feels healthy enough to go out and play the game, then the NFL get in the way of making their living. III. How concussions have been perceived a. Just A The National Football Denial Of A Causal Link Between Multiple Concussions And Later-Life Cognitive  (2009) Buschle 2 i. This piece further discusses the impact of concussions on current and former NFL players, describing violent collisions in the NFL as primary ingredient behind the incredible success of the Unfortunately these collisions, more often than not, lead to concussions. This article addresses the prevalence of concussions in the NFL and the long term health effects and possible diseases that they could lead to if not treated properly. It also explains the previous notion that concussions, because they were so common, were looked at as commonplace and taken lightly. ii. When Getting Your Bell  May Lead To Ringing The : Potential Compensation For NFL Player Concussion-Related  (2013) 1. This article compiles several cases of long term brain damage caused by concussions in former NFL players, including the unfortunate stories of former players such as Junior Seau. It chronicles the history of concussions in the NFL along with the strides the NFL has taken to prevent long term injuries in current and retired players. These injuries, if not treated correctly, can lead to long term brain damage and, at its worst, can cost the lives of countless former players. The danger concussions pose puts the NFL in a difficult position, as they are pressed for time to find solutions to this rapidly growing problem. IV. Illnesses caused by concussions Buschle 3 a. Lou disease linked to concussions, NFL players need to raise awareness  (2010) i. If treated improperly, multiple concussions can eventually lead to a plethora of life threatening illnesses. Of these, the two most dangerous are CTE, which can lead to dementia, and ALS, or more commonly known as Lou disease. b. Only Just Begun: Determining Who Pays After The Approval Of The NFL Concussion  (2016) i. This article continues to explain the possible contraction of CTE and the dangers it could lead to. CTE can lead to memory loss, confusion, impaired judgement, impulse control problems, aggression, depression, and eventual dementia. V. How the NFL is handling the matter a. Head Case: An Guide To Protecting Their NFL Clients From Concussions And Associated  i. This article continues to look into the efforts the NFL is making to handle the increasingly prominent issue of concussions and their long term effect. It gives examples of unfortunate cases of effected players, including Mike Webster, who was homeless before he died of heart failure in 2002, Terry Long, who committed suicide in 2005 by drinking antifreeze, and Andre Waters, who committed suicide by shooting himself. All three autopsies revealed the men all suffered from post-concussion-syndrome. As similar cases continue to flood in, the pressure is on the NFL to act. In 2007, the Buschle 4 NFL began requiring players to undergo a baseline neurological exam. The NFL Players Association (NFLPA) has also contributed by helping fund the concussion studies by the Center for the Study of Retired. Both the League and the Players Association are working together to make a difference for the sake of their players. b. School Of Hard Knocks -- The Impact Of The Nfl Concussion  (2014) i. This article chronicles one of the largest instances of former NFL players acting out against the way the league handles the treatment of concussions and other head injuries. It contains the details of a 2012 lawsuit filed by thousands of former NFL players against the NFL. The players, including hall of fame quarterback Terry Bradshaw, were seeking financial compensation for chronic long term injuries, along with financial losses suffered by the former players. The litigation created awareness for the long term effects of concussions and the responsibility to prevent said effects. VI. Conclusion a. When it comes to concussions, a beyond serious issue in football, and the NFL needs to do everything in its power to see that as resolved as it can be. Buschle 5 The Real Impact of Concussions in the NFL In the world today, sports are at the forefront of American culture, no sport more prevalent than the hard-hitting action in the National Football League. The NFL is a billion dollar industry that profits off the incredible feats of athleticism pulled off by its players such as a kickoff return touchdown, a one-handed catch, and earth-shattering hits laid out on ball carriers. That final example is a cause for concern, as one of the largest reasons for its popularity is because of how violent the game can be. As we look at these players as indestructible, larger- than-life super heroes, we fail to recognize the effects the game puts on these long term health. Of these effects, the most concerning is the games possible negative effects on the brain, more specifically, concussions. Concussions are a major problem in the NFL, having detrimental impacts on the physical and mental health of both current and retired NFL players. The NFL needs to go to all lengths possible to reduce the abundance and long term effects of concussions on their players. While many people look at concussions as dangerous injuries that could affect future physical and mental health, many players look at concussions as minor injuries that simply get in the way of playing the game they love. When an NFL player is diagnosed with a concussion, they are immediately entered into the concussion protocol, a four-stage process carried out by the training staff, with the purpose of getting players back on the field only after full recovery. The process involves a baseline test and a graduated exercise challenge, followed by a gradual return to practice and play. In a December 2013 ESPN article, written by Josh Weinfuss, titled Exactly is the Concussion Weinfuss states some (the concussion protocol) can take less than a week. For others, it can take (Weinfuss P5). This process can last anywhere from a few weeks to several months. There have Buschle 6 been some cases where players have spent entire seasons in the concussion protocol, putting their careers in jeopardy. While the protocol is intended to have the best interests at heart, most players would rather they get back as soon as possible, returning to the game their passionate about, and continuing to provide for themselves and their families. When severe enough, the concussion protocol can be the death penalty of a NFL career. Concussions always looked at as such a hot topic around the league. The perception of concussions is something that has changed drastically over time. In the early days of football, the only thing protecting heads was a leather cap. With the original attitude of most football players, the amount of possible undiagnosed concussions in that age had to have been staggering. In a 2009 piece, written by Daniel J. Kain, titled Just a The National Football Denial of a Causal Link between Multiple Concussions and Later-Life Cognitive Kain explains how concussions always taken very seriously. He states that the NFL has always profited off the violent collisions, describing them as primary ingredient behind the incredible success of the (Kain 1). In the earlier days of the game, concussions occurred so often, they were looked at as commonplace, taken lightly, and treated improperly. Luckily, as time went on, and technology improved, the perception of concussions also shifted, as more and more long term effects would be discovered. In a 2013 article by Brad J. Reich titled When Getting Your Bell  May Lead to Ringing the : Potential Compensation For NFL Player Concussion-Related  the author describes how the conversation has become much more seriously than in previous times. The article compiles several instances of long term brain damage on former NFL players. No case was more documented than that of former San Diego Chargers linebacker Junior Seau, who committed suicide in 2012 at his home in Oceanside, California. He was 43. Buschle 7 Many saw this case, in particular, as the one that changed the perception of concussions as we know. The news of Seau, a former hero to fans all over the world, taking his life due to illness if the brain hit too close to home for many fans along with the NFL front office, who lost one of their all-time great players. After these events, concussions were in no doubt a major threat to the health and wellbeing of NFL players. This is the attitude the league currently does, and rightfully should, have when concerning concussions, as there is constant pressure to reduce and/or find a solution to the continually growing issue. So, why should concussions be taken so seriously? Because of the detrimental long term effects they can have on the brain. Some effects, to name a few, include headaches, dizziness, and difficulty concentrating or completing tasks. The most alarming effects, however, are the plethora of life threatening illnesses that concussions can lead to. In an article published by Brain Injury Canada in 2010 titled Lou disease linked to concussions, NFL players need to raise awareness  the author discusses a fatal possibility: concussions having a possible connection to ALS. Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis, more commonly known as Lou disease, leads to muscle weakness and eventual muscle loss, impaired speech, mild cognitive impairment, and severe unintentional weight loss leading victims to eventually become wheelchair bound (Mayo Clinic). According to The ALS Association, the average life expectancy of a person with ALS is between two and five years after diagnosis. The other extremely life threatening illness linked to concussions is CTE. Traumatic Encephalophy (CTE) was is linked to the list of long term effects of multiple effects of multiple concussions and/or improperly treated concussions. According to a 2016 Defense Council Journal article by Jay Barry Harris, titled Only Just Begun: Determining Who Pays after the Approval of the NFL Concussion CTE is a progressive degenerative disease that has been found in athlete Buschle 8 who have a history of repetitive brain trauma. This trauma includes symptomatic concussions and other severe blows to the brain. The trauma triggers a progressive degeneration of brain tissue. The loss of tissue can lead to an endless list of detrimental effects to the brain, including memory loss, confusion, impaired, judgement, impulse control problems, aggression, depression, and eventual dementia. Many cases of CTE, including the case of previously mentioned Junior Seau, end in suicide. Hopefully, after going over these fatal illnesses connected to concussions, easy to understand why they need to be taken with the utmost seriousness. The increasing efforts to crack down on concussions began in the late as more and more cases began to surface in which middle-aged, retired NFL players suffering premature deaths. These players include Mike Webster, who was homeless before he died of heart failure in 2002, Terry Long, who committed suicide in 2005 by drinking antifreeze, and Andre Waters, who committed suicide by shooting himself. All three autopsies revealed that all three men suffered from post-concussion-syndrome. As similar cases continued to come in, the pressure was on the NFL to act. In 2007, the NFL began requiring players to undergo a baseline neurological exam, eventually leading to what we know as the concussion protocol. The NFL Players Association (NFLPA) has also contributed by helping fund concussion studies, with the goal of finding ways to make the game safer on the brain. Both the NFL and Players Association are working together to make a difference for the sake of the well-being of their players. This is the attitude both parties need to have to continue to make progress in reducing this major issue in football. After reviewing the information provided in this report, my message is pretty clear. When it comes to concussions, a beyond serious issue in football, and the NFL needs to continue to do everything in its power to reduce the amount of long-term victims. The progress the NFL has Buschle 9 made since beginning their efforts is justified, but they need to continue their efforts in the future. The well-being of these young men depend on it. Buschle 10 Works Cited Harris, Jay Barry. Only Just Begun: Determining Who Pays After The Approval Of The NFL Concussion  Defense Counsel Journal 83.2 (2016): 156-164. Business Source Premier. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Kain, Daniel J. Just A The National Football Denial Of A Causal Link Between Multiple Concussions And Later-Life Cognitive  Rutgers Law Journal 40.(2009): 697. LexisNexis Academic: Law Reviews. Web. 1 Feb. 2017 Lou disease linked to concussions, NFL players need to raise awareness  Brain Injury Canada. N.p., 13 Sept. 2010. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. <http://braininjurycanada.ca/2010/09/13/lou-gehrigs-disease-linked-to-concussions-nfl- players-need-to-raise-awareness-level/>. Mecham, Shane C., and Kevin M. Guskiewicz. Hed Case: An Guide To Protecting Their NFL Clients From Concussions And Associated  UMKC Law Review 3 (2008): 699. Academic OneFile. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Michael, Elise. School Of Hard Knocks -- The Impact Of The Nfl Concussion  Cardozo Arts & Entertainment Law Journal 33.1 (2014): 289-319. Art & Architecture Source. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Reich, J. Brad1. When Getting Your Bell  May Lead To Ringing The : Potential Buschle 11 Compensation For NFL Player Concussion-Related  Virginia Sports & Entertainment Law Journal 12.2 (2013): 198-231. Index to Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Weinfuss, Josh. What exactly is the concussion  ESPN. ESPN Internet Ventures, 20 Dec. 2013. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. protocol>.