Al-Rawahi 1 Muatasim Al-Rawahi Mark J Nusspickel Project 3 04,09 2017 Banning Firearms in United States of America Introduction: The second amendment gives Americans the right to own a firearm for self-defense reasons. But that was in a time where communication was limited, so was the police departments around the nation. But it is not the case anymore where with a click of a button or a phone call, police officer can be at your door step to provide the protection that you need. For the safety of Americans and for the sake of the innocent souls that has been lost because of guns, it the time to consider if this should be a law anymore? Due to increased amount of violence, high percentage of rape and other means of protection, firearms should led be banned. Counterargument: Taking into consideration that some people think that guns should be banned, however other people might not share the same point of view. Many believes that citizens whom are responsible should have the right to arm themselves with guns against any situation that require them to, or recreation reasons such as hunting, or shooting on the target and most importantly the Second Amendment of the United States Constitution protects individual gun ownership. How does it feel when the headlines that you see is about mass shooting? Does it feel like owning a gun make you feel safe anymore? Maybe once upon a time but not everyone is going to use guns the way you are willing to use it, there are a lot of people that enjoy brining pain to others or even for hate reasons, and that is who we need to stop. At the Al-Rawahi 2 end, looking at the facts banning guns will only benefit the American society in terms that there will be no gun crimes. Violence: There is genuine misconception that fighting fire with fire seems to be the only way to deal with this problem, but that is not the case all the time because the problem is guns and not the fight itself. Because beside rape, there are different kind of violence that is associated with gun that women face, domestic violence is one of them, especially violence that is associated with gun. From all the inmate partner murder that happened, more than half of them involved guns. Arkadi Gerney and Chelsea Parsons states that to FBI data, between 2003 and 2012, 54.8 percent of women murdered in an intimate partner context were killed with a (10). Having guns to protect yourself as the solution is not the right answer because studies have shown that more people are dying for unjustifiable reasons than justifiable. According to ocrcc.org, study found that for every justifiable homicide with a gun, there are another 32 criminal homicides with a that shows you that although guns can help you in some situation, the damage that is happening because of firearms has more cons than pros, and in if guns was illegal, the victims of justifiable homicide could have been injured and not dead if the accused person use lethal weapons. Rape: Even if guns in worst case scenario is considered as a solution to rape violence, do you want the women in your life to carry guns with them all the time? Many people especially the victims of rape think that rape should be the reason why firearms should be legal. After being Al-Rawahi 3 attacked once, the victim finds the world scary and unsafe environment because of what they experienced. There are different things that is associated to rape like anger, power or even sexual pleasure, but one of the most important key to it is firearms. Because According to ncdsv.org 29% of rapes, the offender used a gun plays an important role in rape, therefore taking away guns may not stop every sexual violence, but will help to decrease rape levels that is associated with firearms. Other means of protection: Human being has been trying to protect themselves from any kind of harm that they my face since the beginning of time. And the means of protection have been changing over time by the developing of the weapons itself. If you ask individuals who own guns of their reason to have one in their position, a lot of them will respond with protection, either to protect themselves if someone broke into their house or if something happened to them while they are in the streets. But there is other means of protection instead of firearms that not only will keep you save, but no one must die. People get very protective when it comes to their assets, and what is more valuable to protect than their house? Having a dog can help attack any intruder or alarm you when asleep for you to take an action, of course that is not the ultimate solution because not everybody wants to own a dog, instead they can put a security system. Nowadays, security companies are trying to do their best to be number one in the market, having a good security system will not only make you feel safe, but will automatically inform the police department to be at your house as soon as possible. Furthermore, you cannot react to every physical threat that you face in your life with bullets, adding to that you cannot carry a gun with you to most of the places that you go to, but there are a lot other convenient techniques that you can use instead of guns, something that is not lethal yet it keeps you out of way, such as paper spray, tactical pen, collapsible batons, stun gun or pocket knives. Although most of them are not as deadly as firearms, it is strong enough to keep criminals away from you without having to kill anyone. Al-Rawahi 4 Conclusion: Looking at the situations that have been going on for the past 30 years you notice that the violent rates because of guns are increasing in a very scary way, people want to carry guns for their own protection and rapes are usually associated with gun. You can clearly see why firearms should be banned in in the United States of America. Banning guns does not have to mean that Americans will have no access to guns in America. Instead, the ban should mean that no one is allowed to carry or own any kind of lethal weapons for any reasons and if was caught with one should be charged for breaking the law. Al-Rawahi 5 Source 1980 Sexual Assault Statistics. Denver, CO: Denver Police Dept., 1983. Web. Gerney, Arkadi, and Chelsea Parsons. Under the  Nature 495.7442 (2013): 409. Web. Guns & Rape Prevention: A Dangerous  Orange County Rape Crisis Center. N.p., n.d. Web. 08 Apr. 2017.