Badro1 Joy Michela Badro Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Putting an End to Animal Captivity at Sea World Imagine being forced to live in a bath tub for the rest of your life. The thought of it is unimaginable and unthinkable-right? Yet, a very similar scenario is happening with orca whales at Sea World right now but many choose to turn a blind eye towards this issue. With many orcas being kidnapped from their families, stripped from their natural habitats and put into constricted tanks, duty as good human beings to get involved and put an end to the orca captivity at Sea World. In fact, Sea World still remains a popular touristic attraction, with many people continuing to indirectly encourage this form of animal captivity by putting money towards Sea World and attending their shows. Sea World currently owns twenty two orcas in three of their parks within the United States (US Whales) and it is vital that these orcas are saved and that no other orcas are captured against their will/bred into captivity for the purpose of human entertainment. Being confined to a tiny area relative to their size can develop many health effects, as well as cause the orca to act out aggressively out of irritation (Sea World of Hurt). Due to this tragedy and the severe mistreatment of these orcas, individuals should donate money to The Wildlife in Captivity- Change for Animals Organization and immediately start encouraging family and friends to stop attending performances at Sea World. From the outside looking in, the interior problems these orcas go through are not obvious when watching them perform. However, research shows that orcas that are living in captivity live shorter lives than orcas that are living in their natural habitats in the wild; in the wild, orcas are Badro2 said to have a life spam ranging 30 and 50 (PETA Kids) whereas average age of orcas who have died in captivity is only 13 years (PETA Kids). This highly proves the fact that orcas are miserable with their conditions at Sea World versus their conditions in the vast ocean. For a few hours of human entertainment, generations of orcas are forced to suffer and endure these torturous struggles. It is far from amusing and entertaining to watch these orcas perform for individuals knowing that they have many negative health related side effects, such as a weakening in their immune system which makes them prone to many diseases (US Whales). Individuals should truly care about this issue because completely unethical to remove these highly intelligent mammals from their homes where they can interact with other complex social groups and breed them into captivity. Not only is this a threat to the animals themselves, but this issue of orca captivity can also be an extremely dangerous threat the human trainers at Sea World. One of the many orcas held in captivity at Sea World, Tilikum, was said to have gotten stomach ulcers from the exhaustion and stress of having to hour on the hour, eight times a day, seven days a (Sea World of Hurt). Due to the frustration Tilikum had been put through, many believe that it drove him to abnormal repetitive behavior, including chewing on metal gates and the concrete sides of his (Sea World of Hurt). With that being said, it was no surprise that Tilikum ended up killing trainer Keltie Byrne as stress of captivity also causes Tilikum to exhibit aggression towards (Sea World of Hurt). It is apparent that this kind of repetitive behavior is unheard of when orcas are in their nature habitats in the wild. It is a shame that lives had to be taken away as a result of orca captivity; these individuals clearly were not educated on how severe and perilous the consequences of animal captivity can be to themselves and to the animals. Individuals need to ensure they are contributing to the greater good by saving orcas lives as well as human lives. Badro3 Luckily, however, it is never too late to make changes for the better in society. There are many organizations that accept any kinds of donations in order to care for these orcas and help end their suffering. One of the main organizations individuals can donate to is The Wildlife in Captivity Change for Animals Organization. By visiting http://www.changeforanimals.org/ individuals can conveniently choose between printing off a donation form and writing a check or making a safe and easy online donation with your choice of amount (Change for Animals). Even a small donation helps and contributes to tackling a large and important issue. Donating money only takes a few minutes of your time, but can save the entire life of many orcas. Nevertheless, if individuals are unable to donate towards the cause for any particular reason, it is crucial that individuals are actively involved in informing family and friends about the effects of orca captivity. Sharing the link on social media of the donation website provided is a great way to help spread awareness about this issue, as friends and family can read about what like to live life in a tank and how this can affect the orca; socially, physically and mentally. Sea greed to profit is at the expense of valuable orca lives, as well as human lives. Orcas are forced to live their entire life in captivity, where their boredom and frustration ultimately leads to severe health effects, such as being prone to diseases because of a weaker immune system. In turn, some orcas take out this frustration in an aggressive manner by attacking human beings, which can lead to severe injuries or even death. Nonetheless, one can still make a change and drastically improve the situation for these orcas. One can either donate online or through check to The Wildlife in Captivity Change for Animals Organization. Alternatively, one can share the website link http://www.changeforanimals.org/ on social media with the hopes of raising awareness to family and friends and educating them about the dangers and tragedies behind Sea World so that they stop going. Badro4 Word Count: 1,006 Badro5 Works Cited Change For Animals Foundation CFAF. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. End  WDC, Whale and Dolphin Conservation. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Over 30 Years and Three Deaths: Tragic  SeaWorld of Hurt. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. 8 Shocking Facts About SeaWorld Save  PETA Kids. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.