Alfaro 1 Ariel Alfaro Professor Dennis ENC 1102-003 16 April 2017 The struggle to raise the federal minimum wage to at least barley meet the cost of living has raged throughout society, stronger than ever since the first success of a federal minimum wage increase during Barack first years in presidency. Though this was a notable success in 2009, it is now 2017 and the cost of living has increased. It has now been 8 years since there has been any increase in the federal minimum wage which still stands at $7.25. There are many politicians that argue that the federal minimum wage is sufficient for individuals to live on but an author, Barbra Ehrenreich, argues differently in her novel Nickel and Dimed. Ehrenreich conducted an experiment where she decided to live in three different states and attempt to survive on one or multiple minimum wage jobs (Ehrenreich, Nickel and Dimed). The fist area was Key West, Florida where she was hired for two waitressing jobs that payed about $2.43 an hour plus tips as well as a maid job. By the time she had taken four jobs just to pay $500 for an apartment, she quits everything and moves to the next location due to stress (Ehrenreich, Nickel and Dimed). Ehrenreich stated that she had a safety net of money and a stable job as an author but every other minimum wage worker does not, therefore they cannot leave as she did when everything becomes overwhelming (Ehrenreich, Nickel and Dimed). As the federal minimum wage stands, according to Barbra Ehrenreich and many other minimum wage workers, it is not enough to meet the cost of living in most states. For this reason, to prevent poverty in those that work 40 hours or more a week, it is necessary to support a minimum wage increase by raising Alfaro 2 awareness about the realities of attempting to live a steady life on a minimum wage. Raising awareness throughout society can be done by supporting a variety of organizations that support this idea such as the Raise the Minimum Wage Campaign and the Interfaith Worker Justice Organization. The support of organizations that fight for an increase in minimum wage has become absolutely necessary as those that work 40 or more hours a week still find themselves hopelessly impoverished. On the Raise the Minimum Wage Campaign website, a minimum wage worker named Nicole Mason shared her story to raise awareness to those that do not understand what it means to truly attempt to survive on minimum wage. Mason has a wage of $7.50 at a fast food establishment which has resulted in her being unable to support her two children (Raise the Minimum Wage Campaign). Mason wants to better herself by becoming a nurse, according to the article, but finds this to be an impossible goal as she must work 40 or more hours a week to even feed her children. The problem of minimum wage not meeting the cost of living is not something that only a small number of people experience as there are still 21 states that either have no specified minimum wage or they have their specified minimum wage at $7.25 (Economic Policy Institute). Throughout the United States there are about 77.2 million people that are paid on an hourly wage meaning that the conversation about whether the minimum wage should be raised is one that concerns about 58.7% of all workers that earn some kind of wage (Economic Policy Institute). The specific states that do not have a specified minimum or those that still follow the minimum wage can be seen the Economic Policy graph below. Those that lived in an impoverished state while still working was about 6.3% of the people included in the labor force (Center for Poverty Research). Alfaro 3 If these employees are working as many hours as physically possible at their state mandated minimum wage, then why do they still have trouble feeding their dependents and finding a place to live? After 40 or more hours of work a week it should be expected that these employees be able to at least have access to basic human needs (food and shelter) but this is unfortunately not the case in the lives of the many individuals that attempt to survive off the minimum wage in their state. According to the graph presented below and by Carly Ledbetter in her Huffington Post article, an astonishing $19.47 wage in Florida would be needed to maintain at least a two-bedroom rental housing unit which does not include the cost of other expenses (Ledbetter, The Huffington Post). Even with this knowledge of the high cost of living throughout most of the states in the United States, the federal minimum wage remains well below the expected amount to have some kind of shelter and sustenance. Economic Policy Institute Alfaro 4 Though an increase to the minimum wage would benefit the a good amount of those that work minimum wage jobs there are small business owners who still fear an increase to the minimum wage. This fear is shared by many as small business owners as they believe that any increase to the minimum wage will leave them with little to no income as they struggle to pay their employees at least the new minimum wage (Martinez, The Seattle Times). According to Amy article in the Seattle Times, approximately 29%-36% of businesses income in Seattle is spent on labor alone while profit is about 4%-6% of income. Knowing this, it makes any increase to the minimum wage a valid fear for small business owners. Though it is a justified fear, there have been many studies that have been working towards debunking these fears of having to close due to little profit a large labor costs. Ledbetter, The Huffington Post Alfaro 5 Seattle recently underwent this change in minimum wage and according to a study conducted by the University of Washington, the results were much less catastrophic than expected. In this study, the authors state that they did not find any compelling evidence that shows that there has been an increase in business failure due to the increase in minimum wage (Impact of the Minimum Wage, 4). Also, it was actually observed that in Washington, after talking with several small business owners, the gradual increase of minimum wage actually helped with managing the change in expenses as well as the many programs that Washington offered to these small business owners to help them organize and manage better (Uzialko, The State of Small Business). To make a change in the lives of those that work 40 or more hours a week in a minimum wage job but still struggle to support themselves and their dependents, supporting certain organizations such as the Raise the Minimum Wage campaign and the Interfaith Worker Justice Martinez, The Seattle Times Alfaro 6 organization, can bring about awareness. The goal of these two organizations is share the true story of the average minimum wage worker and what it truly means to live off minimum wage. To make a change in the community through these organizations one has the option of becoming involved in their campaigns/gatherings as well as their fundraising events and awareness raising through the use of social media such as Facebook and Twitter. To become involved with the Raise the Minimum Wage campaign, one may access their website and have the option to donate to support their cause or even get involved with their campaigns by searching for one nearby using their campaign listings. To become more involved with the cause of raising the minimum wage, one may have the option to become involved with a second organization called Interfaith Worker Justice. To become involved with this organization, one has the option to donate money or their time. With this particular organization, it is possible to find multiple fundraising and awareness raising marathons around Tampa as well as most areas in Florida. Also, if exercise is not quite your cup of tea, one also has the option of becoming an advocate for this organization through attending their many congregations where they raise awareness and support for the necessity of increasing the minimum wage. Lastly, there is an option to become an Interfaith Worker Justice E-Advocate where one would donate their time to this organization through online petitions, online letter writing campaigns and social media. Social media use for this organization would also be used to communicate with officials such as politicians through Twitter to raise their awareness about the minimum wage situation as well. There are a variety of ways to get involved and make a change for those suffering due to a minimum wage that does not meet the cost of living. Though the involvement with a variety of organizations that support a minimum wage increase such as the Raise the Minimum Wage campaign and the Interfaith Worker Justice organization, one can spread awareness about the Alfaro 7 issue of the much too low minimum wage which will hopefully lead to higher wages that meet the cost of living. Works Cited Adam C. Uzialko, Business News Daily Staff Writer. The State of Small Business:  Business News Daily. Business News Daily, 09 Mar. 2016. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. <http://www.businessnewsdaily.com/8852-doing-business-in-washington.html>. UC Davis Center for Poverty  Who are the working poor in America? University of California, 3 Nov. 2015. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. <http://poverty.ucdavis.edu/faq/who-are-working- poor-america>. Interfaith Worker Justice. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. <http://www.iwj.org/>. Ledbetter, Carly. This Is The Hourly Wage You Need To Afford A 2-Bedroom Apartment Around The  The Huffington Post. TheHuffingtonPost.com, 2 June 2015. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Alfaro 8 Minimum Wage  Economic Policy Institute. EPI, 13 Mar. 2017. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Martinez, Amy. Tips Are Top Concern for Some in $15 Minimum-wage  The Seattle Times. The Seattle Times, 21 Apr. 2014. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. NELP.  Raise the Minimum Wage. NELP, n.d. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. http://raisetheminimumwage.com/. Vigdor, Jacob, Mark C. Long, Robert Plotnick, Ekaterina Roshchina, and Hilary Wething. REPORT ON THE IMPACT OF MINIMUM WAGE ORDINANCE ON WAGES, WORKERS, JOBS, AND ESTABLISHMENTS THROUGH  (n.d.): n. pag. University of Washington, 2015. Web. 26 Jan. 2017.