Zambrano 1 Maria Zambrano ENC 1101 Mark Nusspickle March 31, 2017 Persuasive Essay Outline I. Introduction a) Background information b) Thesis: Although education is a voluntary decision, students should consider all options when deciding how to afford college expenses. II. Counter-argument a) Sallie Mae i. Major issuer of student loans in United States. ii. It provided more than $15 billion in loans in 2003. iii. One of the highest interest rates of loan lenders, 5% or more. iv. It provides incentives for borrowers to their repayment behavior. b) Rebuttal to the counter-argument i. Students should look for different ways, besides loans, when deciding how to pay college. Zambrano 2 III. Scholarships a) Merit based or external factors guides toward scholarships. b) Increase of college students without getting into a personal debt. c) Connection back to my thesis. IV. Grants a) Filling out applications for federal grants can make someone to avoid college expenses. b) Federal Pell Grant c) Connection back to my thesis. V. Federal Financial Aid a) Currently more directly aid to student with low-income families. b) It can get to cover full tuition costs at spring and fall terms. c) Connection back to my thesis. VI. Conclusion a) Summary of the main ideas and the project in its essence. b) Restatement of my personal thesis proposed in the introduction. c) My call to action to those student with current loans and for those who wish to acquire them. Zambrano 3 College Education without a Personal Debt With the possibility of accessing higher education without the necessity of getting into a student loan, students should evade getting into a debt as their solution for paying college expenses. On the other hand, opponents of this point of view usually ask: Is there a need of working, while studying, to pay college out-of-pocket? Would students prefer to have their minds completely dedicated to study? Over many generations, students still do not comprehend that getting into a personal debt, in order to be able to afford college expenses, could be a very risky decision or, even a near future problem. Although education is a voluntary decision, students should consider all options when deciding how to afford college expenses. While being a careful borrower seems logical, this is not always the case. There are people of the opposite train of thought, for example: banks, private lender companies, schools, people in dire situations, and many others. Student loans have been around in United States for several years. Certainly, the current national student debt exceeds $1.4 trillion. Most people who avoid attending college at a young age, see personal loans as a dangerous and evitable decision. In contrast, those who are always trying to find ways to promote students to get into a debt, blame external factors that can cause a distraction on academic performance. Sallie Mae, is a private company and, additionally, the major issuer of student loans in United States. Their main purpose is to provide the amount of money that a student needs to pay its expenses, with an interest and a plan for repayment, it is characterized as the student loan servicer with economies of (Stanton 115). Its main reason for lending money, is to provide the cash for those who need to fulfill college costs, and they do it by keeping costs below those of (Stanton 116). Although this private company possesses very sincere and Zambrano 4 helpful opinions, they are not considering the wellness and danger of a student after getting into a loan. They seem to fail to understand the side effects of a personal debt after graduating and confronting the real world. Therefore, this reiterates the need for students to look for alternative ways when deciding how to afford college expenses other than a personal loan. Notwithstanding, the author Peterson addresses that the cost of college education rising faster than incomes, student loans are a growing (Peterson 50). Considering what was mentioned before, students should consider scholarships as an alternative solution in order to avoid debt at a young age. The author Serkan describes it as the of subsidies that would increase consumption of (Serkan 519). In United States, private and public universities and/or colleges offer scholarships for their current students and for those prospects that were accepted into the particular university. Students have infinite opportunities to achieve a scholarship or many. Educational institutes are not the only ones who offer scholarships; private companies, non-profit organizations, and many other organisms can provide free support for those who meet all the criteria. Scholarships can provide monetary aid for almost all kind of students, following this, it is important to consider that not only those with excellent grades are able to obtain the support, but there is an extensive gamma of scholarships available for all types of students, some of them are: students with divorced parents, being part of a minority group, and even some for undocumented students. With this being said, there is no excuse for any student not to apply for a scholarship, because winning at least one of these ones can help paying college expenses and definitely avoid getting into student loans. Subsequently, the following conclusion about student loans was made by the authors Cornelius and Sharon in 2015, they explained that level of student loan debt may affect career choices, for example, by leading them away from public service careers to Zambrano 5 more lucrative employment in the private (Cornelius and Sharon 37). In order to avoid this consequence, student should consider grants as their second option to pound about before signing for a loan. Although the percentage of low-income families with children going into college is very low, all students should considerer apply for Federal Grants, where the government provides free monetary support for those who can prove their need for help. In the Journal of Student Financial Aid can be found a conclusion about the importance of the use of grants in college, it states suggests that both state and federal grant aid can play a role in increasing (Lassila 27). Though the application for such help can be very difficult to please, it is completely worth it to fill it out in order to avoid, on the other hand, apply for a student loan. Furthermore, a third option available out of hundreds, can be known as Federal Financial Aid. Prospects college students during his senior year in high school have the opportunity of applying for what is commonly known as FAFSA (Free Application for Federal Student Aid). This federal aid is directly and only offered to residents or citizens of United States; it does not provide its monetary support for undocumented or international students. According to the authors McKinney and Novak, FAFSA in itself the gateway to the majority of financial assistance for college (McKinney and Novak 2). It is well known that the earlier a student can apply for this federal help, the more aid awarded he or she can expect from the government, making his or her career in college successful. No matter if someone thinks that it is hard for them to get governmental aid for college, a simple application can save someone from getting into a huge debt for the rest of their lives. Zambrano 6 In synthesis, student loans can get to be an easy solution for those students in need of monetary aid to pay for college expenses, and sometimes afford personal dues with the same one previously mentioned. But, thinking about the future, student loans can diminish your opportunities of acquiring a house, a good car, just because there is already a huge debt for which to be responsible. Before signing for a loan, students should look at different opportunities provided by private companies or the main government, such as: federal aid, scholarships, grants, and many others. Considering what has been argued, it is highly recommended for those students coming into college or those already in it, to decide differently. Avoiding student loans can diminish the national debt of United States in the previously mentioned category; it exceeds already $1.4 trillion as of April the 9 th of 2017. Zambrano 7 Works Cited Catma, Serkan. The Management of Scholarship Programs at Universities: A Cost-Benefit  International Journal of Management 29.4 (2012): 519. Web. 30 Mar. 2017. Cornelius, Luke M., and Sharon A. Frank. Student Loan Debt Levels And Their Implications For Borrowers, Society, And The  Educational Considerations 42.2 (2015): 35- 38. ERIC. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Lassila, Nathan. of Tuition Price, Grant Aid, and Institutional Revenue on Low-Income Student Journal of Student Financial Aid 41.3 (2011): 24-37. Web. 30 Mar. 2017. McKinney, Lyle and Heather Novak. FAFSA Filing among First-Year College Students: Who Files on Time, Who and Why Does It  Research in Higher Education 56.1 (2011): 1-28. Web. 30 Mar. 2017. Peterson, James R. Students Need You More Than  ABA Banking Journal 96.5 (2004): 50-53. Business Abstracts with Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 30 Mar. 2017. Stanton, Thomas H. Reducing Government Involvement in a Market: Lessons from the Privatization of Sallie  Public Budgeting & Finance Journal 28.1 (2008): 101. Web. 30 Mar. 2017.