Jessica Dinehart Basil ENC 1102 April, 13, 2017 Intermediate Draft : Terminate Tobacco. It is no surprise that cigarettes are the worlds leading harmful recreational drug, and that it affects millions of people world wide. However, the missed aspect of the argument is the harm that e-cigarettes, and second-hand smoking have on the growing community. Nicotine is a highly addictive drug and tobacco products only lead to cancer and other detrimental illnesses, most of which can be prevented from the first use. Most smokers begin their addiction when they are adolescents, just a few years younger than those at the USF community, and their cases are highly preventable. Youthful individuals tend to smoke due to negative influences, boredom, or popular trends, but what should become a new trend is the prevention of smoking and addiction. College campuses like USF are large promoters of diversity and health, constantly hosting events to inform and educate students about various unhealthy habits and better alternatives. Yet there is room for improvement in regards to those who directly smoking or using these products. Second-hand smoking kills roughly 53,800 people every year, entirely separate from first-hand smokers. In order to make the world a more safe and healthy environment for future generations, we need to initiate a fight against tobacco, starting with younger individuals such as those on campus. We need to host events on awareness of all the different types of tobacco products, e-cigarettes, and even hookahs and sign petitions to restrict smoking areas on campus to places with minimal traffic and second-hand exposure. Smoking remains the largest preventable cause of death and disease in the U.S., killing more than Americans each (Tobaccofreeflorida.com). One cigarette contains over 3000 harmful, cancerous chemicals that render 30 people for every one death with a smoking related illness. The surprising fact is that over 90 percent of smokers started using tobacco products before the age of 18, being influenced by their parents or peers habits. Now that the media seems to have become a larger influence on todays youth, the anti smoking commercials seemed to have decreased the likelihood of a child picking up a authentic cigarette, but it eradicated tobacco use, and it definitely reduced the number of addicts to nicotine drastically enough. The problem of todays electronic industry is e-cigarettes and other cigarette replacement methods that advertise smoking. E-cigarettes are especially deceiving when still containing nicotine, the addictive drug found in most tobacco products. The addiction to nicotine makes one more likely to try other tobacco products that do contain cancerous chemicals and toxins. It is also misunderstood that e-cigarettes are a good way of quitting, when, according to the Center On Addiction (.org), Using e-cigarettes and other vaping devices is not a proven method for quitting It is actually more likely to find someone using E-cigarettes and other vaping devices in addition to smoking normal cigarettes. If you worried before, sure you would be happy to know that e-cigarettes and other vaping devices are also FDA (Centeronaddiction.org). Along with the more obvious second-hand smoke from normal cigarettes being extremely toxic and deadly, there is little evidence that the aerosol from electronic methods is safe, regarding long term research still being conducted. Second-hand smoke, to bring light back to undermined malicious entities, contains over 250 chemicals that are known to be toxic or carcinogenic, including but not limited to: cyanide (used in chemical weapons), carbon monoxide (found in car exhaust), butane (used in lighter fluid), ammonia (used in household cleaners), and toluene (found in paint (gaspforair.org). According to the Big Campaign Undermined Report on Secondhand Smoke, there is a 16 percent increase in risk of lung cancer to nonsmokers who are exposed to second-hand smoke. This is especially alarming for those who cannot escape exposure to second-hand smoke, like children living with smokers, students passing by smoking areas where there is heavy traffic, and so on. There are always detrimental affects to all nicotine related products, and they are all highly preventable. Understanding the deadly effects, and as that should be all it takes to persuade one to join the fight against tobacco, it seems to be a forgotten cause, only attempted to be eradicated by the government only, ignored by real people going through real experiences. Tobacco takes family members away, it stunts child growth, causes premature aging and physical degrading. Tobacco products cause people to loose their smile, the one see in their old family photos, it causes a loss of limbs, causes men and women to loose their voice, to speak through a tube in their throat. Tobacco takes lives in more ways than one, it turns a twenty year old woman at the prime of her life into a 33 year old woman with tar ridden lungs and a cough that will break your heart. We can prevent this, we can terminate tobacco and its deadly effects for good, we just need to start with our younger generation, prevent the habit from starting by instilling an understanding and a fear of disease and death that will be brought on by tobacco products and especially an addiction to nicotine. Some inspiration to look to in the fight against tobacco is a government regulated non-profit organization called The Real Cost. The Real Cost is highly efficient in producing advertisements and commercials that project the harsh reality of smokings effects. If we combing strategies as used by The Real Cost propaganda with Terminate new resources and mission, we can focus our attention towards college campuses and the youthful individuals in order to prevent future generations from picking up the deadly habit, day, about 2,500 kids in the United States try their first cigarette; and another 400 additional kids under 18 years of age become new regular, daily (tobaccofreekids.org). We need to be the generation that ends smoking, if not for us, than for our children, and theirs. In order to enforce and build a backing for Terminate Tobacco, We need to host events and present petitions on college campuses and even high school campuses world wide, starting in our own neighborhood at USF. Although it is public knowledge that USF specifically is a free there are several highly populated areas that smoking students use for their smoke breaks. We need to propose that instead of banning it altogether (because when has that ever worked) we restrict certain smoking areas to desolate, low traffic areas of campus, keeping second-hand smoking and outside exposure to a set in stone 0. We will plan educational events around campus to help spread awareness and bust myths about widely used e-cigarettes, vapes and hookahs, while reinforcing the already understood detrimental effects of classic cigarettes. Understanding tobaccos long history of disease and death, we need to filter out the use of harmful products in order to eradicate tobacco for good. For the betterment of those under the addiction of nicotine, those helpless to second-hand smoke, or those of our future generations that have the possibility of picking up a tobacco product, we need to joining forces and host events and create petitions that will reinforce the beliefs of our mission and save the lives of the future. Sources Tobacco Education Center. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Apr. 2017. Campaign for Tobacco-Free  Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids. Florida Department Of Health, n.d. Web. 12 Apr. 2017. http://www.tobaccofreekids.org/research/factsheets/pdf/0001.pdf  The National Center on Addiction and Substance Abuse. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Apr. 2017. http://www.centeronaddiction.org/e-cigarettes/about-e-cigarettes The Facts  The Facts Now. Florida Department of Health, n.d. Web. 12 Apr. 2017. http://thefactsnow.com/?gclid=CJ3nhvO1n9MCFdgQgQodU1oBZA# Should I Tobacco Free Florida. N.p., n.d. Web. 13 Apr. 2017 http://tobaccofreeflorida.com/why-should-i-quit/? Florida, University Of South. Environmental Health &  University of South Florida. N.p., n.d. Web. 13 Apr. 2017. http://www.usf.edu/administrative-services/environmental-health-safety/tobacco-free/