[Last 1 Darius Martin-Smith Nusspickel Comp 1 4/9/17 Over many years, pollution has been negatively affecting the ecosystem globally as well as the organisms that reside in it, whether they be humans or animals. Although some believe that protecting the environment is detrimental to our society and creates a problem rather than resolving it. Due to the decreased population in beehives globally, the decrease in healthy crops and other vegetation, and the decrease of the amount of flowers being pollinated more needs to be done to lower air pollution not only in the United States but globally as well. Pollution has been affecting the earth for the longest time, and has been steadily increasing the amount of damage it does over many centuries. Yet, there are people who believe that trying to prevent pollution is a waste of  and that the process of preventing pollution proves itself to be too expensive. The people who oppose environmental protection blame the loss of jobs and the decline in the economy on the efforts to decrease pollution. Decreasing pollution would mean to shut down numerous factories and power plants that contain smokestacks and other ventilation systems that release toxic fumes in the air. Without these factories there would be less jobs for people to have, thus backing up the statement that pollution prevention hurts the economy and causes the amount of jobs to decrease. Although the opposition seems to have a valid argument, it is refuted by the fact that if we reduce pollution eventually, species that reside on the earth will perish such as humans and bees who both produce for the ecosystem. Martin-Smith2 To begin, human actions impact the environment and the state of the environment impacts humans in return. The environment is everything around us. It is very well known that the human society is always improving and changing, therefore we need ways to power these changes that are being made. One of the more well known methods of providing materials include factories and power plants that pump out the materials and energy demanded by changes being made in the ecosystem. The problem is that these factories and power plants are releasing emissions that harm the local animal and plant life which leads to major economic problems that affect humans It keeps changing according to our actions, and as we all know, many human activities are degrading the environment  To continue on the topic of animal and plant life, human environmental impacts lead to the death of various important plants and animals. For example, one of the greatest species of pollinators would be the honeybee. If our negligence leads to the extinction of pollinators like bees, the effects would be catastrophic. They (bees) are critical pollinators: they pollinate 70 of the around 100 crop species that feed 90% of the world. Honey bees are responsible for $30 billion a year in crops... We may lose all the plants that bees pollinate, all of the animals that eat those plants and so on up the food chain, which means a world without bees could struggle to sustain the global human population of 7 billion. The extinction of one species could lead to a food chain disturbance. . It is well known that exhaust pollution affects the environment greatly, and in comparison, to other types of pollution it is more common. According to Inka Lusebrink, the number of pollinating life forms have been decreasing due to pollution. Inka Lusebrink mainly focuses on the diesel exhaust emission pollution. The emissions destroy flower/crop volatiles that are necessary for bees to locate and identify certain flowers for pollination. If the flowers Martin-Smith3 and crops cannot be detected by bees, then the process of pollination in that area will start to decline and will eventually cease, leaving the environment diminished and decreasing the bee population and the flower/crop species population as well. Bees use mixtures of olfactory and visual stimuli to find suitable host plants and Vereecken 2010). They rely mainly on olfactory cues during their initial foraging bouts, and visual cues become more important in host- plant location as bees gain more experience (Dobson 1994). However, floral scent remains an important stimulus for experienced bees, since it allows them to discriminate between rewarding and non-rewarding flowers (Dobson 2006; Wright and Schiestl, 2009). Ozone or reactive species, such as hydroxyl and nitroxyl or nitrate radicals, readily react with volatile organic compounds (VOCs) (Atkinson and Arey 2003; Calogirou et al. 1999), which contribute to floral scent and could, therefore, impact upon VOC-mediated plant-insect interactions. With that being said, bees are responsible for 30 billion dollars a year in crops. If we continued to pump out the toxic fumes that are causing the pollution, humans would be harming themselves by ruining the economy. Less income from crops means less food and less jobs as well. If we reduce the amount of pollution by using proper ecosystem cleaning procedures, the economy will be stable, human life would be stable and so will the amount of jobs that are available to citizens. Conclusively, pollution is negatively affecting the earth and continues to slowly affect the organisms that inhabit it. From humans to animals, species that are essential to the survival are dying such as bees. Something needs to be done about the continual increase in pollution that is affecting the earth and its inhabitants. Martin-Smith4 Works Cited Lusebrink, Inka, et al. The Effects Of Diesel Exhaust Pollution On Floral Volatiles And The Consequences For Honey Bee  Journal Of Chemical Ecology 10 (2015): 904. Academic OneFile. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Environmental . Debate.org. (2016) Web. 9 April. 2017 Dawid, et al. Survival, Reproduction And Population Growth Of The Bee Pollinator, Osmia Rufa (Hymenoptera: Megachilidae), Along Gradients Of Heavy Metal  Insect Conservation And Diversity 2 (2014): AGRIS. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Lusebrink, Inka, et al. The Effects Of Diesel Exhaust Pollution On Floral Volatiles And The Consequences For Honey Bee  Journal Of Chemical Ecology 10 (2015): 904. Academic OneFile. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Strachecka, Aneta Joanna, Magdalena Maria and Magdalena Krauze. Influence Of Environmental Pollution On The Protective Proteolytic Barrier Of The Honey Bee Apis Mellifera  Polish Journal Of Environmental Studies 19.4 (2010): 855-859. GreenFILE. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Wilson-Rich, Noah, Stephanie T. Dres, and Philip T. Starks. The Ontogeny Of Immunity: Development Of Innate Immune Strength In The Honey Bee (Apis  Journal Of Insect Physiology 54.(2008): 1392-1399. ScienceDirect. Web. 5 Feb. 2017.