Kang 1 Xinyu Kang ENC 1101 Project 3 04/02/2017 Outline I. Introduction: Oil extraction becomes a important industry in current society with support the development of economy, culture, and politics. However, the oil extraction obtains environmental pollution which is harmful to the marine and marine animals. Therefore, there are so many researchers are trying to find out the negative effects of oil extraction and how those problems influence the environment to tell readers how important to limit the oil extraction in the ocean. No matter how much profits oil extraction can bring to the world, protecting the environment is more important, because the environment is nonrenewable. II. Counter argument A. What is: Many organizations are working on the oil pollution which means people do not need to be to concerned about the oil spill pollution. B. Why: BP hires 3 thousands people to clean the beaches which have been polluted by oil spill every year. Moreover, there are a lot experts are working on invent the effective cleanser for solving the pollution problem. [McCauley, Linda and Health: Will the BP Oil Spill Affect Our III. Response A. Oil spill pollution is a serious problem which cannot be ignored but need to have action to change the situation. [Farrington, John W. Oil Pollution In the Marine Environment: Effects Kang 2 and Facts of Oil & [Mercer, K. Trevors, J. of oil spills in temperate and tropical coastal marine B. Oil spill pollutes the marine environment which is difficult to be cleaned. It is better to protect it to be avoid pollution than cleaning it after polluted, which is more economic. The people who are hired by some oil companies hurts by the trashes in ocean and have serious psychological problems after long-time working.[Welch, Craig. Gulf Oil Damage Over or Still & [McCauley, Linda A. and Health: Will the BP Oil Spill Affect Our C. Oil spill is not only harmful to the environment, but also the animals who are relying on marine. [Wiens, John A. Crist, Thomas O. Day, Robert H. Murphy, Stephen M. Hayward, Gregory D. Canonical Correspondence Analysis of the Effects of the Exxon Valdez Oil Spill on Marine VI. Conclusion Although some companies and people start protecting environment. However, the speed of pollution is much faster than recovering. Also, the people who are working in protecting marine environment which is polluted by oil spill have been found some diseases and psychological problems. In addition, the animals who rely on marine also suffer a lot from oil spill, such as wings get destroyed by oil and habitats have been taken by oil spill. Generally. Protecting the marine environment and limiting the oil spill activities are necessary. Kang 3 Environment Needs to Be Protected Before Destroying Oil extraction becomes an important industry in current society, and it supports the development of economy, culture, and politics. However, the oil extraction obtains environmental pollution which is harmful to the marine, marine animals, and health. Therefore, many researchers are trying to find out the negative effects of oil extraction and how those problems influence the environment, animals, and human themselves to tell readers how important for human to limit the oil extraction and protect the ocean. Humans need to take some actions to protect the marine environment although human already invented some technologies to clean polluted environment; protecting the environment is important because the environment is nonrenewable. With the development of science, some scientist found that the floating oil can be cleaned by some chemicals products, which make some companies have confidence that they can balance the importance of environment and profits, such as BP. BP hires many workers to clean the polluted coasts, including picking up trashes and using the chemical agent to split oil. According to article the BP Oil Spill Affect Our Health? there were some examples in the history proved oil spill can be cleaned and fixed (54-56). Moreover, according to article, he teaches students how to clean up the polluted ocean and coast with experiments (9-12). He said: work in teams, and after agreeing on how they will proceed, their method is tested by measuring the amount of oil removed and by rating the cleanliness of their (9), the result of the experiment shows that when people apply the chemical cleansers in a suitable range, the spilled oil can be resolved and the environment can be recovered. Both McCauley and Kauble provide different examples to prove that although the oil spill will destroy the environment, with intelligent, the spilled oil finally can be solved. Kang 4 Although still, some people insist that the oil spill can be solved, because they are confidence with the development of cleaning method and the previous experiences, there are still a lot of scientists work on finding the disadvantages of the oil spill. From 2001 to 2015, there were some scientists have found out the evidence that the oil spill is not only ruining the environment of marine and coasts but also influences health and marine living. To start with article, Pollution in the Marine Environment: Effects and Facts of Oil which introduces how oil spill influence the marine environment and the ecosystem (3-13). Farrington claimed: is obvious that oil spills that come ashore in coastal areas can make a mess of beaches, coat ships and boats in harbors and marinas, foul fishing nets and situ mariculture (23), he tells readers that the oil spill make the coasts and beaches mess and reduce the amount of fishing. The author also points out because oil spill influences the habitat of fishes which play the producer roles in the ecosystem, and the change also influences the higher level biological organization. His article uses a lot of pictures to show how oil spill influences the process of marine recycle and shows readers oil spill influence ocean environment. article introduces how oil spill changes the temperature of the ocean and influence the marine environment. The process how oil spill changes the temperature is that the oil covers the surface of the ocean, and the heat of the water cannot be relieved, but the sunshine keeps transfer the energy to the ocean. Moreover, the author introduces that because the oil spill changes the ecosystem and microorganisms increase in the marine which increases the temperature of the environment because of their activities. Mercer stated: degradation of hydrocarbons can occur over a wide temperature range, though rates increase with an increase in temperature, where the most rapid degradation rates in soil occur between 30 and 40oC (342), Kang 5 microorganisms increase the temperature of the marine and the temperature can be increased up to 40 oC because the hydrocarbon is degraded. The temperature of the marine increase by spilled oil which decreases the amount of oxygen, nutrition, and salinity and pH, and changes the ecosystem of the marine because microorganisms and animals have significant influence from their living environment. However, oil spill not only influences the surroundings and the animals living inside the marine but also influences the seabirds who rely on the marine. Wiens, Day, Robert, Murphy, and Hayward discuss how seabird be influenced by the oil spill. First, the spilled oil ruins feather which makes them be not able to fly because their wings are covered by the spilled oil (828-839). Moreover, the spilled oil is difficult to be cleaned from their feather which also destroys the protection layer of their feather and makes them cannot float on the surface of the ocean. Wiens et al. Said: the spill had major, immediate effects on marine birds and their habitats... but impacts to avian habitats were probably greatest within the Sound, where the spill originated, and oiling of shorelines was (829), the noise forces seabirds leave their old habitats and they have to share a small areas together which limit their activity and harvest of fishes. The spilled oil make feather dirty, also limit their activity range. Last but not least, the personal comment article, Gulf Oil Damage Over or Still Discusses whether oil spill will be solved one day. Welch discuss the possibility of solving oil spill with an example of Mexico oil spill. However, his finding shows that stopping the negative influence of spilled oil is difficult because oil spill influences too many aspects of the environment and the influenced range is too huge to be controlled. He claims that the oil spill has polluted not only the environment of the marine, but many valuable animals are also dead for the oil spill such as dolphins, tuna, and pelicans, and the decline of those animals might cause the Kang 6 decrease of biological diversity. His article shows that oil spill is difficult to be solved, people cannot ignore the importance of stopping oil spill and keep finding the effective method to resolved the spilled oil and environment give a clean and safe environment to the animals live in the marine or rely on the marine. In conclusion, being too confidence to solve oil spill problem is not available, because oil spill influences many aspects, including the marine environment, animals, and ecosystem. However, human still needs to be positive to find out the effective methods to keep producing oil and supporting the development of the society and give a clean habitat to marine animals and seabirds. Kang 7 Works Cited Farrington, John W. Pollution In the Marine Environment: Effects and Facts of Oil Environment, vol. 56, no. 4, 2013, pp.3-13. Kauble, Christena A. Spill Science Activities, 2011(48), pp. 9-12. McCauley, Linda A. and Health: Will the BP Oil Spill Affect Our American Journal Of Nursing, 2010(110), pp.54-56. Mercer, K. Trevors, J. of oil spills in temperate and tropical coastal marine Environmentalist. Vol. 31, no. 3, 2011, pp. 338-347. Wiens, John A. Crist, Thomas O. Day, Robert H. Murphy, Stephen M. Hayward, Gregory D. Canonical Correspondence Analysis of the Effects of the Exxon Valdez Oil Spill on Marine Ecological Applications, 2001(11), pp.828-839. Welch, Craig. Gulf Oil Damage Over or Still National Geographic. 14 April, 2015, http://news.nationalgeographic.com/2015/04/150414-deepwater-oil-spill- birds-gulf-macondo-louisiana/. Accessed January 29, 2017.