Mendez 1 Fresa Mendez Nusspickel ENC 1101 5 April 2017 Me Liberty, Not The death penalty has been a contradicting topic for many years now. It is a great topic of discussion because there are great and interesting points made from both sides of the topic, people that are for it and people that are against it. It is argued that people in the death row are in it because they deserve it, but as humans we should not have the power to decide when life should come to an end. There are many other punishments that could replace the death penalty, and it is time for people to realize this. There can be many points made on how the death penalty is a fair punishment, but every reason given for this can be override with a consequence. Because it often kills innocent lives, denies people the opportunity to change, and it is a cruel, drastic, and unfair punishment, the death penalty should be eliminated and replaced with a less harsh disciplinary action. There are many people that are in favor of the death penalty and think that it is a logical solution for criminals. Michelle Harney, a deputy district attorney in California, said, understand that the criminals on death row have been convicted of the most heinous crimes. Voters also realize that those left behind, grieving families throughout California and their loved ones, deserve anything less than She explains that families think that death penalty will bring closure if the person that killed one of their loved ones is killed. Although this might make sense to some people and seem like it is just being done for it could not be more Mendez 2 far from the truth. Many families have been interviewed after their loved one had been killed and more than half can say that the killing of the murderer is not what brought them closure. The death penalty is an unfair killing and it sometimes does kill innocent lives. More than 4% of people in the death row are innocent(McLaughlin). People do not open their eyes enough to see how unfair the death penalty is but Mc Laughlin, who once used to be involved with criminals in the death row said, of their crimes, the fact that I was now to be personally involved in their executions forced me into a deeper reckoning with my feelings about capital punishment. After much contemplation, I became convinced that, on a moral level, life was either hallowed or it And I want it to McLaughlin used to be in favor of the death penalty, but after dealing with cases for so long, he realized how horrible it truly is. He also spoke out and said that, 150 people in the last few years have been taken off death row because they were And this goes to prove even more how unreliable the death penalty truly is. The death penalty is not only unpredictable and unreliable, but it is also an unfair punishment. The background on the death row is always taken into consideration. It is not rare that a white American coming from a wealthy household is less likely to be on the death row over any African American. People on the death row are randomly chosen and there are people in prison that have committed the same crime, yet are not put in the death row. The death penalty should not be the answer or should not be a punishment. As humans, the right to take away laugh was not granted to a decision. There are other forms of punishment that can replace death like sentencing someone to spend their life in prison. Mendez 3 Overall, the death penalty is too hard of a punishment that needs to be made illegal everywhere. It is unfair, inhumane, and all kinds of wrong. Every that could be made about the death penalty can be crossed out by a con that explains why it truly is not a pro.There are not enough reasons on why the death penalty is the most harsh punishment there is, and it is time to end it. Mendez 4 Works Cited Criminal Justice: Capital Punishment  Justice Degree N.p., n.d. Web. 02 Apr. 2017. Dieter, Richard. Views on The Death Penalty in the United States. Reviews Online, 07 Oct. 2007. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Gerber, Rudolph J., and John M. Johnson. Top Ten Death Penalty Myths : The Politics Of Crime Westport, Conn: Greenwood Publishing Group, 2007. Collection Web. 29 Jan. 2017. McLaughlin, Michael. Shocking Number Of Innocent People Sentenced To Death, Study  Huffington TheHuffingtonPost.com, 28 Apr. 2014. Web. 02 Apr. 2017. Paul, Ron. defined: 50 essential issues that affect our New York: Grand Central Pub., 2010. Print. Top 10 Pros and Cons - Death Penalty -  the Death Penalty Be Allowed? N.p., n.d. Web. 02 Apr. 2017.