Wolfe 1 Graydon Wolfe Professor Sarah Roth ENC 1101.003 9 April 2017 The Information Age The difference between a hero and a traitor is perspective. With the invention of the internet, all the information in the world became readily available for those who know where to look. Governments and private companies alike do everything they can to safeguard their secrets, whether its proof of insider trading or of civilian surveillance. From time to time, individuals take it upon themselves to bring these secrets to light. People who do this for, what they believe would be, the good of the people are called whistleblowers. John Ziriakou and Linda Tripp are prime examples of whistleblowers. People who steal private secrets for personal gain are known as traitors. Benedict Arnold, Julius and Ethel Rosenberg are a few of the most infamous traitors. Sometimes, the line between a traitor and a whistleblower is unclear. own government may see the individual as a traitor but the public could see them as a heroic whistleblower. The line between a whistleblower and a traitor should be drawn depending on the information leaked. All information is valuable, but some information is worth more than other information. The line between a whistleblower and a traitor should be drawn based off the value of the information released. Both whistleblowers and traitors release private or classified information, but traitors typically release information that can lead to conflict. Whistleblowers typically release information about national surveillance, heinous act done by politicians, or secret military Wolfe 2 operations. When a whistleblower releases information, they must make sure they do not release aliases, addresses, or the stand operating procedures because those can lead to loss of life. On the other side of the spectrum, traitors typically focus on information that can cause harm to the government of the United States of America, provide aid to enemies of the United States of America, or injure the citizens of the United States of America. Traitors typically attempt to access information about military operations, nuclear launch codes, and political blackmail. Traitors typically sell their stolen information to a private individual, rather than releasing the information to the public. The value of the information stolen should determine whether an individual is a whistleblower or a traitor. The line between a whistleblower and a traitor should also take the manner of which the information is handled into consideration. If the information was stolen in a manner that compromises the rest of the system, the person has commit an act of treason. If the information was obtained by copying the information into a separate file, then no harm was caused to the main system and the act can be debated as whether it is an act of treason or whistleblowing. Also, if the information was sold to an individual who could cause conflict with said information, the person may have commit treason. But if the information was selectively released to trustworthy media outlets and no valuable information was released, the individual can be considered a potential whistleblower. How the information was handled should also determine whether an individual is a whistleblower or a traitor. Another factor that should be considered when drawing the line between a whistleblower and a traitor is the amount of information stolen. For example, someone hacks into a government database and steals information about an tax return, medical files from an entire hospital, and military routines. Of this information, the military routines are the most valuable Wolfe 3 and the largest amount of information stolen, as it could lead to the deaths of soldiers. The next most valuable collection of information is the medical files, which are legally protected for individual privacy. Finally, the tax return is the least valuable piece of information stolen because it effects a single person. The amount of information stolen should also be considered when determining if someone is a whistleblower or a traitor. On the other hand, all information has some value, therefore, traitors and whistleblowers are guilty of theft. Both a whistleblower and a traitor steal sensitive information, meaning the individual is still a criminal. So why should it matter if someone is labeled a whistleblower or a traitor? Although all theft of information is a crime, sometimes the ends should justify the means. Take Edward Snowden for example. In 2013, Snowden released around 10,000 files about the National Security Agency conduction illegal wiretapping of US citizens with no court order or plausible reason, which he copied from National Security Agency databases. Snowden claims he stole the information because it was something the people should know, that their government is actively spying on them. Snowden has since fled to Russia, a country with no extradition treaty with the United States of America. To get the information, Snowden had to manipulate his position within the National Security Agency to steal specific pieces of information. This is one of many times that people let the desired end result justify the actions took to achieve it. That is why it matters if someone if a whistleblower or a traitor. In conclusion, the labels of a whistleblower and a traitor should be determined by the value of the information stolen, the amount of information stolen, and the way the information Wolfe 4 was handled. Although stealing anything is theft, one should look at the bigger picture: whether the information released harmed someone or helped someone. Wolfe 5 Works Cited Epstein, Edward Jay. How America Lost Its Secrets. 1st ed. Knopf Doubleday Publishing Group, 2017 Edward Snowden. Biography.com. Web. 25 Jan. 2017.