Moretti 1 Raquel Moretti Mark Nusspickel ENC 1101 4/9/2017 Adolescent Homelessness There are at least one million homeless adolescents in the united states and there are more than three hundred million people living in America. Although the homeless community makes up a small percentage of our population, they are not to be forgotten about. Our citizens can become homeless for several reasons (losing a job, running away, etc.). To experience the loss of a safe place to live can be devastating, but with the right resources anyone can overcome their state of homelessness and can continue to fulfill their life on our planet. Although not all results are the same for every individual, being homeless can positively impact a future. Being in a constant state of homelessness pleasant, adolescents may develop other issues while experiencing homelessness. Mental health as well as physical health can spiral downhill during a period of homelessness, without a stable residence it is often difficult to get an adequate amount of sleep which can lead to other conditions like paranoia, restlessness and depression. In a study done in 2008 about the mental health of homeless adolesccents, of these youths met lifetime criteria for the five psychiatric diagnoses: major depressive episode (30.4%), PTSD (36.0%), conduct disorder (75.7%), alcohol abuse (43.7%), and drug abuse (Yoder 7). A person who is homeless may run into some issues when applying for jobs, on every job application there is a section to fill out your current address, but what exactly are you supposed to fill in when you sleep on a park bench or under the highway every night. Moretti 2 Employers may even question why and how an individual ended up homeless in the first place. The fact of the matter is that employers may not see situations as they are and may not decide to hire a struggling homeless adolescent, because they may not be a trustworthy employee. Stereotypes uncommon, and the stereotype for homeless people is often far overlooked. Not every individual that ends up on the street is a drug addict or a criminal, often times homeless adolescents end up homeless by choice or simply because their parents no longer feel responsibility over their aging child. Some homeless adolescents realize the seriousness of the situation facing. The first step to survival is finding a job. Some homeless adolescents complete their high school diploma, this is the most widespread problem among this particular population. Finding a high paying job without a high school diploma can seem nearly impossible, therefore these adolescents have to settle for minimum wage jobs to have some sense financial stability. Going back to school can seem overwhelming, but homeless adolescents plan on being homeless forever. Many homeless adolescents can choose to go to night classes and complete a series of tests to receive an equivalent to a high school diploma. The next step is attending a higher level of education (trade school, college, etc.). Upper-level education can become extremely expensive, but student loans are the easiest to come by and with dedication homeless adolescents can entirely change the state of their situation. In a study done in 2016 homeless youths were interviewed about their current living situation these are the results, who had sought psychological assistance, who had earned a high school diploma and who were working during follow-up were 40 to 50% more likely to achieve stability than the other (Roy 4). A problem that every country faces is dealing with criminals. A large percentage of criminals are drug dealers. Unfortunately, for some homeless adolescents drug dealing may seem Moretti 3 like the only option to bring in money. Not all adolescents in this population fall into this stereotype, but it uncommon. With drug dealing comes drug use, a study in San Jose, California recalled that percent of the participants reported some form of current drug and alcohol use, with the most common substances being alcohol (76%), tobacco (76%), and marijuana (69%). Significant numbers of participants reported using methamphetamines (26%), LSD (23%), cocaine (10%); mushrooms, ecstasy, heroin, and Vicodin were also (Schwartz 263). Another disappointing way some adolescents to receive money is by getting involved in prostitution. From the study performed in San Jose, California, Whitbeck and sample, 6% of the young men and 3% of the young women reported having traded sex for food or for (Schwartz 263). Although these are not the most legal or pleasant ways to earn a living, homeless individuals do what they can to survive. Although being homeless at such a young age can be the most challenging thing a child can experience, there will always be hope for a more superior future with a complete education and a job with a livable salary. Having secondhand experience with adolescent homelessness I can validate my claim. My boyfriend Zach dropped out of high school at a young age and was kicked out the day he became legally responsible for himself, but with my support he has been able to get his GED, find a job and stable residence. The fact of the matter is that to overcome something this horrific, you must strive for success. Moretti 4 Works Cited Scott E. Hadland, and Marshall, Brandon D. L.. The Immediate And Lasting Effects Of Adolescent Homelessness On Suicidal Ideation And  Journal Of Adolescent Health 51.5 (2012): 407-408. PsycINFO. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Roy, et al. Predictors Of Residential Stability Among Homeless Young Adults: A Cohort  BMC Public Health 16.(2016): 1-8. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Schwartz, Marci, et al. Exploring The Relationship Between Homelessness And Delinquency: A Snapshot Of A Group Of Homeless Youth In San Jose,  Child & Adolescent Social Work Journal 25.4 (2008): 255-269. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Yoder, Kevin A., et al. A Dimensional Model Of Psychopathology Among Homeless Adolescents: Suicidality, Internalizing, And Externalizing  Journal Of Abnormal Child Psychology 36.1 (2008): 95-104. Education Source. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Pamela J. Burke, and Oliveira, Joanne Lost In The Shuffle: Culture Of Homeless  Pediatric Nursing 35.3 (2009): 154-161. Academic Search Premier. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Murphy, Joseph F.1, joseph.f.murphy@vanderbilt.edu, and Kerri2 Tobin. Addressing The Problems Of Homeless  Journal Of School Leadership 22.3 (2012): 633- 663. Education Source. Web. 25 Jan. 2017.