Student 1 Student Professor Lewis ENC 1102 16 April 2017 The Ugly Truth: It Just Looks Like Not Hurting It is normal for one to feel sad when things in life go wrong, but when one feels sad about life going right; this is depression. Depression is one feeling as though been backed into a corner day-in and day-out with no solution. Major depressive disorder affects about 6.7% of the US population this accounts for about 14.8 million Americans over the age of 18. And although depression is very treatable, only one-third of those who suffer from this disorder seek help (Depression and African Americans). In recent years, researchers have performed studies to learn how people of different sexes, cultures, and religions is affected by depression as whole. In study completed by the National Institute of Mental Health, it was found that fewer than half of African Americans with major depressive disorder seek treatment. Upon completing more research, others have found that learned behaviors within the African American culture has the strongest impact of these individuals deciding not to seek help. Within the community depression is seen as being weak which complete goes against the need to be strong. Although, there are these negative stigmas that surround depression, one should seek help. Within the African American community, one is taught from a young age to be strong and never ever show weakness. In 2014, Rosalyn Denise Campbell and Linda A. Long completed a study that would uncover the many stigmas that are learned within in the African American community. Through this study, it was learned that those within the African America community live by two notions when it comes to depression. The first is that people Student 2 get feelings of extreme lows and sadness are considered a regular part of life and therefore should not be stressed. Some participants even went on to say that is a white This is not to say that depression does not exist in African American communities, but more to say that depression is ignored within this community. The second is that in the African American culture, many do not trust doctors or medicine - these are viewed as inconvenient. This is proven in other studies that state the African Americans are reluctant to get help until they are sure the problem cannot be fixed without a doctor. In a culture with such strong faith it is often believed that problems and illness will go away with a little prayer (52-54). Upon further discussion with the participants, Campbell and Long found that although these stigmas are the foundation of not getting help, the decision to get treatment depends on who the patient speaks to about their feelings. If the person who they speak to is judemental and criticizes them, it is likely that the patient will not seek treatment. Data from the national longitudinal survey of youth found that in addition to not seeking treatment, African Americans reported higher rates of depressive symptoms than any other race. The discovery of this information encouraged other researchers to learn about the stressor within the African American community. It was found that the biggest stressor for African Americans is racial discrimination; unfair treatment from a dominant group in everyday tasks such as being passed over for a promotion or being treated rudely (Kogan 899). Other researchers have found that African Americans struggle with identity in the terms of not wanting to be another stereotype. There is constant pressure to behave, speak, and react better than member of another race causing an inferior feeling. Regular experience to these kinds of circumstances tend to lead to one feeling worthless and powerless in life. One may very well know they need help, but will Student 3 refuse to keep up with the appearance of being strong; going back to the stigmas that are learned within the African American community. Despite all the previous notions about depression, it is important for one to know that major depressive disorder is not a personal weakness. This disorder does not define who one is or what one can be it is simple something that is a part of oneself. The first step to getting proper treatment is recognizing and challenging your critical inner voice which can result from identifying anger. A good way to understand and learn more about depression is do research; there are many organizations online whose sole purpose to educate other on depression. Organizations such as the Association for Youth, Children and Natural Psychology (AYCNP) and the Anxiety and Depression of America (ADAA) offer information about depression, as well as, provide different methods that one can take get treatment. Although both organizations provide information about treating depression, the ADAA focuses on medical treatment while the AYCNP focuses on natural treatments. The ADAA has chosen a medical route because antidepressants are generally safe and effective within 6 to 8 weeks. A study completed by Thomas Baghai proved that antidepressants have a 79.6% success rate with a remission rate of 48.8%(215). In the past, patients would have to experiment with different drugs and dosages to find which one worked best for them. Today, scientist have developed a method to test blood, with a simple finger prick, to determine the best medicine for that specific patient(Beltran). Using this test during clinical visits can lead to a boast in the success rates and effectiveness of treatments. Alternatively, the AYCNP has choose the natural route because they feel as though many patients with depression are over-diagnosed and over-medicated. Traditional treatments include art therapy, music therapy, exercise, gardening, and just about any activity that can bring one to Student 4 happiness. A study performed by Putilov found a 50% improvement in depressed patients following 12-day aerobic treatment from 07:00 to 8:00 (3). This discovery further backed up past research that proved that exercise helps to improve mood. Today, many companies enlist work out gyms so that their employees can work out before or after their shift. They do this to boast moral within their employees thus increasing the overall productivity and effectiveness. As far as natural treatments are involved, there are many things one can do to help improve their happiness. On a day-to-day basis, one can put themselves in more non-isolated situations, participate in activities they once enjoyed, or simple pleasures such as watching a funny movie/show. Much like medicine, the type of treatment changes with each patient that decides to take this route. As far as treatment is concerned, many researchers recommend that patients use a combination of natural solutions, medicine, and a therapist. This combination is a way of targeting the internal and external as well as providing a safe space to talk to someone. Depression is a real illness, with real symptoms and anyone who finds themselves suffering from the inability to sleep, eat, or enjoy their favorite activities for more than a couple of weeks should put aside any fears and seek professional help (Depression and African Americans). At the end of the day, the only thing standing in the way of treatment is fear. Without the proper treatment depression will steal joy for years. Deciding to get treatment mean that you must be medicated, it means deciding that one will not let their life wither away. (Word Count:1204) Student 5 Works Cited Beltran, James. Simple Finger-prick Blood Test Can Help Doctors Prescribe Treatment for  News-Medical.net. News Medical, 29 Mar. 2017. Web. 30 Mar. 2017. Breel, Kevin. of a Depressed TEDxKids, May 2013, Ambleside. TED Talk Campbell, Rosalyn Denise and Linda A. Long. Culture as a Social Determinant of Mental and Behavioral Health: A Look at Culturally Shaped Beliefs and Their Impact on Help-Seeking Behaviors and Service Use Patterns of Black Americans with  Best Practices in Mental Health: An International Journal, vol. 10, no. 2, Oct. 2014, pp. 48-62. and African Mental Health America, Mental Health America, 13 July 2016, Accessed 13 Apr. 2017. & Anxiety and Depression Association of America, ADAA, Accessed 13 Apr. 2017. Kogan, Steven. Racial Microstressors, Racial Self-Concept, and Depressive Symptoms among Male African Americans during the Transition to  Journal of Youth & Adolescence, vol. 44, no. 4, Apr. 2015, pp. 898-909. Putilov, A. Natural Treatments for Seasonal and Non-Seasonal Depression: A Review of Literature and Comparison of Antidepressant  Scientific Journal of Review, vol. 2, no. 1, 2013, pp. 11-36