Fennell 1 Anna Marie Fennell Andrew DeCarion ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Intermediate Draft When you first hear you may think of a distant lifestyle. You may say that you live like that because of work, or school, or your family. Minimalism is simply an ideology; it living like an ascetic monk in a temple away from society and it living on the streets with merely the clothes on your back. Minimalism counterbalances consumerism so one can find balance within society and within the realm of their means. Because minimalism is a philosophy, there is no competition or harsh rules; it is simply a few ideas to meditate on, a tool to help you navigate life. If you feel like minimalism applicable to you, perhaps it is. Most of us consume media, whether it be through social media, television, or simply commuting throughout the city. There are advertisements aiming to push us to purchase things and watch the latest blockbuster, which is distracting. important to reflect on how all this background stimulus can affect us, and most importantly, if we are manipulated by it without even realizing it. Minimalism allows everyone to be mindful about their consumption habits and to think twice before indulging or purchasing. and possessions hold strong attractions, but being driven to acquire them in order to enhance social standing is associated with lowered (Tatzel, 405). Minimalism grants freedom from the constant pursuit of newer, shinier possessions and grants access to a world of productivity. It mean a drastic lifestyle change, it can mean a multitude of things depending on an circumstance. It can be as simple as Fennell 2 appreciating the clothes on your back or as radical as deep cleaning your every corner of your entire house. Minimalism is an accessible device for everyone. is a tool we use to get rid of the excess stuff in our lives to make room for the essentials. Minimalism allows us to focus on important in relationships, passion, growth, and we can find happiness, fulfillment, and (Millburn & Nicodemus). Minimalism is a practical way of thinking, but it is rooted in profound philosophy. The idea of cutting out excess and limiting oneself to the essentials is at the heart of minimalism. Comparatively, the philosophy of asceticism is defined as a lifestyle in which one abstains from worldly pleasures. In a sense, minimalism comes out of this practice, which is found throughout many religions, such as Buddhism and Christianity. Minimalism is not self-denial or self- mutilation by any means, but ascetics believed that through their practice they became enlightened or closer to god. Our modernization of this practice has translated self-denial to meaningful consumption, and spiritual gains to self-realization. Today, there are those who continue to refine the definition of minimalism in their blogs and media works and explain how it can benefit the typical individual. The Minimalists, Joshua Fields Millburn and Ryan Nicodemus, have a website along with podcasts and a documentary explaining the contrast between the typical American experience and a life with minimalism. Joshua Becker, another blogger, has had a similar experience in realizing that with the subtraction of meaningless stuff, comes more money, time, and opportunity for growth. Minimalism is capable of cleansing your mind and spirit and there is history to prove it. Getting back to the present, minimalism can affect the economy, environment, and personal enlightenment right here, right now. Minimalism is inherently connected to the economy because it counteracts what all been conditioned to do since birth: consume. To Fennell 3 clarify, minimalism anti-consumerism; if we all decided to stop buying things, the economy may collapse. Minimalism preach to never buy again; it is an ideology that can aid in refining how and when you buy. We buy a lot of stuff that we need or we get peer pressured into buying things we find meaningful. With a minimalist mindset, one can assess various situations and ask themselves, I really need this? Do I actually want this? Will I use this and will it add value to my and in this, save money and time in the long run. In this practice alone, it will reduce waste overall. We but things that are merely trendy, just to be thrown out in a few months when the trends inevitably turn around again. When one realizes how much they use and consume they aim to reduce, reuse, and recycle; the motto for environmentalism. Lastly, there can be a spiritual aspect to minimalism. At the core of minimalism, there is self-reflection. It takes bravery to analyze and look at oneself honestly and with clear eyes. This practice of self-reflection can transfer to all aspects of your life and make you a more actualized individual overall, regardless of your religion. Among all these things, our world continues to grow in complexity, there is far greater personal demand for many of the benefits that minimalism offers. Minimalism offers a life with less stress, less distraction, more freedom, and more time. All things that people today are desperately searching for more than (Becker). Once again, minimalism leads to freedom in many facets. Finally, you may be thinking, what could I do? What do I start Minimalism can be as simple as your way of thinking or you can make a radical change to your lifestyle. With anything, just start to think about it and experiment and see if it resonates with you. There are numerous blogs and YouTube channels that discuss what it means to be a minimalist and what they do that represents minimalism to them; an individualistic experience. These bloggers are everyday folks who were proactive enough to share their story, Fennell 4 minimalism any less accessible to you. There are multiple correlational studies that show that the more materialistic one is, the low their satisfaction with life, and the more one is consumed with the idea that possessions will lead to happiness the less capable they are to make wise choices as a consumer (Lee, 21). To become a more mindful consumer, you can take baby steps, just before you buy anything, reflect on if you will really appreciate it or not. waste your time and money on things that weigh you down. You can also go through a small area of you space, like your backpack or closet, look at each item and think if you really use it and appreciate it, if it just takes up space, donate it. Zen Psychiatrist, Elana Miller, recommends decluttering and going through areas like closets and cabinets in her top ten list, Rid of Your Stuff: Why Fewer Possessions = More (Miller). People re-organize their desks and living spaces for the purpose of feeling refreshed and together again; the same idea. You can start with manageable changes, like budgeting, or keeping track of how much you spend on various things. For example, once you start tracking your spending habits, you may decide that you want to spend as much on clothes, electronics, etc. Similar to managing a diet, you can count your calories and refine your diet by adjusting your intake of various nutrients. Minimalism may seem like a daunting, unfeasible lifestyle, but just as simple as thinking twice. Whatever your relationship is with your possessions and spending habits, you can refine your behavior by reflecting on what you consume and in turn, be a more balanced and peaceful individual. beneficial to you and your environment; everyone can learn from each other and grow as a community when we live intentionally and with mindfulness. Fennell 5 Works Cited Becker, Joshua. 10 Reasons Why Minimalism Is  Becoming Minimalist. N.p., 25 July 2014. Accessed 12 April 2017. Lee, Michael S. W. and Christie Seo Youn Ahn. Anti-Consumption, Materialism, and Consumer  Journal of Consumer Affairs, vol. 50, no. 1, 2016, pp. 18-47, doi:10.1111/joca.12089. Accessed 12 April 2017. Millburn, Joshua Fields; Nicodmeus, Ryan. Minimalism  The Minimalists. N.p., n.d. Accessed 15 April 2017. Miller, Elana. Get Rid of Your Stuff: Why Fewer Possessions = More Freedom, and 10 Tips for How to Get  Zen Psychiatry. N.p., 02 Nov. 2010. Accessed 12 April 2017. Tatzel, Miriam. The Art of Buying: Coming to Terms with Money and  Journal of Happiness Studies, vol. 4, no. 4, 2003, pp. 405-43, doi:10.1023/B:JOHS.0000005770.92248.77. Accessed 12 February 2017.