Student 1 Student Professor Lewis ENC 1102 16 April 2017 15 Minutes for 15 Years It was Theodore Roosevelt who said, what you can, with what you have, where you to emphasize that you make an impact around you to the best of your ability, and beyond that, you are not responsible. If one were to neglect this truth, they would find themselves responsible for the lack of a better outcome. Women have served to the best of their ability all the way since the Revolutionary War, acting as nurses at basecamps and fulfilling auxiliary roles never intentionally put at the front line alongside their fellow male patriots. Today however, the government is on the fence about deploying units where women serve in combat roles. Many people are uninformed as to the facts about the issue of women serving on the front line, leading them to make decisions based on emotions rather than a well-informed opinion. To have a positive impact on this issue, a person must inform their local and federal representatives that they will lose a vote if they oppose legislation to facilitate putting women in combat roles. An important question to answer is: what does it take to be a soldier? Take for example Deborah Sampson. In 1782, she joined the Continental Army under the name Robert Shurtleff, and served for 17 months alongside men in the Fourth Massachusetts Regiment (Young). She fought until she was wounded in the thigh, at which point she dug the bullet out of her thigh to conceal her gender from doctors and staff. Eventually she was wounded again and a doctor figured out what her secret was and informed her commander of the situation, whom then thanked her for her service and gave her a dishonorable discharge which is how someone leaving the military wants to leave it. She served her nation on the frontline, even Student 2 though her nation forbade her from doing so. Although, that was centuries ago, so how does that story hold up today? Take for example Shaye Haver- a graduate of the US Military Academy at West Point, whom in 2015 completed Ranger School, being one of the first two women in history to do so in the U.S. Completing Ranger School is equivalent of passing the most difficult and tiresome driving test possible to prepare you for driving a car. If a woman were to pass the test, but then new legislation comes in saying that women drive cars, what does this mean for those who are already qualified? A question with no absolute answer, sadly, but imagine how women in the military who will be affected by such legislation must feel. Sadly, women like Haver are the exception and not the norm. A truth that must be faced before continuing is that women will have more performance issues and be physically weaker compared to men of similar backgrounds (Kamarck). The reason it is important to come to terms with this is so that we can face the issue head-on, and not neglecting surveys, statistics, and research to reach the ultimate goal of bringing women to the front. There are many factors in play with this topic, but the overall message is quite clear women aspire to work in these fields, but may lack the physique to do so, while sometimes simply being a woman is the issue. Take for example a fighter pilot: the military spends many, many millions on education and training to make fighter pilots ready for combat, but what if this pilot is a woman and she becomes pregnant? Can the Air Force tell her to have an abortion? Of course not, and yet a child changes the role of a woman immensly. Can they force their pilots to not have intercourse? not an option either. Once that pilot is pregnant, the woman can no longer fly which is a to the Air Force. There is no clear answer to this specific example, but it is a very real and reoccuring problem which should be pondered from time-to-time. Some other facts to consider is that out of the 29 women who participated in the Infantry Officer Course in the Marine Corps, Marine Corps reported Student 3 that 98% of the women dropped from the [Infantry Officer were due to physical performance failures and one woman dropped due to (Dolfini-Reed) while 98% of the males passed. There are many statistics showing the same thing. Women get hurt. The solution to this is to give participants a course before the actual selection in how to handle themselves regarding injuries and how the selection will proceed. The British SAS has experimented with this and it has yielded very positive results, allegedly. There are many studies and stories one can read to enlighten themselves about this topic. There are many large issues to tackle in the world. Everything from world hunger to migrations and wars all issues too large for individuals to solve, but this issue is one that is relatively small and easy to have an impact upon. The stakes are the careers of women who aspire to serve a lengthy career in the military, not hindered by policy in place due to uncertainty. The solution is quite simple, all needed is for people to call their local representatives and their congressmen and inform them that if they oppose legislation to further the development of women in combat, they will lose a vote. Enough calls and letters will eventually lead to them realizing that the cost of opposing such legislation is too great compared to the downsides of implementing such regulations. They value their position more than they value an all-male infantry. To them, it is just another issue they are required to have an opinion and agenda on, leading them to be influenced by the masses more than by the facts. So, let the masses collectively spew facts and bring about change. Women like Deborah and Shaye will always exist women who go out of their way to excel at a game. To restrict their progress is no different than giving a chef a rusty knife and old fish or a pilot a broken plane with one wing. Help clean the knife and fix the wing call, or mail your representatives, their information can be found at www.house.gov, and from there, all needed is respectful words and a clear message: give women a chance. The cost of a person spending 15-30 minutes either sending a letter or calling a representative of Student 4 their state could potentially affect the next 15-30 years of the life of a female soldier out there somewhere. what you can, with what you have, where you call, mail, influence. (WC: 1237) Student 5 Works Cited Young, Alfred F. Masquerade: The Life and Times of Deborah Sampson, Continental Soldier. New York: Vintage, 2005. Web. Accessed 11 Apr. 2017 Women in the United States  Women in the U.S. Army The United States Army. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. Grant, De Pauw Linda, Conover Hunt, and Miriam Schneir. Remember the ladies: women in America, 1750-1815. New York: Viking Press, 1976. Web. Accessed 11 Apr. 2017. Dolfini-Reed, Michelle, Elizabeth Bradley, Bradley Dickey, Yancey Hrobowski, and Jessica Wolfanger. Assessment of Changes in Perspectives During the GCE  2015. Web. Kamarck, Kristy N. Women in Combat: Issues for  CRS Report. 2016. Web.