Student 1 Student Instructor Lewis ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Civilians Exercise With Veterans -- Healing Combat-Related Stress Injuries Our veterans put their lives on the line for our freedom, unfortunately, upon returning to the civilian world our veterans are often isolated and outcast due to stigmas and misconceptions of their mental and physical states. Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) is often associated with any mental or physical injuries veterans received in the line of duty. In previous essays written on this topic this semester (Student), the stigmas of veterans label to have PTSD were debunked, and it was explained why it is better to label most combat veterans to have a Combat- Related Stress Injury (CRSI). The word here best fits a diagnosis of CRSI because some veterans do indeed develop psychological disorders worthy of being labeled PTSD. There is no drug that can heal these in our veterans. The only cure is through the right balance of education to civilians, education to the veterans about their own injuries, and most importantly, physical exercise. Physical exercise is the key to getting veterans to heal from their CRSI. More specifically civilians participating in some type of physical exercise with veterans. To understand and to help prevent PTSD stigmas from plaguing veterans in the civilian world through civilian education, veteran education and physical exercise, PTSD and CRSI must first be defined and understood. PTSD can be diagnosed to people who have experienced a shocking, scary, or dangerous (NIH). CRSI as defined by William Nash, author of Combat stress injury: theory, research, and management, as having very similar Student 2 concepts as PTSD. Although, the scary, or dangerous is specifically derived from combat, and the implication of having a is changed to (Nash). While these definitions can seem simple and easy to identify in veterans, it is important now to understand them, only then can solutions to healing the injuries caused by combs-related stress be tackled. Sebastian Junger is a journalist who seems to understand the most as to what causes this specific combat stress to make a civilian transition from a military combat deployment so difficult. In his TED Talk, Junger explains that his time in the Afghan Korengal Valley, gave him, to some degree, the same feeling of camaraderie and trust that all military personnel feel when deployed. That trust is laid on a foundation of culture only the military can create, the civilian world will never replace such a unique culture of mission accomplishment, fighting for the bigger picture, and putting life in the hands of the men to their left and right. Sebastian Junger goes on to explain that lonely cannot easily accommodate for that lifestyle (Junger). Due to the missing lifestyle, emotional bonds to team members and the military itself, soldiers, Marines, sailors and airmen often lose a purpose in life after being discharged from the military because they cannot find a larger than life mission to accomplish. This is something felt by even the highest of ranks in the military. A letter has been written to seek a solution to such an issue. Signed by the highest ranks in all the United States Military branches, the Call to Continued Service letter acknowledges and thanks our veterans for their service, recognized their sacrifices, and urges them to face the challenges in civilian life as they would with any military mission. By presenting the transition into civilian life as a challenge to conquer, veterans are left feeling empowered to ranks with business leaders, volunteers and public Student 3 (Winnefeld). By advocating for veterans to lead civilians as they would lead their own men in combat, a larger than life mission can be accomplished outside the battlefield. While bettering their new civilian communities in a leadership position will help ease transitions out of the military, it does not account for the regimented and rigorous physical demands they experienced in training for combat. To accommodate for their exercise and overcoming of physical challenges, veterans will have fill the gap of service between the military and civilian sector to its fullest extent to help heal their CRSI. This can be confirmed in a study conducted by Nick Caddick, Brett Smith and Cassandra Pheonix. The three researchers found that working out in the blue  as they called it -- in nature or other natural environments -- would facilitated a sense of  from CRSI (Caddick). Respite, as the research defined it, is a sense of release from suffering that was cultivated through [the natural and shaped by the stories veterans told of their  (Caddick). By combining Sebastian inferences of CRSI, the words from the Call to Continued Service letter, and the causality of exercise in the natural environment being a coping mechanism for CRSI, a new movement for better veteran-civilian relations can be created. There are many companies that can provide such a physically challenging yet mentally rewarding environment. One such company is GoRuck - a veteran run company that creates military like training events of all lengths and rigor. Their targeted audience as of now are civilians who want to learn more about the life of military personnel and first responders and give back to family or friends who have served, other civilians want to challenge themselves with physical activity such as those who participate in marathons, Tough Mudder events, and Spartan Races, but do not have personal or intrinsic military-related drives. While GoRuck Challenges, Tough Mudders and Spartan Races may seem to be engaged in a military-civilian relations, what they are lacking a Student 4 solution to the biggest issue which plagues veteran-civilian relations stigmas of PTSD. One of the most powerful tools that can be used to bridge that gap, is telling the story of veterans who took their own lives. Clay Hunt is one story which made its way to the ears of former President Obama, leading to the creation of an Act of Congress for Suicide Prevention for American Veterans (Clay Hunt SAV Act). In light of Clay actions and the effects they had on the current society of veterans, it would be beneficial for companies such as GoRuck, Tough Mudder and Spartan Races, to incorporate the stories of other service member who took their lives due to CRSI and PTSD. For the civilians who want to give back to our service members, joining one of the following teams is the first step in doing so. Team RWB, Team Rubicon, and The Mission Continues are all companies which were made by veterans, but for a collective of veterans and civilians alike. Each has their own unique culture common goal - continued service after discharge from the military for the well being of their communities through physical fitness and social work. After joining one of these groups, start training with veterans for on of the three unique races mentioned earlier, start listening to the veterans about their experiences in the military, learning about how it is affecting their life and concerns they have for their future, and lastly, preventing the veterans from feeling isolated. Prevent any more veteran suicides from failing to successfully transition back into civilian life, make your communities veterans feel welcomed. Grow stronger with your veterans both physically and mentally. (WC: 1,203) Student 5 Works Cited Caddick, Nick, Brett Smith, and Cassandra Phoenix. The Effects of Surfing and the Natural Environment on the Well-Being of Combat  Qualitative Health Research 25.1 (2015): 76-86. SAGE Journals. Qualitative Health Research, 4 Sept. 2014. Web. <http:// journals.sagepub.com/doi/pdf/10.1177/1049732314549477>. Accessed 31 Mar. 2017. Clay Hunt SAV Act of 2015, Pub. L. No. 114-2, 129 Stat. 30 (2015). Veterans to Keep About Us - The Mission Continues. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Apr. 2017. <https://www.missioncontinues.org/about/>. Honor  Spartan Race. Reebok, n.d. Web. 12 Apr. 2017. <https://www.spartan.com/en/ race/spartan-honor-series/honor-series-overview>. Junger, Sebastian. Our Lonely Society Makes It Hard to Come Home from  TED Talks Live. New York, NY. TED. Web. 31 Mar. 2017. <https://www.ted.com/talks/ Accessed 31 Mar. 2017. McCarthy, Jason.  About Us - GORUCK. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Apr. 2017. <http://www.goruck.com/about-us>. Team Rubicon. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Apr. 2017. <https://teamrubiconusa.org/ our-mission/>. Nash, William P. Combat stress injury: theory, research, and management. Ed. Charles R. Figley. N.p.: Routledge, 2015. National Center on Domestic and Sexual Violence. Routledge Psychosocial Stress Book Series. Web. 5 Apr. 2017. Student 6 National Institutes of Health. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Feb. 2016. Web. 23 Mar. 2017. <https://www.nimh.nih.gov/health/topics/post-traumatic-stress-disorder- ptsd/index.shtml>. Team RWB. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Apr. 2017. <https://www.teamrwb.org/our- approach/mission>. Run For a  Tough Mudder. Team Rubicon, 19 Jan. 2017. Web. 12 Apr. 2017. <https://toughmudder.com/fundraise-now>. Student, Student. Outdated Notion or a Condition Unique to Military N.p., 26 May 2017. Web. 12 Apr. 2017. Winnefeld, James A., Jr., Joseph F. Dunford, Jr., Mark A. Welsh, III, Paul F. Zukunft, Frank J. Grass, Jonathan W. Greenert, Raymond T. Odierno, and Martin E. Dempsey. Call to Continued to  Letter to To All Who Have Served in Uniform Since 9/11. 2 Feb. 2015. N.p.: n.p., n.d. N. pag. Joint Chiefs of Staff. United States Department of Defense. Web. Accessed 31 Mar. 2017.