Lewis 1 Alexandria Lewis Bianca Hernandez ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Stop Gun Violence Gun control is a current and prominent issue in American society due to the growing number of tragedies caused by gun violence. Many horrific tragedies have occurred in the US due the broad range of gun rights given by the Second Amendment of the Constitution. The Constitution has hindered many politicians from acting towards stricter gun control laws in the aftermath of every deadly incident involving a gun. Therefore, gun violence is a conversation that all Americans should get involved in because it affects every individual who lives in the United States of America. Americans are affected by this daily in numerous ways, by either being a part of a gun tragedy or paying taxes that go towards the tragedies. It is a well-known opinion that all Americans have a right to live in communities free from gun violence (CSGV). An organization that takes this thought seriously is The Coalition to Stop Gun Violence by dedicating themselves to reduce the amount of gun violence in communities by using effective policy advocacy. It is only by Americans using their Constitutional right to vote, that we can see true change in laws to protect citizens from becoming victims of gun violence. Lewis 2 Gun control is a conversation being held in America due to the increased prominence of gun rights in American life that has put more guns in the hands of Americans in the last ten years than in any prior decade (Soloperto 264). However, not all of these sales are made for legitimate purposes. Some gun sales go to criminals, some sales are conducted over the internet with the absence of a background check, and some sales are for weapons simply too dangerous to rationally be considered self- defense weapons (Soloperto 264). This means that there are many guns on the streets of America in the hands of people who could be a potential dangerous threat to society. Even though there are many problems associated with buying a gun, there is a popular thought that gun control laws should not be extended to fix the problems. These proponents of firearm ownership cite the language of the Second Amendment as proof that Americans are guaranteed the right to own (Kangas 76). Basically, some Americans use the Second Amendment to prove that guns should always be a prominent part of society due it being explicitly written into the Constitution. The issue with this understanding is that the Constitution did not include gun control laws to stop the terrors that come with the ability for everyone to bear arms. These proponents also do not acknowledge the statistic that a firearm makes an individual nearly five times more likely to be (Kangas 77). This adds to the fact that guns are an extreme danger to society and need to be controlled with the use of detailed laws to protect citizens from destruction. Lewis 3 The topic of gun violence is important in society because it is the cause of many tragedies in America. Guns in American society were originally thought to be seen as a sign of courage and strength. However, that national identity has changed to that of and terrified children, sprinting at pace away from a grade school, and the carnage wrought by the heavily armed killers waiting (Esposito 95). This was the scene at the Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting in December 2012 which included the tragic deaths of 20 children and six adults (Esposito 95). After this sensitive event, the long-standing debate about gun control was sparked into effect. Since this there has been much work done in the United States to increase gun control laws, including an onslaught of proposed reform to mental health background checks for all gun sales, update of the national mental health background check system, and increased reporting of mental health issues (Kangas 76). Another significant tragedy in America was an event that was by opinion, one of most disturbing racial crimes to occur in this country since the abolition of Jim Crow laws. This event was when white supremacist named Dylan Roof opened fire on a bible study, a South Carolina church that played a significant role in the Civil Rights (Kangas 76). Both of these occurrences were carried through with a gun as the weapon. It is the belief of many people that with the increase of gun control, a number of these heartbreaks can be reduced. Lewis 4 Aside from the moral consequences of gun violence, there are also a plethora of underlying societal costs. Each day, taxpayers pay for the side effects of guns without even knowing. According to a study done in 2014, pay for approximately thirty-two gun (Kangas 76). This is immense bill when it is known that gun violence costs approximately $630 million in direct hospital care and a single murder has an estimated cost of $450,000 (Soloperto 229). After the tragedy at Sandy Hook, the federal government chose to allocate money to boost school security instead of choosing to enact gun control laws to limit the rights that caused the tragedy. According to Soloperto, the federal government spent a total of $800 million to upgrade school security in public schools (229). If the government chose to move towards gun control in the aftermath of the Sandy Hook shootings, it could be implied that events such as this could be avoided and not dealt with using tax payer dollars. Collectively, direct burden of gun violence on American taxpayers currently hovers around $230 (Soloperto 229). These costs could potentially be reduced if gun control laws were stricter. By creating better ways to sell guns to the right types of people and limiting the presence of guns in society, it would inadvertently reduce the amount of money spent to clean up the atrocious side effects given by gun violence. All Americans have the power to make a positive change in the fight against gun violence. According to an article by Adam Soloperto, Congress has yet to pass a single piece of gun control legislation in the years since the Sandy Hook massacre (227). In Lewis 5 order to change these stigmas, Americans can get involved by pressuring politicians to enact laws that help increase gun control such as stricter background checks. This can be done by supporting organizations such as The Coalition to Stop Gun Violence and being proactive in the community by using the Constitutional right to vote. Voting is one of the most powerful ability Americans have for creating change. There are many laws attempting to get passed by Congress that could be passed with the help of American support. Lewis 6 Work Cited The Coalition to Stop Gun Violence. 2013. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. Esposito, Luigi, and Finley, Laura L. Gun Control: Examining Neoliberalism, Pro- gun Politics and Gun Violence in the United Theory in Action 7.2 (2014). 74-98. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Kangas, Julie L., and James D. Calvert. Ethical Issues in Mental Health Background Checks for Firearm  Professional Psychology: Research and Practice 45.1 (2014): 76-83. PsycARTICLES. Web. 4 Feb. 2017. Soloperto, Adam P. STANDARD OF REVIEW FOR GUN RIGHTS: THE SECOND AMENDMENT QUESTION HOT AS A TWO-DOLLAR Seton Hall Law Review (2016): 226-265. Web. 15 Apr. 2017.