Student 1 Student Professor Lewis ENC1102 16 April 2017 Support for Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder Post-Traumatic Stress disorder is a serious mental health condition that requires more attention from society. affects about 7.7 million American adults in a given year, though the disorder can develop at any age including childhood. Symptoms include strong and unwanted memories of the event, bad dreams, emotional numbness, intense guilt or worry, angry outbursts, feeling and avoiding thoughts and situations that are reminders of the united). There are two main treatment options for Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder, these include therapeutic treatment and treatment from prescription medication. Although there are two options available, it is important of victims of PTSD to first consider therapeutic treatments before turning to drugs. The non-profit organization, The Lone Survivor Foundation, offers therapeutic treatment options for patients with PTSD. An example of this type of treatment is therapeutic retreats. These retreats allow for a time of therapeutic recovery where patients are surrounded by support from their loved ones and others struggling with the same condition. It is important for people with Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder to first consider therapy instead of drugs because therapy is a safe space for people to recover, while drugs can be an unpredictable source of help. It is important for others to accept this position as well, because individuals with PTSD need to be supported and encouraged to seek therapeutic support by their friends, family, and healthcare professionals in order for them to heal. Student 2 Therapeutic treatment for PTSD can be applied in many ways. Some effective treatment options include group therapy, cognitive therapy, and exposure therapy. Group therapy includes sharing stories and experiences with others who are also living with and trying to heal from Post-Traumatic Stress disorder; cognitive therapy is an approach to change the way a person understands the traumatic event that occurred by discussing the event with a professional; and exposure therapy is a type of treatment that has individuals relive and re-experience the traumatic event until the memory becomes less overwhelming and they are no longer afraid of the past event. A study done by Partrick A. Boudewyns claims that his results showed that people improved after being treated with exposure therapy. The Lone Survivor option of therapeutic retreats is an example of group therapy that has been proven to work for many individuals with Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder. The Lone Survivor Foundation works hard in establishing a safe space for people with PTSD to go in order to feel safe and supported. They empower, and renew Survivor Foundation) through the use of therapy. The Lone Survivor Foundation therapy retreats consist of psychoeducational groups, individual sessions, and Equine assisted learning; Equine Assisted learning uses horses to mirror the emotions and responses of the participant in order to spot the behavior patterns in association to the traumatic event they experienced.There has been an overwhelming amount of positive feedback from the Lone Survivor retreats. One participant stated were many things revealed in each session. I appreciate being more connected with my wife and hearing what I can do to remain connected and Survivor Foundation). Another said, program saved my life, I had no other Survivor Foundation). It is clear that therapeutic treatments Student 3 have had a powerful effect on many people who have suffered from Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder. It is extremely important that these individuals with PTSD are getting the support they need. A blog post from the website Time to Change, is a first-hand account of how painful it can be to live with a mental illness and to not feel supported. The author begins her blog by saying, others because of their illnesses, and without knowing, or caring, about their stories, will cause pain. I know from experience that poor attitudes can cause untold Another blog post described how flashbacks to his time on the police force caused him to become suicidal, but support from the people around him turned his life around. These first-hand accounts show how important it is for people to get involved and show support for people struggling with Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder in order for them to gain the courage to seek help. It is critical for people to support those who are struggling with Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder in order for the victims to stop feeling ashamed or embarrassed for seeking help. It is not effective to assume that patients with a mental health disorder will reach out for help on their own, they need support and affirmation from their loved ones, friends, and even doctors. These individuals should be encouraged to find a therapeutic treatment that works best for their specific case. If this issue is not supported, many friends and family members could be lost because they did not receive enough support in order to feel accepted in seeking treatment. This mental health condition is too powerful for one individual to handle on their own, patients with PTSD need help and support from their loved ones. Student 4 In order to confront this issue, and to support those with Post-Traumatic Stress disorder, it is important to reach out to people who are believed to be struggling with PTSD. Signs of Post-Traumatic Stress include: sleep disorders, anxiety, disconnection, depression, anger, mood swings, and thoughts of suicide (PsychologyToday). It is important to look for these signs in people who have gone through a trauma, it could make all the difference. Individuals with Post-Traumatic Stress disorder should be told that it is okay to attend therapeutic help and that they should not feel ashamed or embarrassed. In order to support someone with Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder one should be encouraging, sympathetic, understanding, and caring. This situation should not be approached with force or accusation. Instead the individual should be approached in a loving and caring manner. Mental health conditions are not an easy thing for some people to talk about, so it is important for these individuals to feel comfortable in sharing their experiences with others. Along with support, it is also important for patients with Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder to be gently encouraged to enroll in therapeutic sessions. Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder is a sensitive topic that requires support in order for those suffering to gain the courage to seek therapeutic treatment. There are many types of therapies out there in order for every individual who is struggling to find the specific type of treatment that is best for them. An example of this treatment is the Lone Survivor therapy retreats that have already helped so many individuals with PTSD. The individuals who are struggling and need help are all around; they my stay quiet but it is up to family and friends to make sure that their voices are heard and they receive the help they need before it is too late. As noted by the blog posts, many individuals with PTSD have contemplated suicide. This is not something that should be happening when there are many options of therapeutic treatment available to them. Student 5 Unfortunately, many do not feel supported in attending these therapy sessions, so it is up to friends and family to reach out to these individuals and provide necessary support. With love, encouragement, and support people with Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder will gain the strength to make a decision and enroll in a therapy session that could alter their life for the better. (WC: 1232) Student 6 Works Cited About  Survivor N.p., n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Boudewyns, Patrick. Physiological Response to Combat Memories and Preliminary Treatment Outcome in Vietnam Veteran PTSD Patients Treated with Direct Therapeutic Exposure  Physiological Response to Combat Memories and Preliminary Treatment Outcome in Vietnam Veteran PTSD Patients Treated with Direct Therapeutic ScienceDirect, 1990. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Mental Health Support from People around Me Made All the  to Time to Change, 16 Nov. 2016. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. PTSD: National Center for  of PTSD - PTSD: National Center for U.S. Department of Veteran Affairs, 01 Jan. 2007. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. PTSD  PTSD United, INC, n.d. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Sweeton, Jennifer. Recognizing the Signs of Post-Traumatic  Sussex Publishers, 04 July 2013. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Student 7 PTSD  PTSD United, INC, n.d. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Student 8