Student 1 Student Professor Lewis English Composition 2 16 April 2017 Word Count: 1273 Solar Power to The Rescue: Project 3 Around the world, energy is a necessity for all and used every single day by billions of people including you, the consumer. Possibly the largest issue and debate at the hand of the world regarding energy is the type of energy needed to power the world. This energy is to provide consumers with a main energy source to live comfortably and beyond to power their hopes and dreams. The world is coming close to running out of certain energy sources like fossil fuels as well as the constant creation of more items that need energy more and more each day. Renewable energy is the best to use. Supposedly, efficiency is dependent on many different factors such as economics, environment, and politics. difficult to come to a proper compromise because many consumers weigh these factors differently. One thing, that the planet does have a whole lot of is rays. The sun is the perfect renewable energy source. It will never run out and will always be there. The only time it be there is if humans are not inhabiting the planet. Humans need it as much as they need food and water. With solar energy, there truly any wait time like the water cycle or food cycle, it just constantly provides energy. The energy sources that we are using now are primarily nonrenewable. Since our consumption has raised drastically for energy, we need a renewable source to replace that. These sources can be solar power, hydro power, and many others. Solar Power is increasingly Student 2 becoming more efficient with the technology being developed today as well as the tax credits being offered to transition. It is important to adopt a position because of environmental impact, and cost efficiency that the consumer would benefit from. With an easy action of using solar panels, consumers could power the world as well as an industry could be monopolized. Advocating Solar Power by educating others, Power Rocks is committed to giving homeowners a clear picture of the policy, incentives, and investment returns on local solar panel From the wise worlds of Michael Mackay, Sun produces an incredible amount of energy each and every day. There is enough to supply all the energy needs for everyone in the World in one hour to emphasize the (Why Solar Energy is Important -1). Solar energy is renewable, a resource that will never deplete or have a long replenishing time thus massive marketing aspect to a majority of consumers around the planet. There is very few places on Earth, that do not have sun rays hitting them. In fact, countries near the equator receive the most sun ray, so those countries would have even more of a ridiculous amount of power. An incentive to investing into solar power if the producer or industry can do better with it. This ability to receive sunlight anywhere will further development in economic aspect of many developing countries because location does not matter with this product just technology. Another large selling point for solar power is its environmentally friendly status. Most renewable resources create a significantly less amount of harmful effects to the environment. Overall solar power can provide a long term energy source comparative to others, fuel resources will last on the order of years, yet, and burning them generates human-made carbon dioxide (CO2) and is responsible for changes in the Earth, such as global warming and Arctic ice loss. The CO2 concentration has reached a level approximately 50% above that of the last 800,000 years, which has happened only in the most recent 100 years. (Why Solar Power is Important). Student 3 Imagine how much climate change would slow down. The only reported fatality from solar panels is birds landing on the panels which with more technology could be fixed. The main issue is the funding for technology and advancement in the field of solar energy. There is a common misconception that solar power technology is incredibly incompetent and unrealistic. This is shown in solar powered cars with their speeds being very slow. If a consumer branches an takes a look a tesla, a car ran by electricity that has solar powered charging systems. They will notice the great incentive to not have to pay for filling up the tank once a week, Overall this public ignorance is creating distain and a rocky road between consumers and producers of solar power. Not nearly enough subsidies and overall money from taxes have been put in place to change this, is clear... that Renewables have not received as many subsidies as the others have, particularly Biofuels which have recently received a huge influx of (9). Consumers that have a budget and make a less than favorable income are scared away by the installment and equipment prices, energy is free, but not best sums up the major hurdle for the solar industry. There are no technical obstacles per se to developing solar energy (Vaughin Nelson 213). If someone is a difficult financial situation, it is definitely a deterrant. Overall if just solar energy is used, energy with proper planning of wind and solar installations, along with transmission lines, carbon emissions from electrical generation can be reduced by 80% (compared with 1990 levels) without increasing ( Elizabeth Weatherhead et. Al 21). This realization can save our planet! If consumers are not worried about the efficiency or their environment, they should consider their kids. At this very least, parents want their children to live better than them. Parents should want to give their kids an option of what energy source to use. Rather than eliminating a whole energy source because of over consumption. Future children may not even have the option to Student 4 enjoy the luxuries their parents had because of the energy source we depleted as well as the environmental devastation that will occur with the prolonged dependency of fossil fuels. Most people want future generations to be set up with all they need to be successful civilization and no one wants that not to be responsible for environmental damage that is irreparable. Everyone uses energy whether it be renewable and nonrenewable so why not make it a renewable energy source that already has developed technology for it out that is decreasing in price. Making solely solar powered cars was a ineffective solution or trying to make a complete switch from fossil fuels. A gradual solution always works better. The world will eventually run out of fossil fuels which leaves the option eradicated for future generations. The environmental impact of relying on fossil fuels as our main source will continue to heat up the atmosphere from the carbon. Invest in the solar energy themselves. This is easy because solar panels are not that expensive to invest in. increasingly becoming inexpensive for both installation and the actual product. Once investing in solar power, tell the newly engaged stakeholder should tell their social group including friends and family. The only way to show support for a cause is to show the benefits and the overall experience with the cause. Overall solar power is an efficient and environmentally friendly solution to the energy crisis consumers are encountering every day. Solar power works, and a great option financially and environmentally. People should and will at least consider that solar energy as a viable option instead of just focusing on fossil fuels. Solar energy is being developed right as well as more people are making the switch whether is be putting up solar panels or an electric car using solar powered charger stations. Student 5 Works Cited 1. Piccard, Bertrand . My Solar Powered  TED. July 2009. Lecture. 2. BP Global.  Bp.com. Bp Global, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <http://www.bp.com/en/global/corporate/sustainability.html>. 3. Catching the Dir. Shalini Kantayya. Spyro Gyra, 2015. Film. 4. Curley, Robert, and Educational Publishing Britannica. Fossil Fuels, edited by Robert Curley, and Educational Publishing Britannica, Britannica Educational Publishing, 2011. ProQuest Ebook Central, https://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/usf/detail.action?docID=688243. 5. Foster, Robert, Majid Ghassemi, and Alma Cota. Solar Energy: Renewable Energy and the Environment. Boca Raton: CRC, 2010. Print. 6. Here Comes the Sun. V Pro Documentaries. 2012. Film 7. Jaccard, Mark. Sustainable Fossil Fuels, edited by Mark Jaccard, Cambridge University Press, 2006. ProQuest Ebook Central, https://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/usf/detail.action?docID=255020. 8. Mackay, Michael E. Why Solar Energy is  Solar Energy: An Introduction. : Oxford University Press, 2015-06-01. Oxford Scholarship Online. 2015-08-20. Date Accessed 27 Mar. 2017 <http://www.oxfordscholarship.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/view/10.1093/acprof:oso/97801996521 05.001.0001/acprof-9780199652105-chapter-1>. Student 6 9. Solar Power. National Geographic. 2015. Film 10. SolarPowerRocks. Our  Solar Power Rocks. Solarpowerrocks, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <https://solarpowerrocks.com/our-mission-statement-and-contact-info/>.d  TED. July 2009. Lecture.