Smith 1 Karim Smith Professor Nusspickel ENC1101 4 April 2017 I. Introduction/Thesis What if you were to hear that there was a solution to world hunger? A problem that affects so many families around the globe. That solution: genetically modified organism, better known as GMOs. The problem however, is as far back as research dates, there has been an ongoing debate on whether GMOs are ethical and if they should be legal. While there are some downsides such as corruption, and negative health effects such as antibiotic resistance, the benefits that they reap are far more superior due to the ability to provide a stable income for struggling farmers, being the solvent to an unstable economy, and also being environmentally friendly. II. Corruption/Health Effects Due to lack of enough funding for testing, a majority of the tests are done by the GM companies themselves. The problem with this however, is that the GM companies are withholding test results that could/would possibly make them look bad. Since in order to make GMOs scientists have to alter the genetic makeup of the crop, the way in which it is done are making humans more resistant to antibiotics, forcing pharmaceutical companies to make much stronger medication. Smith 2 Evidence: sponsors got favorable outcomes for their own drug 78 per cent of the time, while independently funded trials only gave a positive result in 48 per cent of (Goldacre par.55). Evidence: scientists found a way to make crops resilient to (What is Genetically Modified Food?) Eating GM food can change the genetic make-up of your digestive system and could put you at risk of infections that are resistant to antibiotics, experts said (Poulter par.1) microbial resistance to antibiotics is a well-established threat to human (Midtvedt par.2) III. Provide Stable Income for Farmers A lot of the genetically modified crops that are grown are done so by small farmers who rely on the money for themselves and family. Evidence: than 90% of 17.3 million farmers that use genetically modified organisms are smallholders who harvest on a few acres in developing (Van Montagu par.1). IV. Solvent to an unstable economy GMOs would be able to help out many countries, third-world especially, who are in terrible financial situations and boost their economy. Evidence: take a look at India, a country with an unstable economy has flipped their economy entirely from cotton importer to exporter as a result of insect-resistant (Van Montagu par.7) V. Environmentally friendly Smith 3 Since GMOs are pesticide-resistant, that reduces the number of sprayings that need to be done which lowers greenhouse emissions. Very important since climate change is a critical issue. Evidence: theory, genetically modified crops and animals will also be more environmentally friendly because they conserve water, soil, and energy. (Vaesa par.6) tolerant GM crops have stimulated no-tillage farming, reducing the greenhouse gas (Van Montagu par.14) VI. Conclusion Although it does take an effect on health and is a somewhat corrupt field, the benefits of GMOs which includes provide stable incomes for farmers, being the solution to an unstable economy, and being very good for our environment are definitely more worth it. Genetically Modified Organisms: Are They Worth It? What if you were to hear that there was a solution to world hunger? A problem that affects so many families around the globe. That solution: genetically modified organism, better known as GMOs, which is scientists found a way to make crops resilient to (What is Genetically Modified Food?). The problem however, is as far back as research dates, there has been an ongoing debate on whether GMOs are ethical and if they should be legal. While there are some downsides such as corruption, and negative health effects such as antibiotic resistance, the benefits that they reap are far more superior due to the ability to provide a stable income for struggling farmers, being the solvent to an unstable economy, and also being environmentally friendly. Smith 4 Overtime, GMOs have started to look like a more feasible necessity for our current influx of population growth compared with the limited resources we have available to us. While there are many who are in favor of the switch, there are still many who still strongly oppose this due to the strong controversy over the possibility of corruption and negative health effects. Due to lack of enough funding for testing, a majority of the tests are done by the GM companies themselves. The problem with this however, is that the GM companies are withholding test results that could/would possibly make them look bad. This is backed by evidence stating sponsors got favorable outcomes for their own drug 78 per cent of the time, while independently funded trials only gave a positive result in 48 per cent of (Goldacre par.55). While that could be a possibility, there is no way to prove any accuracy of these claims, thus leaving it to be all speculation. These independently funded trials also take into account the different types of drugs they are testing nor the kinds of tests being done. Another strong claim being made is that eating GM food can change the genetic make-up of your digestive system and could put you at risk of infections that are resistant to (Poulter par.1). It is not news that microbial resistance to antibiotics is a well-established threat to human but researchers need to take into account that not everyone takes the recommended dosage of medication when prescribed, nor do many continue taking them past when symptoms disappear (Midtvedt par.2). When one fails to take medication properly, that alone affects the effects of the antibiotics which many are falsely linking to GMOs. Genetically modified organisms are responsible for providing a stable income for many farmers globally. A lot of the genetically modified crops that are grown are done so by small farmers who rely on the money for themselves and family and than 90% of 17.3 million farmers that use genetically modified organisms are smallholders who harvest on a few acres in Smith 5 developing (Van Montagu par.1). Bare necessities such as food, clothing and money for school supplies are all added benefits that are reaped as a benefit of GMOs. The reason they are so beneficial is because genetically modified crops are able to withstand harsher conditions, thus allowing for larger and healthier crop yields. This ensures food security and bolster incomes for farmers as well as allow farmers to rely less on their children to work on the farms and have an opportunity to get a much needed education. If we are more reliant on GMOs farmers globally would be able to benefit greatly, which not only benefits them but consumers everywhere as well. Many countries around the world are in such terrible economic situations yet there is a solution that could help drastically. GMOs can be the solvent to an unstable economy by helping these countries out of current financial situations and boost their economy. If these countries switched to GMOs are their primary source of production, they would be able to see the benefits almost instantaneously. Some countries have already become aware of this and began taking advantage, take a look at India, a country with an unstable economy has flipped their economy entirely from cotton importer to exporter as a result of insect-resistant (Van Montagu par.7). With population size continuously increasing exponentially combined with unlimited wants and limited resources, producers really afford to take risks by producing organic foods that have yields that are either hit or miss. If more countries would follow in the footsteps of countries like India, we could see a future of more financially dependent countries. Our environment as we know it is not in the best condition, with climate change a prominent problem amongst us. If we start making drastic changes soon, the future of our planet does not look too promising. where GMOs start showing added benefit for the environment. GMOs have proven time and time again that they are more beneficial to the future Smith 6 of this planet because theory, genetically modified crops and animals will also be more environmentally friendly because they conserve water, soil, and energy (Vaesa par.6). Since GMOs are pesticide-resistant, that also reduces the number of crop sprayings that need to be done and also tolerant GM crops have stimulated no-tillage farming, reducing the greenhouse gas (Van Monatgu par.14). A reduction in crop sprayings, would not only benefit the environment (being that they are less frequent so it requires less fuel), but at the same time farmers save money since they burning as much fuel. Currently, the Earth is experiencing rapid population growth and in order to make sure most needs are able to be met, GMOs seem like the only viable option. They provide so many benefits that contribute to the welfare for both the producer and consumers around the world yet it lacks the required support. Although they do supposedly have effects on our health and are a somewhat corrupt field, the gains from GMOs which includes providing stable incomes for farmers, being the solution to an unstable economy, and being very environment friendly are definitely worth alleged downside. Smith 7 Works Cited Goldacre, Ben. Trial Sans Error: How Pharma-Funded Research Cherry-Picks Positive Results  Scientific American. N.p., 13 Feb. 2013. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Poulter, Sean. Can GM Food Cause Immunity to  Daily Mail Online. Associated Newspapers, 13 Feb. 2013. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. VAN MONTAGU, MARC. The Irrational Fear of GM  The Wall Street Journal. Dow Jones & Company, 22 Oct. 2013. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. What Is Genetically Modified  YouTube. YouTube, 16 Dec. 2009. Web. 27 Jan. 2017.