Gonzalez 1 Nicholas Gonzalez Comp II Hernandez 16 April 2017 Pay Discrepancy: A Problem with Discrimination Protection of individual rights is essential to the Constitution of the United States. However, the average American would be surprised to find out how much people are having their rights infringed at this very moment. One of the biggest problems in which rights are infringed is pay discrepancy. In the U.S much of pay to workers is based on several factors but the American people may not know one of the largest is discrimination. The students of the University of South Florida should attempt to get involved because their families might be involved without them even noticing. By explaining the different ways people are paid differently due to race, gender, ethnicity, etc. hopefully body of students will be motivated to join the cause. In joining, students will be able to stand up for those that are close to them as well as help stop prejudice on different levels across the United States. As previously stated the average American would be shocked to see the discrimination that goes on around them, even in a country that preaches equal opportunity for all people. According to the Episcopal Church, 66% of Americans believe that there is a deal of fair amount of in the U.S, with 69% of Americans believing that African Americans are discriminated against the most. These two statistics provide the basis of the issue at hand that surrounds pay discrepancy. Certain groups of people are unfairly judged based on aspects of their life they simply cannot control; therefore, they should not be punished for them. Women in the workplace should not be paid less than men for the same work, if a woman has the same Gonzalez 2 qualifications as a man does she should be equally compensated. Women working full time in 2015 were paid 80% of what men were paid, a gap of 20%. In Florida women earn about 87% of what men earn which is third highest in the country compared to the other states, meaning women and men pay is almost the same. Between ethnic groups, white and Asian women have the largest discrepancy in pay between men. White women earn 76% as much as white men, while Asian women earn 81% as much as Asian men (AAU.com). If USF students were to get involved for one reason this would be it, the unjust pay between men and women discourages work ethic in hard working women and minority ethnic groups. Now that you know some facts about the difference in pay you now understand the unfair discrepancy that goes on the workplace. Given the number of minorities in the United States, one can only imagine how much people are being taken advantage of. In 2014, the U.S Census Bureau recorded, of the 20 million children under 5 years old in the U.S, 50% of them were of minority ethnic groups (US News). Not only should the students at USF care about this issue for the current generation that they will be growing into, but also about future generations. Just by looking around in each class that each student is in you may be able to tell who will be given an advantage in the work place, this should not be the case. Not just students, people can probably tell which of their instructors gets paid the most even if they have the same qualifications. For a country that preaches equality for all the citizens that live in its land there is still a large amount of discrimination. Since the population of men and women is practically split in the U.S (50.8% women; 49.2% male) and minority numbers are growing by the year unequal pay is an alarming problem. The once majority population, Caucasians are no longer seen as the prominent ethnicity. As citizens of the U.S we should want all people of any background to succeed without limitations, Gonzalez 3 another reason students should get engaged. We as a nation do not want different people of different backgrounds to get discouraged because of the discrepancy, the more diversity the better. There are hardworking people from different backgrounds who simply do not get the benefits from their labor because of their ethnicity or their gender. Many of the families who attend USF are minorities, thereby affecting them directly. Their families are being taken advantage of without them even noticing, a precedent we do not want to continue into the next generation. To stop the discrimination in its tracks today, USF students should care and get involved in certain organization that protect rights. To be put in a position to take action there needs to be a platform. Now that you reader cares about the issue they need to be informed of the possibilities to help change the issue. Thankfully there are many ways to take action that this Constitution grants without penalty. The most common way to take action is active non-violent protesting, much like how the U.S preaches equal opportunity it also preaches the right to protest, something people have been doing since the birth of this country. By protesting in large enough groups higher powers will take notice. While body of students is not enough to represent a whole nation of minorities and women the students can start a conversation that could lead to a bigger change in the country. The conversation about pay will continue to grow until the government is forced to take action. Another form of action can be organized through an organization that protects rights. One of the most prominent organizations to do this is the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU). The ACLU covers many aspects of rights but specializes in the rights given and not given to minorities and women in the workplace. By joining the ACLU on their website, you add yourself to the millions of people who represent and defend those unjustly discriminated in the Gonzalez 4 workplace. Because the ACLU has a large number of people following their cause their impact may be greater than that of a protest, with their efforts they can force changes in the law that are supposed to be intact already. Laws can be passed to make women equal in the workplace pay wise, former laws that outlaw discrimination due to ethnicity can be enforced to a higher degree to ensure people are paid equally. Both options: non-violent legal protest and the ACLU give the student the ability to empower themselves and start the conversation on pay discrepancy. There are a lot of problems within the U.S today, one of them arguably being the biggest issue since the U.S became a country, discrimination. Discrimination has run rampant throughout the U.S since its beginning, while it has died down significantly publicly it still has powerful influence in the workplace. If the students of USF would join together to take action in one of the ways listed, the conversation of pay discrepancy would grow to a size that could no longer be ignorable. By doing this people around the U.S would grow to not be afraid or ashamed to talk about this important issue that impacts a great majority of the U.S. Creating a conversation regarding the issue would help improve the lives of future generations as well as change lives of those today if action is taken immediately. Gonzalez 5 Works Cited Miller, Kevin. The Simple Truth about the Gender Pay  Aauw, www.aauw.org/research/the-simple-truth-about-the-gender-pay-gap/. Patten, Eileen. Racial, Gender Wage Gaps Persist in U.S. Despite Some  Pew Research, Pew Research Center, 1 July 2016, www.pewresearch.org/fact- tank/2016/07/01/racial-gender-wage-gaps-persist-in-u-s-despite-some-progress/. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. Sanburn, Josh. U.S. Steps Closer to a Future Where Minorities Are the  Time, Tim, 24 June 2015, time.com/3934092/us-population-diversity-census/. Accessed 15 Apr. 2017. Wazwaz, Noor. Official: The U.S. is Becoming a Minority-Majority  U.S News, 6 July 2015, Official: The U.S. is Becoming a Minority-Majority Nation. Accessed 15 Apr. 2017.