Addington 1 Madison Addington Dr. Cimpean ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Anti- Zoos campaign Zoos harm of animals and being in these cages, and away from their homes affect them mentally. They restrict animals from reaching their full potential and affect endangered animals severely. This mistreatment can cause these animals to become extinct. Many organizations have done research, constructed investigations and have already shut down zoos. A better alternative would be sanctuaries and animal rehabilitation centers. People should stop supporting zoos and care about this issue because animals have feelings too and marine biodiversity keeps ecosystems functional. A healthy ecosystem allows us to survive, get enough food to eat and make a living. Animals are taken out of their natural habitats and they are mistreated and put into cages or bad environments. The mistreatment and abuse by zookeepers are so severe that it can kill them. Some of these animals are already endangered and moving them away from their homes can be dangerous. Animals do have rights and there are penalties if animal rights laws are broken. Putting an animal in a cage is like putting a human in jail for something as absurd as entertainment. Animals are ill-treated and kept in small uncomfortable cages similar to a jail cell. Yes, animals are fascinating but you have to think about their feelings and their well-being. One must think want to be in a cage so I want to put animals in a cage Captive animals protection society (CAPS) thinks that zoos can be damaging to conservation efforts. Effective Addington 2 conservation is carried out by working in the natural habitat to protect individuals and entire ecosystems. A lot of people think zoos save species from extinction, but this is not the case. Instead, they divert much-needed attention away from important conservation work in the wild Zoos ). The living conditions are often depressing, with animals confined to tiny, filthy, barren enclosures. conservation the best artificial environments come close to matching the space, diversity, and freedom that animals want and need. This deprivation is often combined with relentless boredom, loneliness, and sometimes-even abuse from the zookeepers. All of these factors cause many captive animals to lose their minds. Animals with this condition, called often rock, sway, or pace endlessly, and some even resort to hurting themselves by chewing on their own fingers or limbs or pulling out their fur or feathers Zoos and Other Captive-Animal ). Surplus animals are killed, Zoos provide sufficient space and Zoos serve, these are only some of the reasons that a zoo is not the ideal place for animals 10 facts about ). The people this message is directed to are the people who support and/or go to zoos. When tickets are bought and more people visit zoos they become stronger because they have more money. If no one showed up and they getting any sales they would be forced to shut down. An example of the mistreatment is: just a few days old, thousands of birds in UK zoos have the end of one wing deliberately severed. These birds will never fly. These birds will never be released to the wild. These birds have the gift of flight taken away from them Join the Fight for Flight! ). Birds Addington 3 do not get to live to their full potential when they are captured at a young age. They are abused and crippled so that they are not able to fly away from the zoos. Abuse and mistreatment are not the only disadvantages of zoos. animals to zoo visitors as living exhibits teaches children that animals can be manipulated in order to fulfill our own curiosity about them. It suggests that animals have no right to be treated as individuals who think and feel for themselves. It fails to recognise that animals have their own needs to be met, for their own Zoos ). These zoos are teaching children the wrong idea. We should teach them that animals have feelings just like us and we have no right to take them from their homes and use them as entertainment. People who are unaware of how serious this issue is may think that a safari drive through is the solution to this problem. The solution is actually to only have sanctuaries and animal rehabilitation centers. While drive-through safaris or wildlife parks may seem like a better alternative, many of these facilities breed animals continuously, because baby animals attract customers. But babies grow up quickly, and older, unwanted animals may be warehoused like inventory or quietly shipped out. Since paper trails are notoriously inaccurate and difficult to follow, nearly impossible to know how many animals end up at auctions, in slaughterhouses, or on hunting ranches Zoos and Other Captive-Animal ). This topic is very important and everyone should care about it. Animals have feelings too. Putting them in these cages is like putting us in a jail cell just to entertain others. This is animal cruelty. This message could also be directed to the people who do not go to zoos and do not like animals. People who do not care about animals may think Addington 4 this issue does not affect them but it actually does in many ways. This is because wild animals play an important role in the food chain. Animal, plant and marine biodiversity keeps ecosystems functional. Healthy ecosystems allow us to survive, get enough food to eat and make a living. Also someone you know may love animals (people with service animals). It is impossible to give an accurate answer or result because it is hard to know exactly how to tell what might happen to an ecosystem when even the smallest contributor to that ecosystem is this may have a huge impact on the environment which will directly affect you in some way. To get involved and to make a difference with this issue you can do a number of things. The first and one of the easiest ways you can help stop zoos is by not supporting them. This means you should stop buying tickets and stop going to them. Another way one could get involved is by donating or helping to fundraise. The money goes towards conducting more investigations. These are very important because they need evidence before they bring these issues to the government. This also helps them get more supporters. They look more credible when they have good evidence and pictures to prove. Lastly you could join one of these organizations and/or volunteer. Helping out in any way possible helps and if this topic interests you, you can help out in person and help the cause. Zoos should be stopped and you can help by not supporting them. They mistreat, abuse animals and teach the wrong message to their supporter. In conclusion the audience should care because animals have feelings too. They play an important role in the food chain, someone you know may love animals (people with service animals) and Animal, Addington 5 plant and marine biodiversity keeps ecosystems functional. Healthy ecosystems allow us to survive, get enough food to eat and make a living. Addington 6 Works Cited Join the Fight for Flight!  Captive Animals Protection Society. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Zoos and Other Captive-Animal  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Zoos  Captive Animals Protection Society. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. 10 facts about  Captive Animals Protection Society. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.