Cruz 1 Alan Cruz Dr. Karen Hanson ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Media Violence Violence is everywhere. Since the beginning of time humans have hunted for food, killed animals and have taken their fur for warmth. Many would agree that the act of hunting is violent and gruesome, despite that it is done for survival. Unlike hunting video games, television shows and movies are not a necessity they are more of a luxury. Currently, today 99% of households own a television compared to the where only 10% of homes did (Beresin). Quite frankly, most households now contain more televisions rather than cell phones. Imagine every child that has their own room also has their own television. While this may be true parents still need to be informed because many parents do not know what their kids are watching and how it is affecting them in long run. In order to fix and take on this situation, parents need to go online and do more research on what shows are being televised and at what age should children and families be watching PG to R rated movies together. Too add on, nurses are also willing to help those who want to be informed and help intervene on issue that has been going on for some time. According to Mary Muscari, the time they reach 18, American children have seen 16,000 murders and 200,000 acts of Mary noticed the amount of times an average child has seen either a murder scene or the act of violence which is absolutely absurd. These children watching a tremendous amount violence are facing many problems and issues such as aggression that affects their way of life. For example, reports state that perpetrators of recent school shootings were exposed to a great amount of violent media violence: Advice for Furthermore, children are taking what they learn from games, shows and movies and bringing them to real life. Cruz 2 were instructed that they must shoot and kill the opponents to pass through each corridor. Without killing the opponent, no participant could pass to another corridor since the opponent would shoot back and kill the participant in the game. Whenever participants shot and killed an opponent, screams of pain were heard in two of the experimental conditions. Participants could hear all other sound effects (e.g., footsteps, shooting) regardless of Ultimately, children are becoming aggressive thinkers. If a child keeps bullying another child, the same child may take matters into there on own hands and stop the bully for good. Instead of telling a teacher or parent and realizing the other child is the one with an issue. In the experiment listed above no player decided to not kill someone. Their morality was truly proven in this experiment However, aggression is a trait that is terrible to gain due to media. Another aspect that is brought out from media is product placement (Biocca, Bohil and Jeong). Product placement may not seem like a serious issue but these broadcasters and video game designers are making a tremendous amount of money off children and their families. For instance, children are becoming more addicted to material objects. Once they see their favorite video game or television character use anything that is name brand or interesting they want. Study shows that playing video games and watching television can create an addictive personality even without the particular products being placed religiously. For instance, many scientists compared media violence to smoking cigarettes. Video Games and As you may know one cigarette is not the cause of cancer but making it a habitat will. The same applies with video games and television. Despite the fact that one is a drug and the other is not they both stimulate the same part of the brain and release dopamine which is the pleasure hormone. Throughout the Childs life span if they are being brought up by playing these games, eventually they will be curious and want to try the real thing in order to gain either more or the same thrill. On the other hand, aggression is one of issues being addressed in society with media violence. Another issue that many do not heard is ADHD. ADHD is typically genetic and passed down from your ancestors. Due to certain claims in the press stating that television programs and video games are too violent in nature, there has been and increasing in interest whether violent media is eliciting Cruz 3 ADHD related behaviors (Nikkelen, Piotrowski, Valkenburg, and Vossen). This theory came up due to the low baseline arousal in children which is usually caused by ADHD related behavior. A normal baseline arousal level is to adjust for high continuous high stimulation. Media violence is extremely hard to control. Media is everywhere trying to get you to make one decision rather than another that could be more rational. Some would agree that not everything in television, video games and movies is strictly appropriate and some things are just to gruesome, violent and gory for human eye. Most of us do not have much control on what children watch and what is being broadcasted. Media violence is taken upon the offense of the user and many may not be offensive to everyone (Coyne and Callister) One wat to approach this problem is by frequently emailing and getting the attention of the Federal Communications Commission(FCC). The FCC regulates television, radio and more. If that does not work, this is when parents play a big role. One strategy that is being enforced is media which are just strategies to help parents guide their media use. There are two ways parents can approach their children. Which are either explaining to the children how bad the media can be or just restricting them completely. Both have different affects but are better than not doing anything. Overall, Parents tend to protect their children from all types of drugs such as alcohol, cigarettes, marijuana and even pornography. If parents are making sure their children are not doing any of these bad things, why not stop children from playing role player games that are graphic and trying to just kill the enemy. Name 4 Works Cited Nikkelen, Sanne, et al. Media Violence and ADHD-Related Behaviors: The Role of Parental  Journal of Broadcasting & Electronic Media, vol. 60, no. 4, Dec. 2016, pp. 657-675. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1080/08838151.2016.1234476. Eui Jun, Jeong, et al. Brand Logo Placement in Violent  Journal of Advertising, vol. 40, no. 3, Fall2011, pp. 59-72. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx ?direct=true&db=buh&AN=65089179&site=eds-live. Coyne, Sarah M., et al. Media Violence and Judgments of Offensiveness: A Quantitative and Qualitative  Psychology of Popular Media Culture, vol. 5, no. 4, Oct. 2016, pp. 372-389. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1037/ppm0000073. Media Violence  Parents Television Council - Home. N.p., 2016. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. <http://w2.parentstv.org/main/Campaigns/mv.aspx>. Muscari, Mary. Media Violence: Advice for Parents  MedScape. WebMD, 2002. Web. 14 Apr. 2017.