Doran 1 Grace Doran Professor Missler ENC 1102 16 April, 2017 Coed Consequences For any college student who has ever lived on campus, it is difficult to deny that dorm life can be rough at times. Not only is occupying a space with a complete stranger challenging, but cleanliness and privacy can easily become issues as well. Having a roommate that refuses to keep their clutter on their side of the room or knock before opening the door is mentally exhausting. Not to mention sharing a bathroom is an undesirable experience whether it is with one person or an entire floor. To make this part of the college experience a bit less awkward, the majority of colleges and universities in the United States assign roommates of the same sex together within a coed building. Yet there has recently been a substantial number of universities that have begun implementing gender neutral housing. With gender neutral housing, students of the opposite sex are permitted to live in the same room and even share a bathroom with one another. The main incentive for colleges to make this change is to accommodate LGBT+ students that may feel uneasy about living with the same gender. What these institutions fail to consider is the negative impact this change will have on the majority of college students. Simply having men and women live in the same building on campus has been proven to increase risk taking behavior (Macklin 466). Taking this issue a step further by having men and women live in the same room will only be a source of distraction, discomfort, and even danger for students. Doran 2 That is why it is essential for college residents to inform their student government of the negative aspects of gender neutral housing to prevent its implementation. For the majority of college students that identify as heterosexual, sharing a close space with the opposite sex has the potential to become distracting. Concentrating on studies requires a large amount of discipline, something that not everyone acquires. During college, students are just beginning to figure out how to manage their time efficiently on their own. It is also during this time that young adults are given their first taste of freedom. Having someone of the opposite gender in the room can create sexual tension, making it hard to focus on school work. Even if individuals have enough discipline to not act on their impulses, just having that presence in the room is enough to be a source of distraction. Some may argue on behalf of LGBT+ students and claim that current room assignments make it difficult for them to focus on their studies as well. Yet if colleges begin offering coed dorm rooms, they have to make it an option for everyone. There would be no fair way to restrict those outside the LGBT+ group from selecting a coed dorm room. This opens up the option for heterosexual couples to pair up as well, which can lead to other unexpected issues if the couple has an argument or breaks up at some point. So in an environment full of young adults who are just figuring out how to navigate through life on their own, coed dorm rooms would develop unnecessary distractions. Discomfort is another issue associated with gender neutral dorm rooms. Despite the progressive ideals of many universities that try to facilitate male and female equality, college men and women tend to have very different habits in terms of cleanliness, which many students may feel uncomfortable with. In a poll taken by Rutgers State University in New Jersey, 71% of students opposed coed roommates, and one of the main reasons for this was hygiene (Moffatt 7). Doran 3 Even with the push for gender equality, many find it to be common knowledge that men tend to be less hygienic than women. Not only are they biologically dissimilar, males and females have differing grooming habits. When living with a stranger of the opposite sex, modesty is a concern. Where is the line drawn? Though some do not care to admit it, men and women are very different from each other. There are numerous reasons why most universities only pair up students of the same gender, and these reasons go beyond simply ignorance or sexism. Forcing a young man and woman to share a close space where they use the bathroom, get dressed, and sleep is awkward and goes against common sense. It is not practical to introduce this new arrangement if it is going to cause the majority of residents discomfort. A serious concern with coed dorm rooms is the danger it can pose on students, especially females. Studies have proven that students living in coed buildings are more likely to binge drink (42%) than students in same sex housing (18%) (Wechsler 922). Students in coed dorms are also more likely to have had a sexual partner in the past year than students in single sex dorms (55.7% vs 36.8%). Additionally, 82% of on campus rapes occur in campus housing, with 90% of victims being female. This makes coed dorm rooms potentially dangerous for women. College age women are already three times more likely than women in general to be victims of sexual violence (DeGue 4). Housing women in the same room as males would only increase this likelihood. Biologically, males have hormones that make them more physically aggressive than females, and this aggression peaks in their early 20s. So placing male students in the same room as females at the age where they are most likely to be physically violent is an injudicious decision. Doran 4 It is the responsibility of colleges and universities to make living on campus comfortable and safe for residents. Yet as these institutions try to expand LGBT+ rights, they are unintentionally placing the majority of college students at risk and furthering unresolved issues. Coed dorm rooms seem sensible in theory, but the cons certainly outweigh the pros. These arrangements may slightly improve the housing experience for LGBT+ students, but this would be at the expense of the large portion of residents that do not fall into this group. The distraction, discomfort, and danger that gender neutral rooms may inflict upon students surpass any positive outcomes. Therefore, college residents must inform their student government of the negative implications of coed dorm rooms. In the end, residents are paying a great deal of money to inhabit the dorms and they have every right to voice their concerns. Doran 5 Works Cited DeGue, Sarah. Preventing Sexual Violence on College Campuses: Lessons from Research and Practice  (2014). Macklin, Eleanor D. Cohabitation among Unmarried College Family vol. 21, no. 4, 2007, pp. Moffatt, Michael. of age in New Jersey: College and American Rutgers University Press, 2013. Wechsler, Henry, et al. Correlates of college student binge  journal of public 85.7 (1995): 921-926.