Alfred Nyanzu Alison Missler Enc 1102 April 16 th , 2017 Bird Conservation Did you sleep well last night, eat tasty meal today, are you healthy today? If the answer is there is the probability that you ate chicken, turkey, duck or you name any bird in your normal daily life. Bird conservation can be helpful in numerous ways which includes; tracking and studying of long term population trend of birds, monitoring and understanding bird habitats, protecting of endangered birds for humanity etc. (Curio, L. Hohman, Martin, Smith, Stephen, M.Strong and VerCauteren 267). What many people are not aware off is that birds can be endangered in numerous ways which end result can have negative effects on our environment and human as well. In order to do something about this issue it is important to create awareness and knowledge about bird conservation and endangerment. In order to educate the society of the importance of Bird Conservation, the Students of University of South Florida will be having a Day Bird Conservation where we will educate the student population of the existing Bird Conservations that are located in Florida. According to international journal of hydrogen energy 2016, mass mortalities of seabirds are a common in the aftermath of oil spills with tens if not hundreds of thousands of birds stranding dead or dying .Seabird populations are particularly vulnerable due to their distribution, foraging and breeding behavior. Following a spill, seabirds will come in to contact with crude oil floating on the surface causing them to become smothered with oil and this can cause immediate mortality via suffocation (International Journal of Hydrogen Energy). Oil spills are having a serious impact on the seabird population, to the point that scientist are not able to determine the exact number of birds that are dying due to these catastrophe oil spills (International Journal of Hydrogen Energy). Often times, when we think of an oil spill in our rivers and seas, our focus is predominately on fisheries. However, the external oiling of seabirds causes large scale mortality within days following a spill, while survivors suffer causes long term chronic effects from the exposure to toxic polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) present in ingested oil. Survival rates for rehabilitated oiled birds are very low despite investment of significant resources (International Journal of Hydrogen Energy). So one may argue that, all we have to do is clean up the spill, and all will be well. Unfortunately that is not the case. Richard Charter, a lobbyist for Defenders of Wildlife stated in the East Bay Times Article titled, Impact to be felt for years written on November 10, 2007 and updated August 17, 2016. The frequency in oil spills in the past 20 years has not only harmed the aquatic environment but it also impacts the lives of the animals that uses the aquatic environment to source food and their livelihood. In other words, not only the sea birds are being impacted, but life as we know it for fisher men, deep sea divers and wildlife that feed from the ocean. Researchers have indicated that, in the past, humans used flame to lure birds to them. The birds would see the light, and automatically be drawn to it. Then the humans would capture the birds and use them for food. In view, birds with flu slaughtered illegally for food can be harmful to human health. Today, in modern society, we are not using flames to lure nocturnal and migratory birds for food. Instead, our skylines are lit with bright illuminating lights, which appear to trick the birds into thinking that these bright and illuminating lights are the setting sun, brightly lit moon and the stars guiding them along the migratory journey which occurs twice per year. Our brightly lit skies not only misguides the birds, but it causes the birds to get lost and trapped in urban areas, where there is limited food, nesting areas but they get trapped in areas that causes them to lose their lives. The Associated Press on Friday, October 22, 2010. Wrote an article titled, Hawaii birds confuse Friday night light with the moon. The author explained that the shearwater population, which numbered about 80,000 in the mid-1990s, has plunged 75 percent in recent years as Kauai grew in size and added more lights that confuse the birds. In 2005, The U.S. Justice Department said federal wildlife officials notified the county that its lighting was hurting the birds, in violation of the Endangered Species Act and the Migratory Bird Treaty Act. The government said the county failed to install shielded lights that shine down on the field, not out, thus being less harmful to the birds. In other words, just shining the lights downward could have saved 80,000 birds. Allowing these birds to migrate safely, mate, source food and be free of unnecessary predatory death. Toronto has started its light out campaign, and has urged its audience to be mindful of the challenges as it migrates from North America to South America. First the birds have to deal with the possibility of not making it to its intended destination due to exhaustion, unforeseen harsh weather conditions, air pollution, and then being faced with preventable manmade conditions such as colliding in brightly lit glass buildings that grace the skylines and artificially illuminate our sky. One can claim that, the consequences of having all these birds unknowingly resorting to living in urban areas, will impact the health of humans. Failures to promote bird conservations will cause serious ecological impact to the bird community as well as for human beings are we begin to coexist side by side. Birds are forced to make cities their homes. Hence, they will be dropping fecal matter in areas where humans are living; they will begin to contaminate the water supply, as well as the air we breathe. The World Health Organization Media Centre provided an updated fact sheet on Avian and other Zoonotic Influenza which explains how humans can be infected with avian and other zoonotic influenza viruses, such as avian influence virus subtypes subtypes A(H5N1), A(H7N9), and A(H9N2) and swine influenza virus subtypes A(H1N1) and (H3N2). Avian and other zoonotic influenza infections in humans may cause disease ranging from mild conjunctivitis to severe pneumonia and even death. The majority of human cases of A(H5N1) and A(H7N9) infection have been associated with direct or indirect contact with infected live or dead poultry. Controlling the disease in the animal source is critical to decrease risk to humans. It is clear that the birds need a sanctuary or a habitat that will not be impacted by urban development that fails to factor in ecological and sustainable practices in the growth and expansion of natural birds habitats. The sanctuary would be in the form of bird conservations that would be devoid of light pollution, health illnesses derived from feces, their feathers and nesting areas. As a result of the bird conservations being isolated from business development, the chances of oil spill contaminating their food supply and livelihood would ensure that their water supply would not be at risk of oil spills. In order to educate the society of the importance of Bird Conservation, the Students of University of South Florida will be having a Day Bird Conservation where we will educate the student population of the existing Bird Conservations that are located in Florida. There, we will give out the information on how to get involved in creating more Bird Conservation in Florida. The Challenges of Bird Conservation will be discussed, as well as what can we do in reducing light pollution, protecting our loved ones from bird diseases, and discussions around building cities that are bird friendly. In 1918 Congress passed the Migratory Bird Treaty Act, which protects birds from people. However, The University of Florida wants to call the students to action to take it one step further, lets together arrive at creative ways to build homes, reduce light pollution as well as protect us from Avian related flu diseases. We can do it, if we just stand together with the common goal of creating habitats for birds while we create habitats for ourselves. be united. This is a call to action. Create awareness for the need to foster Bird Conservation in our Sunshine State. Work Cited Elizabeth Ciuzio, et al. and Challenges to Implementing Bird Conservation on Private Wildlife Society Bulletin (2011-), vol. 37, no. 2, 2013, pp. www.jstor.org/stable/wildsocibull2011.37.2.267. School of Environmental and Forest Sciences, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington, United States of America: Breeding Dispersal by Birds in a Dynamic Urban Ecosystem by, John M. Marzluff, Jack H. DeLap, M. David Oleyar, Kara A. Whittaker, Beth Gardner, Published: December 28, 2016, https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0167829 http://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0063482 International Journal of Hydrogen Energy, Volume 41, Issue 37, 5 October 2016, Pages 16555 Hawaii birds confuse Friday night lights with Moon Source: Associated Press - Fri Oct 22 nd , 2010 7:14 pm ET Impacts of oil spills on seabirds: unsustainable impacts of nonrenewable energy: Avian and other zoonotic influenza Fact sheet, Updated November 2016 World Health Organization, Rentokil, http://www.rentokil.com/pest-borne-diseases/bird-diseases/ Nature Conservancy, https://www.nature.org/ourinitiatives/regions/northamerica/areas/centralappalachians/recom mended-shale-practices-artificial-lighting.pdf?redirect=https-301 PLOS, https://www.plos.org/ http://cescos.fau.edu/observatory/lightpol-Birds.html The Science of Birds by Ornithology