Carliette Sierralta Dr. Oana Cimpean ENC 1102: English Composition II 16 April 2017 Take Action for the Rights of Undocumented Parents and Mixed-Status Families Immigration reform has been a prominent topic of discussion for the past decade. More specifically, the discussions have focused on the issue of mixed-status families and how undocumented parents or children who currently reside in the United States should be dealt with. President 2012 deferred action policy made it possible for undocumented children to live, work, and go to school in the U.S. legally. ) The standing immigration policies have not yet been able to address undocumented parents of U.S. citizens and thus these parents are subject to deportation at any moment. People should demonstrate support for immigration reform that allows for mixed-status families to remain together as it is essential for the wellness of these families as well as economically beneficial to American society as a whole. Today, 3.8 million undocumented immigrants have children that are U.S. citizens, many of which, if deported, would not take their children with them. Undocumented parents are sometimes reluctant to take their children back to their country of origin as a result of low financial capabilities and security. Many of these parents believe that any situation their children encounter in the United States would be nothing in comparison to the issues in their home countries. With more than 5,100 U.S. citizen children in foster care after their deportation in 2011 alone, American children are suffering the disadvantages of having no little to no economic or emotional support. (Gavett) Even children whose parents have not be detained or deported are subject to lower socioeconomic opportunities. This is because undocumented parents are usually limited to low paying jobs such as farming, housekeeping, and construction. In a larger scope, one has to realize that these American children will one day be contributive members of society and should be given the same opportunities as any other child despite the immigration status of their parents. If they are not given the same opportunities most of these children will be stuck in a dilemma involving the possible detainment of a parent or the likelihood of growing up in an economically struggling household. shows that children whose parents are at risk of deportation are more likely to suffer psychological harm, which can undermine their chances for educational and economic So with the security of having their parents around, U.S. children of undocumented immigrants would receive a more equal opportunity to thrive. All in all, providing undocumented parents with opportunities to legally work and reside in the United States would make for stronger households across the country, which would in turn make for a stronger America. The father ) Those who oppose immigration reform and deferred action usually tie it to the negative economic impacts that undocumented people have on our society such as that undocumented immigrants do not pay taxes and take advantage of government funding like welfare and food stamps. Although many undocumented immigrants cannot pay federal income or social security taxes due to cash receiving payments at work, it is still estimated that they contribute about $12 billion a year in taxes. (Qiu) Every time an immigrant purchases a taxable product such as regular appliances, they are paying taxes. In the same manner, immigrants pay property taxes whenever they are able to buy or rent real estate, which significantly benefits state education. While undocumented immigrants are allowed to receive emergency medical care and public schooling, they are not by any means allowed to apply for food stamps or welfare, as these applications require social security numbers and legal identification. What many people fail to see is that deportation proceedings are extremely expensive programs for our government to keep running. The North American Integration and Development (NAID) Center at University of California Los Angeles estimated that deferred action for the current 3.8 million undocumented parents of U.S. citizen minors would result in new tax revenue of $2.6 billion over the first two years. Similarly, deferred action for these parents was estimated of increasing the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) of the United States by as much as $200 billion over the next 10 years. (The CAP Immigration Team) With immigration reform that allows for undocumented parents with U.S. citizen or resident children to legally reside in the United States, there would be more economic opportunities seen not only at the individual level but also at the state level. Although much has been done for undocumented children to legally reside in the United States, not much has been accomplished for undocumented parents which means that in most cases children are allowed to stay in the country while their parents are not. There has been effort seen in the past few years to pass legislation that would help the situation of undocumented parents. In November of 2014 President Barrack Obama announced the implementation of a Deferred Action for Parents of Americans (DAPA) which would be an expansion of the DACA program currently in place. This would have allowed undocumented parents of U.S. citizen children to work and live legally within the U.S. without the threat of deportation. Just one month after President announcement 26 states worked to issue a which would temporarily stop DAPA from being implemented. The Obama administration appealed the injunction that was issued by these states. President Obama This brought the case forward to the Supreme Court to decide on whether or not DAPA should be allowed to move forward. In June of 2016 the Supreme Court announced that they were not able to reach a majority decision on the case of United States v. Texas, with a deadlock vote of 4-4. Because they could not come to a decision, the was left in place. This left DAPA blocked and the case in limbo. The only possibility this legislation to have gone any further in the courts would have been for the current President, Donald Trump, to have agreed to bring it back forth to the Supreme Court. However, President ideas regarding immigration are very opposite to what President were making DAPA a lost cause. DAPA and Expanded DACA ) Although DAPA ultimately failed, one could say that a 4-4 tie in the courts was actually progressive towards the idea of having a proper decision made on the issue of undocumented parents and mixed-status families. Awareness on the issue and growing support could have a great influence on future legislations that concern this topic. Making state senators and representatives aware that immigration reform is still an issue that the public cares about is effective in regards to public influence. Social media and the internet has made contacting these representatives and sharing individual views a lot more efficient. These days mailing a letter, sending an email, calling, or even tweeting a representative about views on an issue are all significant. These officials are elected to vote on legislations that represent the views of the public. Similarly, voting for representatives that stand for the same values as a community is important even at the local level, as these local elections could eventually be responsible for larger scale state and federal decisions. Consequently, the topic of mixed-status families, specifically undocumented parents of U.S. citizen children, has been a current and pressing issue in American society today. Although a permanent solution has not been made on this issue, there have been many efforts within the past couple of years to finally give undocumented parents legal rights in the U.S. By bringing awareness to the issues at hand and expressing public interests with representatives, one can heavily influence the choices and views that positively impact immigration reform. In this manner, not only would new legislations strengthen family dynamics across the country but they would also better the economy over time. Works Cited DACA (Deferred Action for Childhood  Immigration Equality. N.p., n.d. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. DAPA and Expanded DACA  National Immigration Law Center. N.p., n.d. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. Gavett, Gretchen. Study: 5,100 Kids in Foster Care After Parents  PBS. Public Broadcasting Service, n.d. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. President Obama Announces Executive Action on Immigration: November 20 and 21,  Historic Documents of 2014 (n.d.): 558-70. Web. Qiu, Linda. How much do undocumented immigrants pay in  @politifact. N.p., 02 Oct. 2016. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. The CAP Immigration Team. The Facts on Immigration  Center for American Progress. N.p., n.d. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. The father  The Washington Times. The Washington Times, 22 June 2016. Web. 17 Apr. 2017.