Student 1 Student Instructor Lewis ENC 1102 16 April, 2017 Ambitions For Conquering Depression Individuals all travel through life, taking everything one step at a time, capturing every beautiful moment and withstanding the powerful experiences that approach. But for others, these day are nothing but a challenge to complete every day. Dreading the splash of sun rays kiss their cheeks in the morning, and crawling through every task with their head barely above water. Those suffering similarly like what was described above are suffering from depression and numerous victims are simply unaware and oblivious to the various treatments one can endure to subside of any unhappiness, guilt, insecurities, etc. is more than just feeling It is a serious illness caused by changes in brain chemistry. Research tells us that other factors contribute to the onset of depression, including genetics, changes in hormone levels, certain medical conditions, stress, grief or difficult life circumstances is According to Lindsay Holmes, the statistics state that 350 million people globally who are affected by some form of depression. However, 50% seek any medical treatment for their illness. Without any effort, millions of people around the world will continue to deteriorate and possibly risk their lives to alleviate their sorrows. On the contrary, the world can unite and secure this issue by researching diverse resolutions to treat victims, creating a friendly environment for everyone to ensure each individual feels respected and supported, and helping raise awareness to assist in battling this disease. Student 2 Unfortunately, this tragic phenomenon has been a huge deal for centuries. Previously known as the earliest accounts appeared in ancient Mesopotamian texts in the second millennium B.C. (MentalHelp) wrath has blossomed worldwide but treatments have taken quite the positive rotation. A report by Rashmi Nemade states that towards the beginning of the 19th century, new therapies for depression included water immersion (keeping people under water for as long as possible without drowning them) and a special spinning stool to induce dizziness (to rearrange the contents of the brain into the correct positions). Luckily, tactics have evolved substantially but still require some improvements due to the high depression rates. Psychotherapy, surgeries, counseling, and medications all contribute to tackling depression but yet, why is depression still an ongoing illness if all of these successful remedies are available? With enough assistance from non-engaged stakeholders, treatments can continue to gradually increase and depression rates can drop. Some stakeholders can argue that a significant setback for finding treatments could be insufficient wealth or lack of health insurance. A dispute with non-engaged stakeholders states that the inability to pay any treatments can halt any chances of seeking help to overcome depression. Depending on community and ethnicity, some individuals may not be as privileged to receive health care benefits or acquire a healthy income sufficient for health care professionals. Studies show that nearly one-fourth of African Americans are uninsured, a percentage 1.5 times greater than the white rate (Huffington Post). Although these rates are unfortunately quite excessive, the government has distinguished this affair and established a solution. Our members of Congress have passed legislation in December 2016 called the 21 st Century Cures Act that can alleviate this problem. According to the mission statement, Democrats and Republicans lined up to support the bill, which aimed to modernize and Student 3 personalize health care, encourage greater innovation, support research, and streamline the (USF Health). In hopes of success for this new government aid, worrying about how to pay for treatment rather than obtaining proper treatment can increase attempts and possibly account for lower depression rates. Although depression is a very popular topic, many stories are not exchanged throughout the world. But one brave soul decided to give it a shot and discuss her journey through depression and how she uses it to save lives and connect with others. According to TEDx Talks, Hunter Kent, a senior at Cape Elizabeth High School, spent many of her teen years battling depression. The feeling of isolation submerged her to the point of harming her body to experience any sort of feelings. As the depression worsened, she was transmitted to a 3-week leadership camp with other teenagers. Uniting with one another by sharing personal anecdotes, she came to the realization that she had unfolded the truth and developed trust with her peers. Conquering that barrier changed her fate forever and she currently reaches out to young freshmen about overcoming pressure and judgments. She also assembled an Instagram page that comprises of encouraging quotes and personal incidents of her depression to empathize with any others in similar situations. Understanding the detrimental effects of depression and the significance of battling it and merely listening to others can accommodate in providing opportunities to offer victims the proper reinforcement essential. In the meantime, an institution funded by the people can be arranged for mentally ill patients to undertake in hopes of curing this ailment. A ranch in the beautiful state of Tennessee called Recovery Ranch consists of trained mental health care professionals and personalized care to ensure victims receive the necessary treatments they deserve. They combine evidence-based medications, individual therapy, group therapy and traditional, experiential and alternative Student 4 approaches to help clients address the issues that fuel depression and also recover from co- occurring disorders and common ways of coping with depression and Incorporating these procedures with a group of individuals in alike instances can help enhance trust and stability while establishing companionship. Unfortunately, many victims choose to linger in agony due to the extravagant expenses and distance instead of attempting to surpass it. Concerned individuals can pledge to this notion with any donations or support by contacting the providers of Recovery Ranch With sufficient donations and advertisement from non-engaged stakeholders, this scheme could potentially blossom globally. In addition to a personalized care institution, stakeholders can provide any close relatives, friends, or coworkers with emotional support and respect to achieve any confidence boosts and trustworthy bonds for anyone suffering from depression. Sometimes the feeling of amity and understanding and merely feeling important and desired is required for improvements in insecurities. Conducting research towards advanced curing methods would also be beneficial to escaping depression. If numerous intellects joined together in hopes of discovering improved treatments, many theories and ideas can be discussed and intertwined to harness new results. Imagine people uniting and working together to assist in funding mental care institutions and contributing any psychological reassurance; those undergoing this mental disorder could be capable of undertaking these efforts and foreseeing betterment with their depression. To conclude, depression is a prevalent, ongoing mental disorder that should be apprehended solemnly. Numerous of depressed individuals are either unaware or entirely anguished to execute any constructive approaches. Comprising successful treatments and emotional encouragement demands for an abundance of effort advanced research attempts that may or may not have been conducted, adequate donations and public advertisements to any Student 5 organizations that support mental disorders, and plentiful respect and patience to others, whether suffering from depression or not. Potentially saving a life of a stranger or loved one would be self-rewarding and could utilize any hardships personally and for the individual. Uniting engaged and non-engaged stakeholders can intensify the notion of furthering endeavors towards treating depression and lowering depression rates perpetually across the world. (WC:1208) Works Cited Student 6 B, Minaa. Health Treatment Is A Privilege Many People The Huffington Post, TheHuffingtonPost.com, 28 July 2015, www.huffingtonpost.com/minaa-b/mental- What Are Signs and Mental Health Fitness, TagDiv, mentalhealth.fitness/learn-about-your-diagnosis/depression/. Holmes, Lindsay. Statistics That Will Change The Way You Think About The Huffington Post, TheHuffingtonPost.com, 20 Jan. 2015, 16 Apr. 2017. Nemade, Rashmi. Understandings Of Mental Help Historical Understandings of Depression Comments, 19 Sept. 2007, www.mentalhelp.net/articles/historical-understandings-of-depression/. TEDxTalks. Depression: How I Became My Own Hero Hunter Kent YouTube, YouTube, 21 Jan. 2015, www.youtube.com/watch?v=Rv9SwZWVkOs. Vosel, Jeff, editor. Treatment The Ranch, www.recoveryranch.com/treatment-issues/mood-disorders/depression/. Century Cures Act Usfhealthonline.com, USF Health, www.usfhealthonline.com/resources/healthcare/21st-century-cures/. Student 7