Intermediate Draft Jimmy Jones Ms. Lay ENC 1102 April 14, 2017 Pay That Man His Money Oh the NCAA. The National Collegiate Athletic Association, has rules and opinions of their own, hiding behind their so call non-profit organization but in reality making money hand over fist. To the general public, nobody knows where it goes. It just vanish into thin air, it has to go somewhere. The NCAA makes money off of television, merchandise, and contracts with schools and about every company associated with the sports played under the NCAA. The first the on the agenda for the NCAA should be to put this money to use. Why not a better way to go about that then paying the players playing NCAA sports money based on performance. The student athletes are given scholarships, but that is just to give us a good education. The time and effort a college athlete puts in everyday to perfect their craft is countless. These students just going to school; they are essentially working. Playing a sport in college is like a job. It is seven days a week, constant stress, and having to go to school on top of it. These athletes should be rewarded for the sacrifices they make to not be a regular student. To not just mix in with the crowd. The normal college student and professors know what it takes to excel at a collegiate sport while keeping up with school. The day long enough. A college athlete needs a few more hours just to get what they need to do done. A 24-hour day just long enough. The dedication it takes to succeed at a college sport and go to school on the side is extremely demanding. Each day consists of working out, full practice, recovery or treatment work and study hall. I even mention having to do homework or study for a test. There even time to work and maybe have a little cash on the side. Here is a story from Tyson Harnett of the Huffington Post about trying to work and be a student athlete at the same time. a little extra money to see a movie or go out to dinner once a week, my freshman roommate worked a job at the university, earning about $7/hour. He would work his butt off all day, with two or sometimes three basketball training sessions, plus classes and homework, and go to that job for a few hours late at night. He would come back exhausted, but he needed whatever money they would pay him. However, once the season started up, he work that job anymore. We were on the road all the time, even gone for two straight weeks at one point. The teachers let us do our work from the road, but the job going to pay you just because you were playing basketball on a road trip. The team gave us meal money (about $7 per meal) so we could get chips and condiments with our sandwiches, but anything else was considered an NCAA This is a perfect example of why NCAA athletes should get paid to play their sport. It may be the best four years of your life, but it also can be the most expensive. The life is rough, and should be rewarded for putting in so many man hours day in and day out. A debate that has been discussed for years is whether or not NCAA athletes should get paid to play their sport. People get paid to do a job, so why student athletes getting the same treatment. Playing a sport is a job just like professional athletes, getting paid to perform and bring home championships is the same for college athletes. In conclusion, NCAA athletes should get paid for their performance playing their sport. With all the money that college athletes make for the school and television they deserve their slice of the pie. Its only going to change if people on the board of the NCAA are ex college athletes because you truly have to understand what the life of an NCAA athlete is like. This will have a direct impact on our future and the up and coming athletes who will eventually play college sports. Maybe one day your grandchild will be bringing home thousands for scoring goals. So, pay that man his money, he deserves it. Home Page College sports are very popular but some people on the other hand do not have interest. My target audience will be the USF student. The population of a school is divided up into athletes and the regular student. I will be looking to interview the standard student. I am going to have a video of sports events that engage the viewer as soon as they click onto my website. Educate They know about what student athletes go through on a daily basis. They also know about all the money that is made by the school through the athletes. To fully understand this topic, the reader will need to know all the information behind the scenes and ways the university makes all the money because of the students. Engage The audience should care about the issue because it fair to the student athlete to not get any benefits from their effort. This issue might not affect them right now but in the future it could have a direct correlation with their life. When maybe their child is playing college sports or a family member. Maybe a younger sibling. Empower A slogan or statement to get them excited about the argument to get the page started. Something that will make the fell that this can affect their life. Signing a petition? Something to get them engaged and out in the community dong something about it. Works Cited Hartnett, Tyson. Why College Athletes Should Be  The Huffington Post. TheHuffingtonPost.com, 21 Oct. 2013. Web. 18 Apr. 2017.