Davison 1 Bradley Davison 13 April 2017 ENC 1102 Andrew DeCarion Campus Carry The topic of Campus Carry is becoming an increasingly debatable topic in common conversation, and/or a political aspect. If you have been paying attention to the news within the last several years, mass shootings are at an all-time high. In 2013-2015 there were a reported 160 qualifying school shootings in the United States and 76 of which occurred on college campuses (Everytown). Could this have been prevented if there was at least one trained individual on any of these campuses with a concealed carry permit? The question is too broad to deserve a reasonable answer but in all aspects it is a common thought that the situation could have been halted had somebody been present with a form of higher defense. Concealed carry has been around since the and has always been limited to certain areas i.e. Government buildings and college campuses. But in research at trend has been discovered in areas of no carry and mass shootings. Campus carry is the act of allowing students/staff, who possess a concealed carry permit, to carry a loaded handgun on their person at all times as a means of legitimate self-defense for themselves and others on campus. When discussing campus carry the issue at hand lies in the trustworthiness of the individuals who will be carrying the firearms on campus. Many people believe that allowing individuals to carry a firearm on campus would just result in more school shootings. Others believe that college students are not mature enough to have that type of responsibility around other students. Davison 2 Chances are if you are reading this paper you are in college, have a son or daughter in college, or have already attended college. This should be a significant topic in your life because I could very quickly involve you or the ones you love in a life threatening situation. not uncommon to think that there is no way in a million years would you or someone you know ever be involved in a situation such as a mass shooting. Things like this happen all too often to not pursue a solution or a deterrent. Campus safety is an extremely important aspect when choosing a university. Most universities employ traffic directors for students to cross the street safely, or emergency telephones in parking lots for individuals in distress while walking to their car at night maybe, or some even have their own separate police agency just for the university. But the main major flaw in all these safeguards is that they all take too much time. When dialing 911 according to the Self Defense Institute average response time for an emergency call is 10 minutes. Atlanta has the worst response time with 11 to 12 (WSDI). Eleven to twelve minutes for help to arrive in a life threatening emergency could be considered almost useless. All of this could be solved or at least prevented if individuals were to by law be able to carry a firearm on and about campus for the use of self-defense. Putting yourself in the shoes is the easiest way to understand the effectiveness. Imagine if you were a criminal and you were considering completing a heinous crime to an individual or individuals on campus. Would you consider completing this crime on a campus that allows campus carry or a campus that forbids it? Most likely you chose the campus that forbids it, because a criminal wants to remove the possibility that an individual will be able to defend themselves and fight back to ensure his success. The probability of this law being passed is determined by your devotion and determination. If you feel strongly about this topic and would like to have the definite ability to defend yourself you should take action as quickly as possible. There are many organizations you can join or donate to that help raise awareness and speak out for campus carry. Many colleges support peaceful protesting and most likely encourage it. Check your restrictions on protesting and if the college condones it Davison 3 begin immediately. This cannot be fought for alone. The ugly truth is that the amount of people who stand up for campus carry is much fewer than the amount of people who fight against campus carry. But the real key to success lies in the large quantity of people who have yet formed an opinion on the issue. This body is much larger than either side. Convincing somebody who has already formed their opinion is much more difficult to convince than somebody who already formed an opinion and necessarily feel educated enough on the issue at hand to even side themselves. So the most important part is education on the issue. The more educated people are the more they are the more likely they are to stand up and fight for what they feel is right. Several organizations that spread the word on this topic include the NRA (national rifle association) and other smaller bodied organizations include Students for Concealed Carry which is a 100% student governed organization that accepts donations as a means of help for their fundraisers to raise awareness on the positive effect on the implementation of campus carry. Every state also has a representative that politically represents the issue and you can email him or her what your thoughts and ideas are on the issue. Also many petitions are being advertised that you can incorporate yourself into. The amount of ways to take action on campus carry is virtually limitless. Try to involve yourself and others as much as you can. Campus carry has been an issue for several years now. Becoming more popular when the rise of crime rates on campuses began. Only until recently have things started to become more and more arguable. The University of Texas has now made it a law that students can carry concealed on campus and this could be viewed as a ground breaking change. It is up to you, the law abiding civilian to help make a change as soon as possible and help lower the crime rate on college campuses buy fighting for campus carry. The amount of ways to take action is nearly endless. It will take a significant amount of spreading the word and even more education on the issue but with your help we can all make campus carry a nationwide policy and help end the constant targeting of campus crime. Davison 4 Works Cited Analysis of School  EverytownResearch.org. N.p., n.d. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. <https://everytownresearch.org/reports/analysis-of-school-shootings/>. Average-Police-Response-Time to a 911  Average-Police-Response-Time. N.p., n.d. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. <http://www.self-defense-mind-body-spirit.com/average-police-response-time.html>.  NRA Publications. N.p., n.d. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. <http://www.nrapublications.org/>. Students for Concealed  Students for Concealed Carry RSS. N.p., n.d. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. <http://concealedcampus.org/>.