Kish 1 Natalie Kish Andrew de Carion ENC 1102 10 April 2017 The Importance of Space Exploration for the Advancement of Humanity The curiosity to explore the unknown is human nature and it is in human best interest to indulge that curiosity, the exploration of space is no exception. The enormity of outer space is something that few are able to truly appreciate, resulting in declined public approval in recent years for funding for future space travel. According to an article written by Francois Nadeau, the demographic most likely to endorse space exploration is white males from the baby boomer era; this is known as (164). There was no concrete evidence to support that a younger generation exhibited the same interest (Nadeau, 164). If this trend continues, the space program will be at risk of losing its funding and thus cease to exist entirely. When this happens, the human race will never have the chance to indulge its curiosity about our place in the stars. However, recent advancements in technology are making now more than ever the perfect time to continue space exploration in a cost and time effective manner. Public support and funding for space exploration conducted by NASA and other private entities is vital for advancements in society and the integrity of the pursuit of knowledge of the human race. One might ask themselves, if there are new methods to reach outer space that are superior to those prior, why support for space exploration increased in recent years? This is simply because most people are not properly educated on the matter. When the average person thinks of space exploration, images of massive, powerful rockets and high-tech facilities come to mind. Kish 2 Technology such as this has been very valuable to the space program, but at a high price tag. Perhaps the most important reason American citizens do not see any merit in continuing the space program is that the cost is simply too high. Also, government spending on such things takes money from the budget that could be put to use for other important programs such as education and welfare. However, the responsibility of funding for space exploration is not solely on the shoulders of the U.S. government anymore. According to the article written by Reibaldi and Grimard, non-governmental organizations played and can play an even more important role in the future of space (130). One of these non-governmental organizations is Spacex, a private company working very close with NASA to and advanced spacecraft . . . to revolutionize space (About Spacex). With Spacex building and launching rockets, less funding is needed for NASA from the American government. In addition, Spacex has recently put into effect technology that will lower the cost of space exploration: reusable rockets. Spacex is currently designing Falcon 9 rockets that will be successfully launched, perform their duties, and be returned safely back to Earth for reuse (Mark Williamson, 30). On December 21, 2015 a Falcon 9 rocket was successfully returned to a launch pad at Cape Canaveral after delivering communications satellites into orbit (Williamson, 30). Since these rockets cost a lot of money and time to build, making them reusable will improve efficiency on all fronts. Satellite launches will transition from projects that are costly and time consuming to routine and cost effective. This technology could be vital to further space exploration missions, including a crewed mission to Mars as has been talked about for many years. Kish 3 Even though the issue of money and time has been resolved, many people have yet to see the value in space exploration. This claim does hold some truth, it has no economic value in present day and does not benefit anyone, or some may think. In an article published in Space Policy, Seth D. Baum conducts a analysis on space exploration. This analyzes the costs and benefits of a possible decision (Baum, 76). While a analysis typically looks at costs and benefits in terms of market transactions, space exploration is viewed in terms of non-market valuation (Baum, 76). Baum asserts that of the biggest benefits of space exploration is the insights we gain about our place in the (76). Conducting studies to solve this enigma will help us to gain an understanding of how our planet came to be in this massive universe. Breakthroughs such as this are something that cannot be measured in units as trivial as money. By the same token, momentous findings such as this will not benefit any one individual, but rather the species as a whole for generations to come. Children are still learning about the discoveries of pioneers and explorers that occurred hundreds of years ago because they are important to history; they are a part of the legacy of the human race. The discovery of our place in the universe is important to society and how we identify as human beings. For one to truly appreciate the results of space exploration one must consider not only themselves, but human kind as a whole. There are many ways in which the average citizen can advance space exploration. The most important is to get educated and get experience. Following NASA on social media or one of their blogs can help you to have better knowledge on the latest in space exploration. This way, when it comes time to vote for your Congressman you can put someone in office who shares Kish 4 your views on space exploration. Also, visiting places like the Kennedy Space Center can provide experiences that might change your mind about the validity of space exploration. If extensive reading or traveling really your thing, there are ways you can help NASA explore the universe right on your computer. On their website, NASA has links to sites where you can perform data analysis in a variety of different ways. You can map craters on the surface of Mars or the moon, find brown dwarf planets, and analyze debris disks around stars to tell their age (Get Involved). Years of experience is not necessary to perform analysis on these images, you only need a passion for astronomy and a tutorial will guide you through the rest. While these tasks may seem mundane, a way for NASA to conduct simple data analysis quickly and without expending a lot of manpower. Not to mention, it be amazing to discover a new dwarf planet outside our solar system? In summation, public support for space exploration has declined in recent years, which could result in decreased funding for space exploration and even it ceasing to exist all together. Fortunately, innovative technology such as reusable rockets and non-governmental entities like Spacex covering some of the costs, growth in space exploration is appropriate now more than ever. Moreover, piecing together the puzzle of outer space is vital for understanding our place in the universe and how we identify as human beings. Becoming educated on current happenings in space exploration is essential to increasing public support and ultimately advancing the technologies we use to reach that goal. Kish 5 Annotated Bibliography Spacex. 2017. www.spacex.com/about. Accessed 14 April 2017. This is the official webpage for the aerospace company Spacex. The About page provides information on their goals, what they do, and their locations throughout the United States. This source was used to provide background information on Spacex and their goals. Baum, Seth D. analysis of space exploration: Some ethical Space Policy. Vol. 25 No. 2. pp. 75-80. www.sciencedirect.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu. Accessed 12 April 2017. The article written by Baum conducts a analysis on space exploration. Baum looks at the benefits of space explorations and compares them to what it could cost us in the long run. Some aspects of the analysis include non-market value, standing, and discounts. This source was used to demonstrate the benefits of space exploration other than economic return, i.e. non-market value. Hall, Loura. NASA. 22 Feb. 2017. www.nasa.gov/solve/index.html. Accessed 15 April 2017. This webpage is from the NASA website and describes all the ways that the average civilian can get involved in space exploration. This source was used when listing the ways in which people could get involved in the call to action. Nadeau, Francois. public support for space exploration funding in America: A multivariate Acta Astronautica. Vol. 86. 2013. pp. 158-166. DOI: 10.1016/j.actaastro.2013.01.004. Accessed 12 April 2017. Kish 6 The article written by Nadeau explains public support for space exploration in the United States. Not only has the study conducted detail trends in support over time, but includes statistics for different demographics as well; these demographics include age, race, etc. This source was used to demonstrate that there has been a decline in public support for space exploration in recent years. Reibaldi, Guiseppe and Grimard, Max. Organizations importance and future role in Space Acta Astronautica. Vol. 114. 2015. pp. 130-137. DOI: 10.1016/j.actaastro.2015.04.023. Accessed 12 April 2017. The article written by Reibaldi and Grimard discusses how space exploration missions are now being carried out by private companies and organizations as opposed to governmental organizations such as NASA. The article addresses the possible advantages and complications to pursuing this path and proposes ways in which those complications could be fixed. This source was used to explain how private companies now have a stake in space exploration and how government funding and tax money is not as heavily relied upon as in previous years. Williamson, Mark. Are Engineering and Technology. Vol. 11 No. 2. pp. 28-31. www.ieeexplore-ieee-org.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu. Accessed 12 April 2017. The article written by Williamson highlights advances in reusable rocket technology. Williamson explains how the technology works and how it will be applied in future space exploration missions. This source was used to explain reusable rocket technology and how it will be applied to benefit space travel in the future.