Student Instructor Dana Rine ENC 1101 20 November 2016 P3 Intermediate Draft The US monetary system should remove both the penny and nickel and move to a system where the lost common denominator for price is 10cence. The benefits from removing the penny and nickel from circulation would be less wasteful spending by the government on coins that cost more to make than what they are worth (McGinty). Hence there are immediate benefits to stopping the continued production of both nickels and pennies in the United States. The removal of the penny and nickel would strengthen our local markets, since paying with cash and coin will be easier transactions once all sales are rounded up to the nearest 10cence. The removal of the penny in specific has been done in similar countries such as Canada and it was successful; the half-penny was also a coin in the US monetary system that was removed in 1857 (Fisher). Both of these examples show how the removal of coinage can do effectively and have a positive impact on the economy. In this paper I will outline the major points that support the removal of the penny and nickel from the US monetary system using facts and data as evidence. Removing the penny and nickel reduces the cost of producing these coins. Both of these coins are a net loss for the government to produce and replace older ones. The cost to replace the penny and nickel is more than the actual worth of the coins (McManus). The cost is the main financial reason to remove the penny and nickel from circulation. The amount of money that is lost to producing and replacing these coins costs the American tax payer millions of dollars each year, just to keep a coin that has little to no value. There is also financial loss in the amount of pennies and nickels discarded everyday by customers due to their insignificant worth. 21% of pennies have gone missing since (McGinty). This statistic proves that millions of dollars in coinage has gone missing due to the fact these coins are seen as worthless to most of the public. The loss of these coins also feeds into needing to waste more money to print them, creating a self-fulling cycle of wasting money on nickels and pennies. The transactions that businesses make with customers will be a lot more efficient by rounding up all sales to the nearest 10cence. The millions of dollars are lost each year by people and businesses that lose money due to the hassle of the penny and nickel. The previous mentioned fact by McGinty shows that millions of dollars are lost due to businesses and people losing coins. The hassle of transactions including pennies and nickels also slows down the system in place to carryout physical transactions regarding money. With the reduction of change to the nearest 10cence customers will be able to pa faster and easier with hard currency without keeping lots of coins on hand. The businesses will also be able to processes transactions that result in change much faster than normally possible. The removal of the penny and nickel would not be the first of its kind, the half penny was a coin that was removed in 1857. At the time the coin more buying power than the current dime has. The Waiting For Change from 2013 states that the value of the penny has inflated 25 times thus making the purchasing power of the penny nearly nothing compared to that of the penny nearly 100 years ago. When the buying power of a coin is reduced to such a level it is logical for the coin to be removed, since its inherent value is near meaningless. There is precedent that was set 159 years ago after the removal of the half penny from circulation in the United States of America. The government decided to remove the half penny to make transactions easier and simpler for businesses. The system adapted after the removal of the smallest coinage, the modern system can too adapt to the removal of both the penny and the nickel from the monetary system. The removal of both the penny/nickel and the change that would come from every system rounding to the nearest 10cence would be very hard for the system businesses use to adapt. The systems many companies and businesses use now to total the price of transaction will have to be replaced with more modern systems that factor prices down to integers of 10cence. The private markets will struggle mightily during the beginning of the change. The removal of the penny and nickel will also be less impactful due to the amount of transactions that are placed online versus with hard currency; the further we wait the necessity to remove the penny declines. It would be completely rational to conclude that the removal of the penny and nickel is not necessary considering the advancement of digital payment. The counter argument expresses the difficulties in changing which coins are in circulation. The main point of the counterargument is true however change is constant and inevitable and the benefits outweigh the troubles that will last for a short while. The markets have adapted to the digital influx of transactions, they can also adapt to having new systems that round up prices to the nearest 10cence. The removal of the penny and nickel also is beneficial in the future; despite the rising transactions being made via credit card. The counter-argument does not take into consideration previous removals of coins that have been successful both here and in Canada. The removal of the penny and nickel are important to continue the progression of the monetary system. Coins have been removed in the past and continuing to do so helps modernize and update the system. This will not be the last removal of a coin or physical money, but it is important to keep the progress that is needed in a modern economy. The removal of the penny and nickel will lead to a more efficient and less-costly monetary system. HagenBaugh, Barbara. penny saved could become a penny USA Today. 2006. Craven McGinty, Jo. Costly-to-Make Penny From Wall Street Journal - Eastern Edition. 2014, Vol. 264 Issue 69, pA2-A2. 1/3p. 1 Graph. Sanburn, Josh. For Time 2013, Vol. 181 Issue 4, p36-40 Chande, Dinu. Timothy Fisher. a Penny? Need a Penny? Eliminating the One-Cent Coin from Canadian Public Policy. Dec2003, Vol. 29 Issue 4, p511-517 McManus, Kevin. great penny Industrial Engineer: IE 2013, Vol. 45 Issue 9, p16 Petrecca, Laura. rarity pumps up its USA Today 2009, 0734-7456, p1