Student Student 1 Special Needs Education What can happen to make sure special needs children get the right education? As history shows, special education has developed majorly and there are many different programs and schools that focus on special needs education. From special needs children not being able to even enroll in school, to having schools designed just for special needs children. This started after the case Brown v. Board of Education. This case began to show what was really going on within the school systems, and see how much special needs education needed to improve. There has been many laws that have been passed to support special needs education. For example, in 2004 the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA) was passed. This states that children who have learning disabilities are allowed a higher equality of education. This act was very important and helped improve what exactly special needs students need to succeed. It discusses what type of classroom each special needs student should be places into. This is very important because the type of environment that the student is placed in can obviously factor the way they learn. There was also the Individual Education Plan (IEP) which was developed in 1975. This was made to make sure that students with learning disabilities got the same type of education as their peers. The IEP is actually a legal document that states the education plan. It is a binding con- tract that discusses the goals. Many people are factored into this including, the student, parents, teachers/staff, or any doctors that are involved with the student. If any of the listed peo- ple do not follow the plan, then it can be taken to court. There are many different programs and schools that focus directly on special needs education. This is a big improvement because there was a time when people with special needs were not allowed to go to school. Student 2 There are some disadvantages/limitations within special needs schools and programs. There some programs for special needs students, including isolated programs. There are some issues with isolated special education programs. Special needs students already have low self esteem, and knowing that they are in a different type of program or school just makes it worse. If the stu- dent is in a special needs school, obviously there are only special needs students enrolled in that school. This can be a negative effect because the special needs students will not know how to interact with other students who do not have special needs. This can not only affect their life now, but later when they need to know how to interact with others. Also, being in an isolation program can affect the teacher. All teachers help each other out when it comes to helping certain students, but if there are only special needs teachers in the program. then they get help from other teachers who help general students. Special needs programs try to make the learning simi- lar to a general classroom so students get the same type of education. Within special needs pro- grams are certain resources to help the students. This can actually hurt the student later because when it comes to challenging work, it will be very hard for the student to complete it without the resources provided. Furthermore, it becomes harder for the student to be independent because of all the resources that are provided to them. All of these things can hurt the student outside of the classroom. Not being able to interact with the general students can affect their social aspect nega- tively. For example, in later life if the special needs student wants to get a job, they have to know how to interact with others. Students with special needs will also not learn how to be indepen- dent, so how will he/she live on her own? These are just a few of the limitations that come with special needs education/programs. Student 3 Works Cited Writer, Leaf Group. The Disadvantages of Isolated Special Education  Our Everyday Life. Our Everyday Life, 20 July 2013. Web. 16 April 2017. Teaching Students with Special Needs: Advice for Teachers (Grades  Ad- vice for Teachers (Grades K-12) - TeacherVision. N.p., Disabilities - My Special Needs - Parents -  Disabilities - My Special Needs - Parents - ED.gov. N.p., What Is Special  What Is Special Education? N.p PhDinSpecialEd-  PhDinSpecialEducationcom. N.p