Beaulieu 1 Jasmine Beaulieu Ms. Lay ENC 1102 11 April 2017 Animal Testing Animal testing is a very popular phenomenon that has been around since the time of the Ancient Greeks; Aristotle and Erasistratus being some of the first people to implement the use of the technique. Animal testing has become a very controversial topic as a whole, and it seems as if the controversy continues to grow as time progresses. An abundance of well-known companies produce products using animal testing. These companies claim that they test their products on animals to make sure that their products are safe for the consumer population, but organizations that are against animal testing believe that the use of animals to conduct product testing and experiments is both morally and ethically wrong. As students of the University of South Florida, you are affected by the implications of animal testing on a daily basis and should therefore have a very strong opinion on the issue. Take action to reduce the amount of animal testing that occurs on a daily basis; it only takes one person to make a change. Start a student organization, raise awareness, and even donate to organizations such as the PETA that are constantly fighting against animal testing. Animal testing is an epidemic that is constantly growing, but not enough people are educated about. Animal testing, also known as animal experimentation, any scientific experiment or test in which a live animal is forced to undergo something that is likely to cause them pain, suffering, distress, or lasting is Animal Some of the Beaulieu 2 experiments that animals are used in include: injecting animals with potentially harmful substances, exposing them to radiation, removing their organs to deliberately cause damage, forcing the animals to breathe in toxic gases, and forcing them into frightening situations to cause anxiety or depression. Companies that conduct these experiments claim that they are doing what they are doing for the benefit of the people. The problem with this is that are many non-animal test methods that can be used in place of tests on animals. Not only are these non- animal tests more humane, they also have the potential to be cheaper, faster, and more relevant to Testing Animals used in experiments are deliberately harmed, not for their own good, and are usually killed at the end of the experiment. It has been estimated that over 100 million animals are tested on around the world every year. Rats and mice make up a very large majority of the animals that are tested on each year, but other animals such as rabbits, monkeys, cats and dogs are also tested on in astounding quantities. Experimental laboratories are no place for any animal. They are typically indoor environments that are kept sterile, and in which the animals are forced to live in cages denied freedom of movement and control of their lives completely. At this moment, millions of rats, rabbits, mice, dogs, cats, and various other animals are all confined inside cages in experimental laboratories across the country. They experience pain, ache with loneliness, suffer from frustration, and long to be free. The complete lack of enrichment from the environment and the stress put upon them because of their living situation, causes some of the animals to develop behavior that is neurotic. These types of neurotic behaviors include rocking back and forth, spinning uncontrollably in circles, biting themselves, and even pulling out their own fur. They shake, cower, and are filled with fear when someone approaches. And after living a life full terror, loneliness, and pain, almost all of them are killed. Testing Beaulieu 3 The use of animal testing does not only affect the animals themselves, but it also affects you as well. One of the less obvious ways that animal testing affects consumers is the morality effect. Products that you use every day such as shampoo, makeup, air fresheners, and perfume have likely all been tested on animals before they were able to make it into stores. As stated by PETA, laundry detergent and make-up that are used on a day-to-day basis, are also the laundry detergent and make-up that have been tested on and Most people think about it when they are purchasing or using these products, but multiple animals were tortured and possibly killed in order for you to use them. Animal testing could also be preventing us from finding cures for incurable diseases. Researchers say that they test on animals to help find cures for these diseases, but in some cases the drugs that fail when tested on animals could very possible work on humans. According to Dr. Aysha Akhtar, every five to 10,000 potential drugs tested in the lab, only about five pass on to clinical trials. Many pass the animal tests because of species-specific results. Yet many of these agents would likely have worked spectacularly and been safe in Ways Animal A very well-known example of a drug that failed animal tests but is very effective in humans is aspirin. tested on animals aspirin caused genetic malformations in mice rats, dogs, cats, rabbits, and ( ). We are very different creatures from animals, and therefore we should not be using them as testing platforms. Whether it is affecting you directly through the absence of medical cures or through your personal morality and ethics, there is a lot that is at stake if animal testing continues. There are multiple ways that you can take action against animal testing on the University of South Florida campus alone. As a student at USF you have the ability to start a student organization in regards to fighting against animal testing. You can do this by submitting an Beaulieu 4 online organization request on BullSync. Once the organization has been accepted as an official student organization at USF, you are able to start conducting meetings and advertising your mission to grow it as big as possible. Raising awareness on animal testing is another way for you to get involved on the issue. There are multiple ways for you to raise awareness across campus. One way to spread awareness is to create a website. You can create a website by using a free website maker such as wix.com. Once you publish your website it is not only available for USF students to see, but for everyone to see. Creating a website is easy, free, and can make a huge impact. You can also raise awareness through a student organization, whether it be one that you create or one that already exists like for Setting up a table in front of the Marshall Student Center on patio Tuesday and conducting events of their own has the ability to reach the entire USF student body. The more students that are educated, the more of an impact you can make in the fight against animal testing. Supporting a well-known organization like The People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, otherwise known as the PETA, is another way that you can get involved. As an organization, the PETA is the largest animal rights organization in the world with more than 5 million members. The mission of the PETA is to ensure that all animals are being treated in an ethical and humane way at all times, no matter the situation for the The PETA is constantly fighting for what they believe in by working through public education, research, animal rescue, cruelty investigations, protest campaigns, celebrity involvement, and special events. You are able to join the PETA in their efforts to fight animal testing by going onto their website and looking at the events that they have coming up. They are constantly making a difference all around the world, and with your help you could be a part of that difference. If you Beaulieu 5 are not able to go to one of the events, you could also donate to help progress their efforts even further. Donating on the website is a way that you can get involved that is quick, easy, and very affective. Due to the fact that it is solely based upon opinions and beliefs, animal testing will probably always be a topic of debate that continues to grow. Some people try to justify the use of animal testing by saying that it is a (Stumpf). While experimentally torturing animals is definitely evil, it is in no way necessary. And you as a University of South Florida student has the ability to get involved on such an undereducated issue. Simple actions such as creating an organization, raising awareness, and donating have the ability to make the world of a difference. You never know, in the future you could be the reason why animal testing is no longer legal. Beaulieu 6 Works Cited Animal Testing  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Apr. 2017. PETA and group ask for more animal testing  Laboratory Equipment 2015: 2. General OneFile. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA): The Animal Rights PETA. PETA, n.d. WEB. 24 Jan. 2017. Stumpf, Elizabeth. Animal Experimentation and Testing: A Pro/Con  School Library Journal 2000: Academic OneFile. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. What is Animal  Cruelty Free International. N.p., n.d. Web. 11 Apr. 2017. 5 Ways Animal Testing Hurts  One Green Planet. N.p., 6 Jan. 2014. Web. 11 Apr. 2017.