XU 1 LEI XU ENC 1102 Professor Lay 16 April 2017 Charitable Institution in Social Media As social media becomes widely used in the world, we can access more information. And all that is because we are living in a peaceful country. Peaceful and strong national conditions allow us to receive education and thus we can use advanced technology to learn more and become a better person. However, while we are enjoying our time, millions of vulnerable children are suffering somewhere else. The most convenient way to help those vulnerable children is to join the charitable organization. The objectives of non-profit advertising are quite different from those of profit advertising. In the article strategies for charities Prom oting donation of time versus Kim states that the goal of non-profit organization is to persuade consumers to purchase products and services, whereas the former intends to motivate donors to give either time or money. (189).As a stakeholder for charitable organizations, I need to choose right strategies to persuade my audience. Charitable organizations can be classified into profit and non-profit organizations. Since college students have more free time than available money on hand, I will convince and engage the audience to take action for philanthropy. If we engage college students for volunteering in non-profit charity sector then it will help them to have a better understanding about the purpose of the charity organization and who they are helping. Spending time generates a more positive consumer attribution. ( Reed et.al, 179). Generally, college student does not have enough financial ability XU 2 to donate. Moreover, volunteering and work with non-profit charitable organization could strengthen audiences by making them understand the situation of concerning those vulnerable children are in. In addition, they can also increase the chance so that the audience would involve in charitable activities in future, not only volunteering but also monetary support. For example, Liu and Aaker found that monetary donations are larger when donors are asked to donate their time beforehand (or when is activated) than when they are asked to donate money directly (or when activated). (4). Through participating in charitable organizations students can help those vulnerable children and can gain new experience of life which allows them to become kind-hearted and patient person. They could donate their own money to help those children and give a presentation to acknowledge and appeal to more students in this society to participate with charitable organization and to help those vulnerable children. There are many reasons why students should donate to non-profit charity organizations. If students spend money for children who are suffering, it can give them happiness. There are millions of children who are suffering because of many reasons. For example, their family may have abandoned them or they were born with a poor fate. So, if they donate for the poor children it will give them happiness. Dunn et. al research has shown that, prosocial spending is associated with greater (1687). In addition, Dunn et. al research has shown that, spending can make people happier than personal (1687). Another reason is, giving is contagious. When we see, others are donating and we are most likely to donate. Moreover, if someone donates then they will feel rich. Even if he have much but it will make him realize that he has enough to share with others. Sometimes, a small donation can make a big change. The children who are suffering are some of the neediest people. So, if XU 3 students donate then they can help them. Furthermore, if they donate then they can promote generosity in and reduce the poverty. In short, if students will donate money then they will feel grateful and they can make the world a better place. In addition, students can experience more pleasure and it brings more meaning to their life because they can help others in need. In the article, exploratory study of existential guilt appeals in charitable Lwin and research has shown that, to intrinsic benefits such as satisfaction, self-esteem and public gratification, individuals are motivated to (1468). Guilts work as a persuasive way to attract students to donate. Because emotions work appeals in effective in persuading students to donate, emotion appeals generally work as a way to grab attention. Hibbert et. al research has shown that, a guilt is aroused and there is a limit and beyond this, no guilt can be tolerated so students more likely attempt to reduce those (3). Often negative emotions work as a short-term way to persuade students to donate. On the other hand, positive emotions work as a long-term way in persuading students to donate for the charity. Lwin et.al claimed that, evokes through the result of comparison between well-being and own (1469) When students can see that children in their surrounding leading a miserable but they are living a happy life then guilt arises and they are most likely to donate. In 2013, Hudson claimed that, should think of beneficiaries, when they are constructing emotion (1). Emotion is the key to persuade students to donate. The reason behind is, students are most likely to attract to emotions. For example, if a person see someone sad because he has no money for food then he will donate to the person so that he can buy his food. Pudelek stated that, someone wants to be successful in fundraising then that they have to make people think more because when they will think more then they will feel less and then they are motivated to XU 4 (1) Also, Pudelek gave an example of a Karen Klein that how he grabbed the attention of people by showing emotions. For example, if a child is so smart but go to school because he has no money for education then government will make his education free so that he can get education. (1). Organizations can use some strategies to attract the donors. First of all, they have to identify prospects. Sometimes, middle-class, and lower middle class students are most likely to donate rather than wealthy students. So, organizations should identify who is donating so that they can motivate them more. In order to motivate the prospects, the organizations can sometimes arrange dinners or give them free trips so that they get inspired to give more. Moreover, organizations can attract students by many advertisements or then they can call the prospects and show them their works. They can also involve the audience deeply in their work. In addition, organizations can also motivate students so that the prospects who are already donating can stay in touch by donating a bit in every month. They can also make photos, videos by using the rhetorical strategies pathos so that students can get to know how their donation works. They should also make their donation process accessible like they can add an instant online donation so that students get more interested to donate and it will save their times also. Organizations can also motivate the donors through social Social media are a great platform to attract the donors. They can also post their information on google or they can use postures and brochures. Slyke et.al stated that, donor motivation is an important thing in understanding charitable (203). So, if the organizations motivate the donors then they will get interested in donating for the charities. To conclude, as a stakeholder for charitable originations, I will apply all the strategies that I have mentioned in this paper and identify the prospects and motivate students more to XU 5 donate. Moreover, I will also engage the other students who are not donating by inform them the reasons they should donate. I will use posters and brochures and social to grab attention about this issue. Sometimes, students overlook vulnerable condition because of many reasons. I will identify the reasons and also show them that a little donation can make a big difference. So, I will encourage them to donate a little bit if possible. In world millions of children are not getting proper food and millions of children are living a poor life. All in all, if students donate for the children, then the world would be a better place to live. XU 6 Works Cited Hibbert, Sally, et al. Guilt appeals: Persuasion knowledge and charitable  Psychology & Marketing 24.8 (2007): 723-742. Hudsonn, Sophie. Emotive Appeals Effective in Persuading Students to Give To Charity? Guardian.Guardian News and Media, 02 Sept 2013. Web. 16. Apr 2017. Dunn, Elizabeth W., Lara B. Aknin, and Michael I. Norton. Spending money on others promotes  Science 319.5870 (2008): 1687-1688. Lwin, Michael, and Ian Phau. An exploratory study of existential guilt appeals in charitable  Journal of Marketing Management 30.13-14 (2014): 1467-1485. Van Slyke, David M., and Arthur C. Brooks. Why do students give? New evidence and strategies for nonprofit  The american review of public administration 35.3 (2005): 199-222. Jenna Pudelek, a Emotions Is the Key to Fundraising Success, Congress Third Sector. 18 Oct 2013. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Reed, Americus, Karl Aquino, and Eric Levy. Moral identity and judgments of charitable  Journal of Marketing 71.1 (2007): 178-193. Liu, Wendy, and Jennifer Aaker. The happiness of giving: The time-ask  Journal of consumer research 35.3 (2008): 543-557. XU 7