1 1 Final Draft DJ Roberts Final Draft 3/28/2017 Comp 1101 According to my sources, professional and collegiate athletes that commit a crime has been a huge issue for a long time, whether if a minor or major crime. People have made a big deal out of it by sharing their opinions on why it fair to a regular citizen who commits the same exact crime but gets punished worse than an athlete. The articles published between the years 2000-2010 are similar to the articles published in the years of 2010-2015. These four articles are similar because they all suggest similar solutions to the growing amount of opinions among athletes. In the article Blue Collar/White Collar Criminals, Michael M. Ohear states, Such arguments take two forms. First, critics suggest that athlete defendants get off more easily than non-athlete defendants who commit the same sorts of crimes. In the article statistics show that if a set of regular citizens commit a crime and a set of athletes commit the same type of crime, stats show that only half the athletes will get arrested. Second, critics suggest that, because of their high visibility and unique status as role models, elite athletes should be treated more severely than  428) This quote means that if an athlete commits a crime they should receive a more extreme punishment than non-athletes. In the second article, Off-Court Misbehavior, athletes can be looked at as role models in a community making it seem like 2 committing a crime is okay for a regular citizen to commit. The article also explains public law, which means it is a more standardized punishment to where if an athlete commits a crime they get the same type of punishment a regular citizen would get. Because of their position athletes want to avoid public law. These two articles show no change because these articles state that athletes are considered role models and this has an impact on crime. In the article College Athletes and NCAA Violations the National College Athletic Association(NCAA) talks about college athletes getting reimbursed for participating in sports that could possibly reduce crime rates regarding athletes. In the second article Characterization of Criminal Athletes Dana E. Mastro, Erin Blecha, and Anita Atwell Seate state, Sports and crime stories are two of the most prevalent and widely followed segments in the news. Accordingly, it should come as no surprise that when an athlete is accused of a crime, national headlines  An example to support this quote in the second article is if a male athlete commits a crime and when the article talks about how headlines follow they only examine the race/ethnicity on crime news reporting. The scholarly conversation about athletes and crime has not changed because athletes continue to show no improvement regarding athletes committing a crime. Athletes can be looked at as role models given a point where it is okay for a non-athlete to commit the same type of crime but suffer the same punishment or worse than the athlete does. All four sources suggest that if professional or collegiate athletes commit a crime, organizations should be more restrictive on their rules and their punishments. This solution would cause crime rates to decrease because if athletes get punished for committing a crime, it most likely will not happen again. This article considers the question in the context of one particular stage in the criminal justice process: sentencing. Given the limitations and objectives of sentencing laws, should elite athletes 3 be sentenced differently than other violent criminals? Such athletes often possess personal characteristics that distinguish them from more typical violent offenders: wealth, social status, and highly paid employment. Thus, a criminal justice system that seeks to fit sentences not only to the crime, but also the criminal, might very well treat elite athletes differently at sentencing than non-athlete  This quote explains that what goes on in an athletes personal life can have a big part in athletes committing violent crimes according to Michael It also explains that an if a criminal justice system such as a judge to sentence a criminal they might very well treat athletes with a less restrictive punishment than a non-athlete. According to all my sources, all sources support a no change to my topic because in each article the authors opinions support my topic that include athletes committing crime. Organizations should be more restrictive on athletes as well as the criminal justice system with sentencing because only get worse, if organizations are more restrictive on athletes and the criminal justice system play a part in favoritism towards athletes than non-athletes, the crime rates would decrease. 4 Kim, Janine Young and Matthew J. Parlow. Off-Court Misbehavior: Sports Leagues and Private  Part of a symposium: Sports and Criminal Journal of Criminal Law & Criminology, vol. 99, no. 3, Summer2009, pp. 573-597. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ssf&AN= 502107258&site=eds-live. Michael M. Blue-Collar Crimes/White-Collar Criminals: Sentencing Elite Athletes Who Commit Violent Crimes  Marquette Sports Law Review, no. 1, 2001, p. 427. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=eds hol&AN=hein.journals.mqslr12.19&site=eds-live. Winfree, Jason A. College Athletes and NCAA  Criminology & Public Policy, vol. 11, no. 4, Nov. 2012, p. 661. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=edb &AN=83585337&site=eds-live. Mastro, Dana E., et al. Characterizations of Criminal Athletes: A Systematic Examination of Sports News Depictions of Race and  Journal of Broadcasting & Electronic Media, vol. 55, no. 4, Nov. 2011, pp. 526-542. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1080/08838151.2011.620664.