Cruz !1 Zachary Cruz Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 April 2017 Cameras to Catch Police Brutality The police officers that patrol communities are necessary for establishing order and keeping these areas safe. But what happens when the people meant to protect communities start to abuse their power or enforce the law brutally? Well this is called police brutality, but there is a lot more to it than it seems. Police brutality stems from areas where there is a lot of crime, coincidentally these areas are neighborhoods of color due to the systemic racism in our society. POC tend to be seen more as criminals due to these stereotypes and are punished unfairly. Police brutality is an issue because the USA stands for freedom and fairness, its a diverse country that celebrates all cultures and accepts everyone; but what does that say to the rest of the world when these diverse people are mistreated due to the systemic racism engraved into our society. There have been moments where police brutality can become so brutal that the victim can be murdered. Most of the time these victims are people of color due to the types of profiles that law enforcement targets. These officers can get off easily by saying they thought the victim had a gun but in most cases this true. Officers who are poorly trained also seem more likely to participate in police brutality. Police brutality is an unacceptable form of behavior, a solution for this issue would be a lobby for an improved judiciary system and improved police surveying systems such as body cameras. Cruz !2 Officers usually can get away with a lot if they being recorded so some officers want to wear these cameras.What good are these body cameras then if the officer can turn it off or not have it on at all. According to some officers in New York, by 2019 the NYPD will require all officers to wear body cameras; also they will be required at every moment of interaction with the public these cameras will be turned on. (News) The purpose of these cameras is to prevent officers from acting out of the law and out of regulation, a cop that knows on camera ignore a rights. But lets say a cop does get in an altercation with someone or chasing a suspect and the suspect gets away, if the officer identify the person then they could just look at the body camera and play back the footage for evidence. This problem is very urgent when there are many victims seen on the news being affected by police brutality like Mike Brown, Alton Sterling, Philando Castile, Eric Garner, Freddie Gray, Sandra Bland, Tamir Rice, and many more. (Philando) These victims been saved if the officers had body cameras and knew they were being recorded. If that cause anything to happen the cameras would clear up accounts from the public and the officer because the footage would be evidence of the altercation. The evidence would bring justice to families and let them know what happened to their loved ones. When it comes to trust in law enforcement there seems to be very little of it. In 2015 trust in law enforcement across all Americans was at 52 percent, yes a little bit of the majority, but still 48 percent of Americans that trust police officers. (Gallup) If there was trust in police maybe there would also be less issues. Well body cameras would be a great form of trust. It shows a statement that the officer is being recorded voluntarily and will serve to protect the community fairly and enforce the law without any bias. This would also help community calls Cruz !3 for help. Sometimes POC can be afraid to call the police due to fear that they will become a suspect in a crime or nobody will believe them. But once these cameras are put into law and once there starts to be trust in law enforcement then there be issues calling 911 for help. The trust from these body cameras will grow from not just stopping brutality but to bring trust in a community and there would be less unreported crimes. The videos would also be partial public record partial police involvement, because there tends to be crooked cops that will get rid of evidence. US citizens need to band together in favor of body cameras. With a lot more people brutality can be stopped once and for all. The easiest thing would be to implement a requirement for police officers to wear body cameras. For example New York will have implemented this in 2019. If New York can start working towards a safer community, then the whole country can as well. US citizens just need to get people in congress to pass a bill. This is where US citizens come in, we are a lot stronger together. Together we have a voice that speaks volumes. For example for all the people to come together in how authorities say (Sandra) Bland and start a social justice movement and voice for her then we can finally put it all to rest and hope for a greater change. (Ohlheiser) Police brutality is a serious issue, The only solution is to have body cameras. Having body cameras would help reduce violent police activity, bring more trust in communities, and provide evidence. To many have fallen victim to this issue and the fact that its become the norm or something we have to deal with is sickening. This issue has gotten so out of hand that it ended since the 50s and 60s. There should be an end to it by now. The only way for this issue to end is for a great majority of U.S. citizens to band together in favor for body cameras and police Cruz !4 surveying systems. an unacceptable form of behavior and the solution that should be in place is a lobby for a requirement for all police officers to wear body cameras. Cruz !5 Work Cited News, CBS. Police Body Cameras on the Rise, but How Effective Are  CBS News. CBS Interactive, 01 Feb. 2017. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Philando Castile, Alton Sterling and Other Police  NY Daily News. New York Daily News, 08 July 2016. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Ohlheiser, Abby, and Sarah Larimer. A Black Woman Was Arrested after a Traffic Stop in Texas. Days Later, She Died in a  The Washington Post. WP Company, 16 July 2015. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Gallup, Inc. In U.S., Confidence in Police Lowest in 22  Gallup.com. N.p., 19 June 2015. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.