1 Prem Patel ENC 1101 04/01/17 The impacts of the internet, technology and other handheld devices on children of our time? In the past 10-20 technology like the internet and handheld devices, has increased, dramatically. This development has leaded children to use technology and the internet more and more often than before. Scholars are saying sense the development of technology and the internet has dramatically increased, more of the world is becoming more technology based. Which is leading the children of this time to becoming more technology and internet oriented. They are being exposed to, technology and the world-wide web, at a very young age which is not healthily for their metal behavior. This also leads the children to become more dependent on the internet. They use it more and more often which is not good, they are being exposed to information that should not be viewed at a young age. This also leads children to be exposed to the media, this may seem like a good idea but some of the media is not meant for children, they are viewing information that can be harmful and extremely influential at a young age. The media also has a huge impact because it is not meant for children of young age because it is to vulgar. All the scholars agree with this fact but they all have a different way of coming to the conclusion that when the internet and technology is used properly by anyone it is a great tool but when used unsupervised and poorly it can be dangerous and harmful. Kevin Clark says that technology is a great learning tool and can be very helpful for children but that is only when used properly. Technology is not all bad, said by Scholar Kevin Clark, it just needs to be monitored when used because it can have many different impacts on children. Scholar Kevin Clark states computer access for African American students should be addressed in order to ensure their 2 participation in the information revolution as well as improve their educational (Impact of Technology on the Academic Self-Efficacy and Career Selection of African American Students page 11) Kevin Clark is saying that the use of technology is good for the education purpose for not only African Americans but all children. Technology is a great tool for the world to be connected with everything around them and it is also a great learning tool when used right. It enables them to access all types for learning information. He also states the fact that even if technology is being used to learn and for education purposes. It should always be monitored by an adult at all times. The fact that the internet and technology can access any types of information around the world is also a harmful instrument. Some of the information out on the internet is not meant for children because it is to vulgar and the children can be exposed to dangerous information at a young age. Author Vivek Agarwal also agrees with that statement that the internet is not safe more children while unsupervised. The media is not meant for children when unsupervised, it is to vulgar and children being exposed to this type of information is not good at a young age. Vivek Agarwal states the fact, people view an average of 10,000 acts of violence per year with 61% of the shows containing violence of some (Harmful Effects of Media on Children and Adolescents, page 38) This amount of violence is not safe for developing minds. It can lead to dangerous thoughts and change every thought into a violence in some sort. He also states that children experience at least one violence related content every time children use theology. If this watching television, playing video games, or even reading the news. It is exposed to them in many different ways. The use of different types of technology all the time can have other affects like metal problems and physical problems. It can lead to many metal problems like social anxiety and commination skills. Children do not get the human interactions required for 3 developing children. it also leads to obesity at a young age, which can lead to other future physical problems. Author Glenn Mesman confirms this state in his article impact of technology dependence on children and their Children are not interacting with other children, and not only other children, but they are also not interacting with their own families like before the dramatic increase of technology back in 2000. Scholar Glenn Mesman, stated in his article, research has examined the psychosocial functioning of technology-dependent children in several different important domains, including emotional, social, and school Impact of Technology Dependence on Children and Their Families, page 451) As scholar Vivek Agarwal stated that the technology is effecting the children in many ways. Author Glenn Mesman confirms this statement in his article. He says that children are not communicating with other kids. Therefore, they are not developing social skills as a child which is leading to problems in the future. Further, talks about children also not talking to their parents enough like they did back in the 2000s. they are making themselves isolated, not only from children they know but also their loved ones. Studies show that children growing up not having anyone to talk to which leads to suicidal thoughts. These are only the long-term effects some effects are both long term and short term. One major problem talked about is cyber bulling. The amount of cyber bulling had increased massively in the past 7 years. Cyber bulling has become more of a problem in the past recent years, past 7-8 years says Karen Goldschmidt. Since more technology is being used by children everyday it is leading to problems like cyber bulling. Karen Goldschmidt, have been witness to lewd text messages, cyber bullying, and violent video game (Are Pediatric Nurses Advocating for M 2 The Impact of Technology Use on Children, page 304) children of all ages use 4 technology and it is not safe when unsupervised. It can lead to major bulling problems, and anyone can be the victim of it. Parents should supervise all technology usage for children. Since technology is such a big part of life, it has adapted to the children of our time. Scholars are saying that technology is both a good and bad thing. When supervised it can a be a really good learning tool as stated by Kevin Clark. When un supervised, it can lead to major cyber bulling problems told by, Karen Goldschmi. Everything is good to an extent, the use of technology is good until it is over used and children stop communicating with others and even their parents said by Vivek Agarwal. Technology is an amazing tool but when over used it becomes harmful, scholars have made and confirmed this claim in the past 12-20 years. 5 Work cited Goldschmidt, Karen. Are Pediatric Nurses Advocating for The Impact of Technology Use on  Sciencedirect. Elsevier Inc., Aug. 2010. Web. 24 Mar. 2017 Kevin, Clark. Impact of Technology on the Academic Self-Efficacy and Career Selection of African American  Information Technology in Childhood Education.; 2003, P79-89, 11p, 2003. Web. 25 Mar. 2017. Agarwal, Vivek. J. Indian Assoc. Child Adolesc. Ment. Health 2012; 8 (2):38-45 (n.d.): n. pag. ERIC. Journal of Indian Association for Child and Adolescent Mental Health, 2013. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Mesman, Glenn R., Dennis Z. Kuo, John L. Carroll, and Wendy L. Ward. The Impact of Technology Dependence on Children and Their  Science Direct. Mosby, Inc., Nov.- Dec. 2013. Web. 27 Feb. 2017