Hedderman 1 Michaela Hedderman Professor Townsend ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Finding Equity and Equality in Collegiate Sports The U.S. Department of Education Office of Civil Rights, also known as the OCR, is a division of the Department of Education that attempts to create access to education and to promote educational excellence throughout the nation through vigorous enforcement of civil (OCR). This department has created titles prohibiting discrimination on the basis of disability, sex, age, race and color discrimination. The OCR is involved tremendously with the National Collegiate Athletic Association, also known as the NCAA. The NCAA is a membership driven organization dedicated to safeguarding the wellbeing of student-athletes and equipping them with the skills to succeed on the playing field, in the classroom and throughout life. The OCR is involved with this association because it implements the Title IX of the Education Amendments Act of 1972. This act is a federal law that states: No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial . While the creation was to correct gender imbalances within the NCAA, it simultaneously protects non student athletes from sexual discrimination. There are many common misconceptions about Title IX and what it aims to accomplish. In particular, Title IX does not only apply to female students, which is something many people fail to understand. Even though in the NCAA, the OCR originally opened athletics to women and Hedderman 2 girls, the act attempts to create equity between both men and women in collegiate athletics as well as increasing women participation in sports. OCR not only protects equal rights, sexual harassment in any education program, including sexual harassment of student- athletes by university Even if you are not directly involved with collegiate sports, everyone is somehow impacted by sports in one way or another. You probably have a sister, brother, cousin or friend who plays sports in middle school, high school or during recess. Additionally, you may have a family member or friend who also watches sports, whether it be on television or in person. Maybe you have even seen an ad on television or on a billboard using athletes that promotes a sports drink or brand, that persuaded you through the use of pathos to buy their product. Somehow, everyone is affected either directly or indirectly by sports and the athletes that play them. In particular, the NCAA has directly affected every collegiate and pro athlete in the United States, as well as any middle or high school athletes aspiring to play at a collegiate level. Without the NCAA, there would be no professional sport teams, and no collegiate sport teams, meaning that the entire sports industry would not exist. Consequently, if there were no collegiate sports teams, one of the main sources of revenue for colleges across the country would be eliminated. For this reason, it exhibits that even if you are not directly affected by sports, you may know someone who attends a college that depends on revenue, reputation and acknowledgment from these sports. This directly explains why sport viewers and fans would depend on the NCAA for entertainment. Additionally, why an entire industry depends on this organization in order to survive and prosper. Though, this explain why you should care about the OCR and how it regulates both equity and equality in the NCAA. Hedderman 3 The OCR, comes into play by creating equal opportunities for both men and women within these sports. Without the OCR, sports would dominate the NCAA as well as professional sports across the country, since altogether mens sports create more revenue than According to national statistics from How Much.net, both and top leagues by revenue span across 5 different Football, Baseball, Basketball, Ice Hockey and Soccer (How Much). about how would you feel if a woman in your life that you cared for was not receiving equal treatment and did not receive the same opportunities as her male counterpart, regardless if she was more talented than the male within the given sport. The OCR protects not only women, but men as well, and ensures that both sexes are given equal treatment and opportunities. Discrimination towards athletes or students of either sex would be in violation of Title IX which would force the OCR to act in response. Nevertheless, without the OCR, the NCAA itself cannot exist if the NCAA did not follow the regulations set forth by the OCR, the organization would not be able to prevail. Alternatively to the section of Title IX that protects athletes, due to Title IX, schools are required to respond and remedy hostile education (Title IX). The failure for a college to do so, means that it could risk losing its federal funding. Additionally, colleges be proactive in ensuring that campus is free of sex (Title IX). Moreover, this means that the OCR not only protects equality within athletes, but it also protects the rights of any college students facing similar inequalities as well. While you may not be affected by sports, you as a person who knows a college student or is one yourself, should feel protected by the OCR and the ways it protects students across the country from sexual discrimination. Hedderman 4 If you believe that both women and men should have equal opportunities and have equal rights within collegiate sports, or that college students of all genders across the country should be protected from sexual discrimination, then you support the workings of the OCR without even realizing it. The OCR protects more than just equity between the genders in collegiate sports, and it is much bigger than one would normally expect. Furthermore, there are many ways you can support your fellow students, as well as yourself, and support the organization that is protecting all of us as students. As a first option, if you believe that a team, coach, or institution is violating the terms of Title IX, you can file a Title IX complaint which is filed through the Office of Education. You can submit this complaint with your name or anonymously, and you can go into as little or as much detail as you prefer. Similarly, a Title IX civil lawsuit can be filed if a person or student believes that a college has violated the Title IX rights. A lawsuit differs from a complaint because it is far more severe and a Title IX civil lawsuit is filed in a federal court, rather than through the Office of Education. In conclusion, the most important thing you can do as a student is to know your rights, know what is the correct and incorrect behavior for an institution and the personnelles running it to display. Hedderman 5 Work Cited About  Home. US Department of Education (ED), n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <https:// www2.ed.gov/about/offices/list/ocr/aboutocr.html>. How  N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Staying In  IN (n.d.): n. pag. NCAA. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. <http://www.ncaa.org/sites/default/files/Staying+in+Bounds+Final.pdf>. Title  Your Know Your IX, n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. <https://www.knowyourix.org/college-resources/title-ix/>.