Strange 1 Mikaela Strange Seth Spencer ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Project 3 Intermediate Draft Medical marijuana has been the brunt of many debates, however its benefits far out way the negative side effects that have been known to come from using marijuana. Marijuana is known as a party drug in which people get high and hallucinate for personal satisfaction and relaxation. The side effects include increased heart rate, hallucinations, psychosis, slow reaction time, and problems with coordination. However despite these short term side effects, marijuana has been known to decrease the effects of symptoms associated with many diseases and terminal illnesses such as cancer, Disease, post-traumatic stress disorder, and chronic pain. In order to further research of medical marijuana and its effects on certain diseases, the legalization of marijuana needs to be addressed. Researchers have been limited due to laws that prohibit its possession and usage. However if marijuana were to become legalized for the purposes of research, then many myths or concerns about the effects of marijuana could be further researched and used to determine whether marijuana is a safe method of medicine for patients with terminal illnesses. Misinformation is the number one reason why people tend to disagree with the use of medical marijuana to treat patients. Marijuana has a stigma around its use and many times this leads to myths on the effects it has on the human body and mind. One of the biggest myths Strange 2 surrounding the use of marijuana is that it is a gateway drug. A gateway drug is a drug that causes people to progress into using stronger and more harmful drugs. Marijuana, however, is in fact not a gateway drug. According to the Drug Policy Alliance (DPA), people who try marijuana never go on to use any other illegal (Is Marijuana a Gateway Drug? Para. 2). Another common myth is that smoking marijuana can cause cancers such as lung cancer or melanoma, as well as other lung diseases such as a pulmonary disorder or emphysema. Due to the anti-oxidant properties that can be found in marijuana, researchers believe that these properties have the ability to stop any cancer-causing chemicals. In fact, researchers have found that THC has been known to decrease tumor size and even cause death of tumor tissues when used to target cancer cells (Medical Benefits Para. 2). However, despite debunking these myths there can be negative side effects to using marijuana. For some people, marijuana can increase heart rate and cause anxiety. Marijuana also causes loss of coordination which is why considered driving under the influence if one has smoked marijuana as well. The use of marijuana, especially for that of medicinal purposes, is one that must be controlled. Marijuana can be used for medicinal purposes because the marijuana plant has many chemicals that have been known to treat symptoms of certain illnesses. Different from smoking marijuana for recreation, medical marijuana includes the use of the entire, unprocessed marijuana plant. However, despite researchers finding multiple uses for the chemicals found in marijuana plants, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has yet to legalize the marijuana plant as a whole for medicinal purposes. The irony is that the main reason why the entire marijuana plant has yet to become legalized is due to lack of research. This means that even researches have a difficult time obtaining an entire marijuana plant for research Strange 3 purposes. Instead, portions of the plant known to contain the chemicals needed for medicine are used and researched. States that have legalized marijuana, however, have had a higher success rate for its medicinal use. According to Americans for Safe Access, states that have legalized marijuana have a 5% reduction rate in suicides of veterans than states that have yet to legalize marijuana. These states also have a smaller population of people with chronic pain as medical marijuana can be used to treat chronic pain in not only athletes but every day citizens as well (Veterans for Safe Access Para. 2). Medical marijuana stop at terminal illnesses. It can be used to treat depression, pain associated with nerve damage, traumatic brain injuries (concussions), and even bipolar disorder. Because there are a variety of ways marijuana can be used medicinally, that means that every person knows someone that could benefit from the use of medical marijuana. important to recognize this because many people think medical marijuana is an option for them or their loved ones. However, there have been many cases where medical marijuana has given people suffering from terminal illnesses, their lives back. One such story includes a five year old girl named Abby who suffers from grand mal seizures. Abby, who lived in Florida for all of her life, was relocated with her family to Colorado after anti medical marijuana laws and lack of help from Medicaid kept her from getting the medicine she needed to stop the seizures. Once her family relocated to Colorado they were able to get the high THC marijuana needed in order to calm the seizures. After taking the drops the high THC marijuana almost completely eradicated grand mal (Health care Refugees Para. 24). case, while rare, is nothing short of a perfect example of the effects that medical marijuana can have on those suffering from terminal illnesses. Extensive research led to Abby being able to have a second chance at life. However this research happening in every state Strange 4 because of the laws against marijuana. Like family, many families are being forced to relocate in order to receive medical marijuana for their loved ones. Those states that engage in research are able to make their own determination of whether medical marijuana is worth performing human trials, and this is why the legalization of medical marijuana for research purposes should be allowed. Steps in order to legalize medical marijuana can be taken. One important step to take is to get to know the state legislation. Knowing which state legislators are already working towards the legalization of medical marijuana or any sort of healthcare reform can be an advantage when presenting any ideas to the local or state government. If a legislator is already working on a reform there will usually be small groups in which one can get involved within the campaign. Getting involved in these groups can allow one to present their own ideas and gain connections within legislation. However, one must be well informed on all that medical marijuana entails, especially since other legislators will try to fight against the medical marijuana argument. Researching the effects of medical marijuana, both good and bad, is imperative to creating a good argument. Then tailoring that argument to appeal to a political audience will ensure that not only is the argument taken seriously but also that the point gets across. Doing personal research is also helpful. Talking with doctors and getting their medical opinion of the use of marijuana to help illnesses and disease can be beneficial to ones argument as well. Research is imperative to truly understanding the effects of how marijuana can help the medical field and those suffering from terminal illnesses. Legalizing marijuana for the purpose of medical research would allow those states that doubt its usage to become informed for themselves of whether marijuana is an appropriate way to approach these diseases. Getting involved and taking action within the states legislation can help towards the legalization of Strange 5 medical marijuana. Medical marijuana just help those who are already living a life of pain, but it can help prevent a life of pain as well. Strange 6 Work Cited: Cohen, Elizabeth. Medical Marijuana and New Hope for Florida  CNN. Cable News Network, 30 Nov. 2016. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Donate to the Drug Policy  Drug Policy Alliance. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. What You Can Do to Get Marijuana Legalized in Your  Green Flower Media. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Veterans for Safe Access and Compassionate Care Supports Equal Access  Americans for Safe Access. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.