Peet 1 Austin Peet Ms. Hannah Lay ENC1102 April 15th, 2017 The End of Capital Punishment in America Have you ever been in a situation where you have been punished for something you do? Almost everyone has, but no one has ever been through the suffering that an innocent person on death row has, knowing that they will be murdered even though they are guiltless. Most, if not all, people have been told since they can remember that murder is wrong. In turn, what is capital punishment? Capital Punishment, defined by Merriam-Webster, is practice of killing people as punishment for serious The use of the death penalty has been debated for years due to its very violent and cruel purpose, which is to kill. There have been many ways that the someone has been put to death including firing squad, electric chair and lethal injection. All of these methods to put someone to death have had complications, which result in a gruesome and painful death for the victim at hand. In the United States, 31 of the 50 states still allow capital punishment to be used. Many Americans view the death penalty as a necessary action for criminals to pay for major crimes such as murder. However, it has been proven to provide many flaws, as well as being morally wrong in general. As students of University of South Florida, you have many opportunities to speak out against crucial topics including being able to start activist groups that are dedicated to abolishing the death penalty and promote them to the student body. The opposition to the death penalty is an important topic due to the fact that you or someone you know or love could one day be prosecuted and on death row even though innocent. Peet 2 Since 1976, there have been a total of 1,448 people that have fallen victim to the death penalty (Death Penalty Info, 2016). No matter what crime you may commit, it still seems very hypocritical of the federal justice system to allow legal murder to happen and then call it Death Penalty. There are multiple racial factors that show that the justice system is prejudiced and a trustworthy outlet to put life in the hands of. For example, Washington state jurors are three times more likely to recommend a death sentence for a black defendant than for a white defendant in a similar case (Prof. K. Beckett, Univ. of Washington, 2014). In addition, In Louisiana, the odds of a death sentence were 97% higher for those whose victim was white than for those whose victim was black. (Pierce & Radelet, Louisiana Law Review, 2011). Lastly, A study in California found that those convicted of killing White Americans were more than 3 times as likely to be sentenced to death as those convicted of murdering Black Americans and more than 4 times more likely as those convicted of killing Latino Americans. (Pierce & Radelet, Santa Clara Law Review, 2005). The fact that these things are an issue show that the ones at the hands of capital punishment are not to be trusted due to the obvious racism and prejudice within the criminal justice system. We need to stand against these abysmal actions in order to fight against injustice and to fight against the constant war of racism within the United States. Another problem with capital punishment is the fact that many people who have fallen victim to the death penalty have been proven innocent years after. From 2000 to 2011, there was an average of 5 exonerations from death row per year. However, some people as lucky. According to Newsweek, 1973, 144 people on death row have been exonerated. As a percentage of all death sentences, just 1.6 percent. But if the innocence rate is 4.1 percent, more than twice the rate of exoneration, the study suggests what most people assumed but Peet 3 dreaded: An untold number of innocent people have been executed. Further, the majority of those wrongfully sentenced to death are likely to languish in prison and never be This is completely unacceptable in the eyes of human morality in general. The story of Carlos DeLuna is a tough one to swallow, but it is necessary to hear. Carlos DeLuna was convicted and executed with the charge of murdering a gas station attendant in 1983. However, it was later proven that a man named Carlos Hernandez was actually the man behind the knife that killed Wanda Lopez. Capital punishment is ineffective, hypocritical, and completely misses the point the justice system is trying to convey when they in turn murder an entirely innocent person. The National Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty is an organization that is completely dedicated to having capital punishment made illegal in the United States. From their website, National Coalition to Abolish the Death mission is to abolish the death penalty in the United States and support efforts to abolish the death penalty About Us). If you want to get involved to help out this important cause, the best way to go is to work with the NCADP. A huge step into getting this issue resolved is to constantly send letters to your local elected officials. On their website, they have a letter template in which you can send to your local officials. It begins with live in your district, and I oppose the death penalty. I am writing to ask you to take steps to end capital punishment in our state as soon as As well as this, you can join the National Action Team. From their website, they state that a National Action Team volunteer you will be the first to receive email alerts about urgent actions, learn about organizing opportunities in critical campaigns, follow strategy developments with our exclusive National Action Team email updates and periodic field strategy briefing calls for National Action Team members, build close working-relationships with the Peet 4 National Coalition staff when you sign up for volunteer positions, have the opportunity to submit your writing for publication on our blog, or have the tools to host a local outreach or fundraising Take Action) These are all good outlets as to how to get involved, as well as being able to receive volunteer hours in exchange for your duties. However, if you are unable to participate in these events and activities, the NCADP is always open to donations to help it keep it up-and-running. With such a polarizing topic such as capital punishment, it may be difficult to make up your mind about it. However, you have to keep in mind the negative effects of the death penalty and death row in general. There are many people who have sat on death row or have been executed completely innocent from the charges that they were brought upon. In addition to this, the racial bias within this unjust system displays more of how America still carries tons of prejudice. The death penalty can be abolished, but it needs to be persistently fought against, whether it be through writing a letter to officials, join the National Action Team, or simply donating. The legal murder, under the term in America needs to be stopped before anyone else on death row is executed. Peet 5 Works Cited National Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty. N.p., n.d. Web. <http://www.ncadp.org/pages/about-us>. Capital Punishment  Merriam-Webster. N.p., n.d. Web. Death Penalty Info. N.p., 2016. Web. Glenn L. Pierce and Michael L. Radelet, Impact of Legally Inappropriate Factors on Death Sentencing for California Homicides, 1990-1999, The Empirical Analysis, 46 Santa Clara L. Rev. 1 (2005). Pierce, Glenn, and Michael Radelet. Death Sentencing in East Baton Rouge Parish,  N.p., n.d. Web. Peet 6 Take  National Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty. N.p., n.d. Web.