Gharbi 1 Mohamed Gharbi Mrs. Hannah Lay ENC1102 047 16 April 2017 Bullying in High School High school is an institution where a student spends four years getting education, making friends, and spending his adolescence. During these 4 years, he goes through different situations and stages that play an important role in building his personality and in the transition to adulthood. However, as high school can be a place where the teenager would spend a great time, it can be a place where he can live the worst four years of his life, a nightmare that can weaken his personality and ruin his future life because of some other students who decided to make him miserable, to feed their arrogance and give value to their existence in the school. Bullying is a daily life for many students who go to high schools. Many students get beaten up, mocked, and intimidated in different ways every day by their fellow students. In addition to that, a new type of bullying took place in the last two decades thanks to the social media that controlled our brains and called: Cyberbullying. Despite the fact that high school is supposed to be a place where a student can socialize, learn, and interact with his surrounding, some students are living the worst time of their life because of some others who feel superior and better, and decided to bully any one that they like. Bullying is a fact that should be taken seriously by the school, the parents, the society, and the government; it can be a reason why students transfer to other schools and find themselves in the same situation, and it is absolutely a major reason why suicide is the third cause of death among teenagers. why, College students should get involved Gharbi 2 and help stopping this phenomenon: they can organize some events and campaigns in high schools around their campus, represent the student board in one of the high schools to solve all kind of problems between students that involve bullying, based on their experience and the small age gap. Bullying is a very serious issue that happened to many students for different reasons such as their color, their weight, their sexual preference, and even their disability. It can ruin their future, destroy their self-confidence, and even take their lives. According to Nobullying.com in 2014, more than 77% of students have experienced bullying whether physically, verbally, or mentally. Additionally, 70.6% of teens have seen bullying either in the classroom, in the hallways, in the cafeteria, in the gym class, or even in the bathroom. However, only 20 to 30% of the students who have been bullied told their parents or the administration about their situation. Moreover, 160,000 teens skip school every day due to bullying and 10 % have completely dropped out. Furthermore, Social media played an important role in helping this phenomenon to take wider perspectives and helped students to exercise such behavior behind the screen of their devices by griming reputation using videos, pictures, and messages: According to bullyingstatistics.org, about 50% of teens have lived an experience of some form of cyberbullying, and 15% of them have experienced it daily. Unfortunately, only 10 percent of them told a parent about it, and only 20% have been reported to Despite the fact that bullying is a behavior problem, students and teen who use their strength and reputation to make life miserable, think that what they are doing is amusing and funny, but they are totally unaware of the consequences. Bullying has very dangerous effects on life and also on their families. According to national bullying prevention Gharbi 3 Center, student who experienced bullying are more likely to get lower grades, anxiety, depression, and sleeping disorders. In addition to that, bullyingstatistics.org has stated that there is a strong correlation between bullying and suicide: suicide is the third leading reason of death among teenagers, with an amount of 4,400 deaths every year. Also, 14% of high school students have taken it into consideration and 7% attempted Bully-related suicide can be related to any form of bullying, whether physical bullying, emotional, cyberbullying, sending nude photos about a student to the rest of the school, and sexting. All these kind of behavior can end life and ruin their life. Bullying can cause very severe problems. It is an issue that is very hard for a student to discuss it with a parent or an adult or an administration. The bullied teen keep bearing the situation he is living in and then run to a solution that be good for him or for his surroundings. why, college student should get involved to stop this phenomenon from happening and protect the teens from any kind of harassment and abuse. Choosing college students to be part of the solution is very important, effective, and beneficial: the age gap between the college student and the teenager is small, so the teenager can feel comfortable talking about their issues. In the same way, College students understand the high school life, many of them are survivors of bullying who knew how to deal with their situation and get over it, and many other are the bullies who regret being that person, know their weakness, and able to talk to the other bullies and share some awareness about the consequences of their actions. Additionally, College student are young adults as well, so they can be the intermediaries between the parent and his child, and between the student and the administration. However, the question is: How College student can do all of these? In every high school, there is a board of honor students, that is formed to solve any kind of problems between others and make an Gharbi 4 administrative decision. However, this board can be biased and can be part of the bullying itself. why, this board should be represented by volunteered students of a neighbor university: they are neutral, understand the high school life, and adults. Moreover, this board can have more power: it can be an intermediary between the student and the office in any case that involve any form of bullying. Furthermore, College student can establish associations and clubs that organize campaigns in high schools to share awareness about bullying, and create group talks once a while where high school teens can talk about their feeling and make the college student aware about the phase that they are going through, and take an action. However, what are the signs that send warnings about the situation and what action should be taken? To know the warning sign of a child is being bullied or may be suicidal, a collaboration is needed between the administration and the parent. According to Abusivekids.com, the warning signs of a student being bullied or thinking about suicide include: losing interest in school or anything that he used to enjoy. He may talk or write a lot about stopping his life, death, and hatred. he may also be sleeping too much or too little with living in sad or angry moods and living in their eating habits. And as a result, some action should be taken immediately to avoid any bad consequence: college students should talk to the child and make him feel safe and wanted. You, as a board of student in the high school, should talk to the parent, and to the administration in order to take action by their own and even fill a lawsuit. Finally, one of the major mission of the association of the anti-bullying that should be created by the college student, is to take initiative to pass a law that forbid bullying and cyberbullying: Stopbullying.gov states that no federal law that neither applies to nor cyberbullying. Moreover, only 34 states out 50 has states law against cyberbullying, which make the bully has nothing to worry about and the bullied cannot ask for help. Gharbi 5 Any kind of bullying or child abuse should not be allowed or used by anyone who thinks that it is fun and amusing to do so. These kind of behavior can result to severe problems and affect life and may destroy him mentally and psychologically. why, some action should be taken to stop such behavior from occurring and college students should be involved and help in advising teens whether when being bullied or being the bullies. College students were in high schools not so long ago and can understand the situation more than anyone else and hence they can be the intermediary between them, the parents and the administration. Gharbi 6 Works Cited and Bullying Statistics ://www.bullyingstatistics.org/content/bullying-and- suicide.html. Accessed 16 April 2017. No Bullying, https://nobullying.com/bullying-statistics-2014/. Accessed 16 April 2017. of Pacer, http://www.pacer.org/bullying/resources/stats.asp. Accessed 16 April 2017. and Laws. Bullying, https://www.stopbullying.gov/laws/. Accessed 16 April 2017 Warning Signs of Bullying and Suicide Go Hand-in Abusive Kids. http://www.abusivekids.com/suicide-and-bullying.html. Accessed 16 April 2017