Main 1 Thomas Main Seth Spencer Composition II 16 April 2017! 1 Industrial Water Pollution Ever since the development of Industrial factories along fresh bodies of water, industrial water pollution has become an ongoing and very threatening issue in our World. Over seventy percent of industrial wastes is dumped into our fresh bodies of water untreated. The impact industrial water pollution has had over the years has been catastrophic. It is important that people gain awareness of the issue at hand and do something about it because the longer we let industrial factories pollute our waters, the sooner our fresh water becomes a wasteland. What is industrial water pollution? Industrial water pollution is when industrial facilities produce pollutants that are harmful to the environment and the people living around it untreated. These facilities use freshwater to carry away the pollutants from the facility into large bodies of water such as lakes, rivers, and oceans. The impacts industrial water pollution has on the environment and and the people living around it can be extremely harmful. Almost two billion people in the world drink polluted water, and over half of the hospital beds have people suffering from a disease they acquired from drinking and swimming in these polluted waters (Water and Disease para.1-2). In many third world countries clean drinking water is impossible to come by due to industrial facilities polluting their waters untreated. deaths from diarrheal diseases each year could have been prevented by improved (para.3). And over eighty eight percent of those diarrhea cases are attributed by unsafe drinking water. Industrial Main 1 water pollution also endangers and kills the marine life living in the polluted fresh bodies of water. To fix the damage done by these industrial factories is nearly impossible, but we can help reduce the effects it has on our environment by stopping industrial facilities from dumping these harmful pollutants in our water. After we stop industrial water pollution hopefully the earth can replenish its bodies of fresh water. It is essential that people become aware of industrial water pollution and they actually join the fight to stop industrial water pollution. It is extremely important that people do something because even though you may not see the issue at hand due to where you live mean that it exist, it is just happening somewhere else. Sooner or later though industrial water pollution will catch up to us if something done to control it or stop it, and when it does reach us it will not be pretty and it will almost be impossible reverse the effect it has on the environment and our public health. If you actually care about your health and want to live a long life then why do you let big industrial facilities pollute the worlds natural supply of fresh water? You are no better then the company if you are just going to be a bystander when it comes to the destruction of our worlds natural water supply. The world have an unlimited amount of fresh water, so it is important we protect the water we do have because we need it to last for the generations to come. Do you want your kids in the future or there kids to grow up in a world where clean water is over priced due to the fact that there is no more clean water due to excessive industrial water pollution. One of the big questions commonly asked in the world today is, how can we stop industrial water pollution? There is many ways to help stop or manage industrial water pollution. One thing you can do is join the many organizations out there fighting industrial water pollution. Main 1 You can help these organizations take part in united clean up projects to reduce the amount of pollutants factories release in our fresh bodies of water. Donating is also another big way you can help with the ongoing issue with industrial water pollution, your donations fund a majority of these clean up projects these organizations fighting industrial water pollution host. Bringing awareness to other people and getting them to help is also another huge way to help stop industrial water pollution, because the more people know about it the more they will want to help. It is important that people sacrifice some of their free time and actually help contribute to the effort to stop water pollution. It is your civic duty to preserve this world for the future generations to come. In conclusion with the argument towards water pollution it is obvious there is a huge issue going on in the world when it comes to industrial water pollution. The earths clean water supply is quickly dying due to the actions of industrial facilities polluting our fresh bodies of water with harmful chemicals that hurt our environment and endangers the health of the people surrounding it. It is so important that we stress the importance of bringing awareness on industrial water pollution to the people out there, and that they help join the fight because the clean water supply going to always be there at the rate we let industrial facilities dump harmful untreated waste into our fresh bodies of water. The clean water is at the hands of the people, it so important that they actually do something before it gets too late. Industries polluting our fresh bodies of water have the strength to destroy our fresh bodies of water, but we have the power to stop it. (W.C.-1,029) Main 1 Work Cited: Industrial Water and Water Pollution Water Pollution Guide. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Water and  Water and Disease - Water4. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. 40 Interesting Facts About Water  Conserve Energy Future. N.p., 18 Jan. 2017. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Dying in a Sea of  Ocean Conservancy. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017 Main 1 Solutions for Industrial  Mission 2015: Industrial Pollution Solutions. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. ESchooltoday. What Are the Industrial Causes of Water Pollution? N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.