Patel 1 Darshan Patel Professor Phillips ENC 1102-025 April 16 th , 2017 Home of Tomorrow History is going to be made in the coming years by Elon Musk. His company SpaceX, is going to start man-missions to the planet Mars with the hopes of terraformation, and eventual colonization of the red planet Mars. SpaceX is doing what no other company in the world is doing, and that is trying to save future generations. The colonization of the planet mars will be beneficial for our future generations for so many reasons. The Earth is and we need to find alternative living space, think of the future generations and how they will survive on a dying planet, and the planet Mars is an ideal candidate for colonization by humans. SpaceX needs all our support. A lot of people may not believe this but climate change is real, happening right now, and the most urgent threat facing our species. We need to work together collectively and stop procrastinating if we want Earth to not SpaceX is preparing for the worst with the colonization of Mars so the human race die out in the eventual future. Global temperatures are rising every year and 2017 will be the 4 th record shattering temperature breaking year (Northon). Colonization will take a lot of time, and what SpaceX needs. We need to start recycling and using less energy overall as a species. We also need to support leaders around the world like Elon Musk, who do not speak for the big polluters or big corporations, but speak for all of humanity. There are politicians in power right now in America that believe in global warming and scary. Our own vice president, Mike Pence believe global Patel 2 warming is a man-made phenomenon. Animals and the indigenous people of the world are dying and most affected by this and their voices are being drowned out by the politics of greed. There are a lot of things we can do to try slowing down global warming and give SpaceX more time. Try to buy energy-efficient appliances! Since they were first implemented nationally in 1987, efficiency standards for dozens of appliances and products have kept 2.3 billion tons of carbon dioxide out of the air. about the same amount as the annual carbon pollution coughed up by nearly 440 million cars (Denchak). Of course colonization of the planet Mars will not directly affect your older generation but think of your kids and their kids and so on. This will be beneficial for the generations of the future. Earth is severely over-populated with around 7.125 billion people worldwide and this number will only statistically rise in the future. Do you really want your kids and their kids to grow up on a severely overpopulated planet with limited resources. This of course will be in the far future but its already starting to happen with some poor countries around the world. The red planet Mars is an ideal candidate to be a semi replacement of our home, Earth. Mars is fairly similar to Earth and has fossilized water on the northern and southern poles (McKay); Which may lead to the discovery of actual water and maybe the discovery of actual past life. The economic and financial values on mars are tremendous (Diamandis). Mining will bring tremendous revenue back to Earth. The planet Mars also has pretty much the same day length as Earth, at 24 hours and 37 minutes per day but an additional 322 days which leads to 687 days per year on Mars. The gravity of Mars is 1/3 of Earth so everyone will be kind of floating a bit (McKay). Anyone living on Mars can only leave every 26 months because of the planets rotation and that of Earths. Patel 3 I want you to start supporting SpaceX and Elon Musk with all of their endeavors instead of the big business corrupt politicians who do not believe in global warming and that the Earth is in trouble. We should all collectively start recycling more and start using more energy efficient products. Simply buying better lightbulbs like LED lightbulbs, use up to 80 percent less energy than conventional incandescent. also cheaper in the long run: A 10-watt LED that replaces your traditional 60-watt bulb will save you $125 over the life (Denchak). In conclusion, Earth is our home and SpaceX is preparing for the worst and the survival of mankind with the terraformation and colonization of other planets starting with Mars. This will affect your kids and their kids and so on. This is a global problem which needs all our support. We need to give SpaceX more time by trying to save our home, Earth right now. SpaceX plans to start colonization by 2030 but that is very unlikely until 2050 (Wall). They need time and support, help. Mankind was born on earth, but was never meant to die here. Patel 4 Work Cited McKay, Christopher, and Margarita Marinova. The Physics, Biology, and Environmental Ethics of Making Mars  Astrobiology 1.1 (2001): 89-109. WorldCat Web. 4 Nov 2014. Wall, Mike. Mars Colony Plan: By the Space.com. Space. 29 Sept. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Diamandis, Peter. Our Next Giant  TEDGlobal 2005. July 2005. TED. Web. 5 Nov. 2014. Northon, Karen. Data Show 2016 Warmest Year on Record Nasa.gov. Web. 18 Jan, 2017. Denchak, Melissa. You Can Stop Global Nrdc.org. Web. 2 March, 2016