Student 1 Student Derisi ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Sticker For Your Rights Americans pride themselves on their right to know what is going on in the world. They value this right so much, several laws and even amendments have been passed in order to ensure that they were guaranteed. We have come to a point in time where our right to know is being obstructed by the smoke and mirrors that large companies are providing to hide the truth about what their products are made from. Large food companies use genetically modified organisms (GMOs) in the production of their food but outright let the consumers know when they do, inhibiting consumers the ability to choose for themselves what they wish to put in their bodies. Taking away any choice that a consumer might want to have when deciding what we put into our bodies. The use of GMOs is prominent among large among large cooperations. The reason why many companies use GMOs is because of the effectiveness that they provide. Using GMOs creates a large yield crop which means large cooperations can get more bang for their bark. This might be a good way to squeeze an extra few pennies out of their product but how will the effect the people that are digesting them. What makes a genetically modified organism, genetically modified is that these organisms have DNA that does not occur naturally. The DNA of these plants (usually wheat or another broad use crop) has been manipulated by scientists in order to make their crops more herbicide (which can ultimately cause environmental issues), sturdier, or produce a larger yield. GMOs have also been used to create fruits (like bananas) with smaller seeds which will eventually contribute to the extinction of the fruit (CNN). Student 2 GMOs have become a staple in the diet of an average american, so many of the processed foods we consume consuming one or more genetically modified ingredients. The extent to which the manipulated DNA will effect the human body completely understood. Humans have just recently begun to use GMOs as a major part of their diet and recent generations have been the only ones to have lived completely on GMOs. Studies are unable to fully measure the extent that modified DNA of ingredients will effect humans in the long term because humans have not been using this resource for longterm. There is no doubt that there is possible danger looming with the consequences that have not been seen yet. The effect of GMOs known and there is the possibility that the effects may not be a matter of life or death but the fact that we are unsure of this is where the danger lies. We are playing roulette with the what if or possible danger but this is not what needs to change. The Food and Drug Administration has many laws concerning the labeling of foods. Their laws are the reason why every food product must be labeled with nutrition facts (calories,