Mwaliko 1 Brian Mwaliko Professor Erika Staiger ENC 1102 4/10/2017 Culture Shock According to the Merriam Webster dictionary culture shock is defined as a sense of confusion and uncertainty sometimes with feelings of anxiety that may affect people exposed to an alien culture or environment without adequate preparation. People have, and will always, travel to off different countries and regions for very different purposes. To convert and then conquer, the trade and to teach, to learn and to settle. There are many ways to categorize these travelers for example how long they go for, how far they travel, their motives for movement (education, trade, expansion); the nature of stranger-host relations (Adrian). Among this reasons of travel the most relatable is to learn. Some of the top source countries preferred by internationals include China (33%), India (12%), South Korea (5.8%), France (5.7%), and Saudi Arabia (4%). While international students bring their language and culture to campuses, adding to and enriching educational environments, many also face challenges in integrating into the American academic environment. (Liu). Culture shock presents itself gradually and one is not even aware when it starts occurring. International students are rapidly increasing worldwide in response to a number of factors, including a globalizing world; inexpensive, easily-accessible communication and transportation; and the demand for an international labor market in addition, international students are being actively sought by universities, in particular Australia, the UK, New Zealand and the USA, as a valuable and growing source of revenue for universities. Many students experience their move to a new environment as a profound life event, and Ward, Bochner, and Furnham have pointed out that international students are probably the most intensely studied group in the culture shock literature (Catherine). According to anthropologist Kalervo Oberg culture shock involves two processes: contact with or immersion in a different culture and loss of the safety net of predictable social roles, cures, and practices (Catherine). This contact with a different culture, usually throws off the students at first as what is considered the norm in their country is either shunned or viewed completely differently. Even simple differences in behaviors make huge differences, for instance coming from a country where a hug is as normal as a hand shake and everyone shares a hug even if it is the first-time meeting, and moving into a society whereby a hug is viewed as more of an embrace between lovers and not to be shared with just anyone tends to throw off internationals. Another simple aspect such as different traffic rules, such as driving on the right side of the road instead of the left, unconsciously creates the feeling that one maybe does not belong as things are not what they consider normal. Dr. Stephen Bochner attempted to classify individuals in terms of their psychological responses to the host country. He posited that there are four main ways in which people behave Mwaliko 2 when in a new culture; - rejecting the culture of origin and embracing the new culture. The original norms lose their salience and the new norms gain salience. This type of mind set may be prevalent for migrants looking for employment that have come from war-torn countries and seek a new life. - rejection of the current culture and exaggerating the original. The original norms increase in salience and the new norms decrease in salience. This can cause an increased feeling of nationalism for the individual and can lead to racism, and as a society cause inter-group friction. This type of mind set is increasingly rare, with people becoming more accepting of other cultures and religions. - hovering between the two cultures, the individual is not certain of who he or she is. Norms of both cultures are salient but are perceived as mutually incompatible. This leads to mental confusion for the individual, over compensation and conflict and for the society causes reform and social change. Again, this type of mind set is increasingly rare, with integration into a foreign society being greatly eased. - synthesizing both cultures. This mind set is most ideal as it can mediate between both cultures. Norms of both cultures are salient and are perceived as capable of being integrated. This leads to the individual growing personally and society exhibiting higher levels of inter-group harmony and cultural preservation. This is probably the most prevalent mind-set that can be (Adrian, Choque cultural). Although there is still debate as to who came up with the concept of culture shock and when it came about. There is no debate about its definition and psychological consequences. The psychological consequences of culture shock among international students presents itself in the following stages; feeling left out- one tends to feel as if they do not fit in with any particular group of people, feeling misunderstood- mainly due differences in accents, international students feel misunderstood as they would be forced to repeat statements in conversations and after several could you please repeat The frustration builds up and ends up with many of them result to keeping to themselves since no one seems to understand them when they converse. This results into development of negative and simplistic views about Americans. This builds up as a result of feeling as if the people around the international student are not putting much effort into understanding them and are rather complaining. This leads up to formation of generalized stereotypes and as result the student seeks the company of people from his or her home country. Their expectation of this move is that these people would embrace them, share in their beliefs and want to always spend time with them. Although that is not the case as people tend to have different interests at times and one may not always find it easy to form a connection. All this usually builds up and ends up manifesting itself into extreme home sickness. Which according to the Merriam Webster dictionary is the longing for home and family while absent from them (Merriam Webster). In further development, this extreme home sickness could become depression. Although there is a way to prevent all this from happening. The most effective way to prevent this from happening is by setting up proper offices that are solely set on helping international students with their transition by aiding them with mentors who would help them navigate their first month. These mentors should help them join student organizations, also Mwaliko 3 advise them on where to acquire goods and services at affordable prices, areas where they can get food and where they would be helped in case they require any assistance. In conclusion, the culture shock of international students should be viewed in a broader context of transition shock, a phenomenon that leads to profound learning, growth and self-awareness. In the interviews, I am conducting for my project, almost all international students identified culture shock as being among the greatest challenges facing their adaptation process. Many participants indicated that everything is so different from what they expected, with a different language, culture, customs, and food. They also admitted that they lacked activities to engage in and thus felt bored, leading to a sense of isolation. One common challenge facing many international students concerns difficulties of making friends with local American students. Mwaliko 4 References Adrian, Furham. Choque  Journal of Psychology and Education (2012): 10-11. Document. Culture  Journal of Psychology and Education (2012): 10. Document. Catherine, Lombard Ann. Coping with anxiety and rebuilding identity: A psychosynthesis approach to culture  Counselling Psychology Quarterly (2014): 2. Document. Liu, Jingzhou. Internationalization of Higher Education: Experiences of Intercultural Adaptation of International Students in Canada  (2016): 1. Document. Merriam Webster. Merriam Webster. 2017. Document. 16 April 2017.