Patricia Perez Hernandez Professor Philips ENC1102.025S17 16 April 2017 Testing Tests Why do kids hate school so much? Is it because lazy? Is it because all they want to do is play? Is it because they do not know how tough it really is out in the adult world? Strangely enough none of these options seem to be the right reason. Schools give anxiety through tests, grades, and homework. Children need happiness to grow healthy, schools are failing to provide this. Standardized testing in schools has become a burden rather than a tool. Tests are affecting academic outcomes. Why should this matter? Well because as Nelson Mandela once said, are our greatest treasure. They are our The fate of our world is in the hands of young students and if we treasure them from early age, then we might as well be giving up on the world. For the sake of our world everyone needs to come together and help these early generations have a richer education with less anxiety. First and foremost, we need to understand what kind of tests these are, standardized test is any examination administered and scored in a predetermined, standard (Popham). These tests are created to regulate how well students are doing academically, the problem is the tests themselves which are causing failure in schools. The fact that students well doing is based on a letter grade from a traumatic testing experience, is despicable. Instead of teaching kids that if they fall, if they fail, always a way of getting back up, they are taught that everything is hanging on a thin line. They only have one chance and if they succeed Perez 2 they fail, there is no fixing it. Raising kids with this mindset just causes them to not believe in themselves, gives them trust issues, keeps them from reaching their full potential. When these kids become adults, they question going to school because, they do not feel like good enough, they feel like they do it. This creates a problem for the world because if there are no wise man on this earth then how are we going to keep spreading education. The article by Lelac Almagor states, testing all the students all at once, at the end of the year, in a culminating district-wide trial-by-fire. Instead, treat academic testing like the rotating hearing test or scoliosis checkup. Sample two or three students at random and without preparation, every week throughout the year. Sit them at a computer. Let them click through the test with little (Almagor, 9). As an outsider, the author of the article realized that the school system is using something good and unintentionally turning it into something bad. Tests have become something that brings negativity to students. At times, it even comes to the point that students are going to school to pass tests and get a diploma instead of to learn and be enriched with information. The school system does not know this because obviously, they students. But if they had a way of realizing and knowing specifically what students needed and how they felt they would rearrange standardized testing. Students not doing well in schools puts in danger the future of the world, because as they say, is The article Families to Support Transition to High School: Evidence from the is based on a research that proves just how important family support is to the success of students. The article states, families are unaware of the nexus of on-time, daily attendance, report card grades, and course credits required for promotion from grade 9 to grade 10 and the path to on-time graduation from high (Iver, Martha Abele Mac, et al, 28). Parents do not have the opportunity to be a part of education as they Perez 3 should. The support of families in the life makes a difference and is therefore crucial in student success. The association focuses on ways to bring out students potential and help them be successful. The article focuses on how and why the presence of family is so important for the success in school. Allowing families to be a bigger part of the school experience would take stress off students. Having the people, they know and love, be part of something as significant as school with them would allow for a stronger transition between being a child and being a student. This also allowing them to become smart and knowledgeable adults who will run the world in the right direction. There are ways to get rid of test anxiety and these should be exercised in school. The first way recommended by Strauss is to on spend ten minutes writing about their thoughts and feelings immediately before taking a This is proven to help students relax. Some classes do use this method, but then it is made a graded assignment and if what the student wrote does not seem good enough for the teacher, their grade is affected. Another method of coping with test stress is to your when a person does poorly they feel worthless, like they will never be good enough. A way of dealing with that is by reassuring yourself that even if you do not do too great you are still smart and will work harder in the future. Lastly, students can in relaxation Giving kids time to breath, relax, realizing that there is nothing to be worried about has proven to work, allowing kids to get rid of their test anxiety. Reinforcing this kind of behaviors before tests gives students reassurance that they will be okay, without taking importance away from testing. This would also allow for children to grow up understanding that it is okay to fail as long as you work harder next time, and that there is no reason to beat themselves up thinking that they are not good enough. Perez 4 Another article discusses they reasons why happiness is such an important part of growing up healthy. Happiness linked to three simple habits. One, we think and feel about the world, and therefore perceive our Two actions or habits, such as regular exercise, eating healthfully, meditating, connecting with other people, even regularly smiling and Lastly, three traits such as self-control, industry, fairness, caring about others, citizenship, wisdom, courage, leadership, and These three create happiness, now in order for children to do well in school, they need to be happy. And if one of this fail then the chances of being happy decline. When it comes to testing, students need to feel like they know the material, like they are ready for what is coming. In order to understand the material, they need to be happy with school and what they are learning. When learning is based on a letter grade and either passing or failing students are unhappy. This affects their performance not only on test but in life generally. The world is the hands of the grandparents, the parents and the kids. It is important that everyone is working to be the best they can be and that starts with an early age. In order for human kind to survive and evolve, present and future generations need to work together. We need to learn from the mistakes of our ancestors as well as the mistakes of those around us. Understanding that testing is not only affecting students but also the world is the first step into fixing this problem. Make your community a better place to live for yourself and your children, inform yourself on the topic and join the fight against standardized tests. Perez 5 Works Cited Laura, Dr. Teaching Your Child the Art of Happiness. n.d. 16 April 2017. <http://www.ahaparenting.com/parenting-tools/emotional-intelligence/happiness>. Popham, W. James. Why Standardized Tests Measure Educational  56.6 (1999): 8-15. 16 April 2017. Strauss, Valerie. Test anxiety: Why it is increasing and 3 ways to curb it . 10 February 2013. 16 April 2017. <https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/answer-sheet/wp/2013/02/10/test- Iver, Martha Abele Mac, et al. Engaging Families to Support Transition to High School: Evidence from The  High School Journal 1 (2015): 27. Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Almagor, Lelac. The Good in Standardized  Boston Review 39.5 (2014): 6-9. Humanities Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 25 Jan. 2017.