Thomas 1 Essence Thomas Alison Missler ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Intermediate Draft Lots of us can not really imagine working hard in a minimum wage job and not being able to afford some of the basic necessities of life. What we fail to realize is that there are people all over the United States that are living that reality. In the southern states, forty percent of working people are a part of the reality (Thankful For the Fight For $15). An army of the low wage workers have joined together over the recent years to help push for a raise in the federal minimum wage, which has sat at the same low price for almost eight years now. This army has lead marches and rallies in order for their voices to be heard and people are hearing it. Petitions have been started and have made their ways to being turn into new laws. As a collective group of people, lots of people ridicule those that work in the fast food industry, especially in restaurants. Many consider it to be a real job (fightfor15.org). Considering the ridiculous low wages that these worker make compared to other jobs, it may as well not be a real job. With the current bottom of the barrel wages that workers receive, they are struggling to stay afloat, working paycheck to paycheck. It is not a sustainable lifestyle. So now they are speaking up and demanding that they receive pay increases or they will not work. In thinking of a way out, corporate heads have proposed threats that if the worker stop working, they will just refill the quitting positions with machines, basically replacing them with robots. Thomas 2 Interestingly enough, when it comes to issues like this being broadcasted on the media, one would think that people all over the place would feel compelled to do something in regards to the issue. But many people, especially those that the issue does not directly pertain to, do not feel the need to participate in any way because they do not feel like their input would make much of a difference. But in cases where a support group is needed, every cent counts. On the Fight for 15 website, the creators have an ongoing petition for supports to sign and be a part of. Each supporter gets the fighters one step closer to the change that is wanted. This group has held rallies and marches in several major cities to take a stance in the movement. Places like New York City and Sacramento and Chicago have already granted low wage workers their minimum wage increase, and it is only a matter of time before a city like Tampa does the same. It is well overdue for an increase in the federal minimum wage, and the workers supporting and advocating for Fight for 15 are deserving of appropriate working wages for the tireless work they do to keep our bellies full while we are on the go. As regular citizens particularly unaffected by the low working wages, it would be a major help to the other deserving citizens if regular citizens stood behind them and helped the cause. The bigger the masses are in the rallies and marches, the more attention it would get from media platforms such as Twitter, Facebook, and Instagram, consequently getting it the attention it needs from not just people in the United States, but all over the globe. So since the Fight for 15 has already done a good job getting change in some places, for the rest of us uninvolved citizens, it is our job to help them get change everywhere else. We need to show our support and join the action. Go sign the petition online. When the next rally or march comes to town, join in. Not only will it help the clause, but helping to fight the fight will also give a sense of being a part of something important, and indeed something that will be a part Thomas 3 of our history books. Every person should be able to live comfortably. Help the Fight for 15 get the living wages they deserve. Thomas 4 Works Cited Spielberg, Ben and Jared Bernstein. for the Fight for The Washington Post. 24 Nov 2016. Web. 15 Apr 2017. Fight For $15, Fightfor15. N.p, n.d. Web. 15 Apr 2017.