Lastorino 1 Daniel Lastorino Adam Carter ENC1102 18 April 2017 Finding the Most Beneficial Medium for Creative Rights As an artist of any sort, an important aspect of work is to share it with as many people as possible. Be it a large or small group, it is important that the content is protected by some form of law. Currently, copyright policies are what aim to maintain conservation for the artist. The present day standards for copyright are held under the Copyright Act of 1976. The premise of these laws are that the artists have Rights as far as their content goes. While these laws aim to provide a rewarding experience for artists, they appear to be lagging heavily behind modern capabilities. Information diffuses at an incredibly faster rate than it once did, therefore the laws should have been brought up to pace. Furthermore, copyright laws have been wrongfully enforced by various groups, notably the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA). Due to these various issues, artists should consider various alternatives for maintaining their artistic rights, the preeminent one being Creative Commons. This non-profit organization seeks to expand the laws which are not up to standard of the modern age. Current copyright policies only hinder the creative process for artists, therefore they should switch to using Creative Commons licensing instead. As it currently stands, copyright laws lack proper benefits, and instead are causing harm to consumers as well as creators. The Copyright Act of 1976 grants owners of any work the exclusive right to reproduce, prepare derivative works, distribute copies, and perform or display work publicly Is At first glance, these jurisdictions seem satisfactory. Lastorino 2 However, they are inadequate due to their all-or-nothing principle. Creators cannot pick and choose what rights they feel would be best, which makes it harder for the law to fit the needs of them all. Also, the only explanation as far as these laws go for consumers is the commonly known symbol of There is evidently massive ambiguity behind these laws, which is what has led them to be poorly enforced by the RIAA. Through the years, the interest group has had their share of attempts at combating online piracy. The worst one is analyzed in a 2010 essay, their plan. This system allowed Internet service providers to terminate access to any individual suspected of copyright infringement without notice. As the author explains, this violates due process of law, as people do not get the chance to defend themselves as they would with any other criminal act (Zilkha 690). Overall, artists should know that copyright laws do little to inform them or consumers, which should make them feel intimidated more than protected. While artists may not feel the harmful effects of copyright laws, they should know that countless consumers have been wrongfully abused by these policies. Before any group utilized the graduated response system, they instead filed lawsuits against anyone who seemed to wrongfully distribute any music. Possibly the most well-known instance of this was Sony BMG v. Tenenbaum. Joel Tenenbaum was accused of copyright infringement using peer-to-peer networks. The initial decision was that he would have to pay 675,000 dollars, however it was later lowered due to the excessive amount BMG MUSIC ENTERTAINMENT V. Evidently, the laws regarding copyright infringement were being enforced far too harshly. While it was fair to punish Tenenbaum somehow, the original decision was not the right way to do so. Furthermore, copyright policies are hurting artists through the erosion of creative expression, despite seemingly encouraging it. A 2017 article explores the negative Lastorino 3 results of a century old court case, Bleistein v. Donaldson Lithographic Co. The author goes on to explain that this case caused copyright laws to care solely about and no longer regard for an rights (Beebe 319). In other words, these laws which artists are accepting to help them actually take no interest in doing so. The belief here is that copyright policies are only put in place for economic benefit. While artists deserve a profit for their hard work, their priority should always be insurance of their creative intellect; copyright laws are missing the mark on that aspect, which is why another option should be explored. The most feasible transition for artists to make would be to explore Creative Commons licensing. As described on their website, they aim to the full potential of the internet to drive a new era of development, growth and we Instantly, artists can see that the primary focus of this group is to modernize the way which intellectual property is handled. Since 2002, they have been releasing their own free copyright licenses for public use. The most useful features of these licenses are their flexibility and their clarity. A 2010 article goes on to explore each of the various licenses the group offers. For example, there is the Attribution license, which allows others to reproduce or distribute a work as long as credit is given the way which the artist specifies (Simmonds 162). Not only do these licenses allow for greater flexibility for artists, but they also make sure that the consumer knows the proper way they can distribute the original work. Creative Commons licenses have already been verified as the best method of sharing information online, as displayed in a 2014 study. 86 Taiwanese students were asked to complete online drawing and storytelling activities, and share them using Creative Commons licensing. Afterwards, they completed a questionnaire regarding their attitudes toward the methods. It was found that the students as a whole felt receiving help or feedback from others was a critical part of the process which Creative Commons helped them Lastorino 4 complete (Liu et al. 691). To summarize, the study furthered the notion that Creative Commons will make for the greatest possible sharing of knowledge for artists. This is why the switch from copyright policies typically used to Creative Commons licensing must be made. As an artist, it is imperative that work gains exposure on some level. This way, others can appreciate it, be it for a learning experience or an aesthetic experience. All in all, typical copyright laws are the default for most today, however this does not make them the right option by any means. Not only are they heavily outdated, but they also take more interest in financial gain than creative protection. No artist should condone this, which is why it is necessary that they all make the change toward Creative Commons licensing. This system allows for a safer environment for both creators and consumers, while still preserving rights where required. Having more freedom in this realm will lead to a better setting for all to convey their intelligence in. Lastorino 5 Works Cited Beebe, Barton. Bleistein, the Problem of Aesthetic Progress, and the Making of American Copyright  Columbia Law Review, vol. 117, no. 2, Mar. 2017, pp. 319-397. Liu, Chen-Chung, et al. Online Knowledge Sharing Experience with Creative Online Information Review, vol. 38, no. 5, Aug. 2014, p. 680. Simmonds, Tony. Common Knowledge? The Rise of Creative Commons  Legal Information Management, no. 3, 2010, p. 162. Zilkha, Genan. The Troubling Solution To  Fordham Intellectual Property, Media & Entertainment Law Journal 20.2 (2010): 667-713. Sony Bmg Music Entertainment V.  Berkeley Technology Law Journal, vol. 26, no. 1, 2011 Annual Review, pp. 577-579. What we  Creative Commons. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Is Copyright.gov. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.