Hamad Megahed Adam Phillips ENC 1102 4 April, 2017 Intermediate draft The Syrian Civil war is one of the most devastating, and horrifying conflicts of our time. As of 2015, more than 300,000 civilians have been killed, and 11 million people have been displaced; 4 million of which are refugees (Forsythe and Monshipouri 2015). Now entering its sixth year the conflict has only gotten more complicated, and shows no sign of stopping. Most of the world opposes Bashar regime, and want to topple the tyrants rule. The world has shown tremendous support for the people, and many countries have opened their doors for the millions of refugees. Millions of Syrians are now homeless from either fleeing the country or having their homes bombed ( Mariwala 2014). This is an issue where most of the world want to end, but cannot reach a solution. It is difficult to emphasize with pictures, or videos of people thousands of miles away. And it seems today that people have become increasingly numb to the horrific images that come from Syria. It is because these images come so frequently that people feel sympathy for a short time, and then quickly move on. This is something people need to acknowledge, so that they can feel a greater sense of urgency to end this crisis. Also, it seems most people do not know the purpose of the conflict, or who is fighting who; awareness of the situation is key to resolving it. Everyday more innocent people are dying. Millions are without access to the basic necessities such as food, or water. This is something that should evoke action from everyone. This horrendous conflict can come to an end if everyone can together to: provide direct support to the people through donations, raise awareness about this issue to their governments, and welcome any refugees that are internationally displaced from their homes. The Syrian Civil war began with peaceful protests, in 2011, against the tyrannical regime of Assad, but quickly turned into a violent civil war for freedom (Forsythe and Monshipouri 2015). The people began protesting peacefully, and were quickly met with police and military forces by orders in order to oppress the protests. These protests erupted from a lack of basic freedoms, and the inspiration from the Arab spring where surrounding countries toppled their dictatorships. After the violent opposition from the military, killing hundreds of protesters, the international community was outraged and stepped in; condemning brutal use of force (Mariwala 2014). Shortly after, a group of people formed a rebel group to fight against military known as the Free Syrian Army. Over the years the Free Syrian Army has gotten support from countries such as Saudi Arabia, while Assad has been receiving support from Russia and Iran to fight the rebels. Considering this dynamic, it has become increasingly difficult for countries to come to a resolution as more nations get involved. In 2013, regime was accused of using sarin gas on the people in a small village killing hundreds, which the government denied. However, evidence showed that the same gas used on the people were the same that were in stockpiles (Jenkins 2014). Assad was accused again of using chemical weapons on his people in 2017. Despite these humanitarian issues there has been little action taken from the world. The Obama policy toward the Middle East has been fruitless. A lack of U.S involvement has created a sense of fear that the conflict will not be resolved quickly (Forsythe and Monshipouri 2015). The fighting has continued for 6 years, and thousands of people have been killed because of it. The intentions were peaceful, yet Assad met them with brutal force which fueled public anger. Moreover, the people who have been displaced are suffering without food, water, and access to medical care. Without the support of people from all around the world this conflict could go on for many years to come. This conflict is about humanity, and peace for these millions of people being affected, and everyone should work to preserve peace in the world. Today, most people claim that they want world peace, and are against the same injustices that are being committed in Syria. The people who once lived peaceful lives have descended into a nightmare that end. The people have been caught in the middle of the fighting and have suffered tremendously. Civilians have often been targeted by the government through airstrikes and raids in order to . . pressure rebels to (Laub 2016). Some people have lost a lot because of the fighting including their: homes, families, possessions, etc. This is happening while the world watches, and this is something that everyone needs to acknowledge before it becomes a bigger threat. Most people have never heard of the Cambodian genocide where 1.7 million people were killed (Jenkins 2014). During that time, there was no action from the world and over a million people were killed in 4 years (Hinton 1998). The same thing is happening now with Syria. Over time the numbers will keep on growing because people are not getting involved. People are becoming increasingly numb to these sorts of tragedies, and are accustomed to feeling powerless to do anything. This type of thinking needs to stop in order to prevent tragedies like the Cambodian Genocide or the current situation in Syria. Instead of standing by, and letting it unfold there are many ways for people to help the people of Syria. The people of Syria are just like everyone else; they have families, friends, and ambitions. There is no way to justify standing idly while these people are suffering everyday. People may think that the only way to help is to send military forces to the region, but that the case. The the best, and easiest, way to help is to donate to the organizations that are working on the ground with the people. These organizations such as: The White Helmets, UNICEF, Doctors without borders, etc depend on donations in order to provide the people with food, water, and medical care to the millions of people. Through donations anyone can help the Syrian people. Another way to help is to contact local politicians, and encourage them to bring this issue into more discussions. By doing this they are raising awareness of the situation which is the key to resolving this conflict. Once the public knows more about this topic they will be more likely to stand in solidarity with Syria. And once the public shows their support the government will be pressured to get involved. World leaders would be able to cooperate, and find a quick solution. Just by a person raising their voice can have a large effect on others. It starts with one person raising awareness of the situation, and then it slowly grows into a large group of people and eventually an entire nation could be united. Another solution to help the Syrian people is to encourage governments to admit the millions of Syrian Refugees. So far countries such as Turkey, Germany, and Italy have been overwhelmed with the large numbers of refugees, and are unable to support the millions that are still internationally displaced. If more countries opened their doors then this will provide a safe haven for the families in search of peace. For the world to take action to find a solution to this crisis is long overdue. After 6 years the people of Syria are still hopeful that they will be saved. The idea of standing by, and feeling powerless needs to be abandoned. And the idea that we as a human race can come together to help each other needs to be adopted. The Syrian Civil war is arguably one of the worst humanitarian crises today. In the past the world has stood by, and watched atrocities like this unfold. This idea needs to completely abandoned from minds. The world should not repeat its mistakes from the past, but rather learn from them. This crisis will eventually pass, but when another emerges in a different country in the future the world should not stand idly while people die. The time to change habits is now before it is too late. It is not too late to help Syria; there are many ways to help. By standing together in unison, raising awareness, and calling upon our governments to take action everyone can help the people of Syria. Through donations, welcoming refugees into other countries, and encouraging governments to take action this crisis can finally end. Works cited ISIS and the Civil War in Syria: The Challenge for U.S. Foreign  Georgetown Journal of International Affairs, 1 Dec. 2015. Web. 13 Apr. 2017. Hinton, Alexander Laban. A Head for an Eye: Revenge in the Cambodian 25.3 (1998): 352-77. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Jenkins, Brian Michael. The Dynamics of Civil  Rand, 2015. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Laub, Zachary. War: The Descent Into  on Foreign Council on Foreign Relations, 2016. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Mariwala, Arnav. The Syrian Civil War Regime of Bashar Al  MODEL UNITE D NATIONS CONFERENCE (2014): 14-15. 2014. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.