Julian Daugherty Erika Stagier ENC 1102 16 April 2017 End the Embargo Cuba has been cut off from the United States for half a century. The current embargo has limited trade and is reminiscent of the Cold War. Cuba relies on imports to sustain larger populations and has had difficulties progressing domestic technologies to improve the lives of citizens. The embargo is an outdated practice and should be repealed through the Cuba Trade Act of 2017. The issue does not need the entire United States to support it, rather groups that would be affected by the changes. These groups would likely be around the Southeast United States. Students at the University of South Florida would be able to support passing the trade bill by becoming engaged in the legislative process. The trade effect would be felt by and citizens in the Southeastern United States. The restrictions on trade between the United States and Cuba began in 1959, with the conclusion of the Cuban Revolution. The Cuban stance and subsequent actions with American citizens provoked the United government to place sanctions on the country. The embargo was justified when the Cuban Missile Crisis occurred, which nearly plunged the world into nuclear war. As relations relaxed between the United States and the Soviet Union, the embargo persisted. The effects of the trade ban varied throughout the years as different American Presidents took power. Certain foreign policies led to results that were amplified in Cuba. However, the country rarely experienced prosperity. In an article reviewing the economic status of Cuba since the embargo, Paul K. Drain and Michele Barry state the Soviet Union collapsed in 1989, foreign aid faltered and economy and health (Drain, Barry 572). This illustrates the dependence of Cuba on foreign support. Without adequate trade and aid, Cuba is placed in a difficult position. Originally, this was intended toward the government. However, the Cuban people have felt the impacts of events in other countries. The Cuban government imposed heavy restrictions on citizens, so they are unable to escape the conditions. The people are at the mercy of foreign governments. Cuba has remained in a state of barely sustaining itself for decades. The citizens of Cuba have felt the full effects of decisions made by the American and Cuban governments, and have suffered for mistakes. Repealing the embargo presents more benefits than negative consequences. state as a large Caribbean island is an opportunity to tap into the tourism industry. Numerous of cruise ships pass by the island almost constantly. Adding Cuba as a stop would provide the country with more income to develop the country. As the buildings and infrastructure are modernized from the Cold War era, the country can multiply the earnings from tourism. With relaxed trade, Cuba would be able to import and export more goods. Florida is about 100 miles from Cuba, so trade would be easily conducted. This provides an opportunity for businesses in the Southeastern United States and Cuba to prosper from a new trading partner. With more accessibility to imports, Cuba would be able to progress their technologies and improve the lives of citizens. The role of assisting in advancing technology could be filled by the United States, which would provide jobs and business for American citizens. The United States and Cuba could flourish from increased trade between each other. According to a study of gains and losses due to the Cuban embargo, procon,org states United States trades with China, Venezuela, and Vietnam despite their records of human rights (Procon.org 2016). This reinforces the idea that the embargo is an outdated practice that is harming more than it helps. The United States imports various commodities from China, yet the governments of both countries disagree with each other. Launching an embargo on China would cripple businesses in the United States and China. Comparing the situation to Cuba, the United States has more to gain than to lose by lifting the trade ban. These effects are more large scale over longer periods, but their results could be felt early. For example, university students in the Southeast could take advantage of job creation. Supporting the legislation now may secure career opportunities in the future. Business students could take advantage of the increased trade, tourism, and small business growth. Students with STEM majors could be employed to improve infrastructure, shipping, and installing technologies in Cuba. With more people and infrastructure to support them, medical students could more easily seek employment with hospitals on the island. These opportunities would last a short time, since the improvements would likely increase the education possibilities. With more education, the island could move from barely sustaining to economic growth. The results of which would be felt by Americans and Cubans. To begin investing in this prosperous future, citizens can begin becoming more active in the legislative process. The United Congress has an overwhelming number of topics and bills to review. For a certain bill to be discussed, there must be sufficient support shown for it. This support can begin locally and gather momentum as it spreads. Starting locally allows the idea to develop and be revised to be applicable to larger and larger groups. Students at the University of South Florida can build from former President Barrack easing of travel restrictions between Cuba and the United States. The level of involvement desired is up to the individual. The minimum would qualify as remaining educated and updated on the progress and state of the trade act. This would allow them to spread the knowledge at whatever capacity, be it between friends, neighbors, or other students. Increased involvement would be spreading information about the bill, possibly signing a petition, passing out fliers, acquiring permission to set up signs around campus, or publishing information through a local news source. At higher levels of involvement, students may contact legislators that could show support for the bill. From the mayor to a national senator, students can make their voice heard. For maximum effectiveness, larger groups would have the greatest increase on support for the bill. Cuba presents a major opportunity for economic growth. A bill to relax the trade embargo on Cuba has been introduced, but requires more support to have the best chance of success. The current stance of the United States is outdated and citizens in the United States and Cuba would gain from increased trade. Citizens, such as university students, can show support by becoming more politically active. They can help at varying levels, depending on each views. Works Cited Paul K. Drain and Michele Barry. Fifty Years of U.S. Embargo: Health Outcomes and Lessons. 12 Apr 2016 William M. LeoGrande A Policy Long Past Its Expiration Date: US Economic Sanctions Against Cuba. 12 Apr 2016