Kayla Prive Professor Spencer ENC 1102 16 April 2017 End the Test Standardized testing has been apart of the American Education system since the mid-1800s, and there is still an on going debate on whether or not this form of testing precisely measures a academic ability. These high stakes tests are made to asses students, teachers, and used to judge the quality of education of the school overall, thus placing a tremendous amount of pressure on everyone involved. It is important that the people get involved, because if this test continues to be administered, then in the long run students will not obtain a quality education, and will just be in school to the To begin with, what exactly does standardized testing mean? W. James Popham, former president of the American Educational Research Association, defines standardized testing as any test administered, scored, and interpreted in a standard, predetermined  (ProCon, paragraph 4). They are usually multiple choice, making it more convenient, because an automated test scoring machine will be able to score it. You may think that these tests are just another test given to students, but the results of these tests really do have an effect on everybody in the long term. They often determine which students will pass or graduate, which teachers will maintain their job or be given a raise, and which schools will receive more or less money (National Council Teachers of English, Page 1). It can be concluded that high scores are equivalent to the school doing well in teaching its students, while low scores mean that teachers are not doing a great job in educating students. However, this is not always the case because ultimately it is up to the student. A student with a great deal of stress may not pass this Kayla Prive Professor Spencer ENC 1102 16 April 2017 standardized test but it the fault of the teacher or school, it is just that these tests do not accurately measure a performance. So, what can be done to address this problem? Rather than you as a student, or parent, you can of standardized testing. Opting out is the refusal to take government-mandated standardized tests (FairTest, Paragraph 2). Opting out is a very effective approach in protesting this corruption of the education system. If you choose to opt out, you are sending across the message that time being spent in school should be all about thoroughly learning new information, not spending hours and hours prepping for the big test. To do this, you can send a letter to the school principal informing them that you do not want your child to partake in the standardized test that is being given that year. It is just that if the main focus is to only memorize information that will be on the test, this just denies the students natural desire and need to learn. More time needs to be allotted for more in depth, insightful learning, and the needs must be taken into consideration, in order to raise intelligent individuals that the future of our society depends on. In conclusion, standardized testing is beginning to become the main means of testing in schools across the country. Stress is placed upon students, parents, and teachers in order for the children involved to do well on these exams. Students spend hours and hours preparing for these tests, in and out of school, and this extra stress can result in the child opting out of school entirely, or even becoming depressed or suicidal. Given the limitless problems that society is faced with today (unemployment, the falling economy, problems with other countries), these young people have much more to worry about than Kayla Prive Professor Spencer ENC 1102 16 April 2017 one test. So, if the United States wants a nation of prosperous individuals, we need to develop young people who will be prepared to handle complex situations and find the solutions to the problems of world WITHOUT standardized testing because that will do nothing for us. Kayla Prive Professor Spencer ENC 1102 16 April 2017 ProCon.org. Background of the  ProCon.org. 2 June 2016, 9:22 a.m., standardizedtests.procon.org/view.resource.php?resourceID=006521 How Standardized Tests and Learning (n.d.): n. pag. Web.