Lasso de la Vega 1 Gabriela Lasso de la Vega Instructor Ryan ENC 1102.001 18 April 2017 Title: Subtitle Extinction is no joke. The word extinction can conjure up images of dinosaurs, dodo birds, and other prehistoric animals which do not exist today. The truth is that animal species all over the world are rapidly declining due to poaching, loss of habitat, and climate change for example. The World Wildlife Fund believes that the earth is losing species between 1,000 and 10,000 times faster than the natural extinction rate. Many groups have devoted their time and resources to conserving animal species and lessening the negative impact that humans have on the ecosystem. Zoos are just one resource who have been working hard to keep animal species thriving. The Association of Zoos and Aquariums in particular have made it their mission to protect endangered species and educate the public about how to care for the environment. Some people may not realize the great extent that zoos go to protect and conserve animals. AZA accredited zoos spend around 160 million dollars a year to support conservation projects. Zoos help to breed and preserve animal species that are declining in the wild, but they also work to come up with ways to protect their natural environments. Every year AZA releases an Annual Report on Conservation and Science (ARCS). The ARCS feature projects such as education programs, field conservation, green practices, and mission-focused research. One example of a project is in 2015, Tampa Busch Gardens began working on the conservation of the endangered African Penguins. Each year they aim to release 60 to 70 percent of penguins in to the wild, and to educate at least 800 visitors. Zoos realize that most, if not all, of the damage Lasso de la Vega 2 that is done to the environment is caused by humans. Zoos believe that by educating the public about the animals that they love, it will inspire visitors to make positive changes in the way they treat the environment. This spring, Lowry Park Zoo renovated their retention pond to prevent wastewater from draining into the Hillsborough river. They hope that this change will further educate visitors on the importance of clean water in our ecosystems. Scientists working with zoos can closely study the animals in captivity to further understand how to help animals in the wild. If you already love animals then it easy to imagine how tragic it would be to see your favorite animals become extinct. Even if you are not passionate about helping animals, there is no doubt that many species populations are declining and this will have a detrimental effect on the earth. When one species goes extinct, other animals have to find new sources of food or else they will die off as well. This chain reaction leads to major changes in the entire ecosystem. Luckily zoos are constantly working towards conserving animals. The wild horse is just one of several species that has been saved from extinction thanks to zoos. In the 1960s these horses were considered extinct in their natural environment in Mongolia due to hunting. Zoos have been continuing to breed this species and release them back into the wild (Taronga 2014). They are also working towards maintaining genetic variability in the animals to prevent health conditions associated with inbreeding. Even if animal extinction affect you in your life time, what is done today will have a huge impact on future generations. If you want your children, grandchildren, and their grandchildren to be able to enjoy and appreciate magnificent wild animals, then supporting zoos and their conservation efforts is crucial. It is easy and enjoyable to support zoos. When you purchase tickets to visit with friends or family, you help provide zoos with the resources needed to continue to care for, protect, and Lasso de la Vega 3 research animals. Zoos such as Lowry Park Zoo rely on donations to fund the David A. Straz, Jr. Manatee hospital, which is a non-profit critical care facility. Without donations, they would not be able to rehabilitate these endangered animals or educate the public about safe boating practices. If you have the means to donate, many zoos feature programs. You can give money to symbolically adopt your favorite animal species, and the money will be used to contribute to the conservation projects. Even if you do not wish to give money, you can still help by giving your time. Most zoos have several volunteer opportunities throughout the year and will greatly appreciate the help. Zoos are working hard to conserve animal species and bring awareness to the public. By breeding captive animals and releasing them in to the wild, they can make a positive impact on wildlife populations. Zoos also perform research on the animals in their facilities to better understand wild animals and how to protect their environments. Without the help of major organizations such as AZA, animal species will continue to rapidly decline. Future generations will only hear about the magnificent animals that once roamed the planet. Each species of animal plays a unique and important role in the ecosystem and we can not afford to lose a single one. Since many zoos are non-profit, they rely on donations from visitors in order to stay in business and continue their conservation efforts. Purchasing a ticket to visit the zoo can be a great opportunity to see and learn about wild animals, but will also make a difference in the future of the earth. Lasso de la Vega 4 Works Cited Horse (Takhi) Breeding  Taronga. N.p., 04 June 2014. Web. 18 Apr. 2017. https://www.aza.org/ How Many Species Are We  WWF. N.p., 16 Dec. 2008. Web. 18 Apr. 2017. How Do Zoos Help Endangered  Scientific American. N.p., 08 Apr. 2009. Web. 19 Apr. 2017.