Ramachandran 1 Vilas Ramachandran Instructor Townsend ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Protect the Tribe: Halt the Dakota Access Pipeline A democracy only works when its citizens are given a voice to protect the rights of those whose voices are often ignored. A unified effort by individuals to bring about change, whether in their local communities or for the country is the only thing that has ever worked in the past. However, a democracy that accepts capitalism must also find a balance between the rights of the people and the rights of businesses. Recently, the very balance between capitalism and the rights of property owners has come into question over a pipeline in the Mid-West. The Dakota Access Pipeline Project would extend 1,168 miles, across four states, and carry crude oil to another pipeline that connects to the Gulf of Mexico (Kennedy). The pipeline runs through farms, small towns, and tribal land. The project, which was approved by the Army Corps of Engineers in July of 2016, is said to reduce transportation costs by millions and to be a safer more efficient method to transport crude oil. The members of the Sioux Tribe resist the pipeline mainly because it runs through Lake Oahe, which is Standing primary source of drinking water. They fear that one day the pipeline may leak causing contamination of the sacred lake and their source of water for years to come. It is now up to us, to stand up and defend the rights of the Standing Rock Sioux access to safe water in their sacred source of water because if we remain silent the ramifications will impact not just the tribe, but the entire country. To understand the issue, it is vitally important to have an understanding of the two stakeholders that have the most to lose through this situation. Energy Transfer Partners is a Texas based company, which was established in 1995. They own and operate about 71,000 miles Ramachandran 2 of natural gas pipeline across the country (Energy Transfer Partners). The corporation currently owns the largest percentage of the pipeline at about 36.75 percent (Two Bulls). Thus, they have the most influence over how, where, and when the pipeline will be built. Inherently, they are most invested in seeing that the pipeline be built and receive the most criticism for the project. On the other hand, the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe was established in 1868 and consists of territory in both North and South Dakota (Standing Rock). The members of the Sioux Tribe resist the pipeline mainly because it runs through Lake Oahe, which is Standing primary source of drinking water. Time is running out to act to speak out against the pipeline because of recent political developments. During the final months of President Barack term, he issued an executive order that halted the construction of the pipeline until a proper plan was made Many supporters of the Tribe believed that this move marked a victory. However, President Trump recently issued an executive order that restarted the construction of the pipeline (Eilperin). Construction has begun, which means the time is now to act to defend the tribe. It is often hard to realize the impact that a conflict a thousand miles away can have on the community in which you live. However, as USF students, Floridians, Americans, and even citizens of the world, the ramifications of building the pipeline are far reaching. While the pipeline is not being built in our backyard, its construction does have the potential to impact us in the future. The impact need not be tangible, but instead may be its potential impact from a legal standpoint. Allowing the pipeline to continue, sets a dangerous precedent for future construction plans. If our nation allows this construction to violate the sovereignty of the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe, then what stops future construction plans that violate sovereignty. It could potentially allow controversial construction plans to proceed in the Tampa Bay region. We are a nation that has Ramachandran 3 always protected the rights of property owners, while also allowing for the capitalism to operate. This pipeline, however, only supports large corporations without looking at the needs of the Tribe. As USF students, it is sometimes hard to see how new construction may impact our lives. However, we will one day be the inhabitants of the community and as property owners, we would not be happy with construction that could potentially harm us or our families. Furthermore, The current path of the pipeline routes it through the Midwestern states and into the Gulf of Mexico. Florida is familiar with the devastating effects a leak can have not just on the environment here, but also the economy. During the BP oil spill our tourism and fishing economy went into turmoil. According to The Balance, Gulf Coast economies suffered more than four billion dollars of losses (Amadeo). If the pipeline were to leak, then the effects to the Floridian coast line would resemble that of the BP oil spill about seven years ago. This exemplifies that the pipeline has the ability to affect not just Dakota, but our own community. Thus, it is reasonable and necessary for the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe to be against the construction of the pipeline. Those are two of the reasons that you should be concerned about because of the Dakota Access Pipeline, but there are countless more as to why you must work tirelessly to stop the construction. At times, it can be difficult to see the power of your voice and its ability to bring about real change that impacts real situations. However, it can and has been done in the past. If each of us, in small ways, stands up for the rights of the tribe, then there is no doubt that this pipeline can be stopped. One way that you can make your voice heard is to donate money directly to the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe, so that they can continue to fight against the pipeline. Every hard-earned dollar that is donated to the Tribe can be used to tell both Energy Transfer Partners and the current administration that you do not agree with the construction of the pipeline. Furthermore, the Ramachandran 4 Standing Rock Sioux Tribe have created a petition for individuals to sign to let the administration know that the American people, not just the Tribe, do not want this pipeline built. Finally, Congress has the power to stop the construction of the pipeline, but has not taken any steps to do so. Therefore, another option is to call your representative and demand that he/she take steps to stop the construction of the pipeline. The three steps do not make up every way to make your voice heard, but they are some effortless ways that USF students can make their voice heard while at school. It is up to all of us to defend the rights of all people and to unify and make our voices heard. Often people feel as if their individual voice does not have the power to change the status quo and that regardless of how hard they try, people in power will not change their ways. But, history teaches us a different lesson. A lesson that shows that committed, passionate, and unified individuals demanding justice does truly change the world. The Dakota Access Pipeline is no different. On the other hand, if we do nothing, then the pipeline will be built and the sacred source of water will be in danger. Stand up, make your voice heard and you can be part of stopping construction of the Dakota Access Pipeline. Ramachandran 5 Works Cited Amadeo, Kimberly. BP Oil Spill Economic  The Balance, 9 Nov. 2016, www.thebalance.com/bp-gulf-oil-spill-facts-economic-impact-3306212. Accessed 15 Apr. 2017. Chris, and Lydia Army Halts Construction Of Dakota Access  The Huffington Post, 5 Dec. 2016, www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/obamadakota-access- Accessed 25 Feb. 2017. Eilperin, Juliet, and Brady Dennis. Trump Administration to Approve Final Permit for Dakota Access Pipeline - The Washington  Washington Post, 7 Feb. 2017, www.washingtonpost.com/news/energy- environment/wp/2017/02/07/trumpadministration-to-approve-final-permit-for-dakota- Accessed 25 Feb. 2017. Energy Transfer Partners. Corporate  Accessed 26 Jan. 2017. ---. The Dakota Access Pipeline is the Best Way to Move Bakken Crude Oil to  Dakota Access Pipeline Facts, daplpipelinefacts.com/. Accessed 26 Jan. 2017. Kennedy, Michael. The Dakota Access  Earthjustice, earthjustice.org/cases/2016/the- dakota-access-pipeline. Accessed 25 Jan. 2017. Standing Rock Sioux Tribe.  standingrock.org/history/. Accessed 26 Jan. 2017. Two Bulls, Krystal, et al. The Financial Powers Behind the Dakota Access Pipeline Must Be  Common Dreams, www.commondreams.org/views/2016/10/12/financial- powers-behind-dakota-access-pipeline-must-be-confronted. Accessed 26 Jan. 2017.