Sturm 1 Harrison Sturm Professor Staiger ENC 1102.005 16 April 2017 The Fight Against Hydraulic Fracturing In the modern era, the world runs on oil. Oil is used as fuel, a means of generating power, a lubricant, the creation of plastics, construction materials, and countless other uses. For years, the method of reaching this resource was to drill it out of the ground until the well runs dry and then find the next place to drill. In attempts to avoid buying oil from other countries or to expand the market, several oil companies have to hydraulic fracturing to obtain oil instead of common drilling. Instead of using pumps to siphon oil from the ground, pressurized water is used to crack shale deposits which releases oils and fuels to the surface. This method has resulted in booming industry just as conventional drilling has done in the past, with the same consequences or possibly worse. Spills, contaminated water, health risks, and polluted air are just a few of the issues of using hydraulic fracturing to obtain oil which adds more contaminants once refined and used. However, several groups speak against hydraulic fracturing and it is possible for others to add their own voice against the use of oil. Such means of demanding these changes can be the limited use of electronic appliances, sending messages to local or state officials for new regulations or proposals, help fund new energy research options, and raise awareness for others to speak against the use of hydraulic fracturing. Fresh water is one of the most important resources on the entire planet. A difficult resource to find and even harder to keep pure, fresh water is rapidly disappearing from many Sturm 2 regions in the world. To make matters even worse, it is necessary to obtain oils and gasses which can escape and contaminate water sources. Chris Mooney, a writer for Scientific American, explains why water used for hydraulic fracturing impacts the environment. Fresh water is pure, which is perfect for drinking as well as extracting oils and gasses. One of the biggest wastes of fresh water is not due to the spills, but instead the of freshwater from arid regions, especially during drought (Money 9). The fresh water is wasted for marginal benefits while entire ecosystems fail due to the lack of the scarce, precious resource that only comes a few times per year. Adding more complications is that once used, the water is contaminated and difficult to clean or store for long periods of time. This usually results in hazardous disposal which can in turn contaminate more water and further affect an ecosystem. Another reason as to why hydraulic fracturing is a danger to the environment is because of the method used for obtaining oils and gases. High pressurized water cracks shale rock at high speeds, similarly to how a jackhammer works. This however causes earthquakes due to vibrations from shale being shattered underground in extreme pressures. Geophysicist Austin A. Holland provided a direct correlation between hydraulic fracturing wells and earthquakes. During the time of drilling, earthquakes were reported but when the drilling stopped the can be observed to cease during this period and resume after hydraulic fracturing had (Holland 1). While most of the recorded earthquakes occurred far from any major tectonic fault line, it is not difficult to know how devastating a natural earthquake can be. An artificial earthquake in an unstable fault line would undoubtedly cause far worse harm should hydraulic fracturing occur on or near such a location. Sturm 3 Despite these fears, there are ways to prevent ecological damage. One of the methods of getting rid of a process is heavy regulations that force companies to invest in other pursuits. A few of these regulations are explained by Kristy Hartman, policy specialist for the National Conference of State Legislatures. These regulations vary in severity or depth but they are target to either stall, enforce heavy safety requirements, or even ban the installation of hydraulic fracturing sites in several states. While some of these regulations are possible to fail due to lack of petitioners or state governors refusing to sign them, will continue their efforts to ensure these new practices are safe for the public and the (Hartman 3). Regardless of how effective these regulations are, they still force oil companies to spend the time and effort to make safe drilling process which can lead to a slow loss in interest. Another example of anti hydraulic fracturing movements occurs in the United Kingdom. Recorded by Peter Jones, a business member of the University of Gloucestershire, several in the United Kingdom cry out against the government and the attempts at establishing new drilling sites. Many regions targeted by oil companies are either countryside farmlands or private property. Drilling in these locations would not only displace the local population but the landscape would be scarred and damaged. This has resulted in the populace to take action in an attempt to stop exploratory drilling (Jones 14). The government, despite attempting to appease to the public, struggles to gain momentum due to the strong lobbying against hydraulic fracturing. Even with regulations and the public calling for the banning of hydraulic fracturing, place that conduct hydraulic fracturing with strong regulations can still fall victim to disasters. An accident, improper construction, or plain carelessness can pollute and cause damage. Sturm 4 Environmental engineer Namita Shrestha provides examples as to why water tables can be polluted despite regulations. One such example is allowing oils and gasses access out of confinement during drilling processes. No amount of regulation or construction procedures would be able to change fissures or openings, allowing gas to travel far (Shrestha 7). These openings, along with shoddy construction or simple accidents can result in the release of oils and gasses which seep into the environment. Hydraulic fracturing is a powerful means of obtaining oils and gasses and a dangerous threat to ecosystems. The society of today has the technology to find a new energy source but due to the abundance of oil and gas these more efficient, cleaner methods are passed by for the sake of convenience. If the public were to fund private organizations, lobby against oil companies, and cut the use of electronics renewable energy sources could become a reality sooner than later. The use of conventional nonrenewable resources are damaging the world and will continue to do so unless people find a new means of generating energy. It may be difficult to research a new energy source, but constant use of oil is not the solution and hydraulic fracturing is only adding more issues by supplying it. Sturm 5 Sources Cited Hartman, Kristy. Economies of Shale: Hydraulic Fracturing Has Unlocked Huge Amounts of Oil and Gas, Helping Boost State Economies Even as It Generates Environmental and Public Health  no. 6, 2015, p. 28. ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ed Holland, Austin A. Earthquakes Triggered by Hydraulic Fracturing in South--Central  2017. Accessed 15 Apr. 2017. Jones, Peter, David Hillier, and Daphne Comfort. Fracking in the UK: planning and property  Emerald Group Publishing Limited, 2014. Accessed 11 Apr. 2017. Mooney, Chris. The Truth about  http://www.nature.com/scientificamerican/journal/v305/n5/full/scientificamerican1111-8 Scientific American, 18 Oct. 2011. Accessed 11 Apr. 2017. Sturm 6 Shrestha, Namita, Govinda Chilkoor, Joseph Wilder, and Venkataman Gadhemshetty. Potential water resource impacts of hydraulic fracturing from unconventional oil production in the Bakken  http://www.sciencedirect.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/science/article/pii/S004313541630851X , Science Direct, 17 Jan. 2017. Accessed 11 Apr. 2017.