Herman 1 Madison Herman Erika Staiger ENC1102 16 April 2017 Legalizing the Recreational Use of Marijuana Cannabis, also known as Marijuana, has a rich history dating back to 8000BCE according to Christopher Aanstoos in the Salem Encyclopedia of Health. With the multi-use capabilities of marijuana, the drug was always seen as a sort of miracle drug until it became illegal in the United States as part of the War on Drugs. Unfortunately, the information to back-up marijuana legalization is not often promoted however USF students should care particularly about this issue. Contacting state representatives, signing petitions for congress, and supporting organizations in the effort of legalizing marijuana are all ways USF students can approach the issue. Marijuana is not the enemy, and never has been. The proper knowledge and information about the plant, as well as the continued support towards legalization, can help to end prohibition and regulate the responsible use of marijuana. Marijuana use dates back originally to 8,000 BCE in China, where it was mainly used to create textiles and paper (Aanstoos). This fibrous material from the plant is called Hemp. Additionally, marijuana was used for its psychoactive effects as well as medical effects, being known to heal gout, malaria, and according to Wilkie, Sakr, and Rizack in a review titled Medical Marijuana Use in Oncology. Marijuana was also thought to reduce anxiety and has been used in India since at least the second millennium BCE (Aanstoos). In 1840, marijuana was introduced to Western medicine by surgeon W.B. as he reported the drug to have analgesic, anti-inflammatory, Herman 2 antispasmodic, and anticonvulsant properties (Wilkie et al, 670). After 1850, marijuana was freely sold as a medicine in the US pharmacopeia, however was soon to stop the sale of marijuana. Alex Rich and Alexander Stingl report that prohibition of marijuana stems from the fear of a criminal element sneaking into the country by Mexican immigrants. Mexicans accused of being addicted to marijuana, and the substance itself was credited with making people become violent and (Rich and Stingl). The passing of the Harrison Act of 1914 defined marijuana use as a crime, which led to the passing of the Marijuana Tax Act. In 1937, the United States congress enacted the Marijuana Tax Act, quickly ending the sale of marijuana legally in the US. The tax act made it a federal crime to distribute, or produce despite claims of the medical benefits from the drug. Since then, marijuana became a Schedule I drug in 1970, defining it as drug with no medical value and having a high potential of (Rich and Stingl). Around the same time is when millions of people around the US began calling for the legalization of marijuana, and in 1996 California became the first state to again legalize the medical use of marijuana (Wilkie et al, 670). As of 2017 there are currently twenty-nine states that have legalized marijuana for medical use, and eight states and the District of Colombia have legalized the recreational or personal use of marijuana, as per the NORML website (NORML). Marijuana is used for both its psychoactive effects, as well as its medicinal properties. When marijuana was outlawed, it was outlawed because of the fear of immigrants and incorrectly linking marijuana use with promiscuity, mental illness, and violence (Aanstoos). Since then, false facts about marijuana have circulated the United States and given the drug a harsh stigma. There are differences in the chemical structures of cannabinoids, which Herman 3 are chemical substances within the plant. The two main cannabinoids are CBD and THC (Mandelbaum and de la Monte, 13). Nearly 40% of cannabis extracts comprise CBD, the substance thought to help medicinally with unfavorable symptoms, lack psychoactivity, and interfere with psychomotor learning or neurophychologic THC, on the other hand, is for the mood-altering and is the main ingredient in the plant to give one a feeling of being high (Mandelbaum and de la Monte, 13). Marijuana has tendencies to be both a stimulant or a tranquilizer, effects being felt almost immediately when smoked. Positive short- term effects include increased sensory sensitivity, greater awareness, creativity, and a sense of while negative effects, which do not always occur and are typically mild, include with concentration, paranoia, feeling socially awkward, and reduced motor performance (Aanstoos). Short-term physical effects include increased heart rate and dilated blood vessels, with no damaging effects on the body being found from occasional marijuana use. There is concern of poorer white matter formation in the brain with adolescents ages 16-19 years who use marijuana regularly, however the legalization of marijuana calls for the purchase by adults twenty-one years and older where brain formation is complete and would not be affected. Similarly, adverse effects the central nervous system, mood, or vital signs could not be demonstrated (Mandelbaum and de la Monte 14). Aside from the psychoactive effects of marijuana, the plant is also in high-demand in the healthcare field and has been known to ease the pain of many symptoms. Although marijuana is not legally for recreational use in most states, the legalization of medical marijuana is on the rise. Beginning in the 1970s, Elizabeth Nelson writes in the Salem Press Encyclopedia of Health, marijuana was used around the world to treat glaucoma and severe headaches when a tolerance for conventional drugs was built by the individual acquiring the Herman 4 medication. Medical cannabis can treat a variety of symptoms, including ADHD, nausea associated with AIDS, anxiety, anorexia, chronic pain, depression, pain associated with nausea and vomiting, post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), epilepsy, multiple sclerosis (MS), tooth and gum pain, phantom limb pain, and as a medicine to help with the harsh toles of chemotherapy (Nelson). There are several ways of delivering cannabis into the body, among them being through vaporizers, topical ointments, lozenges, ingestion, and nasal sprays. It is found that up to 90% of cancer patients prefer cannabinoid therapy for chemotherapy cycles because of the reduced tendency to feel the various symptoms associated with cancer and chemotherapy (Wilkie et al, 672). Additionally, recent study of parental impressions extracts for the treatment of epilepsy reported high rates of improved seizure control (57%), including reduced rates of seizures, gains in behavior, language, motor skills, and every (Mandelbaum and de la Monte, 19). Not only does cannabis help to relieve patients of symptoms, the dosage of THC works better than similar effects of codeine. Wilkie, Sakr, and Rizack reported that of THC produces analgesic effects over a 7-hour observation period comparable to 60mg of codeine, and 20mg of THC induced similar effects of 120mg of suggesting that less goes farther when it comes to using marijuana for medicinal purposes. With the proper knowledge of marijuana and facts versus myths, this only begins to explain why one should care about the issue that is marijuana legalization for recreational use. There are several reasons, even for the non-smoker, as to why one should care about marijuana legalization that both directly and indirectly affects the U.S. citizens as a whole. First, the issue of marijuana legalization, especially among adolescents, helps the younger generation rally behind a cause and gain some political knowledge. The average adolescent has little knowledge when it comes to politics, however more and more adolescents are using marijuana Herman 5 and can help support the legalization, and begin to delve into politics by paying attention and being informed. Secondly, marijuana is an extremely helpful drug when it comes to medical symptoms, from cancer to anxiety to depression. College students are at an increased risk of anxiety and depression in college because of the extreme course loads and learning to balance school, work, relationships, and a social life. The legalization of recreational marijuana can help students stay relaxed in times of extreme stress and anxiety without depending on addictive drugs such as Adderall or Ritalin. Additionally, because marijuana is a Schedule I drug, possession or production of marijuana can mean jail time for offenders. Between 2001-2010, over seven-million people were arrested because of marijuana offenses These arrests are not made against drug lords, they are possession charges for small amounts of marijuana, which leads to a lack of proper arrests for those counts more serious such as murder, burglary, etc. In conjunction with state and federal systems, if marijuana is made legal for recreational purposes, state and federal governments can tax the drug which will reduce tax burdens on American citizens and instead lead to funding our roads, schools, poverty, and the like. If marijuana is made legal, then it can be made safe. Without legality of marijuana there is no way to regulate the drug most people around the country must get marijuana illegally, which can lead to adolescents easily getting the plant or over-pricing of the drug compared to legal prices in states such as Colorado and California. Legal marijuana means safe, regulated marijuana purchases made by adults twenty-one years and older. To help support the legalization of marijuana, there are several things one can do to make a difference. The easiest way is to donate to organizations that are already making the effort to get congress involved and legalize marijuana. Organizations such as NORML and LEAP are Herman 6 easily accessible state-by-state online and are built to take petitions to congress and legalize marijuana across the US for recreational use. On a more individual level, one may start a petition for the legalization of marijuana. By petitioning and acquiring signatures, the effort can be made to legalize marijuana by then taking the petition to state representatives. Lastly, and easy way to get in the fight for marijuana legalization is to call state governors, senators, and representatives. Simply calling government officials is a great way to be heard and take action for marijuana legalization. Since as early as 8000 BCE in China, marijuana has been used in several ways such as to make textiles, paper, for psychoactive effects, and to relieve medical symptoms. Marijuana was introduced to western medicine in 1840, but has since become illegal and classified as a Schedule I drug because of the war on drugs and incorrect information stemming from fear of Mexican immigrants. Marijuana is not an addictive drug; as little as 9% of people claim marijuana dependence, less than the addiction rates of heroin, cocaine, alcohol, and prescribed anxiolytics (Wilkie et al, 674). The use of marijuana for recreational purposes can reduce stress and anxiety, promote euphoria, and relax the body by calming muscles (Nelson). As for medicinal purposes, marijuana has been shown to treat nausea and vomiting, migraines, muscle spasms, MS, ADHD, disease, schizophrenia, phantom limb pain, and more. Marijuana is an important issue to care about because of the immense medical uses to provide relief to patients. The legalization of marijuana would reduce jail-overcrowding, releasing those incarcerated from marijuana offenses. State and federal governments can also tax legal marijuana, therefore extending the budget for each state and reducing the tax burden on American citizens. Legalizing marijuana means regulating the drug and having the ability to keep people safe. By supporting existing marijuana legalizations such as NORML and LEAP, Herman 7 petitioning for marijuana legalization, and contacting government officials, marijuana can continue to become legal across the nation and the stigma associated by spreading the proper information can be diminished. Herman 8 WORKS CITED Aanstoos, Christopher.  Salem Press Encyclopedia of Health, Nov. 2015, eds.a.ebscohost.com/eds/detail/detail?sid=f485f807-3e32-4841-ba21- 27a058d8ec82%40sessionmgr4006&vid=0&hid=4210&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWRzLWxpd mU%3d#AN=89407075&db=ers. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. Anthrax Laundromat, Wordpress, Apr. 2015, https://anthraxlaundromat.wordpress.com/2015/04/21/why-everyone-should-care-about- legalization-non-smokers-guide-to-420/. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. Mandelbaum, David E., and Suzanne de la Monte. Adverse Structural and Functional Effects of Marijuana on the Brain: Evidence  Pediatric Neurology, vol. 66, 2017, pp. 12- 20, ac.els-cdn.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/S0887899416304787/1-s2.0- Accessed Nelson, Elizabeth. Medical  Salem Press Encyclopedia of Health, Dec. 2016. Ebscohost, eds.a.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/detail/detail?sid=25c24893-fa5f- 435b-a118- 79d3d71ad246%40sessionmgr4006&vid=1&hid=4211&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWRzLWxpd mU%3 d#AN=94415462&db=ers. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. NORML, NORML, 2017, norml.org/laws. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. Rich, Alex, and Alexander Stingl. Legalization of Marijuana: An  Salem Press Encyclopedia of Health, Feb. 2017, eds.a.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/detail/detail?sid=7ade7f6a-e6e4-459e-ab45- Herman 9 88726204bdb9@sessionmgr101&vid=3&hid=120&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWRzLWxpdmU =#AN=89158240&db=ers. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. Wilkie, Gianna, Bachir Sakr, and Tina Rizack. Medical Marijuana Use in  JAMA, vol. 2, no. 5, May 2016, pp. 670-75, doi:10.1001./jamaoncol.2016.0155. Accessed 10 Apr. 2017.