Quinones 1 Alesia Quinones Professor Phillips ENC 1102-025 12 April 2017 The Purpose of TSA Pre-Check In world, there are many forms of transportation, and a means of security that come with it. To promote safe traveling and the ensure the safety of all passengers and crew upon the craft of transportation. In 2001, a means of transportation security was created in the United States after a horrific terrorist attack that left the world in sorrow and fear of something of that nature possibly happening again. The Department of Homeland Security created the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) in order to keep peace and safety for all whilst traveling. Since the creation of TSA many have become questioning and angered toward the administration. There feeling have arisen due to the long and time consuming lines at airport security and a feeling of invasion of privacy. Due to these concerns TSA created a security check option that is TSA Pre-Check. This security option has changed the ways of security and fits the needs of civilians who have had concerns over transportation security. This is an important option given to civilians and is something that everyone should understand and take a part in. TSA Pre-Check was created back in December of 2011, the purpose behind the creation was to make an screening program that makes risk assessments about passengers prior to their arrival at an airport checkpoint. It provides expedited screening for known and trusted travelers at security checkpoints, allowing TSA to focus resources on high- risk and unknown (TSA). With the pre-qualification and back ground check of passengers, the security process in all airports moves much quicker. Within the Pre-Check line Quinones 2 there is also the benefit of not having to remove your shoes, belts, electronics, liquids, or your jacket. Causing the Pre-Check line to always move quickly. People questioning TSA have issues about, lines taking too long to get through security, or the invasive searches that happen through standard security checks. The Pre-Check Program was created in order to improve the Transportation System while also meeting the needs of citizens, giving everyone the option and opportunity to travel the way they desire. The steps one needs to take in order to become a TSA Pre-Check member is to online, attend an appointment in which you will receive a background check and fingerprinting and finally if accepted you will enjoy being a Pre-Check (TSA). With its many perks, it is very beneficial for everyone to take advantage of this opportunity. It is important for all citizens to take advantage and care about this opportunity provided to them by TSA, because it is very easy for everyone to forget why exactly the Transportation Security Administration was created in the first place. The heartbreaking attack that took place on September 11, 2001 is not something that can ever be forgotten. It not only effected Americans but everyone across the world. The importance of preventing an incident like that one to ever happen again will always be crucial. TSA meant to supply to needs but the fact that TSA has taken it into consideration the complaints of citizens and taken action to provide everyone with another means of security checks in majority of all airports is very important and is something that should be used by everyone. There are many who have taken advantage of TSA Pre-Check, one of which being Suzanne Fluhr, who wrote on Huffington Post, was through the TSA security check in about 30 seconds. Of course, I had to wait for my husband who finally emerged some time later, wondering what had become of me. For our next four flights, we both had the blessed on our boarding passes and Quinones 3 had the like flying in the good old (Fluhr). comments on her experience show the true benefits of TSA Pre-Check, and provide the experience that could and should be taken advantage of by all. The benefits of choosing to become a TSA Pre-Check member comes with many benefits. Benefits that are a remedy for all the complaints put in by citizens across the nation. TSA Pre-Check has become the answer to the issues individuals have with the transportation system and it should be important that everyone take advantage of the remedy that was provided to all. Taking apart and becoming a member not only helps you, but it also helps the standard security check move more smoothly and quickly. There has been a major difference in the way TSA security has ran and it has been very profitable to all passengers. Lucy Li, wrote about the many benefits of being a member of TSA Pre-Check most significant perk that TSA Pre- Check offers is the ability to bypass normally slow-moving security lanes in favor of an expedited one, saving you from experiencing considerable frustration and wasted time over the long run. By going through the TSA Pre-Check lane, passengers no longer have to remove shoes, the 3-1-1 liquid compliant bag, laptops, light outerwear/jackets, and belts. Though these passengers are still subject to random searches, the overall process tends to go by much more (Li). It is evident to many the betterment that is Pre-Check. Many people are already aware of the benefit of becoming a TSA Pre-Check member such as George Hobica, president and CEO of Airfarewatchdog, states, to Hobica, these benefits are invaluable to many frequent fliers: TSA Pre-Check just makes life so much more pleasant for air  Though you may be greeted with a long Pre-Check line, let that deter you. Pre-Check lines often move faster than standard lines regardless of length (similar to a grocery store express lane). And speed the only perk: Even if there are more people in the Quinones 4 line, Pre-Check is more convenient overall since you have to unpack your valuables or remove clothing items, Hobica (Alison Michaels). It goes to show how helpful being a member is and it is encouraged that everyone applies to become a member of Pre-Check. Set up an appointment to go and have a background check. It is two small steps that will change the way in which you travel. Over the years many changed have been made by the government, but it is not everyone that was made completely for citizens. With all the bad in the world, a means of protection is crucial in order to provide safety and order for civilian people. The creation of the Transportation Security Administration Pre-Check, was for the people. The purpose of the program is to provide an expedited means of security for all and allowing TSA agents to focus on unknown passengers who have not already had a pre-approved background check and who could be a possible danger. It is important for everyone to know why it is important to become a member and the benefits it has for not only themselves but for the standard security screening process itself. It not only speeds up the process for you but also for everyone else who is not already a member. So, if you are not already a member it is encouraged that you go out and sign up to become one today. The next time you go to the airport going to wish you were a member. Quinones 5 Works Cited Fluhr, Suzanne. Up With TSA  The Huffington Post. TheHuffingtonPost.com, 16 May 2016. Web. 12 Apr. 2017. Li., Written By Lucy. The Ultimate Guide to TSA  Airport Lounges: Reviews & Club Access Worldwide. LoungeBuddy, 26 Jan. 2017. Web. 12 Apr. 2017. Michaels, Allison. The Pros and Cons of TSA  U.S. News. U.S. News-Travel, 22 Apr. 2014. Web. 12 Apr. 2017. Transportation Security Administration. TSA  Transportation Security Administration. Transportation Security Administration, n.d. Web. 12 Apr. 2017.