Emmanuel Solanke 4-16-17 ENC 1102 Drunk Driving Consequences In the United States, drunk driving is an issue that still goes on. When someone drinks and drives, accidents can and most likely will occur and the effects it can have are very harmful. From people who are in the accidents being paralyzed for the rest of their lives, to even there being death involve. This issue would be worse if it for organizations who put effort in trying to stop events like this for taking place, and one group that does is known as MADD or Mothers against Drunk Driving. But this enough, other people can also get involved in this cause to end drunk driving by joining and support organizations like MADD, calling their local Florida law makers, and even plan to have a designated driver if others are going to drink. Drunk Driving is a crime that is committed by many daily, an issue that have grave consequences but can also be easily avoided. This is a rampant issue in the America, especially with young adults who at the legal age to drink, mainly due to the stigma around drinking. Kaigang Li and others worked on a research article focusing on Marijuana, alcohol, and drug impaired driving and how young adults are affected by this, and from their study, they concluded that persistent in young adults, and that other peers drinking while impaired might play a role in that (Li, Kaigang et al). Even though this the focus, the legal drinking age also influences drunk driving. Tracy Toomey, Carolyn Rosenfeld, and Alexander Wagenaar went in depth about the history of the legal drinking age and found out that back in around 1970 to 1975, some states lowered their drinking age, which led to more accidents related to drunk driving with teenagers (Toomey et al, 213). You reason as to why more young adults get into to drunk driving incidents is due to the social pressures of consuming alcohol, something they allowed to, which can cause them to seek after it more. One organization that has had a big impact on the issue of drunk driving is MADD, or Mothers Against Drunk Driving. They are an organization formed by a mother who lost her child to a drunk driver, MADD has promoted advocacy against driving while intoxicated or impaired by alcoholic (Loewit-Phillips et al, 62). The organization started as a small organization, but through connections, word of mouth and public appearances, become a well-known organization. MADD has before judges, legislators, and television have also convinced President Ronald Reagan to support federal legislation that supported their (Hoover). MADD has cause some form of change in drunk driving, in research article by Patrick McCarthy and James Ziliak, they conducted a study on how much of a change MADD has made, and they concluded that altered the expected costs and (McCarthy and Ziliak, 1226), when talking about drunk driving. USF students should care deeply about this issue because this issue is focused on them, young adults in college who a good percent of them drink alcohol, party, and they are able to drive. Young adults lose their lives, become paralyze for the rest of their lives, or even accidentally kill other people or families when they drink and drive. With Partying being a big thing in college, drunk driving something unfamiliar. Things that others can do to support against drunk driving is by supporting organizations like MADD, talking to the local and state politicians, and have designated drivers. website has places where you can support them in anyway, either by supporting them by donating or by helping to advocate for them. With talking to local and state politicians, in the state of Florida, we have Marco Rubio, and Bill Nelson as our senators, and calling them or using a tool known as resistbot which can help you give your stance against drunk driving to the politicians. The last thing that can be done is if drinking will be involved, always have a planned designated driver who will not be drinking, so they can drive others home safely. It might not seem or you might feel left out, but much better to be safe than sorry. In conclusion, Drunk driving is dangerous, and more young adults are driving home or to other places drunk, which is a tragedy waiting to happen. But by supporting groups that despise drunk driving, calling and informing local politicians on your stance, and planning for a designated driver, drunk driving can be prevented and stopped. Works Cited Mccarthy, Patrick S. and James Ziliak. The Effect of MADD on Drinking-Driving Activities: An Empirical  Applied Economics, vol. 22, no. 9, Sept. 1990, p. 1215. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx ?direct=true&db=buh&AN=4623280&site=eds-live. Loewit-Phillips, Patricia Melody and Abbie Goldbas. Mothers against Drunk Driving (MADD): History and  International Journal of Childbirth Education, no. 4, 2013, p. 62. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx ?direct=true&db=edsgao&AN=edsgcl.352490743&site=eds-live. Toomey, Traci L., et al. The Minimum Legal Drinking Age: History, Effectiveness, and Ongoing  Alcohol Health & Research World, no. 4, 1996, p. 213. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx ?direct=true&db=edsgao&AN=edsgcl.19325112&site=eds-live. Hoover, Eric. For MADD, the Legal Drinking Age Is Not up for  The Chronicle of Higher Education, no. 11, 2008. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx ?direct=true&db=edsgao&AN=edsgcl.188444269&site=eds-live. Li, Kaigang, et al. Marijuana-, Alcohol-, and Drug-Impaired Driving among Emerging Adults: Changes from High School to One-Year Post-High  Journal of Safety Research, vol. 58, Sept. 2016, pp. 15-20. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.jsr.2016.05.003.