Hamza Bouarfa ENC 1101 Professor Roth 4/9/17 Heaven: A World Without Greenhouse Gas Emissions The planet that humanity resides on, Earth, behaves just like a living organism. In the same way that humans are composed of microscopic components acting as one to prolong their hosts life, the Earth has over 7 billion humans on its surface. The only difference, which is major, is that instead of prolonging the life, mankind is poisoning its home. The major contributor to this poison is the issue of Greenhouse Gas Emissions. In order to have a future, Greenhouse Gas emissions need to be stopped or at least severely reduced. Some people think of the future as containing incredibly advanced technology and a peaceful life, but the truth is that it is a dark future where humanity may have to attempt to leave Earth. The only solution is that emissions need to be brought as close to an output of 0 as possible, as they are only capable of harming nature. Greenhouse Gas emissions exist as the opposing force to nature. What nature creates, they destroy. This classifies emissions as a poison to the Earth in its entirety. All they require is their exponential growth over time, transforming the idea of emissions into an unstoppable one. There is no beneficial aspect to Greenhouse Gas emissions, as they are only capable of harming humanity whether it be directly or indirectly. The amount of Carbon Dioxide (CO2) in atmosphere has risen 120 ppm (parts per million) since the start of the Industrial Period. It is projected to continue to increase exponentially. The current CO2 concentration is at 407 ppm which equals an annual production of about 57 gigatons of carbon dioxide. The projected CO2 concentration for the year 2100 is around 800 ppm with an annual CO2 production of about 104 gigatons. That is double the amount of atmospheric carbon dioxide of today. That is not even the end of this dire situation. Greenhouse Gas emissions are not limited to carbon dioxide, but release an array of dangerous chemicals. One of the more common gases is carbon monoxide (CO) which is fatal for humans if inhaled in excess. It is known as an colorless gas that can kill This is only one of around 10 different gases that make up the Greenhouse Gas emissions. One of the major producers of Greenhouse Gases is vehicles or primarily, cars. Every year, cars release 333 million tons of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere. This increase in CO2 is responsible for killing 30 thousand people in the United States annually. This substantial number even account for the entire globe, only the United States, a country very capable in the medical department. Greenhouse Gases are extremely dangerous, not only for humanity directly, but for nature itself. Emissions in their entirety are dangerous for humanity directly, but what about the environment? The environment, in essence, is seen as an aid for humanity by humanity. It is where they gather food, build homes, and derive sustainable energy from. Yet when Greenhouse Gases become part of the picture, it is almost as if nature turns against mankind. Some even dub it retaliation for poor management. A direct effect of emissions is the production of gases which rise and mix into the atmosphere. These gases, Carbon Dioxide being the main contender, cause a rise in both atmospheric and ocean surface temperatures. This alone creates very hostile situations which are fatal. The issue is that when a hot air front meets a cold air front, they battle in the atmosphere, causing catastrophic natural phenomenon to occur. Examples of this include hurricanes, tornadoes, and tsunamis which kill tens of thousands of people every year. There is also the issue with varying weather conditions and precipitation patterns. The atmospheric change in one area may lead to a dry period where it does not rain at all for extended periods of time. The opposite is also true as some areas get an increased precipitation percentage that causes massive floods which lead to the total destruction of the area. These abnormal weather patterns not only interfere with humanity, but also impact the animals in the environment. These harsh weather changes make it very difficult for animals to survive as they are adapted to their native environment. They are not proficient enough to change themselves constantly in order to survive. This causes a great many deaths in the animal kingdom which leads to a shortage of nutrients for humans. The same is true for plant life. They may even transform into something poisonous, which when consumed kills the person. Yet Greenhouse Gas emissions are still ignored and some even deny their effects. When referring to the aspect of CO2 release in the production of Greenhouse Gas emissions, there exists an argument that it is not harmful for the environment. This is regarding the fact that CO2 production is a natural aspect of a daily life. intake oxygen and output carbon dioxide, but the fact of the matter is that this is done so in very small quantities. Vehicles release over 333 million tons of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere annually. The production of CO2 is an exothermic process, meaning it releases energy which also contains heat. The vast amount of heat released by the process causes the rise in atmospheric and ocean surface temperatures, which warps the environment, making it hostile. Another fact to be taken into account is that through the process of CO2 production, other gases are released into the atmosphere. These gases are part of a much more dangerous group, like for example carbon monoxide and ozone. These can directly cause a human or animals to suffocate. CO2 and all other gases create scenarios which threaten the very survival of human life. Thus the idea that CO2 production does not threaten human life is refutable. The end result of Greenhouse Gas emissions is a world deplete of life. Looking back on the Pre-Industrial era, life was very different to now, essentially a world free of the consequences of emissions. In order to ensure the longevity of human life, Greenhouse Gas emissions need to be reduced as close to naught as possible.