Guzie 1 Brandon Guzie Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 23 February 2017 Did You Health is one of, if not, the most important aspect of society in the world today. The number of diseases and illnesses that people suffer from day-to-day are endless. Some of these disorders are horrific and have no cure. On the other hand, some can be treated by marijuana. Marijuana contains many cannabinoids such as THC and CBD (tetrahydrocannabinol and cannabidiol) that together serve many health benefits that many people are uneducated about and For example, that poor Vietnam War veteran that suffers from gruesome memories daily could be fighting his PTSD by using medical marijuana. PTSD is not the only disorder that can be treated by medicinal marijuana. The list goes on, and people have no idea. A lot of individuals are against the idea of the youth smoking a plant to get high, but they do not even consider what this could do in the medical field. If health truly is a concern, then uneducated individuals would brush up on their marijuana knowledge and realize the potential benefits that come with this drug. Recreational use is another topic of discussion, but medically people should be informed of what they are voting for. People whose loved ones are suffering from diseases that can be alleviated by medical marijuana should be educated of the health benefits, so they can make an informed and confident vote to legalize medicinal marijuana and potentially help save the life of a person. Guzie 2 First off, the sensation of being high is single-handedly caused by the chemical THC in marijuana. Certain types of marijuana have higher THC levels while others have almost no THC. THC does not just get the use high. It is a pain reliever and helps relax the individual, which are characteristics that can go a long way in the medical field. The other potent chemical in marijuana, CBD, is also useful in the medical field, but it does not get the user high vs. Certain strands of marijuana do not give the user a high sensation, so legalizing medical marijuana is not the same thing as opening the door for kids to start getting high on the regular. Instead, legalizing medical marijuana is opening the door to make use of certain potential use in the medical field. The common misconception that all marijuana gets you high simply is not true. Of course, people use it to get high, but people use OxyContin and Xanax for the wrong purposes as well. Lots of people have heard that marijuana can be useful medically, but few people know the specifics. Glaucoma is a common disease where pressure is increased in eyeball which eventually leads to that person becoming blind. Medical marijuana has been shown to slow down the progression of the disease ultimately preventing someone from becoming blind (Loria and Welsh). Medicinal marijuana is extremely useful in controlling epileptic seizures as well. Marijuana does this by binding TCH with brain cells responsible for muscle relaxation (Loria and Welsh). The CBD chemical in marijuana has been shown to significantly lessen the amount of seizures someone who has Syndrome receives (Loria and Welsh). The average person may not know of Syndrome, but they have more than likely heard of cancer. CBD attacks and kill breast cancer cells, but breast cancer is not the only type of cancer benefitting from medicinal marijuana and Marijuana stops all cancers from spreading. It does this by having CBD chemicals turn off a gene called Id-1 which is responsible Guzie 3 for copying, replicating, and duplicating cancer cells (Loria and Welsh). Marijuana also decreases anxiety (Loria and Welsh). This can be used to treat patients who suffer from PTSD or any stress or depression related issues. THC is also responsible for slowing down the formation of amyloid plaques which cause Disease (Loria and Welsh). These diseases are just some of the many disorders that medical marijuana can be used to treat. This is just the start. If legalized, who knows what discoveries would be made involving the health benefits of marijuana? Not everyone is affected themselves by these diseases, but most people may know someone suffering. Think about the wife of a Vietnam veteran. This lady has dedicated her entire life to a man who can not get the violent memories from war to leave his mind. She feels helpless. She watches her husband wake up night after night with nightmares. She is told that her husband is taking prescribed medication to cope with his PTSD. If she knew the details and potential of medicinal marijuana, she would do anything to give her husband marijuana and help him try to live a normal life. Imagine all the families out there who are forced to watch a loved one suffer in the hospital from cancer. Cancer affects nearly everyone somehow, whether their great grandfather died from lung cancer or their mom is suffering from breast cancer. If these people knew what medical marijuana could do, they would, without a doubt, find a way to give their loved one marijuana. Think about the mom and dad of their little five-year-old daughter who experiences seizures multiple times every day because she has Syndrome. Theoretically, put these parents in a classroom for an hour, and lecture them on the health benefits of marijuana. Their little daughter could live a normal life with little to no seizures. They would be enthusiastic! Think about the twenty-five year old graduate student who can not focus on his own education because it is his number one priority to watch over his father who has Guzie 4 Disease. The husband who has been married for twenty years gets enlightened on the benefits of medical marijuana and realizes there is way to stop his breast cancer. Even though these individuals may not suffer personally, they would do anything help their loved one live a healthier life. They can cast their vote. Medicinal marijuana has been legalized in twenty- six states so far Marijuana Every day bills and proposals are being discussed by legislatures around the country. Soon, medical marijuana will be on the ballet for four including Texas, North Carolina, Missouri, and Kentucky Most Residents of these states can act and cast their vote to legalize medicinal marijuana. For the people who can not vote because it is not on the ballot, send an email. Speak up, and make a difference. All it takes is a google search of state legislatures. From there, it is easy to write an email and voice an opinion on the issue of medical marijuana. Talk about the agony. Discuss the benefits. People should educate their legislature the same way they were educated. A few voices can go a long way. In the meantime, people suffering from diseases that can treated by medicinal marijuana will continue to suffer. Families will continue to agonize over watching their loved ones suffer. It is waste to think that such great health benefits and potential breakthroughs are considered illegal. Go to a hospital and count the number of individuals and their families who are experiencing cancer take over their life. Just know that a vote can go a long way and maybe save the life of a person, but until then, that is all medical marijuana will be. Potential. Guzie 5 Works Cited CBD & THC THE IMPORTANT, BUT COMPLEX  Cannaviri. N.p., 01 Sept. 2016. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. <https://www.cannaviri.com/cbd-thc-important- complex-relationship/>. Loria, Jennifer Welsh and Kevin. 23 Health Benefits Of  Business Insider. Business Insider, 20 Apr. 2014. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. http://www.businessinsider.com/health- benefits-of-medical-marijuana-2014-4/#it-can-be-used-to-treat-glaucoma-1. Medical Marijuana vs. Recreational: The  Leaf Science. N.p., 10 Feb. 2017. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. <http://www.leafscience.com/2014/09/04/medical-marijuana-vs- recreational-whats-difference/>. State Marijuana Laws in 2017  Governing. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. <http://www.governing.com/gov-data/state-marijuana-laws-map-medical- recreational.html>. States Most Likely to Legalize Medical Marijuana in  Medical Marijuana, Inc. (OTC: MJNA). N.p., 06 Jan. 2017. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. <http://www.medicalmarijuanainc.com/states-likely-legalize-medical-marijuana-2017/>.