Thorne 1 Colten Thorne Professor Aranda ENC 1102 April 16, 2017 Opt Into Fair Testing If you are a student at a public school, you have been subjected to standardized testing during your lifetime. In education system, standardized tests, such as the ACT and SAT, are being heavily emphasized for assessing eligibility for universities. Recently, however, standardized testing has come under fire and people have been resisting the norm. Many organizations have been fighting against these exams saying they unfairly assess those with disabilities and minority groups. One of these, FairTest, has been contacting universities and convincing them to place little to no emphasis on standardized college entry exams when admitting students, many not even requiring that you take the tests. This has been effective and in wake of this crusade to de-emphasize the exams, FairTest has also begun another campaign. They are encouraging students to of their standardized tests, furthering the process of reforming the unfair assessment system currently in place. One of the major issues with standardized testing is simply in their very nature, they are standardized. All students are different and display specific talents in a plethora of various areas. These exams are a weak assessment of a ability to comprehend complex material, write, apply math, understand scientific methods or reasoning, or grasp social science concepts. Neither do they adequately measure thinking skills or assess if people can complete real-world tasks. It is poor method of assessing a intelligence or eligibility for college. These tests completely reliable on their own, they have a measurement  This Thorne 2 means that a score may vary significantly from day to day. This could be for many reasons, some of which may be testing conditions or the mental or emotional state. Furthermore, the scores of young children and scores on sub-sections of exams can be particularly unreliable. In spite of their unreliability when used alone, these exams are being used as the sole instrument of assessment for teachers, students, and schools. This trend is called and it is very dangerous to education as a whole. High-stakes tests, such as the ACT and SAT, are used to make important decisions such as student promotion or graduation, granting teacher tenure, or sanctioning schools for poor performance. Not only are they used in this manner for elementary, middle, and high schools, but also for higher learning institutions. Universities often use these tests as a major factor of the admissions process. This phenomenon is called Gatekeeping disproportionately disadvantages those with major and minor learning disabilities, as they are often poor test-takers, and also those from poor or unsteady home environments, as they may not have the necessary background knowledge needed to do well and they often have extra stressors other students have to deal with. Because these standardized tests have been given such weight, students, teachers, and schools alike are forced to accommodate them. This has led to the curriculum of schools narrowing to teach mostly or exclusively that which will be on the exams. Schools are narrowing their curriculums in order to do better on the tests so they keep or get more funding. Teachers are teaching to the test so their students do well so they get fired. Due to this, students learn a very rudimentary version of the reading, writing, mathematics and science subjects. Thorne 3 They condense the subjects and teach only how to recall the information and record it onto a test. The students do not learn how to apply their knowledge in a meaningful way that will aid them in practical, real life situations. As you can see, emphasizing standardized tests to this extent is bad for the education system, for schools, for teachers and for students. It is unfair to all parties involved to continue measure the education of students in this way, but it seems like there is no way for a student to change this. However, FairTest has been working to aid students in bettering their education. As mentioned before, FairTest was, and still is, working with universities to get them to allow their applicants to apply to their colleges without having taken the entry exams and without penalty. They have compiled a list of than 900 four-year colleges and universities do not use the SAT or (FairTest). There are hundreds of schools that place no weight on the tests and, therefore, they have launched a campaign for students to opt out of their standardized tests. In order to begin the process of de-emphasizing standardized tests, students must take action and FairTest has made it easy to challenge the norm without risking your own educational career. Simply formally meet with your principal or other school administrator and tell them you wish to not take the test. Opting out can protect one student from test abuse. Many opting out together send a unified message that time should be spent learning, not filling in bubbles on a test sheet. Thorne 4 Works Cited Pros & Cons of Standardized  N.p., 23 Sept. 2016. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Just Say No to Standardized Tests: Why and How to Opt Out (Updated March  Say to Standardized Tests: Why and How to Opt Out (Updated March 2017) n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Kohn, Alfie. case against standardized testing: Raising the scores, ruining the NH: Heinemann, 2000.