Newcomb 1 Celeste Newcomb Erika Staiger ENC 1102 16 April 2017 rights are basic rights and freedoms that all people are entitled to regardless of nationality, sex, national or ethnic origin, race, religion, language, or other (Human). Although this is a basic definition of human rights, society still feels the need to define who deserves to be treated well and who does not. It is hard to define who exactly decides acceptable and what is not but those of us that choose to look at people beyond their external features are the ones that truly understand the fundamental definition of basic human rights. For example, the transgender community has not been given basic human rights to use the bathroom of their preferred gender. For those that have never been properly educated about the transgender community, it is our duty as a free and just country to help each other understand more about what it means to be born transgender. This is a topic that needs to be cared about and given more attention because it would not only provide more peace in our country but it would also lower the rates of suicide due to gender stereotyping which can destroy a sense of self and place in the world. If gender studies classes were made a requirement for graduation in high schools then the amount of people that understood what it meant to be transgender would dramatically increase. Through gender studies education, our country will be much more Newcomb 2 understanding and willing to change laws which restrict transgender people to use the bathroom of their preferred gender. Merriam Webster defines transgender as relating to, or being a person whose gender identity differs from the sex the person had or was identified as having at birth; especially : of, relating to, or being a person whose gender identity is opposite the sex the person had or was identified as having at (Transgender). According to the American Sociology Association, the word was never even published in articles until 2007. Many arguments have been developed regarding whether gender is a social construct in itself due to hard to clearly define what makes a woman feminine and what makes a man masculine. Society decides that if you are rough and strong that you are more of a man and that if you are kind and polite that you are more of a woman, but is that really true (Schilt)? More and more celebrities have come out as transgender to share their story and become role models for youth and activists for LGBTQ rights. One social media star in particular, Gigi Gorgeous, is a transgender woman who has always been an active supporter. She describes her transition with an ABC News reporter as such, since I was young, I knew I was different. I knew I felt like a girl, but when I grew up, I went through phases, and I found makeup and thought I was just, you know, a homosexual at the time, but then you know, life kind of comes back at you. I met a few people along the road and I said, you know what I am transgender, it was kind of like a (Riegle). In a study done by the American Foundation for Suicide Prevention, a myriad of demographics and situations were studied to see how prevalent suicide occurred in certain groups. Forty-six percent of trans men and forty-two percent of trans woman commit suicide every year. These rates are higher in younger people (18-24) and in multi-racial trans people. Newcomb 3 Suicide is also higher in those people that are completely open to being trans, aka Transgender people constitute 0.3% of the United States population and are not given basic human rights to solve the prevalent social discrimination they receive on a daily basis (Haas). Many transgender people have found help though social workers which aid them through the use of queer theory which looks at the fact that there is more to a person than whether they are male or female. Sadly, many social workers that help transgender people face the same abuse that transgender people themselves get. Through their use of activism and education they have done so much work for the transgender community in making their voices heard. Through self-esteem and acceptance, more and more transgender people are coming out and being accepted in our country. In helping transgender people be able to have the basic human right to use whichever gendered bathroom they identify with, we must develop a call to action. In properly educating the country on what it means to be transgender, students at the middle school to high school level should be given classes that teach these concepts. If the youth of country knows these basic gender studies concepts, this knowledge will be spread throughout the coming developing years of our nation. To make these gender studies classes a reality, a petition should be created which states that high school students must take a gender studies class in order to graduate. With 100,000 signatures in thirty days, Congress will review the petition and deliver an official response in making the petition become law. Petitioning has the ability to enact real change in our country and this change would do so much in ending gender stereotyping and transgender suicide. Although this is not an immediate response to passing a law which allows transgender people the right to use whichever bathroom they identify with, it is a beginning step towards this. Newcomb 4 Most of the hostility towards transgender people is based solely off of misconceptions and people being uninformed. The more we educate and come together as a country, the better the outcome will be for quality of life of all people. Every person in our country deserves freedom and equality and it is our duty as Americans to continue to push these fundamental rights. Through gender studies education, our country will be much more understanding and willing to change laws which restrict transgender people to use the bathroom of their preferred gender. If people take the time to educate themselves on what it truly means to be transgender, the amount of gender stereotyping would be severely lowered. Although they may not have been born accepting the gender they were given, we should still offer them the rights that we are all born with. Regardless of gender, we should look past social constructs that we think define us and focus more on our individual, unique characteristics that make us human. Suicide rates continue to grow among transgender youth and multi-racial people. Finally, creating a bill that passes which instigates gender studies classes as a graduation requirement will further create an educated society. Through education and acceptance, we can solve gender stereotyping in the United States. Newcomb 5 Works Cited Callahan, Rebecca. Bending Gender, Ending Gender: Theoretical Foundations for Social Work Practice with the Transgender Community. No. 1 ed. Vol. 54. N.p.: Oxford UP, 2009. JSTOR. Web. Haas, Ann P., Philip L. Rodgers, and Jody L. Herman. Drug-Related Suicide Attempts: Teens and Young  PsycEXTRA Dataset (n.d.): n. pag. Williams Institute. Web. <https:// williamsinstitute.law.ucla.edu/wp-content/uploads/AFSP-Williams-Suicide-Report- Final.pdf>. Human Rights  Amnesty International USA. Amnesty International USA, n.d. Web. Apr. 2017. <http://www.amnestyusa.org/research/human-rights-basics>. Riegle, Ashley, Jake Lefferman, and Alexa Valiente. YouTube Star Gigi Gorgeous on Her Evolving Identity as a Transgender  ABC News. ABC News Network, 14 Sept. 2016. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. <http://abcnews.go.com/Lifestyle/youtube-star-gigi-gorgeous- evolving-identity-transgender-woman/story?id=42096338>. Schilt, Kristen, Elroi Windsor, and Betsy Lucal. Teaching  Teaching Transgender. By Tre Wentling. No. 1 ed. Vol. 36. N.p.: American Sociological Association, n.d. 49-50. JSTOR. ITHAKA. Web. Newcomb 6  Merriam-Webster. Merriam-Webster, n.d. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. <https:// www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/transgender>.