Freixa 1 Carolina Freixa Erika Staiger ENC1102 005 Sunday, April 16, 2017 Go cruelty-free Animal testing is a scientific experiment or test where a living animal is involuntarily forced to try chemicals or ingredients to make sure it is safe for human use. This testing is likely to cause the animal pain, suffering, distress, and/or lasting harm. Many cosmetics companies have chosen to go cruelty-free and save many animals lives. This has made a positive impact for companies ethically and financially. Having cruelty-free products means no animals were harmed in the making of the merchandise and no chemicals or ingredients were tested on any live animals. In vivo is another term for animal testing which means a test or process is being made within a living organism (Medicinenet). USF students will start buying cruelty-free cosmetics to help end the poor treatment and misuse of animals in labs for testing. In the article, New models in Cosmetics Replacing Animal Testing scientist Gregory Mone states how going cruelty free can better help a company. animal test is any scientific experiment or test in which a live animal is forced to undergo something that is likely to cause them pain, suffering, distress or lasting (Mone 20). Therefore, companies are better off ethically and financially going cruelty-free. The Eurpoian Union(EU) has already made a law therefore making it possible, stated in the article, Alternative (non-animal) methods for cosmetics testing: current status and future prospects by Sarah Adler to animal testing in the EU for cosmetic products and a complete ban of animal testing for ingredients by 11 March (372). Therefore making it known that there is a way to test products and chemicals without the Freixa 2 use of animals but with the use of new technology and advances. Better alternatives can be made instead of using animals, as stated in the article A tiered approach to the use of alternatives to animal testing for the safety assessment of cosmetics: Genotoxicity. A COLIPA analysis written by Stefa Pfuhler Scientific Committee on Consumer Safety recommended basic test battery for testing cosmetic ingredients for their genotoxic (Pfuhler 544). These alternatives include testing chemicals using gene mutation on bacteria and in vitro. Concluding that they are more quality and cost efficient than using in vivo. Many USF students either have pets living with them or at home with their parents or just care about them. It is easy to love and care for animals like they are a part of your family. No one would want to harm their pets. So why harm any animals at all? USF students can stop buying products that test on animals to help stop animal testing all together. Many students go to USF therefore a big impact could be made. It is simple. Just look for the leaping bunny image on any product which states it is cruelty-free. Animals cannot speak up for themselves. They have feelings too. Many cosmetics and personal care items are certified cruelty-free under the leaping bunny programme (Cruelty-free International). Countless animals die worldwide due to animal testing, but it have to be this way. Go cruelty free today. Freixa 3 Works Cited Adler, S., Basketter, D., Creton, S. et al. Arch Toxicol 2011. Print. Cruelty Free International. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Irving, Sarah, Rob Harrison, and Mary Rayner. Ethical Consumerism - Democracy through the  Journal of Research for Consumers (2005): n. pag. Print. Medical Definition of In  MedicineNet. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Mone, Gregory. New Models in Cosmetics Replacing Animal  N.p., 2010. Print. Pfuhler, Stephen. A Tiered Approach to the Use of Alternatives to Animal Testing for the Safety Assessment of Cosmetics: Genotoxicity. A COLIPA Analysis. N.p.: n.p., 2010. Print.