Student 1 Student Professor Lewis ENC 1102 16 April 2015 Military Veterans with PTSD Need a Sponsor The issue of military PTSD, Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder, is very prevalent in our society. American patriotism is a key value of American society and with that comes aa appreciation of military veterans and service men and women. So why are the citizens of America allowing the government to underfund and provide only minimal support to the veterans who have an emotional or mental disorder? Especially one he or she developed while fighting to keep America free. Proper support and treatment for military-related PTSD is crucial for recovery or coping with the disorder. If left untreated, PTSD can cause severe emotional distress and mental issues and can potentially lead those effected to commit suicide (Gregory, 1). The main contributor in the country to military-related PTSD support and treatment is the USDVA, United States Department of Veterans Affairs. Unfortunately, the department is vastly underfunded and has trouble receiving its funding on time. Since this issue deals with the government, it is imperative for voting citizens to advocate for change. This is where a non-engaged stakeholder could be a potential game changer in the fight for military- related PTSD funding. It is important for non-engaged stakeholders to advocate for military PTSD funding because there is strength in numbers when it comes to a national issue, such as veteran health care. So the more support given to the position, the more likely that those effected by military-related PTSD will get necessary funding and the care they need. One action that can be taken to bring positive social change is to start a national military-related PTSD education Student 2 campaign at colleges and universities around the country. Educating American youth on this issue may attract more supporters and donors to the cause. PTSD is a common mental disorder that develops in veterans and military personnel while deployed. On average, 20% of military personnel will develop PTSD while deployed (Veterans and PTSD, 1). Common signs of military PTSD are drug and alcohol addiction, emotional distance, and nightmares (Zwanziger, 48). But a of military PTSD merely an alcoholic or a drug addicted veteran. a father who is emotionally distant from his family. a mother who control her anger. a grandfather who sleep at night because he is plagued by nightmares of the front lines. So why these people deserve proper treatment and support for their disorder? Especially when one considers how they much he or she sacrificed to preserve freedom. PTSD just an issue that torments the veteran who has it. It also effects the family and everyone else around them. The USDVA is drastically underfunded and receive its funding on time (Blake, 31). Because of this, the agency is unable to provide the best care and support for veterans with PTSD. No one has ever spoken against veterans getting proper PTSD treatment and support. The main disagreement in this issue surrounds the quality of PTSD care provided by the USDVA and the distribution of federal funds (i.e. tax payer dollars). The USDVA claims that they provide the best possible military-related PTSD treatment and support they can with their current funding of 1). This is true and is supported by the research of Carl Blake, Associate Executive Director of Government Relations at the Paralyzed Veterans of America. According the research, the USDVA has developed an Enrollee Health Care Projection Model to help manage its given funds to provide all the services military veterans and personnel Student 3 need (Blake, 31). But, the quality of the PTSD services provided are not nearly at the standard needed to properly treat military-related PTSD. The most common way the USDVA treats veterans who develop PTSD while deployed is to give them a monetary compensation and a referral to a physiatrist of 1). This is not an effective form of treatment for veterans. A study has shown that most veterans receive any PTSD treatment due to the lack of USDVA clinics near them that offer these services (Cigrang et al., 110). So while the claim necessarily wrong, there needs to be a significant improvement in the quality of its PTSD treatment. There are many reason as to why there needs to be more advocacy for military-related PTSD treatment and research. The first being that the USDVA is not sufficiently funded to provide quality PTSD services to veterans. On average, the USDVA receives their federal funding three months late (Blake, 31). This is a great disservice to veterans because, as part of their military medical compensation, they are promised full medical coverage, but the government even provide proper services to a prevalent disorder among veterans. Another reason to advocate for military PTSD treatment and research is that PTSD is not a personal issue that effects just the veteran, it effects the community at large. PTSD can negatively affect the life as well as their and lives though emotional distance, mood swings, and paranoia caused by PTSD. But research has shown that through proper PTSD treatment, veterans with PTSD can vastly improve their social relationships (Blow et al., 261). The final reason that there needs to be more advocacy for military PTSD is that no one should have to suffer in silence. There are not many PTSD awareness campaigns and programs out there. Research has shown that the more people in a life who know the symptoms of PTSD, the more likely the veteran will be able to successfully recover from or Student 4 manage the disorder (Zwanziger et al., 47). These three reason are enough to demonstrate why the citizens of America have to advocate for more PTSD funding and education. There are many stories of experiences with military-related PTSD. One such story is of a US Army soldier by the name of Major Carlos Huerta, who was diagnosed with PTSD in 2004 but kept it secret from his unit due to fear of being seen as Five years later in 2010, after he came home from the battlefield, he started experiencing severe panic attacks due to PTSD. After the panic attacks became too much to handle, he came to terms with his PTSD and began seeking help. He then realized that PTSD is not something to be ashamed, but rather something that needs to be talked about (Huerta, 1). This story might help other soldiers who have PTSD because, according to this article, the military culture has a tendency to shame mental disorders. Because of this, soldiers with PTSD tend to not get treatment because they want to be perceived as weak. Hearing this story might convince other soldiers that PTSD is nothing to be ashamed of and may even convince them to seek help for their disorder. Getting a non-engaged stakeholder involved with this cause is crucial to obtaining the necessary government funding to provide proper military-related PTSD support. Organizations that may be interested in this issue are collegiate Greek organizations. All Greek organizations have a philanthropy, an issue or organization that the fraternity or sorority raises money to support. Greek organizations consistently host philanthropy events on college campuses to raise money and awareness for its issue or organization. A way that collegiate Greek organizations can help is by adopting this issue as their local philanthropy and hosting philanthropy events to raise money and awareness for military-related PTSD. Another, more simple way the Greek Student 5 organizations can take action within college communities is to collect pocket change on campus for military-related PTSD and to start a military-related PTSD awareness program on campus. In conclusion, military veterans and personnel who are effected by military-related PTSD need better care and support. Further, the USDVA needs better funding to supply the necessary care and support for these veterans and personnel. This need is quite evident in the alarming statistics of USDVA underfunding, the concerning number of military personnel and veterans who develop PTSD, and the disturbing number of veterans who live without access to proper PTSD treatment and support. It is important to our nation that the citizens of America work together to advocate for more funding for military-related PTSD support and treatment. If everyone works together, the goal of proper military-related PTSD treatment will be achieved. Student 6 Work Cited Blake, Carl.  Target: sufficient, timely, & predictable: veterans groups push for real VA healthcare funding  Paralyzed Veterans of America (2009): n. pag. University of South Florida. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Blow, Adrian J., Ansley Franser Curtis, Andrea K. Wittenborn, and Lisa Gormen. Relationship Problems and Military Related PTSD: The Case for Using Emotionally Focused Therapy for  Contemporary Family Therapy 37.3 (2015): n. pag. University of South Florida. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Cigrang, Jeffrey A., Sheila A M Rauch, Jim Mintz, Antoinette Brundige, Laura L. Avila, Craig J. Bryan, Jeffrey L. Goodie, and Alan L. Peterson. Treatment of active duty military with PTSD in primary care: A follow-up  Journal of Anxiety Disorders 36 (2015): 110- 14. University of South Florida. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Gregory, Debbie. for PTSD Awareness and Treatment: Military Military Connection, Gregory Media Inc., 20 June 2015, www.militaryconnection.com/blog/6040/resources-for-ptsd-awareness-and-treatment- military-connection/. Accessed 21 Jan 2017. Huerta , Carlos C., Chaplain (Maj.).  Leaving the battlefield: Soldier shares story of  U.S. Army . N.p., 25 Apr. 2012. Web. 2 Apr. 2017. Department of Veterans Affairs U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs , U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs , www.va.gov/. Accessed 19 Feb 2017. Student 7 Veterans and PTSD. statistics: PTSD, Depression, TBI, Veterans and PTSD, 20 Sept. 2015, www.veteransandptsd.com/PTSD-statistics.html. Accessed 12 February 2017. Zwanziger,, Tona, Colleen Anderson, Jennifer Lewis, Regardt Ferreira, and Charles Figley. Resilience and Knowledge of PTSD Symptoms in Military  Traumatology (2016): n. pag. University of South Florida. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.