Ewing 1 Degas Ewing Staiger ENC 12 August 2017 Physician assisted suicide is the process of providing euthanasia to terminal patients facing imminent and most likely painful and traumatic death. Although everyone hopes to never have to deal with a situation as terrible as that, it is not uncommon for people to have someone close to them or people in their community have to deal with the physical and emotional tolls of terminal illness, which can be avoided by legalizing physician assisted suicide nationwide. Physician assisted suicide is currently only legal in six states (Maytel). USF students need to come together and create a petition with ten-thousand signatures to bring this bill to congress in order to try to get this law passed in Florida. This would be very beneficial as most people know someone who has had cancer and it affects a substantial part of society in some way. Even though the majority of young people do not have terminal illness many are still very exposed to the consequences of cancer. In 2016 approximately 595,690 people died from cancer according to the National cancer institute, which is a scholarly, highly reviewed source and also reputable as it gets its statistics from the government. Additionally, with most terminal cancers there is no point of operation as death is eminent. People with terminal illnesses in most states of the United States right now have no choice but to face a long and painful death process as physician assisted suicide is not widely legal. This poses many problems. Hospice care is expensive and does not deal with all the pain. Additionally, terminal illness is not only a physical toll but also a mental toll that many people would rather not deal with and rather not have their Ewing 2 family see them in such bad condition. Physicians assisted suicide allows people to peacefully when they plan to go so they can have all their accounts in order. It is not as much as an economic toll as abrasive procedures or hospice care as well. In order to get this plan to Florida government officials and congress to look at it the petition would have to get ten-thousand signatures or more according to University of Miami Law school. This is a source that is scholarly and highly reviewed as it is a law school, which is highly informed and reviewed as well as updated on matters of law. In order to get these signatures people would have to be passionate about this issue and willing to advertise and promote the issue. Once the bill gets to congress we have basically done our part in attempting to legalize physician assisted suicide. A petition is really the best way for people not in positions of power or government to try to pass laws. Reasons why University of South Florida students should get involved are predominantly because as seen in the cancer statistics, many USF students will be affected by cancer even if they do not have it. According to the National cancer institute one in every three women will have cancer in their lifetime as well as one in two men. Statistically speaking it is very prominent in our lives and even though most of that cancer is not terminal and will not require physician assisted suicide unfortunately some of it does. Another reason University of South Florida students really need to get involved is that it would be ending suffering for people with terminal illness. There have been many news stories lately of terminal ill patients leaving their state to seek refuge in a state where physician assisted suicide is legal. This may seem like a fine alternative to having physician assisted suicide legal but it has many flaws. Moving is very stressful and could be too much stress to add to a situation like dying. Also it can be very difficult to leave your family especially when you are dying. Ewing 3 In summation it would be very beneficial to legalize physician assisted suicide for a multitude of reasons. In order to do this University of South Florida students would need to get a petition with ten thousand signatures or over. The petition could then be brought to congress. This would give more rights to people with terminal illness and provide them choices and a possibly less painful alternative to hospice care that has economic and other beneficial attributes. Ewing 4 Works Cited Guy, Maytal, and Theodore A. Stern. Desire for Death in the Setting of Terminal Illness: A Case Primary Care Companion to The Journal of Clinical Psychiatry, Physicians Postgraduate Press, Inc., 2006, www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC1764532/. Accessed 12 Apr. 2017. National Cancer Institute, www.cancer.gov/about- cancer/understanding/statistics. Accessed 12 Apr. 2017. Research Guides: Florida Legislative Law Research Guides: Florida Legislative History University of Miami School of Law, www.law.miami.edu/iml/library/florida- legislative-history-research-guide. Accessed 12 Apr. 2017. Brown, Emily. Statutes and Legislative Doing Legal Research, pp.