Oshman 1 Abbey Oshman Instructor Brenden Jackson ENC1101 April 9, 2017 Cognitive Development Based on Education in Developing Countries Nelson Mandela made his opinion of the importance of education very clear when he stated, is the most powerful weapon which you can use to change the (BrainyQuote). Education goes beyond the simple knowledge you gain while in school, it prepares one to raise a family and be involved in the workforce, leads to healthier lifestyles, and opens up more opportunity in the community. Today, there are about 73 million children below the age of 10 that have skipped out on school and began laboring to support their family (theworldcounts.com, Child-Labor). This is where children begin to experience negative effects related to their health. Children begin to feel as if they are being used and that all they are good for is their labor. This is why education is so important and why the quality of it needs to be improved upon, so that way children can gain the knowledge to make them feel that they are more than just a laborer. The quality of education in developing countries can have an effect on cognitive development because the quality of education as it stands now does not prepare students for the workforce, the families are not as involved in the educational process, and lastly, the staff/school system are not as qualified or focused on the children. Education is the beginning to futures, and without a strong beginning, there will be no strong finish. Most people go into school thinking about how it is going to help them after they get out. This is a productive way of looking at it, because it tends to make students work harder. When the education fails to prepare you for the future, that is when it begins to affect you negatively. Oshman 2 According to Marc Epstein and Kristi Yuthas, professionals who both did a study on Redefining Quality in Developing World Education, need skills they can use immediately to enhance their health and economic well-being and to contribute to the development of their (Epstein and Yuthas, 8). The new skills that they believe would benefit mental development are focused on more are entrepreneurship and financial literacy, health education, and practicing empowerment. The main concepts taught in school now are basic math, language, and science. Epstein notices it is all done by continuous repetition and memorization (Epstein and Yuthas, 12). These new concepts would cause students to actually learn the material because it is useful information, rather than just memorizing it enough to get through school. Also, according to Dr. Albert Lee, a professor at the University of Hong Kong, over 70% of children believe that studying health and the other subjects mentioned above help them to have a better understanding of the importance of education and how to apply it after school (A. Lee et al. 400). Teaching the simple subjects to these children does not have a positive outcome on them as they move on from school. Most students feel like the education is almost useless because it is too basic, that is why children begin to work so early on, because they feel that it is more beneficial. The education as it stands now, does not contribute to the most successful outcomes. Some could argue that the basic education provided including math, science, and reading is enough because it prepares them to get ready for any higher education they might want to receive or any lower level jobs they may be interested in right after school. It could be argued that experience is what gives children the true knowledge they need, so after they gain the simple education, going straight to work is what will truly benefit them. As said previously in the above article, this way of life cannot produce the best cognitive outcomes for the children, because Oshman 3 without the proper education to prepare them for life after school, their brain will not be properly ready to take on all of the extra stress and new changes. The children will be more efficient in work if they have learned the knowledge needed in school ahead of time. The structure of education in most developing countries, is not very family oriented. It is extremely important to have the family involved because then that can carry the education from the classroom to the household as well. It is essential for a child to feel like they have their parent there to help. Research has stated that in schools with high levels of reported parent outreach, test scores increased at a 40 percent higher rate compared to schools with low levels of outreach (Centerforpubliceducation.org). This just shows that with parent involvement, comes greater development in children mentally. Also, if a parent is successful, it will help to pass that on to the children. This cycle will continuously flow through the family, creating a greater drive in the children to live a healthy lifestyle. According to Elsie Pamuk, author of or wealth: which matters more for reducing child mortality in developing the education of the parents can drive the children, because they are setting an example for them (Fuchs, Pamuk, Lutz, 181). Parent-child relationships are very important to a mental growth. They need to know that they have the love and support in every aspect of life, especially education, since that is what is setting them up for their future. Some might argue that it is good to have a separation between school and family, because it will help students to better prepare themselves for life after school. Thus could also drive children do more of their work on their own individually. In an article written by Dr. Jeffrey Bernstein on Psychology Today, it says that parents globally enable their children too much, allowing their children to depend on them more than needed. This is what causes children when they grow up to be so reliant on others (psychologytoday.com, Enabling-Children). As this may Oshman 4 be true, it really apply to the subject of children in developing countries. As said in the earlier article, children need that support from their parents through schooling because of the environment they live in. That assistance from the parents is going to be what is beneficial to the development of these children in developing countries. Just as the family involved as much as they should be, I feel the same way about the staff/school system. I know I always feel better about my classes when I know my professor and when I feel they are invested in teaching me. Students in other countries should feel the same way, but they always get that because of the lack of success in the school systems as a whole. One of the studies from my previous research, shows that the improvement in the administration of schools in Paulo impacted the students so highly that their comprehension test score average went up nearly 40% (Tavares, 2). So, here we can see that it is important for students to have a strong administration, one that truly cares about the students. An administration working hard makes students want to work harder as well, so they can one day understand that success. Tavares, who holds a Ph.D. in Economics, stated that schools should be like having a good management, because that is what will make for a successful outcome in the way children think. It will provide better structure mentally and physically in the way they work (Tavares, 2). This shows that the cognitive development of children can be easily improved if the school is run by a better administration. This idea that administration should be greatly involved could also be disproved by the idea that strong boundaries need to be set. It could be said that it is important for administration to be qualified, but that their service go past a teacher/student relationship. Students could get too comfortable with their teachers and begin to depend on them too much. I believe the research from the previous article shows that this a valid argument. A stronger support Oshman 5 system leads to greater mental development as seen by the improvement in test scores in Paulo. It is also important to a mental state for them to know that they have someone to go to in school because most children in underdeveloped countries have to begin to be pretty independent at this age. These children need encouragement and backing from their school system, and that is what will have the best effect on these children mentally and emotionally. Education is fundamental to strong cognitive development as proved by the articles and statements used above. Education is the key to success and it provides children with a better support system, better decision making skills, and most importantly, more confidence. It is so important that children feel secure in their own knowledge, and this happen unless quality education is provided. Children globally are suffering from the feeling of not being smart enough or qualified enough to ever be truly successful, and this is what leads to a slower development throughout their life. It is important for citizens everywhere to realize how important education is and the effect that it has on cognitive development from such an early age, which can affect them for the rest of their lives. Oshman 6 References Bernstein, Jeffrey. Stop Enabling Your Overly Dependent Adult  Psychology Today. N.p., n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Retrieved from https://www.psychologytoday.com/blog/liking-the-child-you-love/201404/stop-enabling- your-overly-dependent-adult-child Child Labor Facts and  The World Counts. N.p., n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Retrieved from http://www.theworldcounts.com/stories/Child-Labor-Facts-and-Statistics Epstein, Marc J., and Kristi. Yuthas. Redefining Quality In Developing World  Innovations: Technology, Governance, Globalization (Project Muse) 8.3 (2013): 197. Supplemental Index. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Retrieved from https://muse-jhu- edu.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/article/536519 Fuchs, Regina, Elsie Pamuk, and Wolfgang Lutz. Education or wealth: which matters more for reducing child mortality in developing  Vienna Yearbook of Population Research 2010: 175. JSTOR Journals. Web. 4 Feb. 2017. DOI: 10.1553/populationyearbook2010s175 Lee, Albert, et al. A Program In Hong Kong: Enhancing Positive Health Behavior For School Children And  Education For Health: Change In Learning & Practice (Taylor & Francis Ltd) 13.3 (2000): 399. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 4 Feb. 2017. Retrieved from http://eds.b.ebscohost.com/eds/pdfviewer Tavares, Priscilla Albuquerque. The Impact of School Management Practices On Educational Performance: Evidence From Public Schools In  Economics Of Education Review 48.(2015): 1-15. ScienceDirect. Web. 21 Feb. 2017. DOI: 10.1016/j.econedurev.2015.05.002