Student 1 Student Professor Lewis ENC 1102 6 April 2017 Homelessness: A Life That Can One Day Affect Yours Currently in the United States, over 564,708 are homeless (socialsolutions.com) which means their days are spent possibly in homeless shelters if lucky, or wandering the streets looking for a decent spot to rest at. Presently, there are numerous organizations across this country that help with assisting the homeless with finding food, shelter, and even jobs. Anyone can become homeless as it is not exactly something that can be foreseen. This includes mothers, fathers, and children, as entire families are often left to fend for themselves on the streets. As those who are fortunate enough to have a roof over our heads and the funds to buy what we need and more, it is our responsibility to help those who are less fortunate than us. Volunteering with local organizations in multiple ways can heavily influence the life of someone who is homeless, more than we could ever imagine. There are many things in life that we as humans and there are few things that we physically cannot live without. This would include food, shelter, water, and human interaction. Without these few items, it is expected that that specific human being will not be able to thrive. Homeless people are faced with exactly this. They spend each day pondering where is the next place they are sleeping, where they will be able to scavenge any food. If lucky, they may be able to spend some time in a homeless shelter, but those are often cramped and have very limited spaces in them. In the BBC documentary am I sleeping some of the young homeless were forced to sleep in caves, and spend their days in the woods looking for food. These people are resorting to living like animals due to not being in ideal circumstances Student 2 and no human being should ever have to live like this. If they were pointed into the right direction in regards to resources for them they would not have to live life the way in which they do. Concerning the quality of life of those who are homeless, it is a known obvious fact that those who are homeless are more likely to suffer death due to lack of shelter, malnutrition, assault, and often overdose. In a study completed in 2013 in the city of Boston, Drug overdose was the number one cause for death of the homeless (Bagget, Hwang, 2013). It is simple to believe that if those unfortunately succumbed to some of the effects of living homeless were given the opportunity to access resources they would still possibly be alive. This would be where the general public would come into play. Sometimes what these people need is just human interaction as many who are homeless often live a life of solitude. If they had someone who would listen to their problems and speak with them, many of overdoses can be avoided. Volunteers can visit their local homeless shelters and not only help out, but actually talk to the people. It can make their day and also could possibly save them from their own thoughts. If a person did mention thoughts of wanting to harm themselves or end their life, the volunteer could then point them in the right direction for receiving help. While there have been some efforts to help combat and possibly end homelessness in the United States, they have obviously not proven to be very effective or else there would be no discussion of this current topic. 2001, President Bush announced his intention to chronic homeless by the year as part of his broad Since then, departmental consolidation, changes in funding allocation, and continued decentralization of services provision have dramatically reshaped the landscape of homeless service provision in the United While these efforts were obviously appreciated, it simply was not enough for the Student 3 people of this nation. If more people rallied behind this program and showed their support, it may have been taken more seriously by the former president if he saw it meant something to his people. This leads to another manner in which the public who are lucky enough to be more fortunate can assist the homeless. Homeless shelters and programs are funded directly by the government. There are many occasions in which the workers of these shelters are forced to turn away some homeless due to lack of space and food. If a person who was homeless had access to these facilities, it could prevent malnutrition and provide them with a shelter that is not a cave. It is also motivation for them to get back on their feet and start turning their life around if possible. Clearly there are not enough homeless shelters in the United States. Our leaders need to know that this is an issue that affects hundreds of thousands of its citizens and this can only be done through our voice. Petitions can be started on websites such as change.org, calling for the government to allow more funding for homeless shelters. In Becky TED talk, she stated, equates living in a permanent structure with having value as a This is in fact true as our society tends to constantly look down upon those who are homeless. Some view them to the equivalent of animals and this is certainly not the case. Psychologically, being homeless can take a toll on your mental health as Becky Blanton confirmed in her TED talk. As explained previously, the general public getting out of their comfort zone and interacting with some of these people would prove to have a positive impact on many different lives. With being homeless comes with various trials and tribulations that can take a toll on a person. Depression and other mental illness are rampant amongst the homeless community and their lives often end because of it. This is due to lack of resources that the general public has access to that they do. What is proposed is that when volunteers do enter their local shelters, that they form a bond with some of the people inside and Student 4 allow for them to open up to them, as previously stated. This would allow for those who are homeless to feel as if they have their own personal therapist even though they obviously cannot afford one. It would give them an outlet and for one moment in their life they can feel a second of relief due to being able to let everything out. Homeless is a lifestyle that people do not choose. It is something that happens to normal people that come upon unfortunate circumstances that often times be helped. It can affect anyone, and can even affect those who have jobs, as the working homeless exist. Children and families find themselves homeless as well and the situation is made worse when kids are involved. It can only be hoped that one day this epidemic can end but until then, it is our duty as the more fortunate to help those who are less. To us it may seem as if it is not much of a difference we are making, but to those we are directly affecting, it could change their entire life for the better. (WC: 1206) Student 5 Works Cited Shocking Homelessness  Social Solutions. N.p., 09 Jan. 2017. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. <http://www.socialsolutions.com/blog/2016-homelessness-statistics/>. Amore, Kate, Michael Baker, and Phillippa Howden-Chapman. The ETHOS Definition and Classification of Homelessness: An  European Journal of homelessness 5.2 (2011): 19-37. Http://feantsaresearch.org. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Baggett TP, Hwang SW, JJ, Porneala BC, Stringfellow EJ, Orav EJ, Singer DE, Rigotti NA. Mortality Among Homeless Adults in BostonShifts in Causes of Death Over a 15-Year Period. JAMA Intern Med. 2013;173(3):189-195. doi:10.1001/jamainternmed.2013.1604. Accessed 26 February 2017 BBC - Where Am I Sleeping Tonight (2015). YouTube, 04 June 2015. Web. 02 Apr. 2017. Blanton, Becky. Becky Blanton: The year I was homeless TED Talk TED.com. N.p., n.d. Web. 02 Apr. 2017. How Many People Experience  National Coalition for the Homeless. N.p., n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Kozol, Jonathan. Rachel and her children: homeless families in America. New York: Three Rivers Press, 2006. Print. Accessed 26 February 2017 Sparks, T. (2012), Governing the Homeless in an Age of Compassion: Homelessness, Citizenship, and the 10-Year Plan to End Homelessness in King County Washington. Antipode, 44: doi: 10.1111/j.1467-8330.2011.00957.x. Accessed 26 February 2017