Salih 1 Daria Salih Adam Phillips ENC 1102 6 April 2017 A Call to Action Planned Parenthood Planned Parenthood is one of the largest leading providers of essential health care services serving nearly five million women, men, and adolescents worldwide every year. Planned Parenthood is a pro-choice non-profit organization, whose mission is to respect the right of each individual throughout the world and to manage his or her fertility, regardless of the income, marital status, race, ethnicity, sexual orientation, age, national origin, or residence. Thus, individuals should recognize and care for the many services the government funds towards the organization in order to help people in necessity of health care services. It is important to keep in mind that this organization may not be of use to everyone. However, understanding who to consult in times of an emergency and knowing there is an organization that is willing to guide the patient is crucial. It is important that a patient with serious medical concerns be informed on an organization focused on providing the best medical and health care available. Opposing and non-engaged audiences are misinformed about the organization or simply have different principles and opinions due to their stance on pro-life or pro-choice abortions. Moreover, this organization helped and continues to actively assist customers with their health care services regardless of the circumstance. By doing so, clients should feel comfortable turning to Planned Parenthood as their number one health care service provider by taking action in scheduling an appointment with them if needed. In order to combat this situation, people should get involved and inform uneducated people about the organization. By spreading the word more and more people will become educated and understand more about the organization and what it has to offer for people in need. There are various misconceptions about the services Planned Parenthood provides. The opposing audience tends to view the organization as a against reproductive The movement or movement is opposing on moral and religious grounds towards supporting legal prohibition and/or restriction of abortions. Some pro-lifers believe the organization exists solely for the purpose of abortions. This is a false misconception because abortions account for only three percent of the health care services. The primary motive that people visit Planned Parenthood is actually for contraceptive access and STI/STD testing and treatment. Another misconception is that Planned Parenthood only provides services to women. This is untrue thus, men, women, and adolescents may visit any clinic for prostate, colon, and cancer screenings. Planned Parenthood affiliates expanded access to hormone treatments for transgender patients with 26 centers available (Richards 16). Many Planned Parenthood affiliates also now provide programs for LGBTQ (lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, questioning) youth and allies, creating safe and supportive environments that allow youth to get the information and support they need to make healthy decisions and feel comfortable in their identities (Richards 16). The far most misconception that society puts forth on this organization is the assumption that the organization is only used for wealthy people. Approximately 75 percent of Planned patients have an income at or below 150 percent of the federal poverty level (The Cut). Hence, why it would be chaotic if the government cut federal funding from the organization. Yes, taxpayers would benefit but only to a limited extent and both parties would not be satisfied. The federal funding that Planned Parenthood receives is generally through reimbursements from Medicaid. If federal funding became discontinued, Medicaid spending would actually rise for the federal government and taxpayers of America (The Cut). For example, say unwanted pregnancies rise in low- income areas where women rely on Planned Parenthood for Medicaid-funded contraceptive services. Without the government federally funding this organization through Medicaid, it would leave women, men, and adolescents with crammed, expensive clinics and a burden on Medicaid spending. People may choose to be unengaged with the organization due to the lack of knowledge on the topic or they may simply be disinterested because it does not personally affect them. Men should care about Planned Parenthood because even though it may not apply to them personally or be relevant, their significant other or family member may have to reach out to the organization for whatever given reason in order to receive health care. That being said, they may have to use the organization for them self to get tested for STIs. For example, say there is a top rated oral surgery practice that aids thousands of people a year. I may not need any kind of dental work now, but knowing what the practice does and who the doctor is, may benefit me in the future if I do ever end up needing the service. The same scenario works for Planned Parenthood in this sense. Men seem to be unengaged with the organization that provides services that do not apply to them now. Therefore, understanding what Planned Parenthood does for the community and knowing that they are out here to help patients, could benefit future health. According to a recent report, Planned Parenthood served over 250,000 men in 76 percent increase from a decade prior. The majority of those services are men seeking STI testing and treatment. Planned Parenthood also provides cancer screenings exclusive to men, including testicular cancer and prostate cancer, which affects nearly 13 percent of men in their lifetime (Cummings 2017). To conclude, if an accidental pregnancy happens and Planned Parenthood is not there to help the woman have an abortion, the man and woman are both affected. The man might think the organization does not pertain to him in any sense, but now he is a future father because his local government decided to defund Planned Parenthood and they could not get the anticipated health care they needed. In conclusion, Planned Parenthood has 10 million activists, supporters, and donors working for health and safety and our fundamental reproductive rights (Planned Parenthood). Hundreds and thousands of women, men, and adolescents depend on Planned Parenthood for Medicaid funded contraceptive services. Without this amenity, women would be left with unwanted pregnancies which would further put a long term burden on Medicaid spending if federal funding was discontinued. In order to engage a non-engaged audience into this organization, we need to educate them about the topic and empower the audience into taking action by caring about Planned Parenthood. If an audience is informed about an organization, they will be less opposed to becoming involved and taking action in some way. It is important that all audiences are engaged in this organization because it affects everyone ultimately, or at least a family member or someone they know. Planned Parenthood already educates thousands of people about their organization; therefore, by drawing in all of the uneducated audiences into learning about the organization and maybe even donating, would help people alter their thoughts on Planned Parenthood and make the organization even larger. Works Cited Parenthood, Planned. Annual  Planned Parenthood. N.p., 09 Mar. 2017. Web. 06 Apr. 2017. Images, Pacific Press/LightRocket via Getty. 9 Things People Get Wrong About Planned  The Cut. N.p., n.d. Web. 06 Apr. 2017. Cummings, Jozen. Why Should a Man Care About Planned Parenthood. N.p., 1 Mar. 2017. Web. 6 Apr. 2017. Mitts, Lydia. Four Reasons Planned Parenthood Is an Essential Health Care  Families USA. N.p., 13 Jan. 2017. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Parenthood, Planned. Official  Planned Parenthood. N.p., 16 Feb. 2017. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.