Life 1 Cameron Life English Comp II 003 Dennis 29 January 2017 Opioid Addiction: A Growing Crisis There is a growing issue in the United States: Opioid abuse. It is not only criminals or addicts who abuse opioids, but everyday people who are succumbing to this intoxicant. A potent example of this is former opioid addict Valerie Simon story. was always an alcoholic but never understood that I could be a drug addict, until my father passed away and I had thyroid cancer, and opiates took a turn in my life. I found a new love. I would be energized do all the house work and thought I was the best mom because it just kept me (Alper, 1). Although Valerie, as most opioid abusers do, did not see how short sighted this pleasure was and soon had to deal with the aftermath. When she was on the drugs she said, never realized I love my kids and husband the way I thought I did. There was always a wall, because my emotions were shut down. how I dealt with anything that hurt my (Alper, 1). She eventually turned to heroin after the opioids became too expensive and it ended up crippling her family life (Alper,1). Unfortunately, stories such as are not that uncommon in recent years. Why is this the case. Health experts believe that the main cause are in the number of prescriptions written and dispensed, greater social acceptability for using medications for different purposes, and aggressive marketing by pharmaceutical (Volkow,1). While these medicines have incredible capabilities for abating pain, they also have an incredible potential to be abused. The use of these drugs has been on an almost perpetual increase in the Life 2 United States, with America now accounting for 99% of hydrocodone and 81% of oxycodone consumerism (Volkow, 2). The graph below also shows the increase of prescriptions of these medicines. These rises are shocking physicians across the nation. Graph courtesy of Volkow, Nora . Addiction to Opioids: Heroin and Prescription Drug Abuse. N.p.: n.p., n.d. Web. https://www.drugabuse.gov/about- nida/legislative-activities/testimony-to-congress/2016/americas-addiction-to-opioids- heroin-prescription-drug-abuse ) Not only are these facts startling but it is also important to note that this is not only those who have obtained the opioids illegally that are abusing them. In fact, a Mayo Clinic study showed that one in four people who took progressed to a long term prescription (Lambert, 57). This means that not only are these drugs very addictive but also that they are simply being prescribed in such a volume that addictions are allowed to develop. We need to create an environment that will no longer allow this problem to continue to spread into our communities. We as communities need to work together against this issue because it is not merely one of helping addicts curb the use of opioids, it is about saving lives. From 1999-2013, 220,000 Americans died due to opioid-related overdoses (PROP, 5-6). A Life 3 majority of those deaths were people who were prescribed the opioids by a physician. A chart that represents this can be found below. (This graph is taken from https://www.drugabuse.gov/related-topics/trends- statistics/overdose-death-rates ) Another important point to stress is that these are merely not data points on graphs or statistics in briefs, these are people who are struggling with an opioid addiction. People not who voluntarily fall into addiction but people like Valerie Alper who struggle day to day with opioid abuse. Community interaction is needed because there are organizations such as the Pain Care Forum that seek to increase the output of opioids (Corsini, 1). Organizations such as these seek to flood the pharmaceutical market with more opioids such as oxycodone and hydrocodone that are known to be extremely addictive. This could lead to an increase in the issue of the opioid abuse Life 4 in the United States. Their lobbying represents a danger to those who are injured and are immediately prescribed opioids, due to how addictive they are. This is where you, the reader, come in to the equation. There are multiple ways you can help reduce the amount of opioid abuse. The number one thing I could advise you to take part in is Physicians for the Responsible Opioid Prescribing or PROP for short. They are the organization at the forefront of Opioid abuse. Their website is www.supportprop.org. If you become a member of PROP they provide you with advocacy info in your local area, where you can feel the beating pulse of your community and work hands-on with former opioid addicts and physicians who are committed to changing the trend of opioid addiction. There are also many other things you can do to help ameliorate the situation in your communities. For instance in Tampa there is an installation of the American Addiction Centers (AAC). They are constantly looking for volunteers and fundraisers at each facility. They do amazing work at helping rehab addicts of opioid addiction and creating programs to educate the public. Another thing you can do to assist your community is to contact your local clinics and inquire about opioid abuse in your town and how you can help. With cooperation from the people, I am sure we will be able to help the growing issue of opioid addiction. Life 5 Works Cited Alper, Valerie S. Real Opiate Addiction Recovery Stories  My Recovery Helper. N.p., 29 Nov. -0001. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Corsini, Evelyn. The Pain Care Forum and Pain Awareness Month An Interview with Mayssa Sultan, MPA,  PainEDU.org. Inflexxion, Inc., n/a. Web. 21 Jan. 2017. Lambert, Eric, and Joseph Semkiu. Opioid  Professional Safety 61.10 (2016): 57-59. Web. N/a. About Physicians for Responsible Opioid  PROP Physicians for Responsible Opioid Prescribing. Steve Rummler Hope Foundation, n.d. Web. 21 Jan.2017. Opioid Use  Wikipedia. Wikimedia Foundation, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Park, Alice . The Story Behind the Viral Photo of an Opioid  Time. Time Inc., n.d. Web Volkow, Nora . Addiction to Opioids: Heroin and Prescription Drug Abuse. N.p.: n.p., n.d. Web. Life 6