Thorpe 1 Khamisi Thorpe Professor Phillips ENC 1102 The Reality of Prostitution Throughout the depiction of prostitution, particularly the view that is shown on television, the multitude of false implications has the apathetic community misinformed. The reality of prostitution is gruesomely horrifying, and when dealing with common misconstruction of prostitution, it is simple in return for Unfortunately, the exchange for monetary acquisition or lack thereof is more convoluted than it is previously assumed. Through the comparison of the movie and the reality of prostitution, factual evidence of abuse and health declinations, and testimonies of retired victims, this essay will convey the traumatic experience that prostitution must offer, and need for better determined and plentiful outreach programs, and stricter laws that criminalize the male patrons of prostitution, the pimps and as much as it does the females. The film synopsis of provided by google demonstrates the improper presentation of prostitution as fairytale-like, and it follows: this modern update on Cinderella, a prostitute and a wealthy businessman fall hard for one another, forming an unlikely pair. While on a business trip in L.A., Edward (Richard Gere), who makes a living buying and breaking up companies, picks up a hooker, Vivian (Julia Roberts), on a lark. After Edward hires Vivian to stay with him for the weekend, the two get closer, only to discover there are significant hurdles to overcome as they try to bridge the gap between their very different Thorpe 2 In this synopsis, the struggles of a prostitute are compared to that of A fictitious character, who is merely a maid due to her marital oversight, compared to a woman who has become a sexual slave on her conquest for monetary acquisition. In the movie, a character by the name of Edward misconstrues the role males play in prostitution. Therein the realms of their responsibilities as patron to prostitution is the allowance that they may, and so frequently do, abuse the women in the field, and they possess the power to rape and/or withhold payments. These allowances are reinforced by the inadvertent exclamation that the women in prostitution are responsible for their well-being considering that the practice of prostitution was freely chosen. So, the many scenes of the movie where Edward is portrayed as the rescuing are skewed representation of a pimp or some hero that simply does not exist. In the movie, conversational lines such as You want days too, Edward Lewis: $2000, Vivian: $3000, Edward Lewis: falsely display a simplicity that does not occur when negotiating a transaction. Often, the transaction is negotiated by a pimp and, the women have little to no say. Studies have shown of women entered prostitution with a pimp, and more than 80% became involved with pimps over (Williamson). This piece of evidence is indicative of the small length of time that most prostitutes are in control of their careers. Aside from all the misconceptions that is delivered from the media, there are hidden contexts that make the ever-truthful detriment of prostitution known. The statistics. When dealing with prostitution many people do not take into consideration the abuse, rape, mistreatment from patrons, pimps, and sometimes officers. a Dutch study, 60% of women in legal prostitution were physically assaulted, 70% were threatened with physical assault, 40% experienced sexual violence and 40% had been coerced into legal this statistical Thorpe 3 evidence is a motion, a motion to describe the true barbaric nature of what the women in prostitution face daily (Farley). In prostitution, it is more than likely that a woman will be taken advantage of, which include provided services without pay, and that is equivalent to rape. More than often men or large size and great strength just plainly rape the women, to 75% [of were raped in and consider the lengthy history of sexual abuse when to 95% of those in prostitution were sexually assaulted as (Farley)! This contextual strip of intel is demonstrative of the emotional and mental damage that allowed women to the field of prostitution. Many ordinary people misunderstand the impactful-ness of traumatic child hood events and how they play out in work, life, and other endeavors or actions, for instance sexual abuse has been shown to result in PTSD in as many as 36% adult and one collective understanding of PTSD is that it thwarts decision making processes with irrational action driven by emotions (Myers 63). The testimonies of prostitute who have escaped the clutches of their practice are more empathetical than the any other means of creating desired understanding. One thing that cannot be ignored is the variances of each testimony. These variances are reflective of the multitudes of dangers that lurk within the framework of prostitution. Take Trisha and her story. In story, she shows the transition from prostitution to human trafficking. She exclaims that victims of human trafficking as the movies portray. The scenes of a little girl or young lady tied up on a mattress with the dingiest attire screaming for help are absolutely false, many people today have this image of a trafficking victim tied up in a room or black and blue with (Trisha). Rather a woman in trafficking looks normal, perceivably depressed, but normal nonetheless. The purpose of highlighting this myth is help others understand that these victims are not identifiable therefore they slip under the radar, never Thorpe 4 receiving help. story also gives an answer to the common question the women seek help or run and she insists that people understand that of the girls and women being trafficked are in love with their traffickers or pimps, and that these exploiters use subtle coercion, not just outright (Trisha). What Trisha is trying to help one understand is that with this slavery comes psychological problems that pose as the very shackles that withhold freedom. These personal stories are collected and can be seen on the Equalitynow website. While describing the many issues surrounding prostitution, without a solution or proposition, it is all complaintive. For the reconstruction of the women in prostitution, the best revelations come from the specific help of outreach assignments. These initiatives require courageous people to infiltrate the field of prostitution and gradually develop personal and understanding relationships with prostitutes. Not only do outreach workers rescue the women in prostitution, they also find housing, school, work and access to food. Unfortunately, the great deeds that are executed by these resilient workers are no match for the overwhelming population of prostitutes. When considering the relative success of outreach program while respecting the unparalleled proportions of the two populations; one can conclude the effectiveness of outreach work. Imagine the attainable success in the idea of implementing more institutions of outreach programs. Governmental workers such as officers, firefighters, public health servant, social worker, and so on, with additional training, can assume the position of an outreach worker. In addition to the outreach programs, the justice system needs to start criminalizing the buyers. What is supply without demand? This principle would tame both invested parties of prostitution and have positive effects on communities. The practice of trafficking and prostitution is a business, and pimps and traffickers will infiltrate any area to capitalize on little competition. Thorpe 5 There are no zoning law that govern the area they enter and to refrain from displaying this practice before the youth the justice system must destroy the demand. And unfortunately, once a pimp has infiltrated a new area, the little girls and young ladies are not safe from becoming victims. The juxtaposition of televised prostitution and real prostitution displayed the skewed concepts of prostitution. The abundant statistical evidence provided the undeniable facts that revealed the true dangers of prostitution. The empathetical testimonies allowed the audience to feel the pain of a prostitute and understand her struggles. And coupled with these devices is a tone of sheer disappointment and grief that begs for anew. Assurance can be made by making the institutions of outreach programs plentiful; by providing many resources such as a fountain of trust, and a dimension of understanding. With the input of stricter laws that criminalize all persons invested equally and justly. Thus, emphasizing that destroying the stigma and the common idea that prostitutes are solely responsible for all legal offenses, and all detriments, and all motions towards their freedom or lack thereof is the ultimate and universal mission. Thorpe 6 Work Cited Farley, Melissa. Human Trafficking and  PsycEXTRA Dataset (n.d.): n. pag. Web. Myers, John E. B. The APSAC Handbook on Child Maltreatment. Los Angeles, CA: SAGE, 2011. Print.  Equality Now. N.p., 22 Aug. 2016. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Williamson, Celia, and Terry Cluse-Tolar. Pimp-Controlled  Violence Against Women 8.9 (2002): 1074-092. Web.