Rios 1 Dylan Rios Ms. Hanson ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Government Surveillance Government surveillance has become a growing concern for many people over the years. Ever since the 9/11 attacks, the power of the government to monitor its citizens has grown. While government surveillance was mainly put in place to prevent terrorism it can also be used to spy on innocent Americans without their knowledge. While this may not concern some people, it can still feel like a major violation of rights to others. People have even formed large organization with the main purpose of stopping government surveillance of innocent citizens. The Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF) is one such organization that has been working to stop the surveillance by bringing lawsuits against the government by saying that the spying is illegal. While the work they are doing is very important, it still might not be enough if too many people are apathetic to the cause. Government surveillance is a growing problem that needs to be stopped. One way to help stop this problem is by supporting and donating to organizations like the EFF that work to take legal action against the government. Ever since 9/11 the power to spy on Americans has been greatly expanded. For a while this was not really a problem for people because no one knew about it. Then in 2013 a National Security Agency (NSA) agent by the name of Edward Snowden revealed thousands of classified documents that detailed how this surveillance was taking place (Halbert 4). The documents also Rios 2 revealed that this surveillance was not only targeting criminals and terrorist but that millions of Americans that are not suspected of anything are having their privacy violated like they are criminals (Robis 205). This system of surveillance is based off of the idea that people are guilty until proven innocent which is completely against the founding ideals of this country (Levinson 528). While government surveillance can be very pervasive there are still limitations that have been put in place because people have the issue to court. One such instance happened in 2010 when it was made illegal for the government to read the contents of emails without a warrant because it violated the Fourth Amendment. While warrantless searches of an contents is illegal, it is still legal for the government to track when an email was sent and who sent it based solely on whether the title of the email is suspicious by their standards (Halbert 5). The surveillance is not limited to emails because the NSA can also monitor when someone sends a phone call and the number the call is being sent to. Thankfully the surveillance is somewhat limited because of the Fourth Amendment which says that people protected from unreasonable by the government (Levinson 530). While the Fourth Amendment is the basis for privacy in the US there are still ways for the government to bypass it. One way is through the interpretation of the word which makes it so the amendment can change to fit with the times. If the surveillance we are currently suffering is considered unreasonable then it can be ruled unconstitutional by the Supreme Court. It is for this reason that people need understand what government surveillance is so we can make it known that it is not normal for the government to spy on its citizens. One reason that people might not care or be interested in the topic of government surveillance is because they may just think that if they have nothing to hide then it does not matter. This position is very narrow-minded because it only focuses on how an individual person Rios 3 feels about it instead of how someone who cares about their privacy might feel about it. It is easy for people to use this line of thinking because government surveillance is very subtle and unobtrusive to the point where most people would not know about it if we were not told that it was happening. This can be seen in a survey conducted by the Pew Research Center in 2014 where 39% of the people asked did not feel very concerned about the state of government surveillance in our country (Halbert 11). One way to better relate government surveillance to our live would be to think about it like someone who constantly follows us around and peers at us through the window. The situation is certainly more noticeable then our current level of government surveillance but it is no less invasive. While someone may have nothing to hide at the moment it is still important to fight for the privacy you may desire in the future. An effective way to stop illegal government surveillance is by taking the government to court on the grounds that your Fourth Amendment right to privacy is being violated (Dinev 221). While taking the government to court is a major undertaking that not anybody can do it is still possible for people like you and me to fight for our constitutional right to privacy. One way to do so is by supporting the Electronic Frontier Foundation joining them or donating to their cause. The EFF has won multiple court cases against the government in the name of privacy and is willing keep on doing it in order to protect against surveillance. Another way to get the message across is by contacting your congressman and letting them know about the issue. You can find out who your congressman is by going to the House of Representatives website and typing in your zip code. Government surveillance is an egregious abuse of our Fourth Amendment rights that needs to be stopped. It is based on the archaic belief that people are guilty unless proven otherwise. The system of spying of people who have committed no crimes has no place in our Rios 4 American society. transparency and are necessary so we can better protect ourselves from the government (Shamsi 9). Only by bringing agencies like the NSA to court can we make it so we will not have to worry about being spied on by the government in the future. Rios 5 Works Cited Dinev, Tamara, et al. Internet Privacy Concerns and Beliefs about Government Surveillance an Empirical  Journal of Strategic Information Systems, vol. 17, 01 Jan. 2008, pp. 214-233. 2017. Halbert, Debora. By Policy or Design? Privacy in the US in a Post-Snowden  Journal of Law, Technology and Public Policy, no. 2, 2015 Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Levinson-Waldman, Rachel. Hiding in Plain Sight: A Fourth Amendment Framework for Analyzing Government Surveillance in  Emory Law Journal, no. 3, 2017, p. 527. Robis, Leah Angela. When Does Public Interest Justify Government Interference and  Asia-Pacific Journal On Human Rights & The Law 15.1/2 (2014): 203- 218. Academic Search Premier. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Shamsi, Hina and Alex, Abdo. Privacy and Surveillance  Human Rights 38.1 (2011): 6-9. Education Source. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.