Jakub Wojcik Ms. Sarah Roth ENC110 Leniency in Copyright Law Regarding Music Production Over the years, the music industry and the way music is created has evolved to such proportions that it has become difficult to determine what pieces are plagiarized and what pieces are simply sampled and inspired by other works. Because of this mass expansion of the limits of the musical world, there should not be an increase in moderation by the law. The sheer amount of unnecessary cases that would be brought to light for the profit of certain artists or companies would negatively affect the music industry. If too many laws and regulations are put in place, production will begin to lack originality and creativity due to producers and artists fearing lawsuits. This stance often does not sit well with certain wealthy companies, artists or brands that profit from preying on artists who create original pieces with certain small similarities to their work. Less regulation on copyrights will prevent certain artists from being taken advantage of and promote more freedom of expression. Many would argue that the protection and regulation of intellectual property is essential to maintaining integrity in the music industry. If there is not more security and laws put in place to stop copyright infringement, there will be some sort of chaotic atmosphere where anyone can copy anyone or steal their work. If regulation is increased, everyone will have their own rights and can lay claim to their own productions. There is some truth in their argument, but if more and more laws are made, there will come a moment when it impedes on the free and independent feeling of creating what is essentially art. When it gets to the point where the quality of music being produced becomes jeopardized, something must be done to eliminate the burden on the artists and stop the promotion of a culture that exploits and takes advantage of the law to the detriment of the musical environment. This culture had very early beginnings and found a way to become a norm in society. In the 1600s, the first use of the concept of intellectual property for financial gain was applied by the British to fund their monarchical government. They were not so much interested in protecting the rights of intellectual property as much as how it would help manipulate taxation. Instead of imposing a tax that would not be popular among the public, the government would hand out special rights for production and then tax that individual or company. Though the individuals and companies being taxed did not have a problem with it due to the fact that they basically had rights to manufacture goods that no one else legally could. This would give them a heavy advantage over the little competition they would have and therefore drastically increase their revenue. This is just one of many examples of instances when the law has been taken advantage of for the gain of the party instigating claims to intellectual property. To this day society remains witness to situations such as this. They initiated a sort of tradition of undermining the creative process by means of placing a priority on acquiring wealth and leaving blameless, sometimes hopeless producers in their wake. An overwhelming sense of fear arose. Original sources of ideas and goods developed fears of losing their money, their credit as manufacturers, and their passion for the production process. There is an unnecessary difficulty to producing music especially which is to avoid any trace of any of the countless songs ever created because artists do not want to unintentionally plagiarize and consequently get penalized for it. The high amount of similarities in popular music is no coincidence. In fact, for producers it is nearly impossible to create a melody progression that has not been thought up and laid out already. This is due to the fact that there are rules in music that limit producers to certain chords and melodies that sound pleasant to the human ear, and the amount of different combinations that sound  are surprisingly scarce. As Phillip Ball writes in his article Musicians Are Wired to Steal Each Work, ...expecting songwriters to avoid all echoes of other songs is a little like putting someone inside a maze and telling them to find an original way (Ball). The analogy is also very fitting because far too often a creator can feel trapped. Trapped in the sense that his or her creative flow of work can be disrupted by thoughts of possible unintentional plagiarism and the constant threat of someone hypothetically being able to claim copyright infringement. It makes the process of production much more stressful than it should be and can deter producers from staying true to their thought processes. In the grand scheme of things, supporting freedom of expression is an important way we advance as a society. A rigid enforcement of law with regards to limiting artists from creating what they want to create is a step towards a sense of mental imprisonment. These laws may prevent possible masterpieces from being made. The next Bohemian  or Sonata  or Bad and  might be given up on. Society must take steps to fight for free information (including music) so that there is an immersion of knowledge and inspiration and generation after generation can learn and draw from the great minds before them. The software freedom activist Richard Stallman once said When information is generally useful, redistributing it makes humanity wealthier no matter who is distributing and no matter who is (Stallman). Increasing the amount of copyright laws will not help incubate creativity, but will instead be detrimental to the imagination due to the limitation it places on others to inspire. WORKS CITED: Demers, J. T. (2006). Steal this music: how intellectual property law affects musical creativity. Athens: University of Georgia Press Ball, P. (2016). Musicians Are Wired to Steal Each Work. The Atlantic. Retrieved from http://www.theatlantic.com/science/archive/2016/09/music-plagiarism/499985/ United States Copyright Office,. (2015). Copyright and the Music Marketplace. Washington, DC. Levy, S. (2000). The noisy war over Napster. Newsweek, 135(23), 46-53. Now the lines are blurred and lawyers call the tune; The latest pop plagiarism case pits Ed Sheeran against the bullish litigator whose $5m victory over the writers of Blurred Lines has changed the music business, says Lisa  Sunday Times [London, 12 June 2016, p. 5. Academic OneFile, go.galegroup.com/ps/i.do?p=AONE&sw=w&u=tamp44898&v=2.1&id=GALE%7CA454837372&it =r&asid=6fe5a723f82cc74b7582df47ac40b7a9