Matias 1 Zulymar Matias ENC 1102 16 April, 2017 How We Can Preserve the American Dream The definition of the American dream varies in meaning depending on whom is defining the term. Author and historian, James Truslow Adams, defined the American dream as dream of a land in which life should be better and richer and fuller for everyone, with opportunity for each according to ability or (214-215), in his book The Epic of America, published in 1931. This, to many seems like a very close representation of what the American dream is, but the truth is that this dream is just that a dream. According to Ethan Lazuk in his article, of the American Dream for citizens usually associate [the American with such themes as wealth, financial security, freedom and even family. Immigrants in the U.S., however, are more likely to define the American dream as the pursuit of opportunity, a good job, owning a home and in many cases, safety from war or the difference in definitions seem minuet but it is crucial. With Adams, the American dream is joined together and shared by all immigrants and American-born citizens. While with Lazuk, it is clear that views of the are being divided between immigrants and American-born citizens. This difference in definitions helps to explain the split views on illegal immigration in America, and how getting harder for those hoping to escape poverty, oppression, or provide a better life for their families to get an opportunity for the American Dream. Immigration is a very controversial topic, in the United States of America today. The misconceptions that American citizens have affect the actions/ stance that are taken to start Matias 2 eradicating the According to the Teaching Tolerance Staff, there are 10 common misconceptions that American citizens have on immigration that affect how the American reform is established and viewed. immigrants are here there are about 43 million foreign-born people in the U.S. (2014), 44 percent are naturalize U.S. citizens, 27 percent are legal habitants, leaving about 25.5 percent to be undocumented immigrants and experts say that about 40 percent of those 25.5 percent came to America legally with a valid visa (tolerance.org). take good jobs from U.S. indicates there is little connection between immigrant labor and unemployment rates of native-born workers. Two education and an aging resulted in a decrease in the number of workers born in the United States who are willing or available to take low- paying jobs. Across all industries and occupations, though, immigrants who are naturalized citizens and non-citizens are outnumbered by workers born in the United (tolerance.org). easy to enter the country legally. My ancestors did; why immigrants about the first 100 years, the United States had an open immigration system that allowed any able-bodied immigrant  according to immigration historian David Reimers. Back then, the biggest obstacle that would-be immigrants faced was getting (tolerance.org), today those wanting to come into the United States have a vigorous process that according to U.S. Rep. Jim Sensenbrenner, Currently, takes up to 25 years to obtain U.S. citizenship  in The Washington Times on July 1, 2013 (politifact.com). These three misconceptions outline the ill-informed notions that American- born citizens have on illegal immigration. In a society as diverse as the one in the United States of America its crucial for one to be well informed about the workings of how the American Dream is perceived. Out of 321.5 million people U.S. population, 43.3 million makes up the U.S. immigration population, or 13.5 percent, and of the 321.5 million experts say that about 11 million are illegal immigrants Matias 3 (migrationpolicy.org), this is 3 percent of the total U.S. population. All of these people hold a different meaning to the American dream. America has a social identity of acceptance and freedom, however the fallacies that many Americans have are causing a rift to transform between the social ideal and reality immigrants face today. This affects our societies harmony as a united nation by dividing our perceptions of what this country stands for. Citizens in the United States pride themselves on their open-minded way of thinking and their acceptance to all, yet the prejudice that the United States has experienced against immigrants has grown due to its misconceptions. It is difficult to imagine how one person could help end or lessen the misapprehensions that a country has, but one person can cause a ripple effect. Just by educating one person on the issue at hand we can ensure that one more person has enough information to make an educated decision on the controversial issue of immigration. Another way to get involved and help the American Dream become a reality is to sign petitions and join the cause to educate others on immigration and help them make an educated decision on their stance while abolishing the stigma that comes along with immigration. The organization Reform Immigration for America has many campaigns and ways to get involved, one can text JUSTICE to 698-66 to up to support immigrants and refugees in your community. You will be connected to a local organization on the ground who will share ways that you can get involved in the work in your (reformimmigrationforamerica.org). The United States of America was founded with the belief of acceptance and freedom, the believe of the American Dream. Today the American Dream has many forms that come with it, to some the American dream is a place where we can all move up and surpass the boundaries that are raised by gender, race, class, and ethnicity, to others a place to escape social injustice. Sadly, the American dream is threatened by misconceptions that has been raised due to ignorance within society today. However we can help exterminate this fallacy Matias 4 by educating those who hold these notions and join the cause with organizations that promote the education of immigration. Matias 5 Work Cited Adams, James Truslow, and SchneidermanHoward. The Epic of America. New Brunswick, NJ: Transaction, 1931. Print. Frequently Requested Statistics on Immigrants and Immigration in the United Migrationpolicy.org. N.p., 06 Apr. 2017. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Lazuk, Ethan. Meaning of the American Dream for  The Classroom Synonym. Classroom.synonym.com, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Rep. Jim Sensenbrenner Says It Takes 25 Years to Obtain Citizenship Legally and Just 13 Years for Illegal Immigrants under Senate  @politifact. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Team, The CAP Immigration. The Facts on Immigration  Center for American Progress. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Ten Myths About  Ten Myths About Immigration Teaching Tolerance - Diversity, Equity and Justice. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.