Nodarse 1 Luis Nodarse Professor Bianca ENC 1102 Why the death penalty has to stop Since the 1970s when the death penalty was implemented there has been over 3000 executions and it seems absurd that it is still being used today (theguardian.com). Criminals are getting executed all around the country and no matter how bad a crime anyone has committed, they do not deserve their life to be taken away from them without a choice. Therefore, the death penalty should be stopped and people that are undecided about this cause should join against the death penalty because killing is never right under any circumstances. The death penalty is the punishment done to over men in the United states (US) and it has taught us that no matter whether the death penalty is implemented or not it has not changed the crimes done in the US. People keep committing crime no matter whether they are being executed or not. Which makes the death penalty obsolete the point of implementing something that is not even going to affect the rest of the population to not keep doing it. Also a lot of inmates that are sentenced to the death penalty are later exonerated meaning that the death penalty has been implemented and people even getting executed which makes it pointless to have something like that still in the US when it even being forced. Some men in death row do not even get executed for years to come for example Lee Giles, then 19 years old, was sentenced to death in Blount County, Alabama. Nearly 40 years later, he is still waiting to be it seems even inefficient to have all these poor men in jail for years and years before Nodarse 2 even getting executed (slate.com). According Los Angeles Times investigation, two dozen men on death row require walkers and wheelchairs, and one is living out his days in bed wearing This is what the death penalty is like in the US it is inefficient, it seems purposeless and it causes the inmates to psychologically suffer because they know when they are going to get executed they just stay in jail for years and years and they are never told they are going to get executed only weeks before the actual execution. The death penalty is a serious matter and problem in the US. People do not really care or listen to its problems because most people believe that these inmates in death row deserve to be where they are without even listening to their actual crimes which a lot of them actually regret later on in life because no one is really truly evil. Even if they want these inmates to pay for the crimes they have committed life in jail would be more suitable than death because brings nothing else than sadness and despair and it would not really bring their family members back that they have lost. For example, the hall family believed the myth that execution would close our emotional  At that time, Jim Hall told reporters over, thank  But, he now says, it In an op-ed in the Columbia Daily Tribune, Mr. Hall writes that his family has come to deeply regret  and appeals to Governor Jay Nixon to commute the death sentences of the 25 men remaining on the death (deathpenaltyinfo.org). This is an example on how the death penalty really brings nothing good for anyone because after the fact that they are dead the families that wanted these men dead will feel like because of them this man has just died. There is a quote from Gandhi that states this very well eye for an eye makes the world meaning that we should not look for revenge just because of crimes others have committed. why people should care about the death penalty and how it is committed and why it is committed because the men that are being sent to death penalty some Nodarse 3 wait for years and no one seems to care for them and it seems that neither does the state that houses these criminals for years to come as Rebecca McCray states death row inmates are housed alone for years in tiny concrete cells even as a growing body of evidence suggests the psychological burden of solitary confinement is tantamount to and how can the citizens of the US just let this happen in their own country when in other countries we yell at them for causing torture to their citizens and in US itself psychologist say this is borderline torture(slate.com). That is why one must get involved against the death penalty. Ways to get involved require the effort of everyone in the US to make a change. There has already been changed in a lot of states around the country for example New York, Michigan, Minnesota and many more, the people in those states tried to write to their senators and mayor of the state that they elected and they did this by writing petitions constantly as explained here in the International Commission Against Death penalty In the USA, a governor of a state may also have powers to grant clemency to condemned prisoners and to sign or veto a bill to abolish the death penalty once it has passed by the legislature. State governors played an important role in these petitions make it very possible for the state the people live in to make it banned because the people of the state like the mayor and senator are there to hear the people that voted for them and if they want the death penalty to be banned they might actually listen (icomdp.org). Petition for them to make a difference will be have to be a lot of people in the thousands or even the tens of thousands but if everyone can see how big of a problem this is it might actually happen. Another way for this to happen is be active and join organizations that are active members in this community of people against the death penalty for example the National coalition to abolish the death penalty (NCADP) which does active protest and have articles on how the death penalty is terrible for the country and have a calendar of all the executions Nodarse 4 happening and how everyone can join together against the death penalty (NCADP.org).they also have a pledge on their website that one can join to be a part of the community and be part of them so their voices can be heard the more people join the more recognition they get in the US and the more of a difference the whole country can towards a future where there is no death penalty In conclusion the death penalty in the US needs to be stopped indefinitely. It seems unconstitutional to torture a citizen years before their execution and also even take their life away without them having any say on the matter. Taking the life of a man no matter the circumstances is wrong and just because the country does it officially does not make it right. That is why people should all join together and try to make a difference together by protesting and uniting in organization against this matter. Because if people do not come together and see that there is a problem then this problem will never be solved. Word count:1233 Nodarse 5 Works cited Abolish the Death  National Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. 50 Facts About the Death  50 Facts About the Death Penalty Death Penalty Information Center. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. McCray, Rebecca. The to Execute Death Row Inmates Is Itself  Slate Magazine. N.p., 07 Mar. 2017. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. NEW VOICES: Regretting Execution, Murder Family Urges Governor to Commute Death  NEW VOICES: Regretting Execution, Murder Family Urges Governor to Commute Death Row Death Penalty Information Center. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Part I: History of the Death  Part I: History of the Death Penalty Death Penalty Information Center. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Rogers, Simon. Death penalty statistics from the US: which state executes the most  The Guardian. Guardian News and Media, 18 June 2010. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Sarver, Vernon Thomas. Abolition of the Death Penalty in the United States: An Untested  SSRN Electronic Journal (n.d.): n. pag. Web.