Davis 1 Lakirah Davis Professor Seth Spencer ENC1102 16 April 2017 Targeting Millions to Divest From The Prison Industry Universities throughout the United States often portray themselves as the gateway towards opportunity and success but if one was to trace the money the institution obtains and the policies that are created one will wind up at the barbed wire gates of the Corrections Corporation of America (CCA). The CCA is the largest private prison corporation in the United States. In the article Links Between Higher Education and the Prison by Hannah K. Gold, Gold states that the last two decades the private prison industry has exploded, growing 784 percent at the federal level, and helping the United States to achieve the highest incarceration rate in the (Para1). To stop the investing into these corporations that are imprisoning the people whose back the United States were built upon and currently is maintained by, one must first be educated on the topic of private prison through research given out by the National Private Prison Divestment campaign (NPPDC) and by also attending the meeting, rallies and protest that are constantly being held around the world to speak out on the issue at hand. This will cause a call to actions for investors to divest from and incarceration, and demand reparations and reinvestment in communities and humanity as a (Campaign Updates, N.p) Davis 2 Universities use the money that students supply then invest that same money into in the caging of convicted criminals, predominantly minorities. Not only private and public institutions, small and major businesses and also government agencies all play a major role in the investment of private prison corporations. The National Private Prison Divestment campaign (NPPDC) is the primary organizations striving for change to get such companies and universities to stop their investing in private prisons .The Campaign on the underlying source of undignified immigration policy, namely the connection between major financial institutions and the for-profit prison industry and their joint role in the accelerated incarceration of (About, N.p). This means that investors are supporting and supplying these corporations like efforts to put numerous amounts of minorities into the prison system so that the corporation will essentially get larger and more profitable each year. With the prisons being filled up, more prisons are built because the others lack space and then those are also filled up as each one built. This allows for the investors and government agencies to make a direct profit from their investment in CCA. The more policies that are created and geared towards putting people into the prison system, the more people from communities of minorities and immigrations are placed into the prison system, the more money that the corporations who provide these prisons make, the more profit the investors make. It is all a flow of money but it does not benefit the community and humanity as a whole, it allows for the established elite class who lack diversity to get more wealthy and the lower class or the everyday working citizen full of different races and ethnicities to seek little to no benefit from the investment in private prison. The article states is the surest way to impact all the targets that profit off of locking our community members behind bars. When we make private prisons a toxic liability in the world of investment, we will make pro-incarceration Davis 3 and anti-immigrant policies that keep those prisons filled a toxic liability for (Prison Divestment, N.p ) One may consider how does this issue apply to them? For one, the money that students and faculty pay the schools they attend or work at gets used in ways students and faculty members do not even know. Students are educated on the expenses that their tuition pays for with a hand out listing how their tuition is made up, but not nearly enough students have took the time to thoroughly look over the meaning of the items that are listed upon their tuition. There could be no university if there were no students but students are not made aware that the money they put into universities are directly responsible for the imprisoning of individuals who could in fact be a family member, a friend or close companion or someone who in their future such as ones children or grand children, wife or husband who will end up being placed into the prison system if the amount of laws keep increasing in order to put more people into prisons. This also applies to customers who purchase products from businesses that invest into the private prison corporations. Citizens are not aware that they are aiding the businesses involvement the creation of laws that are directly responsible for locking up of individuals in the community. There are multiple ways one can get involved in the campaign of divesting from private prison corporations. There are weekly meeting held at multiple Universities around the United States, these meeting locations can be directly found on the NPPDC website once one puts in their zip code to show the nearest meeting location , time and date. The second way one can get involved is by participating the rallies and protest that are the most influential part when it comes to bringing awareness to the issue of the investing into the private prison corporations. These Davis 4 rallies are also posted weekly on the NPPDC website. Since majority of the supporters are college students, there are voluntary and paid internships available to do campaign research, to be a campaign organizer and also to do campaign graphic design and communications for the organizations as well. There are multiple leadership positions in different sub committees that one is able to run for each year. One can also get involved by going to the annual retreats meeting different people who have the same interest on the campuses and in the communities also creating plans and strategies to help grow the National Divestment campaign. These retreats held in places like Florida, California, Washington, Chicago and Texas. The population keeps rising especially for minorities and immigrants and yet individuals still remain clueless to what really goes on within the prison industry. Universities who are investing in the private prison corporations should bring awareness to the students and faculty so that no one unaware or left in the dark on the topic and the threat it posses to the lives of the students and faculty and also the surrounding community. Once the NPPDC and the people taking a stand with the Organization create awareness on the topic and the issue then business and institutions will stop investing into such corporations and invest money obtained else where and also the governments creation of policies that put people in the prison system can be lowered so that in the future the goal to get more people into prison to profit from the individuals but the goal will be to retain the minorities in the communities so that families and all of humanity can thrive once again . With the help of individuals from all over and the support from business and institutions there can be an end put to the criminalization and incarceration of minorities and immigrants all over the United States. Davis 5 Works Cited 5 Links Between Higher Education and the Prison  RollingStone. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 April. 2017. Campaign Updates  National Prison Divestment Campaign . N.p., n.d. Web. 16 April. 2017. National Prison Divestment  National Network for Immigrant and Refugee Rights. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 April. 2017. Who We  Corrections Corporation of America. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 April. 2017. Why Divest  Enlace organizing for racial and economic justice . N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.