Duyen Nguyen ENC 1120 16 April 2017 Gender Pay Gap (a) educates an audience of non-engaged stakeholders about the issue or topic (b) engages the audience by convincing them that they should care about this issue or topic (c) empowers the audience to take action in some way. I. Introduction a) Background/context/educate been reported recently that women make approximately 24 percent less than men, meaning that women only earn 76 cents for every dollar earned by men (PayScale, 2016). Highly involved in the issue in America is the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU), an organization who works to ensure everyone receives the right earning despite his or her gender, age, or racial background while advocating the passage of a new stricter law (Equal Pay for Equal Work). The ACLU was founded as a group civil liberties activists in 1920 to ensure that the Bill of Rights will provide justice and protection to every American. The mission to secure equal pay is achieved through the two images provided by the website. b) Stakeholders engaged/why you should care 1. Households headed by women suffer 2. Social justice and equal opportunities 3. Higher growth and higher national income c) Thesis/call to action/how can you help/empower Gender pay gap affects many different aspects regarding families, morality, and economics in a society. II. Body A. Topic sentence: Fifteen million family households are affected every day from gender inequality in paychecks. 1. Evidence The lost wages mean less support and invest for women and their families. The women surrounded every day-whether if your mom, aunt, grandmother or female friends-are most likely to suffer from inequality in paychecks. Implement pathos into the first idea stating how most of female loved ones are involved in the issue. Standing against gender pay gap can possibly be the best gift you could ever give to your loved ones. 2. Quote/statistics than 15 million family households in the United States are headed by women. About 29 percent of those families, or 4,374,354 family households, have incomes that fall below the poverty This data reported by the National Partnership for Women & Families (NPWF) highlights the absence of necessary materials that some families endure resulting from the missing wages of the household heads. six in 10 women in the United States identify equal pay as one of the most important according to the NPWF. facing women in the workplace. 3. Transition Putting a few households together, we have a community. Putting some communities together, we have society that not only tolerates inequity, but also discrimination. B. Topic sentence: Putting an end to gender pay gap will promote social equity and hinder gender based discrimination. 1. Evidence A cohesive and equal society will be created along with the establishment of equality for women. Not only that against the laws to tolerant gender pay gap, also ethically wrong. men are created taken from the United States Declaration of Independence was endowed with the rights of life, liberty, and Pursuit of Happiness. Implement ethos and pathos to draw the attention into the issue with historical content where the idea of justice and equity were questioned. Events such as the Civil War or Martin Luther King movement are saved in the book to remind everyone about the heroic events that once brought the country together to fight against discrimination. 2. Quote/statistics By increasing earnings throughout the lifecycle, the risk of falling into poverty will be reduced. The at-risk-of-poverty rate is around 22% for women over 65, compared to 16% of men over 65 (What is the gender pay gap) pay throughout their working lives also means that women contribute less to retirement plans, receive lower pensions, and lower Social Security Carolyn B. Maloney (D-N.Y.), ranking member of the U.S. Congress Joint Economic Committee (JEC) said in a statement. result is that women have substantially less income than men in retirement and are much more likely to live in poverty as they grow 3. Transition: Social roles and personal income play an important role in shaping the economy. C. Topic sentence: Gender pay gap hinders the improvement of economy and the development of young generations. 1. Evidence With the wage gap changes with education level, gender equality and economic development share a correlation. As gender inequality results in lower growth and income, investing in young education on the other hand raises national income. The lost wages due to the wage gap result in business and economy suffer (Gender Inequality). Logos will be using for idea number three to demonstrate the efficient methods that will strengthen both education and gender equality. 2. Quote/statistics Women are paid less than similarly educated men at every level of education. fact, women are often out-earned by men with less education: The typical woman with a graduate degree earns $5,000 less than the typical man with a Maloney stated The U.S. economy is $2 trillion bigger now than it would have been if women increased their participation and hours since 1970 (Dishman) III. Conclusion 1. Restate A woman working full time, year-round, earns $10,800 less per year than a man, based on median annual earnings. This adds up to nearly a half million dollars over a career (Dishman). This inequality is unacceptable for many reasons. 2. Call to action looking forward Contact USF Women in Leadership & Philanthropy participate in their annual Inaugural Women who Ignite Student Engagement Student Symposium, a student-led program that enables the next generation of leaders to hear about some of the most conservational topics. Reference Equal Pay for Equal Work. (2017). Retrieved from American Civil Liberties Union: https://www.aclu.org/equal-pay-equal-work-pass-paycheck-fairness-act Dishman, L. (2016, April 15). Why The Gender Wage Gap Might Ruin The Future U.S. Economy. Retrieved April 20, 2017, from https://www.fastcompany.com/3058740/why-the- gender-wage-gap-might-ruin-the-future-us-economy Gender Inequality, Income and Growth: Are Good Times Good for Women? (n.d.). Retrieved April 20, 2017, from http://www.gsdrc.org/document-library/gender-inequality-income-and- growth-are-good-times-good-for-women/ What is the gender pay gap and is it real?: The complete guide to how women are paid less than men and why it be explained away. (n.d.). Retrieved April 20, 2017, from http://www.epi.org/publication/what-is-the-gender-pay-gap-and-is-it-real/ Why is it important to tackle the gender pay gap? (n.d.). Retrieved April 20, 2017, from