Al Murshidi 1 Malik al Murshidi ENC 1102 Adam Phillips April 16, 2017 Animal Abuse Animal abuse or cruelty to animals is the unintentional/intentional abuse to animals caused by humans. There are many to why humans abuse animals, and most reasons are for specific achievements; such as food, clothing and even for sports. We live in a world where animals are abused in the name of culture and entertainment. It is unethical to harm a defenseless animal that has a right live freely without the need to suffer or get abused in any form. The aim here is using education as a tool so raise awareness on animal abuse, and to stand against industries that rely on animals for fur and other products by boycotting their products. Animals that are used in circuses face many forms or abuse and cruelty from their trainers, as documents from the animal welfare has revealed that instances of animal abuse in circuses have been documented such as confining enclosures, lack of regular veterinary care, abusive training methods and lack of oversight by regulating (Humane Society USA). A circus where animals are involved often involves some form of animal abuse, sadly most people who attend such events are not aware of this fact. It is known that bullfighting is a common and legal practice in Spain, making it one of the most criticized forms of animal abuse. The sport is barbaric and bloody, as most bulls suffer severe stress and are put down slowly and agonizingly. Spain also hosts festivals were bulls have their horns set on fire and released into narrow streets where they run in pain. It is worrying to know that animals are still abused in Al Murshidi 2 public places for the sake of entertainment till this day. There is no place for any practice in which animals are harmed or abused to exist in our modern world. In Japan, thousands of dolphins are killed for their meat, although dolphin meat contains mercury which carries bad side effects when consumed, the Japanese government made it a legal practice and claim that dolphin meat has no health issues. Dolphins are rounded up in small coves all over Japan, are then brutally beaten with bats and spears, resulting in a bloody, cruel and slow death. Abusing and killing thousands of dolphins is wrong and unethical. Dolphins are self-conscious and are one of the smartest animals on earth; they feel the same pain we feel, both physically and psychologically. Animals are also abused by humans for no reason, or just for In many places where education is weak or not unavailable, some people grow up to think that animals are worthless and that harming them is not a problem. This could be because of poor parenting or mental conditions, but the cycle will keep repeating if passed to the next generation, hence the need to focus on education to prevent the cycle moving on. Although many animals are killed in sports and cultural festivals, the number of animals killed in clothing industries and science labs are much higher and ignored. According to research done by the animal rights organization, PETA, state that year, more than 100 million mice, rats, frogs, dogs, cats, rabbits, hamsters, guinea pigs, monkeys, fish, and killed in U.S. laboratories for biology lessons, medical training, curiosity-driven experimentation, and chemical, drug, food, and cosmetics (PETA). Most of the animals used in science labs for experimenting, experience huge levels of stress and harm. The high levels of stress cause animals to develop neurotic type behavior. Animals can be seen pulling out their fur and running in circles, and some even bite themselves. In most cases, animals are defenseless against humans, and there is little legal punishment in most animal abuse cases, meaning that laws for animal abuse are not strict enough. Al Murshidi 3 Animals used for testing is a long history of wasting resources and killing millions of animals to achieve nothing in the medical field. According to a research done by Cruelty Free International, of drugs fail in human trials despite promising results in animal tests whether on safety grounds or because they do not and that mice and rats to test the safety of drugs in humans is only accurate 43% of the time, a recent study (CIF). Why should we continue to let animals suffer if not worth it? Animals are not accurate test subjects for the results to work on humans, which means most of the tests have failed to work on humans, and therefore, it has, and will be a huge waste of millions of animal lives for nothing. Animals have basic rights to live freely without having to suffer or put into situations where they do not have a choice, using animals for testing is a violation of rights according to many scientists. Abusing an animal can be compared to abusing a child, abusing them will permanently damage them, except animals like dogs and cats do not understand why they are getting abused. Animal testing is a huge business, it is worth over Billion Euros in the European (CIF), and the tests are very expensive to run, costing approximately to $4 million per tested (CIF). So much money is put into animal testing when that money can be used on better things that matter. So why waste so many resources and money when faster, cheaper and more accurate methods are available? With the help of modern technology, we have module chips that simulate the human body and can be used as the perfect testing methods, costing less, with more accurate results and most importantly, no conscious being must suffer or die. That said, there is no need for animals to be used for testing given the current technological advancement in the biological field. There are many ways to prevent animal abuse, and it is our jobs as human beings to help end the suffering. Education is the most powerful tool we have, through education we have abolished many unethical and barbaric practices throughout history, for example, animal abuse can be compared to the time back when slavery was legal and still practiced. With education, more people realized the unethical Al Murshidi 4 practice must be abolished, so laws were made to kick the inhumane practice out of our system. The same thing can happen with animal abuse if we focus on educating to help abolish animal abuse. We must also boycott any clothing industry that use animal fur or leather in their products. We must only buy cruelty free products and educate others to so as well. Donations to animal rights groups and organization is also an option and everyone should consider donating to help end animal abuse and suffering. Works cited: PETA Seeks Less Animal Testing by National Toxicology  Pesticide and Toxic Chemical News, vol. 36, no. 24, 14 Apr. 2008, pp. 6-7. EBSCOhost Using Animals for Drug Tests Is  The London Evening Standard (London, England), 2016. EBSCOhost Cruelty Free International Lauds New Steps to End Animal  Household & Personal Products Industry, no. 1, 2015, p. 28. EBSCOhost May Become Alternative to Animal  Irish University Review: A Journal of Irish Studies, no. 12, 2016, p. 15. EBSCOhost Al Murshidi 5 Works Cited Ferdowsian, Hope R. and Nancy Beck. Ethical and Scientific Considerations Regarding Animal Testing and  Plos ONE, vol. 6, no. 9, Sept. 2011, pp. 1-4. EBSCOhost