Meagan Seymour Karen Hanson ENC1102 4/16/17 Genetically Modified? Multiple times a day we put the trust of our health, and our health in hands of companies who we know very little about. Every time you sit down for dinner, or snack on your favorite treat, do you really know what putting into your body, or the potential effects that come along with it? 70 to 80% of processed food we buy in grocery stores contain genetically modified organisms (Labelize it!). In an American society that is evolving and attempting to pay more attention to what we put into our bodies genetically modified organisms is something we should be aware of. Most college students are shopping, eating, spending on a budget and feel they afford healthy options to eat. However healthy options are not always expensive, and what is the price you are willing to put on your life? Food that contains genetically modified organisms poses a life risking illness. To fight against the use of genetically modified organisms in our daily life, we first need to know what it is in, by labializing food that contains it. What are Genetic engineering of plants started in the mid when it was thought the genome was a constant and stationary, and that characteristics of an organism are hardwired in their genome, geneticists discovered that it is remarkably dynamic and and constantly interacting with its environment. This determines which genes are prominent in the plant, creating a larger, better tasting harvest. It was also found the genetic material itself could influence the next generation (Ban GMOs Now). With this advancement in the agriculture world it was hard to resist. However with plants that are resistant to essential any harm, it makes you wonder the harm it could bring to those who eat it. You might be asking, can something that is supposed to be bettering our lives have a negative . There had not been many published, basic research that would indicate that genetically modified plants created an elevated risk to the environment and human/animal health. However, 2006 marks the point Thomas Marek Cuhra found a few water fleas that would make you believe otherwise (Biology Fortified). The Philippines was the first cite of effect, in a small village close to a field of Bt corn, a genetically modified strand of corn produced by Monsanto. Mysteriously an outbreak of disease terrorized the village. This horrific event was believed to be caused by inhaling the Bt pesticides. Biofortified, an organization concerned for the publics health, believes there was not, and is still not an adequate amount of testing and labializing done on these plants to be feeding them to the public, or farming them in a populated area, without informing of the risk. Teaching the public about these health risks could better prepare them for potential risks, and even fighting for their right to be able to know more about this topic. To put an end to the harm, and being fed these chemicals right under our noses there are very simple steps to put an end to it. Being aware is the first step in any movement. Without knowing of these potential harms everyone would continue to consume billions a year and put their health on the line. Simply by spreading the word you can already help put this movement in motion! Challenges for GMO detection include the detection of transgenic material in materials with varying chromosome numbers. The existing and proposed regulatory EU requirements for traceability of genetically modified products fit within a broader tendency towards traceability of foods in general and, commercially, towards products that can be distinguished from each other. Traceability systems document the history of a product and may serve the purpose of both marketing and health protection. In this framework, segregation and identity preservation systems allow for the separation of genetically modified and non-modified products from to Implementation of these systems comes with specific technical requirements for each particular step of the food processing chain. (Detection and traceability of genetically modified organisms in the food production chain) New legislation like the one above are impacting change in labializing foods, letting the public make the decision to eat or not to. By being an active citizen, protesting, calling your senators, and signing petitions to make your voice known, and make an impact in your life, as well as future generations to come. Works Cited Heggdal, and Liv Langberg. Norway Became an Anti-GMO Biology Fortified, https://www.biofortified.org/2016/10/norway-became-anti-gmo- powerhouse/. 8 Oct. 2016 Fraiture, Marie Alice. How Can We Better Detect Unauthorized GMOs in Food and Feed  Science Direct. Science Direct, 24 Mar. 207. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. GMO Lableing: Ben & Labelize It! Ben & Jerrys n.d. Web 14. Apr. 2017 Fraiture, Marie-Alice, Philippe Herman, Marc De Loose, Debode How Can We Better Detect Unauthorized GMOs in Food and Feed In Trends in Biotechnology 14. Apr. 2017