Sydney Rosa Ms. Lay Project 3 Intermediate Draft April 13 Human Trafficking Human trafficking has become one a fast and booming industry. It only have to deal with something sexual. children, and men are used as merchandise for prostitution, slavery, organs transplants, and Satanist rituals (Schinasi). Statistics from the International Labor Organization say that an estimated 2.4 million people are trafficked every year around the world. Human trafficking is modern day slavery, or in other words, people are exploited and they are forced to do things they definitely want to do. Human trafficking also involves fraud and coercion for some form of labor (work or organ transplantation) or commercial sex act (Huffington Post). Victims of human trafficking limited to a specific type of person; they differ in age, race, and gender. Today, human trafficking has increased at an alarming rate and has affected millions of lives. There is a noticeable difference in the world in the past and the present. There is always something we can do to improve the human trafficking problem in the future. Everyone needs to learn the signs of human trafficking in order to know whether someone is being trafficked. If and when you see something, be sure to do something and not sit idly by. In the past, human trafficking was merely just another crime and no one thought much of it or thought to do anything about it. However, in 2000, before Bush took office, Congress passed a bill called the Trafficking Victims Protection Act, which allows for the action to be taken against traffickers both worldwide and within the nation. After Bush became president, 2001, his administration strengthened that act and started paying more attention to why it was put in place to begin with. This was due to the fact that the number of people being trafficked was increasing rapidly and Bush wanted to do something about it. Human trafficking became one of top problems to try and solve (U.S. Laws on Trafficking in Persons). Bush wanted to do everything he could; therefore he decided to sign the reauthorization act of 2005, which allowed for the protection of those being trafficked. Bush went to the first conference on human trafficking in the United States (Human Trafficking A New Form of Slavery). This conference was hosted in Tampa, Florida and there, people were educated and encouraged to help rescue women and children from modern day slavery. Remember, human trafficking always have to deal with sexual acts, it simply means the act of trading humans. As far back as the 1400s to the 1600s, when Africa and Portugal traded slaves with each other. Slave trading started to increase as the number of plantations increased because people needed more workers on their lands. In addition to Africa and Portugal, countries such as France, Sweden, and even North America became involved in slave trade, now known as human trafficking. Jumping forward to 1904, an agreement was formed in order to protect women and children from the white slave trade, meaning blacks, women and children, were still being traded. Women and children who were forced into white slavery were specifically forced or tricked into prostitution. Prostitution back then was different than it is now because the women and children were definitely not paid. If they were, the money would go to their owner. They had an because the women and children no longer belonged to themselves or their previous families, no matter how much they wish they still did. They had no control over their own lives and that is exactly what its like to be a victim of human trafficking. In 1927, the agreement changed to refer to women and children of all races, where referred to both girls and boys. In 1995, law enforcement across the nation and other parts of the world were taught how to deal and take care of human traffickers and also with the victims of trafficking. These officers were taught the learn the factors that lead and encourage trafficking and then set up institutions that help eliminate these threats. Skipping over a few years, to 2002, the national toll-free hotline was established. This hotline was available where people could call and get information about human trafficking or where they could report things they felt were related to human trafficking to help government agencies find the traffickers and their victims. The traffickers would go to prison and the victims would be sent to safe houses that deal with rehabilitation. 9 years later, 2011, Obama named the month of January to be Human Trafficking Awareness month with the 11th as the specific awareness day. On this day, millions of people protest against human trafficking and walk the streets to show awareness to other people who may not know (Timeline of Human Trafficking). There is definitely cause for alarm because there are more slaves now than ever before in history. According to CBS News, cases of human trafficking in 2017 have gone up over 50 percent in the state of Florida since 2016. CBS also claims that Florida received nearly 2,000 calls and reports of human trafficking, which is also over 50 percent from the year before. About 75% of all human trafficking victims are females young and old. The men and boys that are trafficking are usually used for work labor, soldiers, or slaves, and not so much as sex workers (CBS/AP). Florida is one of the top states in the nation for human trafficking. As of early April 2017, Florida schools are required to teach the students about the extreme dangers of human trafficking due to the bill passed by the senate. A senior at a high school in Florida went to his district senator and fought for the bill to be passed. Because of how serious the problem has become, especially in Florida, the Tampa Bay area more so than others, the senator agreed that the state of Florida needed this bill desperately (Cordner). The student also talked to her peers and teachers at her school about the idea before she had gone to Senator Steube. The people she told Sascha Cordner of WLRN that the people she talked to never thought of human trafficking because they never knew it was an issue, or at least not a big enough issue to teach about. However, since about 2008, human trafficking has been rapidly increasing in the state of Florida. Now, children in middle schools and high schools are learning the signs of human trafficking. They now know how trafficking is influenced, how the victims are drawn into the industry, and how it affects the world. Having younger generations knowing this information, the world will start to eliminate human trafficking altogether. A child knowing this information is extremely important because, in the year 2015-2016, about 2,000 children in Florida were reported as victims of human trafficking (Cordner). More people knowing the signs is always a good start to demolishing this underground industry. Not only should children and teenagers know about human trafficking, many adults in the business world should know too; especially those such as doctors who treat people. Most doctors miss the signs because they are mainly focusing on the health aspect of the appointment. According to Hanni Stoklosa, one doctor saw a particular patient very frequently. This patient constantly checked if she had and most of the time she came to the office with bruises, she was addicted to medication (either heroin or opioid), and she had chronic headaches from a previous head injury. If this doctor knew the telltale signs of human trafficking he/she could have helped their patient and maybe even more. Many patients show signs that are missed, maybe someone who is malnourished, extremely bruised or suicidal and none are brave enough to tell why. Many victims are afraid to tell someone because their trafficker will hurt them more or even leave them for dead (Stoklosa). The Past versus the has definitely been a lot of change, however not necessarily for the better. Since the past couple centuries human trafficking has definitely become a more consequential industry. Human trafficking is the second most impactful crime industry, right after the criminal drug cartel. Allowing more people to know about human trafficking and being able to notice the signs, will allow for more law enforcement to catch the criminals and rescue the victims of human trafficking. Florida is on the right track as far as trying to abolish modern day slavery. Starting with reauthorizing the Trafficking Victim Protection Act allowing for more law enforcement to take action. Passing more bills, such as the one where students will learn about human trafficking, also brings the state of Florida, as well as other states, closer to ending a way too extreme criminal problem. The sooner the problem can be stopped, the better the world will be. One person do everything but everyone can do something. Works Cited CBS/AP. Human Trafficking Cases Increase More than 50 Percent in  CBS News. CBS Interactive, 15 Jan. 2017. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. <http://www.cbsnews.com/news/human-trafficking-cases-increase-more-than-50 percent-in-florida/>. Cordner, Sascha. Bill Requiring Fla. Schools Teach About Human Trafficking Dangers Passes First Senate  WLRN. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. <http://wlrn.org/post/bill requiring-fla-schools-teach-about-human-trafficking-dangers-passes-first-senate-panel>. Human Trafficking - A New Form of  National Archives and Records Administration. National Archives and Records Administration, n.d. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. <https://georgewbush-whitehouse.archives.gov/infocus/traffic/>. Kloer, Amanda. Coalition Launches Campaign for National Human Trafficking Awareness  Change.org News. Change.org Inc., 10 Jan. 2011. Web. 12 Dec. 2011. Schinasi, David. Human Trafficking: Past, Present,  Linkedin. N.p., n.d. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. <https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/human-trafficking-past-present-future-david schinasi>. Stoklosa, Hanni. Doctors Often Unaware They Are Treating Human Trafficking  STAT. STAT, 17 Mar. 2017. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. <https://www.statnews.com/2017/03/16/human-trafficking-doctors/>. Timeline of Human  Human Trafficking Timeline. N.p., n.d. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. U.S. Laws on Trafficking in  U.S. Department of State. U.S. Department of State, n.d. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. <https://www.state.gov/j/tip/laws/>.