Cyr !1 Renee Cyr Adam Phillips 15 April 2017 Fur Framing Gassing, neck-breaking, poisoning, electrocuting, decompression chambers, and skinning alive are all methods fur farmers use to kill animals for their profit. Fur farming is a controversial topic that is all over the world today. The fashion industry believes that fur is a natural, renewable source and should be worn not only to keep warm but also as a fashion statement. However, where this fur comes from and how the animals are treated is shocking. Animals living in fur farms are forced to survive in cruel conditions and people need to act now by boycotting designers and stores who continue to sell real fur. According to the International Yearbook of Agricultural Statistics, there are a total of 34,178,038 animals accounted for in fur farms in Europe, Canada, and the United States. Europe has one of the highest number of fur farms with 27,919,238 animals killed. Even though Europe is a main provider of fur farms, the United States still contributes to the total number. In the United States there are 13 states who still have fur farms with just under 300 farms Also, there are still more fur farms that are not reported that operate under the radar all over the world. The animals that are put in those fur farms will never have a chance to be rescued. There are many types of animals that are used in the fur industry. Minks and foxes are the most commonly skinned but chinchillas, lynxes, dogs, and even hamsters are also used for their fur. Since these animals are found in the wild, the fur farmers make traps and hunt these Cyr !2 animals. To capture them farmers use many different methods depending on the type of animal they are trying to hunt. One of the most common methods is the leg hold trap, which violently clamps the leg with a steel-jaw. Then the animal is left helpless, in the same spot for hours or days, suffering from the pain and without food, water, or protection from predatory animals (User). Once the farmer or owner comes to collect the animal, he brutally kills the animal by or suffocating it by standing on its neck and chest for several minutes, ensuring that the pelt is not (User). A few other techniques used are: drowning sets, which drown the animal by weighing down their leg, and conifer traps which are intended to break the neck of the animal and instantly kill them. However, no matter which method is used they are all cruel ways of killing. Not only do these animals suffer, but animals can get trapped too. animals include: golden eagles, antelope, domestic livestock, birds, rabbits, deer, porcupines, domestic dogs and cats and even (User). Furthermore, if animals are not killed before they are brought to the farm, they are forced to live there until it is their time to be skinned. Trapping is not the only way farmers get their fur-bearing animals. Another approach fur farmers have adopted is breeding. From each litter, 3 or 4 of the kittens are killed at 6 months old and the rest are kept for more breeding for 4 to 5 years. vast majority of animals killed for fur are raised on farms and kept in deplorable (User). During these years, they live in small cages either outside or in a barn. These are filthy places where animals are caged up for the entirety of their lives. Because fur farms are constructed to maximize profit, animals suffer the consequences In the process of cutting costs, animals are housed in rows of cages, Cyr !3 fed unsafe meat, and unprotected from weather conditions. These conditions strip any rights of any living thing, leaving it to go insane. Once it is time to skin the animals for their fur, farmers use inhumane killing methods because no federal humane slaughter law protects animals in fur farms. Their method of killing the animals are a dependent on keeping the fur intact not the pain they will endure. The fur industry care about any of the animals just the quality of fur and he methods used are all slow and grueling deaths. Some are with hot, unfiltered engine exhaust from a However, exhaust from the truck engine is not always lethal, so some animals wake up while they are being Larger animals have it just as bad because they are poisoned with strychnine or electrocuted. Strychnine is injected into an animal and causes it to suffocate from paralyzing their muscles to the American Veterinary Medical Association, electrocution causes by cardiac fibrillation, which causes cerebral but warns that do not lose consciousness for 10 to 30 seconds or more after onset of cardiac In other words, the animals are forced to suffer from a heart attack while they are still Fashion. The reason why skin is ripped off their backs is all in the name of fashion. It is ridiculous and unnecessary to make another creature suffer for human satisfaction and looks. need to know that every fur coat, lining, or piece of trim represents the intense suffering of animals, whether they were trapped, ranched, or even Alexander Wang, Burberry, Calvin Klein, Chloe, Dior, Gucci, J, Mendel, Louis Vuitton, Marc Jacobs, Tommy Hilfiger, and Valentino are just some of the designers who continue to use real fur Take action by boycotting these companies. By not buying products from these Cyr !4 designers, it will force them to change to fake fur instead of using real fur from fur farms. Not only can people avoid buying their products, but also let their companies and store owners know the concerns with real fur. Taking action with the fur farm issue, comes in many forms. One small step can be taken by just writing a letter to the designers or companies that still make their clothes with real fur. Also, educating people on fur farms can be a huge help because then more people can boycott real fur selling companies. If enough people are educated on the issue these companies will be forced to resort to fake fur or go out of business. Furthermore, when they change to fake fur or go out of business, fur farms will no longer be needed to supply the fashion industry. Additionally, to accelerate the process of getting the word out about this fur farming issue, people can join campaigns to change legislation. The campaigns can get people involved with changing laws that can make aspects of fur farming more humane. is no kind way to rip the skin off backs. Anyone who wears any fur shares the blame for the torture and gruesome deaths of millions animals each Naturally wild animals, housed in fur farms, can not adjust to life in a cage. Living in a 12 by 18 inch cage, not being able to take more than a few steps, drives an animal to self-mutilate and have high levels of stress. Fur farms take rights away from these creatures that all living begins should have, so act now by boycotting real fur selling designers to save an animal from abuse. Cyr !5 Works Cited Franchi, Valeria, et al. Research: Fur Chewing and Other Abnormal Repetitive Behaviors in Chinchillas (Chinchilla Lanigera), under Commercial Fur-Farming  Journal of Veterinary Behavior: Clinical Applications and Research, vol. 11, 01 Jan. 2016, pp. 60-64. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.jveb.2015.10.002. Fur  PETA. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals. Web. 13 Apr. 2017. Inside the Fur Industry: Factory  PETA. Peopler the Ethical Treatment of Animals. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. The International Yearbook of Agricultural Statistics,  Journal of Farm Economics 4.4 (1922): 236. Web. 9 Apr. 2017. Nine Shocking Fur  PETA. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Stores and Designers Who Sell or Use Real  Humane Society International. Web. 12 Apr. 2017. User, Super. Fur Trade  Last Chance for Animals - Fur Trade Facts. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Welcome to Born Free  Welcome to Born Free USA. Web. 13 Apr. 2017.