Diana Cisneros ENC 1102 Kevin Ip 16 April 2017 Captivity Kills Humans enjoy control and the power bestowed on us to protect species. Captivity serves a purpose to supposedly protect these species, while also increasing capital gain. In some cases, human activities leave no option other than to keep these species locked up to preserve their populations. Killer whale captivity began in the sixties and soon increased as more marine theme parks sought out whales to entertain the masses. At the time, very little was known in regards to killer whales. The recent decade proved a hard fight for marine parks such as SeaWorld, who have come under attack for their killer whale shows. Killer whales, or orcas, display an intelligence greater than your average marine mammal. Only second to dolphins, killer whales learn at a rapid pace and have been recorded passing the self-awareness mirror test (Animal Cognition). Captive killer whales learn tricks and entertain the children, while also dying at a much younger age than their wild counterparts. No incident had been recorded of a killer whale killing a human in the wild, but the list is getting longer for the whales in captivity. To preserve this magnificent species humanity must come together and advocate for marine sanctuaries, rather than marine theme parks. A myth often circulated by marine theme parks, predominantly SeaWorld, is that killer whales live 17 to 29 years. Such a claim has often been refuted by marine biologists and most notably NOAA. Per NOAA, killer whales can live on average thirty years in regards to males, while females may live up to fifty years or more (Cronin). This killer whale age spiel often forms part of educational aspect of its programs. People leave these shows thinking SeaWorld is allowing these orcas a full, happy long life, but reality paints a darker picture. These animals were either bred or taken from their homes. Killer whales live their lives with a cohesive group, called a pod, and some marine biologists theorize that individual pods may have their own language. Humans think of themselves as the only species that can form bonds and language, but killer whales and various other marine mammals display these features. Each pod has their own hunting techniques, prey, and location. Such differences have led some scientists to speculate genetic differences between killer whales, ultimately leading to the conclusion that some killer whales in different regions may be distinct species altogether (Barras). SeaWorld, when obtaining these whales, did not research where the whales came from. If further research proves these creatures have their own languages and cultures, they can also be hostile and violent to one another. In the human context, examples are prevalent of different tribes and cultures showing hostility towards one another since the beginning of humankind. Tilikum, most infamous whale, was forcibly removed from his pod and implanted into a Canadian theme park tank with other older female killer whales. For his own safety, he had to be moved to another tank which was considered for his size (PBS). Although these animals may belong to the same species, it does not mean they will magically get along. Blackfish, a documentary on the now deceased Tilikum, highlighted the plight of the killer whale and blamed his environment for the death of two trainers. Killer whales possess complex brains and keeping them captive in a pool to perform tricks day in and day out for money is nothing short of exploitation and torture. Pressure by animal rights activists and consumers forced SeaWorld to phase out their orca shows and completely end killer whale breeding. So much more is left to accomplished. The Whale and Dolphin Conservation (WDC) has been a long-standing advocate for a marine sanctuary in which captive killer whales can live out the rest of their lives. SeaWorld announced they would like to create natural encounters between their killer whales and audience. A marine sanctuary may be able to provide such an experience. Captive orcas will not be able to survive on their own in the wild, prompting SeaWorld to create a case against letting these whales out of the tiny pools they inhabit. The WDC would appreciate a world in where no orca is captive, but the organization knows the dangers a captive orca could face in the wild. Consumers hold the power in their hands to persuade a company like SeaWorld to agree and fund a marine sanctuary. Boycotting the theme park and increased pressure from various animal rights groups did indeed make a difference in the past year when SeaWorld declared they would no longer breed orcas. Various orcas SeaWorld has bred suffered from inbreeding and some are even hybrids, which are unnatural and would never be found in the wild (Hesselager). Setting orcas free or at least giving them a more natural environment to live out their lives will create a more favorable image of SeaWorld. Donating to organizations like the WDC and staying informed on the issue helps one be an ethical consumer. A marine sanctuary seems like a far-fetched idea for corporations like SeaWorld, but wildlife sanctuaries on land exist. A dolphin sanctuary is in the works by the National Aquarium in Baltimore, therefore a marine sanctuary for orcas could be a close possibility. A group of scientists in North America have begun plans for an orca sanctuary, called the Whale Sanctuary Project, although SeaWorld claims its whales are too weak (Telegraph). If SeaWorld truly cared for its whales, offering them a larger more natural environment to spend the rest of their days would be priority. Expanding knowledge on orcas and other marine species will highlight how unethical it is to keep such creatures locked up. Humans believe they are the smartest and the earth belongs to them, but science has proved us wrong. Keeping self-aware animals in a pool inadequate for their size, separating them from their families, and having them perform for an audience constitutes trauma. When statistics display a profound disparity amongst killer whale attacks in the wild and captivity, one must question the ethics used among marine theme parks. When whales die at a younger age than their wild counterparts, one must question the information marine theme parks are feeding their consumers. Captivity harms its victims, while consumers stuff the piggy bank. Donating to organizations championing the rights of cetaceans and participating in boycotts can have an effect on these corporations that mistreat animals. Works Cited List of Animals That Have Passed the Mirror  Animal Cognition. N.p., 29 Oct. 2016. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. Barras, Colin. Orcas Are First Non-humans Whose Evolution Is Driven by  New Scientist. N.p., 31 May 2016. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. Cronin, Melissa. Claims About Orca Life Span Just Got Blown To  The Dodo - For Animal People. N.p., 22 Apr. 2015. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. Hesselager Helene. Seaworld Bows To Public . The Huffington Post. N.p., 2016. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. Inside Seaworld - The Tilikum Transaction A Whale Of A Business FRONTLINE  PBS: Public Broadcasting Service. PBS, Web. 16 Apr 2017. Scientists Are Building A Sanctuary Where Orcas Could . The Telegraph. N.p., 2017. Web. 17 Apr. 2017.