Student 1 Student Prof. KImber Wiggs 9 April 2017 ENC 1101 Project 3 Homelessness For many years the world suffered a lot from conflicts and poverty in the past and current, and for sure in the future. Homelessness is really a major issue for many countries across the world and it does not looks good for the number of homeless people. In addition, many homeless families has left their home countries and become refugees across the world and affected many countries in Europe, Asia, and Africa. Homelessness has influenced many people of their way of living, it become harder while the prices of living are becoming higher every year. Nonetheless, homelessness problem is something impossible to be solved, an issue that will stay forever in this earth. For many different people, they still argue that homelessness problem happens because what those people chose this way of living. No human wants to live on the streets and be homeless so how they reached to this level? For many people, they have any other options to fix their lives. There are many homeless families that they raise their kids on the streets. Those children chose to live without home, what this World give them the hand to help them. We need to understand that not every homeless has put himself there in the streets because of what he did before, it could be his only home that he lived all his life. The only thing that we can do is trying to decrease the rates of homeless people especially the families. If we stand doing nothing, it will not just affect their live today, it will affect us tomorrow. Student 2 For long years, associations tried to help as they could to reduce the number of homeless across the world. Before we try to help people, we need to understand what homelessness means? There are types of homeless we can define from. The homeless in the United States may not match the same definition of homeless in Africa or Asia. Homelessness is when individual have home or cell to live on and short of food. In the United States in 2011 there was almost to 46 million people who were considered as homeless, 15% of the county population. Many of women homeless has faced sexual or physical abuse that led them to be living in the streets and destroy their life. Homelessness has become a major issue in the United States and while the government really give a solution to decrease the number of homeless people, going to be more difficult to solve year by year, not look a bright future for the homeless in the US. What we need to do to fight homelessness is to know what are the causes for these people to lose everything they have instead of just blaming them. One of the major issue for homelessness is gambling. In these days, you not only gamble in the casino in the real life, there are now gambling websites that you can put real money and play. has exploded in popularity over the past 20 years, partly due to changes in legislation but also because of new said Sharman. For many people, they see that gambling is not the major reason for homelessness issue and those people who become homeless fault. Having said that, our job to help these people to leave gambling habit and find a new habit that they be busy with. There are large numbers of homeless people in US that become homeless because of gambling. The solution and it could be hard is step by step reduce the number of casinos to make sure that it will be hard to 1999 National Gambling Impact Study Commission, the definitive Student 3 study on gambling in America, found that with gambling problems seem to constitute a higher percentage of the homeless population. The commission said the Atlantic City Rescue Mission reported that 22 percent of its clients are homeless due to a gambling One of the thoughts that we can help homeless people is to give them a good health care to prevent them from dangerous diseases from living in the streets. Many argues that it will cost the country lots and lots of money to help poor people. Homelessness issue be solved if they those people kept living sick. What I suggest that we can help a certain number of homeless people and give them the chance to stand on their feet and offer them a job so they can pay back for whom helped likewise encounter poor access to social insurance, prompting postponed clinical introduction, expanded dependence on crisis offices, and higher rates of hospitalization, regularly for preventable conditions. However, the degree to which destitute grown-ups can get human services over the range of wellbeing needs simply portrayed is to a great extent obscure. Existing information is construct principally with respect to investigations of single urban communities or single sorts of neglected need, not very many national reviews have enough caught this hard-to-achieve Another issue that homeless people face is that they afford to live on room. a big problem since many of homeless hardly find money to eat and almost impossible to pay the rent every significant number of the best lodging based arrangements intended to address the vagrancy emergency, specifically, perpetual steady lodging for people living with handicaps and other exceptional needs were spearheaded in New York City and have been duplicated all through the nation. Various research thinks about have reliably affirmed that long Student 4 haul lodging help not just effectively diminishes vagrancy, it is additionally more affordable than sanctuary and other institutional Eventually, the world should stop being careless about homelessness issue. If we offer them help to give them better way of living, it will ending not just a problem for them, but it will reach to us. Numbers of homeless are increasing everyday and we need to give those people another chance so they can be active in their society. Student 5 WORK CITED Evans, Joshua, Damian Collins, and Jalene Anderson. Bedspace and the Case for Housing First in Social Science & Medicine 168. (2016): Web. 20 Feb. 2017. Greenberg, Greg A., and Robert A. Rosenheck. Incarceration, Homelessness, and Mental Health: A National Psychiatric Services 59.2 (2008): Web. He, Yinghua, Brendan and Robert A. Rosenheck. Shared Housing a Way to Reduce Homelessness? The Effect of Household Arrangements on Formerly Homeless of Housing 19.1 (2010): Web. 22 Jan. 2017. Sharman, Stephen. A new study reveals the scale of problem gambling among the homeless population. University of Cambridge, 2 Apr. 2014. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Tipple, Graham, and Suzanne Speak. of Homelessness in Developing Habitat International 29.2 (2005): Web. 21 Jan. 2017. Watson, J., J. Crawley, and D. Kane. Exclusion, Health and Hidden Public Health 139. (2016): Web. 22 Jan. 2017.