Anderson 1 Taliyah Anderson Hannah Lay ENC 1102 Project 3 Written Argument The Homeless in Tampa From the beautiful campus of University of South Florida that we call home, you would not suspect it. The University of South Florida is one of the most beautiful campuses in Florida yet we are hiding something that must be addressed. Outside our 1,700 acres, the community is stricken with poverty and is suffering to Tampa Bay area is not only the home of the Bulls, but is also home to the highest rate of homelessness. According to the National Alliance to End Homelessness, they reported that there is homeless for every 10,000 Because of campus is nuzzled into the community, we hold some responsibility for keeping Tampa beautiful and helping the citizens of the city that we made home in 1956. Because our university is in the Tampa area, it should matter to all of us that the community is a place where future bulls would love to call home and where Tampa natives notice a huge community outreach. Uninvolved University of South Florida students should care about the large homeless population because they are apart of the same community and there are multiple ways on and off campus to help. Many people type-cast the homeless into one category of people and separate themselves completely. Some common beliefs are that the homeless put themselves in that predicament Anderson 2 through bad drug habits or that they are unemployed and have been for a long period of time. There are many myths that people hold against them that keep them prejudice towards an entire population of people in need. Their needs can be ranging from at-risk to extreme. An article entitled Myths About Homeless People helps the general public understand that while these things may be true, they are only true to few and should not be generalized to an entire population in need (Brenoff). The article, found in the Huffington Post, delves the various stereotypes facing the homeless and what truth lies behind them.One myth is that all homelessness is linked to either mental illness and substance abuse. Most people will not even give a homeless person money in the fear their contribution will go straight to drugs and not to their well-being. Yet more people are homeless doing so because of economic and not substance abuse (Brenoff). The fact of the matter is the homeless population has a multitude of reasons for the position they are in. Homelessness does not discriminate between race, gender, or nationality. It knows no bounds. As college students, we have an amount of privilege we take for granted every day. We do not realize that without the support of our parents or the opportunities we had, we would not be able to attend USF. We do not realize how bad our lives really could be. We do not realize how easy it is to become homeless. The article How I Became Homeless: You Think It Happen to You, Think follows the story of one man who had an unorthodox introduction to homelessness. He was like any of us, someone who thought that being homeless would never happen to him. Steve Grant from being an art teacher to living on the (Henley). No, he did not use drugs or gamble his savings away. All it took was for him to lose Anderson 3 his job and from then on it was a slippery slope. He went from teaching A-level and GCSE art, at a private sixth-form college in to being forced to live with his family to sleeping in a phone box (Henley). We are sheltered as University of South Florida students into being blinded by our privilege to the point where we ignore other oppression. But in a community such as Tampa, we cannot escape the reality we face. Tampa is in need and we are much more than capable of helping All around Tampa, there are numerous ways for University of South Florida students to get involved. Most organizations on-campus have a community service aspect to them and many of them actually make their events mandatory for members. They focus on servicing the community because they recognize that they can use their large body of members to help more people than themselves. This includes but is not limited to greek organizations, leadership committees, and student unions. Getting into these organizations are easy, as all you have to do with most student unions is sign up on BullSync. If you do not feel like student organizations are right for you for some reason, there are even charities across the bay area that are dedicated to solely helping the homeless with no ties to USF. Organization like Metropolitan Ministries and the Homeless Helping the Homeless are just two of numerous organizations that battle homelessness daily, free of charge to anyone needing aid. They always accept donations such as non-perishable foods, clothes, and even your time. The best way to help is to volunteer help some of your free time to help someone less fortunate. If these two options did not seem to fit you much, there are several other avenues available for someone who wants to help in the Tampa community, USF student or not. Anderson 4 The homeless did not become homeless because they wanted to. A series of unfortunate events led to their demise and caused them to be in the horrific state of living without a home. These people have names, have lives, and most importantly, have value. The University of South Florida is now a very recognizable part of what makes Tampa the city that is is and with that power, comes the responsibility to help others. With over 30,000 undergraduate students alone, the hours we all could put in to better the community would not go unnoticed. One student can start a chain reaction to where we help Tampa be eradicated of homelessness. Getting involved is a simple task that can start as small as donating the old clothes for spring cleaning, or even volunteering an hour a month. Tampa has the highest rates of homelessness in the nation. We can make a difference to make the city we call home, a much more beautiful place. Anderson 5 Works Cited Brenoff, Ann. 7 Myths About Homeless People  Huffington TheHuffingtonPost.com, 03 May 2014. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Henley, Jon. How I Became Homeless: You Think It Happen to You, Think  The Guardian News and Media, 25 June 2014. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Hirschkorn, Phil. Tampa Area Has Highest Homelessness  CBS Interactive, 26 Aug. 2012. Web. 15 Apr. 2017.