Ebert !1 McKenzie Ebert Adam Phillips ENC 1102 16 April 2017 The Meat Detrimental Impact Animal derived proteins are the most resource exhaustive and thus environmentally detrimental of all food types to manufacture. A report carried out by the UN Environmental Program characterized agriculture production as a leading issue when it comes to the environment (Tucker 168). In addition, they reported that these environmental issues expected to increase substantially due to population growth increasing consumption of animal products (Tucker This means that as the population continues to increase so will the demand for meat, in turn, creating more harmful effects on the environment. The livestock sector requires an array of natural resources: land, water, and energy. Once these resources are used they are discharged as waste water, harmful emissions, and solid waste. The conversation on the environmental impacts of meat production has recently been dominated by discussion on the role of agriculture in climate change. Livestock production creates a significant amount of greenhouse gas and nitrous oxide. While examining the issues of waste of natural resources, pollution, and climate change one is able to comprehend the seriousness of the topic. The livestock departments demand for natural resources for instance water, energy and land, is expanding and has a uncompromising environmental impact on air, water, and soil. These influences arise from diverse emissions into the environment as well as from the consumption of Ebert !2 natural resources linked with the production process. In order to produce meat at a sustainable level, there needs to be a lower demand for meat, thus, People need to start consuming less meat. The animal waste is a major concern. Intensive livestock farming is one of the most rapidly growing activities, and is followed by an expansion in manure production. The result is a rise in nutrient concentration and it contributes to environmental problems. Specifically, water quality is endangered. According to Crippen, agricultural use was named the most common pollution source for all water systems including ground water. Water is necessary for all stages of meat production. Almost one third of all the fresh water is dedicated to animal agricultural. In the United States, the statistics are even greater - 50 to 60 percent of available fresh water is utilized to produce feed for animals. Machines in the industry are designated to work in humid conditions and require wet cleaning. In turn, this impacts water consumption and discharge of waste water contaminated with the product, raw materials, and chemicals used for cleaning. There are two major types of solid waste in the meat production process - inedible products (bones, fat, heads, legs, skin, hair) and packaging materials mainly comprised of paper, plastic, and metal. In addition, waste water is a product from numerous activities for instance; washing off livestock, carcasses, and offal; cleaning equipment, and truck washing. The waste water is filled with several pollutants including undigested stomach content, blood, fat, and manure. The pollution end there. The agricultural sector produces a majority of greenhouse gases from soil and livestock as well as methane from ruminants. Carbon dioxide arises from fossil fuel combustion that is used to power the machinery. According to the IPCC impact is currently at 10-12% of all global emissions (Garnett 24). This prediction Ebert !3 excludes emissions from fertilizer production, and fuel use. The estimate is calculated at 30% when the additional emissions are accounted for (Garnett 24). Since the demand for meat is on the rise with the growing population, livestock production has been destroying the last remaining large forests. Forests and meat are competing for the same land. According to the World Bank, animal agriculture is accountable for nearly 91% of rainforest destruction (McDermott 53). This decimation increases carbon emissions and decreases the capability of the rainforest to store carbon dioxide (McDermott 53). Society is literally gambling with the future of the environment and planet for meat. As ruminant animals are the key source of greenhouse gas emissions in meat production, a reduction in the overall number of ruminant animals farmed for meat would exceptionally increase the environmental satiability. The USDA provides data that displays in 2015 9.2 billion animals were executed in the United States alone (McDerrmott 52). That equates to 28 animals killed for every United States resident (McDerrmott 52). Currently, consumers are expected to be knowledgeable of their responsibility for environmental sustainability. A couple studies have examined the consumer willingness to eat less meat. The results concluded the problem is that most consumers are not aware of the depth of the detrimental environmental impacts of a meat filled diet. In fact, according to Tucker, red meat in particular tends to be associated with masculinity in Western cultures. Due to this, men usually are less willing to reduce their meat consumption (Tucker 170). An additional reason why some are in opposition to reduce their meat is they believe humans are biologically meant to eat meat as omnivores, and that not eating meat could lead to ill health (Tucker 170). The first step is to educate people on why there is a need for the reduction. Appropriate knowledge is vital for environmentally conscious action. Austgulen Ebert !4 claims that a global transition towards a lower meat diet could reduce the cost of climate change by as much as 50 percent (Austgulen 48). It would be unrealistic to expect everyone to entirely replace meat with a plant based diet. By simply eliminating beef from diet, the environmental impact is greater than converting to a vegetarian diet. The impact of beef is so immense that giving up beef could potentially be more beneficial for the planet that giving up car (McDermott 53). By giving up meat once a week or even just lessoning the amount one has at a meal they can significantly help the environment. As for alternatives, there are currently many options (Bonny). There is tofu, tempeh, seitan, mushrooms, jackfruit, eggplant, lentils, beans, legumes, cauliflower, potatoes, beets, nuts all of which can be used to replace meat in dishes. The selection end there, grocery stores now carry meatless burger patties and other meatless twists on classic foods. In order to preserve the environment, the world must stop consuming meat at the rate they do. The meat industry is one of the leading polluters in the food industry. It effects the worlds water usage, land usage, and climate change. With the growing population, the problem will only continue to expand. By cutting out meat , particularly beef, from diet a few times a week they could significantly impact the environment in a positive way. Individuals could substitute some of the meat they consume with plant-based products, for instance tofu or meatless burgers. It would be unrealistic to expect everyone to go vegan or to stop the meat industry completely. But at the rate the issue of the meat industry and the environment is expanding, something needs to be done, before it is too late. Ebert !5 Works Cited Austgulen, Marthe Harvik. Environmentally Sustainable Meat Consumption: An Analysis Of The Norwegian Public  Journal Of Consumer Policy 1 (2014): 45. Academic OneFile. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Bekoff, Marc, PhD.  Green Vegans. N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Galusky, Wyatt, galusky@morrisville.edu. Technology As Responsibility: Failure, Food Animals, And Lab-Grown  Journal Of Agricultural & Environmental Ethics 27.6 (2014): 931-948. OmniFile Full Text Mega (H.W. Wilson). Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Hooper, Rowan. The Real Cost Of  New Scientist 225.3005 (2015): 1. Applied Science & Technology Source. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. MCDERMOTT, MAT. Assessing The Meat Impact On  Hinduism Today 39.1 (2017): 52-57. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Sarah P F Bonny, Graham E Gardner, David W Pethick, Jean-Franois Hocquette. What Is Artificial Meat And What Does It Mean For The Future Of The Meat  Journal Of Integrative Agriculture 2 (2015): AGRIS. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Tucker, Corrina A. The Significance Of Sensory Appeal For Reduced Meat  (2015): AGRIS. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Ebert !6