Riddley 1 Jacob Riddley Kimber Wiggs ENC 1101 April 9 February 2017 Bullying One of the biggest problems in elementary and middle school education revolves around bullying. A 2014 survey by StopBullying.gov revealed that about 49% of children in grades reported being bullied by other students at school at least once during the past month, whereas 30.8% reported bullying others during that time. The fact that nearly half of a survey sample reports being bullied is a serious problem. However, this thorn in the sides of education officials everywhere has now caught fire within the confines of the internet. Although bullying within school hours continues to affect the daily lives of students, the accessibility of electronics has allowed cyber bullying to increasingly torment students, and therefore we should consider greater anti-cyber bullying campaigns due to the fact that it is now more common than traditional bullying and has resulted in many young unhappiness. Cyber bullying is more damaging to the victim because in many cases, they cannot see whom their attacker is. For many victims, the attacker is hiding behind a screen using a fake identity or a simple username. In even more cases, the victim is subjected to ridicule by a group of bullies, rather than just one. In these situations, a student left to the will of bullies can be manipulated, coerced, and even humiliated in attempts to stop the bullying. Another negative factor within cyber bullying is the fact that victims cannot see who their attacker is, they are left feeling helpless and depressed. One of the biggest Riddley 2 contributors to the rise of cyber bullying was social media. Cyber bullying is more public in an online setting than traditional bullying. Because the Internet allows information to spread instantaneously, victims can face bullying from a very large population that consists of close peers and people they go to school with. Additionally, an inability for victims to be able to control the crowd size of people who witness the humiliation can cause even more emotional damage. Another reason why cyberbullying must be curbed is the sheer ruthlessness that anonymity grants bullies. Without the threat of personal culpability, bullies can take their torture to a level that would not be possible in school. A lack of authority figures on the internet, coupled with the zealousness that comes with adolescent jockeying, can lead to degrading attacks on appearance, performance, and social skills. This goes without mentioning convenience, as a poll conducted by BullyStatistics found that over half of adolescents and teens have been bullied online, and about the same number have engaged in cyber bullying. More than 33% of young people have experienced cyberbullying of some form, and more than 25% of adolescents and teens have been bullied continuously through a through their cell phones or the Internet. These statistics are simply shocking. Whats more incredible is the fact that such large amounts of students are being affected by this form of bullying, yet have no support system in the figure of authority. Behind a screen, everyone is a keyboard warrior but for bullies, it just allows them to be crueler in their attacks. A physical distance from the victim also allows for bullies to push further with their damage than they would if said interaction occurred in person. The inability to see the victims during the attack can additionally cause bullies to experience a lack of Riddley 3 empathy or compassion for a fellow student of a similar age. This can lead to severe attacks that leave lasting impressions on young minds. Because cyber bullying is a product of technological advances made within the last decade, many adult parents and even adults within the school system do not fully understand the implications and potential consequences of prolonged cyber bullying. Having only faced the traditional form, many parents find themselves in an awkward position because they do not know the best way to help their child cope due to a lack of experience. Teachers, shockingly, in particular have a difficult time reacting to perpetrators with adequate force, in addition to a similar helplessness when dealing with victims of said bullying. In order for this to cease, adults must be properly informed about cyber bullying and the threats it poses to young kids. Although cyber bullying is damaging, there is an argument to be made that traditional bullying deserves the priority of being dealt with before the cyber form. This is because traditional bullying tends to be more physical. Face to face altercations, especially in a school setting where kids are easily excited, can escalate to a physical confrontation quickly. Additionally, traditional bullying can occur at a younger age due to the fact that many children do not use social media until the later stages of their life. Bullying that takes place at a younger age also has the potential to leave scarring impacts on the impressionable mind of a student who might not be able to cope with bullying as well as an older child might. Cyber bullying, while relatively new and unfamiliar to some, is certainly one of the terms you will begin to hear regularly. Epidemic levels of bullying already occur on a personal level in school, and the addition of technology and social media only allows that Riddley 4 bullying to be taken in front of a larger audience. Coupled with the increased aggressiveness and cruelty of online bullying, it would be rational to suggest that the United States Department of Education take a long, serious look into how we can protect the youth of future. Riddley 5 Bibliography Jaana Juvonen. the School Grounds?- Bullying Experiences in Journal of School Health 78.9 (2008): 496-505. Print. Kowalski, Robin. Physical, and Academic Correlates of Cyberbullying and Traditional Bullying. of Adolescent Health. Elsevier, July 2013. Web. 8 Mar. 2017. Riittakerttu Kaltiala-Heino. at school- an indicator of adolescnets at risk for mental Journal of Adolescence 23.6 (2000): 661-674. Print. Sian Emily Jones, Antony S.R. Manstead, Andrew G. Livingstone. and Belonging: Reports of School Frontline Learning Research 2.1 (2014): 67- 77. Print.