Student 1 Student Kimber Wiggs ENC 1101 16 April 2017 the Big Deal Anyways Working in the education department has never been easy. Teaching has constantly been evolving for the last few hundred years to stay up to date with new found teaching methods and technology. In the last 30 years, there have been more changes to teaching then there has ever been. There have been newer forms and methods to teaching. Nowadays there are advanced classes, intermediate classes, regular classes, slower classes, and special needs classes. There have been many issues recently with special needs education because special needs education is a newer form of education. Many special needs teachers have a hard time teaching their material not due to their students having special needs, but because they have too many students, the lack of time preparation, and outside pressure. I believe that special needs teachers should have more resources available to them even though many general education teachers believe that their course load is similar to that of a special needs teacher. The population of students in special education classes has fluctuated throughout the years. The reason for this is the definition of disability has changed now, there are more disabilities being discovered and there are more extensive forms of each disability. This change then means that there is an increase in the amount of students in ESE classes. The more special needs students there are, the more special education teachers are needed. This is because of the student to teacher ratio, which can often sway because of the available qualified teachers and the amount of students. In the 2005-2006 school year the student to teacher ratio hit its highest Student 2 which was 70 teachers to every 1,000 students. Since then it has hit a steady decline that has not risen since. Because of the lack of teachers available, the ones that are available feel tremendous pressure to do well in their classrooms. The pressure continues to increase as the budget continues to decrease. In a 2011 article written by Scull and Winkler, they focus on the spending expenditure of special-education and what goes in to the salaries of teachers, this accounts for 85 percent of the spending budget. The other 15 percent then gets divided by all the teachers. Therefore, each teacher gets a small percentage of the money that can then be spent on various essentials like supplies that include textbooks and other necessary learning aids to help the students. As well as classroom decorations and other miscellaneous items that go into a classroom. Many teachers then are under prepared because of the lack of supplies in their classroom due to the lack of money given each school year. The teachers then must decide whether to spend their own money to make their classroom prepared enough, or they decide not to spend the money and be unprepared to teach the required teachings This cycle then continues every year, because there are continuous budget cuts. There is a lack of preparation in the classroom due to many issues that teachers have when it comes to funding and the time commitment that teaching special education requires. If the teachers cannot pay for all the supplies needed for their class, then not all work can be done. Also with special needs education, a lot of the students cannot provide the basic supplies like paper and pencils, therefore teachers must use their money that they are allotted and take in account for that. This then means that many teachers take their earned money and put it back into the class in some way. Special needs teachers also should use their planning time and often lunch time to do extra work such as an Individual Education Program(IEP), which is a document that is developed for public school children that sets the goals for that student and addresses any Student 3 concerns the student or teacher may have. McLeskey and Flippin said in their 2004 journal that when teachers have such a heavy course load, many attempt to leave special education and move in to general education, leaving special. The course load is not the only pressure that teachers have. There is added pressure from other sources. Ingersoll brought the attention up that these other sources can be internal. Such as from other teachers, like general education teachers, the school, and the school board. With constant pressure teachers have a hard time making changes to the course. These changes are sometimes necessary but because of the pacing guide that the school board gives out, teachers must stay on top of it even if their students are failing. If students are failing then teachers get looked at more closely by the school, this leads to different classroom observations. These observations then cause the stress level to grow which can cause the teacher to alter the way they teach to seem like a more productive teacher. This is not a new thing in special education, which is why the majority of teachers that have worked in special education move to general education. Although special needs teachers face adversity, they are still teachers. Many general education teachers would argue that although they may have students that could be seen as more difficult to teach, that is their job. Also, all teachers feel pressure to succeed, part of their job requirements. General education teachers also find it hard to relate to those of special education teachers because they feel as though they have similar interests and complaints (Buell). There are many reasons as to why special education or exceptional student education made much improvement. These reasons include the fact that special education is constantly getting extreme budget cuts, and what is available enough, and that there is constant pressure on teachers whenever there are unanticipated circumstances. These problems need to be fixed in order to give students the education they rightfully deserve. Student 4 Works Cited Wright, Pete. The History of Special Education Law -  The History of Special Education Law - Wrightslaw. N.p., 29 Nov. 2010. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. Scull, Janie, and Amber M. Winkler. Shifting Trends in Special  Shifting Trends in Special Education May.2011 (2011): n. pag. Web. McLeskey J, Tyler NC, Saunders Flippin S. The supply of and demand for special education teachers. The Journal of Special Education. 2004;38(1):5-21. Ingersoll, Richard M. Who Controls Work? Power and Accountability in Schools. Cambridge, MA: Harvard UP, 2006. Print. Buell MJ, Hallam R, Gamel-Mccormick M, Scheer S. A survey of general and special education perceptions and inservice needs concerning inclusion. International Journal of Disability, Development and Education. 1999.