Peng 1 Peng Jiang ENC1102 April 16, 2017 E-Sports According to New reports, it indicated: total prize money of all e- sports events held in 2015 reached $61.0 million, a 70% year-on-year increase. The global E-sports audience was 226 million gamers, and the number of E-sports Enthusiasts reached 115 million in 2015.Global revenues in 2015 reached $325 million But what makes eSports so attractive? Any players can play it and become professional players by hardworking. It looks like same as kinds of sports, but it In most game, the audience just sees the pro player compete on the screen, and they probably have a professional instructor or organization. However, these pro players usually have significant physical advantages. For example, A typical NBA center stands in the 7-foot range. Guards who are the smallest players on the court usually are above 6 feet tall. The basketball hoop is 10 feet high. If the player is taller than other, they will enjoy more advantages in the game. In E-Sports, a young player needs to practice and play hard. At least, they could have an opportunity to engage a big game and compete on a platform. It is clearly to say that the e-sport has a lower requirement of the player compare to the basketball, football. The audience is easy to engage the e- sports through watching Twitch, is a live streaming video platform, and then practice skills and be used in the video game. When people are going to talk about video games and the gamers, they easy to get rid of a stereotype that gamer was isolated in society. Because the game player will spend less time in other such as interacting with their family Peng 2 and friends. However, Granic indicated that the most of gamer is not a socially isolated. In paper, Granic provides a comparison between World of Warcraft and Facebook. In the comparison, she indicated that WOW has almost 12 million regular players. And Facebook had over 5 million daily users in 2012. So, this condition gives a massive social context to the player. Granic proposes: are rapidly learning social skills and prosocial behavior that might generalize to their peer and family relations outside the gaming Also, Online gaming has gained almost millions of users around the globe. In the paper, How playing online computer games creates online and offline social support, Professor Trepte, Reinecke and, Juechems analyze whether online social capital will increase offline social support. They proposed: online game physical and social proximity as well as their mutual familiarity influence bridging and bonding social The results indicated that online gaming might lead to strong social ties if gamers engage in online activities that continue beyond the game and extend these with offline activities. In fact, the game player lack the society supports, and the Online game may expand their circles of society. Except for society support, the e-sports also is benefits to education. Rai and Yan point out that Massively-Multiplayer Online Games (MMOGs) provides a uniquely engaging environment for players. In a study of 30,000 players, researchers found that 70% had spent at least ten continuous hours in a virtual world at one sitting. Also, Rai and Yan indicated: Many scientists has observed that players intensely involved with video games and then display characteristics of the psychological state, which called flow  It is characterized by user confidence, exploratory behaviors, enjoyment, distorted time perception, and greater learning. And MMOs are uniquely likely to evoke these effects among players. So, the video game will not cause Peng 3 some negative consequences on the player. By contrast, playing the video game with a reasonable guide could help player to improve their confidence and greater learning. According to a website, e-Sports Earnings, records that Saahil Arora who is Dota 2 pro player earned $2,727,796.47 from 61 tournaments. He is top one in highest overall earnings. It did attract some game player to consider gaming as a job. When we talk about the e-Sports, South Korea be ignored. South Korea is a thriving example of e-sports industry around the world. Marquet provides the analysis and statistic for the game market in South Korea. She indicated: game market estimated to be around 8,80 trillion won in 2011 (around 6,2 billion euros), the sales of online games are expected to be around 6,23 trillion won (around 4,4 billion Marquet also points out that the first of online games, called the World Cyber Games, were held in Korea in 2000. The first World Cyber Games involved 174 competitors from 17 different countries. All of the statistics prove the e-sports is growing to be a successful industry. And then lots of professional gamers consider gaming as a career, from 2000 to 2008, the number of registered pro players increased by 16.3% per year. Marquet stated that some foreigners even moved to Korea in order to play for the Korean pro teams. In conclusion, the public should get rid of the stereotype of e-Sports and try to think about it carefully, and this industry has the higher earning, million players and audiences, and lower requirements. As audience or player, if you think you are good at it, why not do it yourself? Peng 4 Work cited Granic, Lobel, Engels. The Benefits of Playing Video Games. American Psychologist. January,2014. Rai, Yan. Future Perspectives on Next Generation e-Sports Infrastructure and Exploring Their Benefits. International Journal of Sports Science and Engineering. February 10, 2009. Trepte, Reinecke, Juechems. The social side of gaming: How playing online computer games creates online and offline social support. University of Hamburg, Department of Psychology, Institute of Social Psychology, Von-Melle-Park 5, 20146 Hamburg, Germany. Jennifer Rousse-Marquet. Online gaming: An integral part of the South-Korean culture. Inaglobal. 20/06/2013. e-Sports Earnings, 100, Highest Overall Web. 4/16/2017.