Kaim 1 Emily Kaim ENC 1101 Kimber Wiggs April 16, 2017 Limitation of Foster Care Foster Care is a worldwide system that takes in children who are in need of a home. Whether it be due to parental disabilities, drug use, or even parental death the foster care system takes that child in and gives them a place to stay. However, the foster care system needs to be limited, to many children are being taken from their homes and placed into this system without a good enough reason. Foster cares sounds like a good idea from the outside, a safe place for kids in need to go. But, when you look deeper into what it actually entails not as great as it sounds, children get ripped away from their parents and moved from home to home. This environment is not stable enough for a child leading to negative emotional effects in the long run. Some of these emotional impacts include fear of attachment, anxiety and emotional stress. To begin, Foster care leaves the negative emotional impact of fear of attachment. By tearing these kids away from their biological parents and families they learn from a young age not to become emotionally involved with other people because they fear those people will be torn from their life as quickly as they came. This leaves a huge imprint on these children and will follow them throughout their lives They will be afraid to do things such as make good friends or even to let in spouses two of the main people you rely on for support. This then leaves the children feeling alone and isolated for what could be their entire lives. So you now see this one small action has now lead to a chain reaction over these children for a lifetime. Next, Foster Care leads to anxiety. The foster children may feel anxiety for a variety of reasons, one of the main reasons they develop this anxiety is because they have no control over their transition from one life to the next. Most foster care children are not there by choice, the government or child protective services have deemed their original living situation unsuitable and uprooted them from their family and friends. They never have a say in what is happening to them or their lives. My last point is that Foster Care leads to emotional stress on the children involved. Imagine being torn away from your family, pulled out of your school and away from your friends. Being thrown into a home with two perfectly good but perfectly random strangers, no familiar faces to be found. This is the life of a foster child; they are just expected to adjust their entire life in a matter of hours. Children already have a roller coaster of emotions between hormones and trying to find their place in the world. This the only reason for their emotional stress they also have the stress of not knowing. Not knowing if they will ever be able to see their parents again. Not knowing if they will ever see their friends again. Not knowing if they will stay in foster care forever, be adopted, or be returned to their original home. There are so many questions that are unanswered for a foster child and they have to find a way to cope. Kaim 2 On the contrary, people feel that foster care is a good program that helps children with no place to go. They feel that foster care is the best place for a child whose parent take care of them properly. Most people who support foster care believe that as long as these kids have food water and shelter they will be fine. While these are the basic needs of life, a child needs much more than this to thrive in life. They need stability and family, a support system and a sense of home. To conclude, Foster Care seems like butterflies and rainbows on the outside, a safe and secure place for children with unfit homes to stay. But, once you dig deeper into the real effects of foster care you see there is a multitude of negative effects on these children such as fear of attachment, anxiety and emotional stress. Kaim 1 Work Cited: Soloman, David, impact of foster parent training on child disruptive Sage publications Inc., December 1 2016, Vol.22 issue 1, page 3-13, article. Miller, Sarah, Attachment in the Face of Systemic Disruption: Clinical Treatment with Children in Foster Care and the Adoption and Safe Families Smith College studies in social work, March 2011, page 26-80, article. Lightfoot, Elizabeth, experiences and outcomes of children in foster care who were removed because of a parental In children and services review, March 2016, article. Barber, James, profile and progress of neglected and abused children in long-term foster in child abuse and neglect, 2009, article. Simmel, Cassandra, and Protective Factors Contributing to the Longitudinal Psychosocial Well-Being of Adopted Foster Journal of emotional and behavioral disorders, July 2007, article. Dance, Charilyn, The Adoption of Children from Public Care: A Prospective Study of Outcome in Journal of American Academy of child and adolescent psychiatry, October 2001, article.