Antonio Thompson Robert Ryan ENC 1102.001 19 April 2017 Hydraulic Fracturing: Making a Difference Domestic policy is like a game of chess. Playing an opponent and working towards the endgame of winning is all that the players need in order to succeed. Whether be a beginner or expert, there are flaws in game. That also means that there is the problem of losing the game, or one losing interest. The oil industry, in terms of domestic policy, is something that not a lot of people know about. Furthermore, the oil industry is facing a problem with one of its main contributors to its success and their constituents. The process known as hydraulic fracturing has not only cost this industry a vast amount of money, but also has left a lot of their constituents in the dark about what is going on and where their tax dollars are going. Hydraulic fracturing is a process in which extraction of oil from land and underwater shale formations causes for environmental detriment that also harms the people. This issue needs to be paid attention to because of the unsafe and hazardous methods that cause for environmental tragedies. Hydraulic fracturing, according to assistant editor of Lallanilla, is drilling technique used for extracting oil or natural gas from deep It is used in nine out of ten wells in the United States and is very critical in providing alternative oil to the United States, as well as other countries. This process has been in effect in the United States since the 1940s and has been a huge contributor to the oil industry. Hydraulic fracturing, also known as fracking, starts with drilling a well vertically, whether it be on land or in the sea. According to the US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), fracking process starts with a well that is drilled vertically or at an angle from the surface to a depth of 1 to 2 miles (1.6 to 3.2 kilometers) or more... then encased in steel and/or cement to ensure the well run the risk of leaking into any However, as the process has become more advanced and more technological, more catastrophes and technicalities began to show up and cause tragedy and havoc. For example, the 2010 BP Oil Spill that happened in the Gulf of Mexico caused for billions of dollars in repairs, clean up, and re-infrastructure. It also caused for fatal casualties, as there were as many as 13 people killed due to the explosion. This disaster was caused by human error, chemical catastrophe, and mechanical malfunctions. This process is very helpful, however there are occurrences and situations that have happened that need to be prevented, and there are those who do not know what is going on, or how to take action. Although the process provides positive assets to the industry, it causes for detriments environmentally and there is very little that is being done for any change. This is due to the fact that people, mainly in the underprivileged and the working class, do not have the access or capabilities to research and provide help to this cause to prevent environmental detriments. According to Chelsea Harvey, a journalist for the Washington Post and a specialist in environmental health, states, water can be affected at any stage of the fracking process...from acquiring the water that will be used to injecting it into production wells and disposing of the wastewater This environmental detriment is harmful for the United States, as drinking water is a necessity and is slowing becoming hard to acquire. activities impact drinking water resources under some leading to the question, what can be done in order to help? The hydraulic fracturing process can lead one to suspect that oil is easily obtainable in the United States and all over the world. However, what they realize is that it comes at a cost. A huge cost that can hurt individuals who are not educated on the situation at hand. Kirshenbaum, director of Energy at The University of Texas at Austin, took a poll and was shocked to find out that, percent of respondents reported they had heard or were with hydraulic fracturing. Just 32 percent called themselves leaving 5 percent who answered more ambiguously, This means that this controversial topic is left unknown to most Americans. This may be due to the fact that the working class which is 66.1% of the country, according to Valerie Wilson of the Economic Policy Institute, is living paycheck to paycheck and is unable to receive the resources/technology needed in order to educate themselves about this topic. This topic includes the use of chemical mixtures, unauthorized use of certain chemicals, and environmental harm to land and sea ecosystems and environments. This only change the aspect of living for other creatures, but for society also. Those in the working class have no idea where their tax dollars are going and what to do in order to help the cause. To conclude, hydraulic fracturing involves its good and the bad. The environment is needed to retrieve the oil that is trapped underneath it, but the way it is being done is detrimental to the ecosystem, the environment, and society as a whole. Drinking water and environmental property is harmed and contaminated due to the chemical mixture and hazardous method that this process carries out in order to retrieve a basic necessity that we use in everyday life. Without the proper and general education of this topic, a lot of people, mainly the working class and underprivileged, are left in the dark and have absolutely no idea what is going on and where their tax dollars are going. In order for them to help, they need access to resources and education so that they can find help. To help or to educate, seminars and technological opportunities need to be presented to these people so that they can provide help to stop the harm that goes on. By doing so, the working class and the underprivileged can find a way to prevent the drinking water and the environment to be harmed, and for the process to hit a stride without causing any catastrophe or detriment. All in all, both parties win. Checkmate! Works Cited Harvey, Chelsea. EPA changes its stand on fracking, says it can harm drinking water in  Washington WP Company, 13 Dec. 2016. Web. 19 Apr. 2017. Lallanilla, Marc. Facts About  Purch, 23 Jan. 2015. Web. 19 Apr. 2017. Romm, Joe. What The Frack? Most Americans Know What Hydraulic Fracturing  ThinkProgress, 21 June 2012. Web. 19 Apr. 2017. People of color will be a majority of the American working class in 2032: What this means for the effort to grow wages and reduce  Policy N.p., n.d. Web. 19 Apr. 2017. Hydraulic Fracturing for Oil and Gas: Impacts from the Hydraulic Fracturing Water Cycle on Drinking Water Resources in the United States (Final  Environmental Protection Agency, 13 Dec. 2016. Web. 19 Apr. 2017.