Osorio 1 Nicolas Osorio Dorinda Davis Composition II April 16, 2017 Head in the Game: Should College Athletes Be Paid Like Professional Athletes? Professional student athletes? think, on They pay for your room and board, they pay for your education, but to their knowledge, there to play This is a quote by former student athlete Richard Sherman. His past situation is the reality for many current student athletes. Throughout the past decade, the rigorous training conditions student athletes have experienced, managed to complicate the necessary time management college athletes need to succeed in both Athletics and Academics. Annually, athletic departments of numerous academic institutions within the U.S gather together to participate in several tournaments the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) offers. Student-athletes enlist to these competitions in order to earn the chance to become a professional athlete. Even though, these different competitions produce an elevated figure of money off of advertising student-athletes, the competitors do not gain any profit. Several organizations can make a difference by becoming involved. by Michelle Obama is a campaign whose purpose is to childhood obesity within a generation, so that children born today will grow up healthier and able to pursue their (Learn The Facts). Although student athletes gain many benefits through their athletic connection to their university, the advantages are still outweighed by the fact that they Osorio 2 receive no monetary benefit for their hard work. The NCAA gains a significant profit from these athletes yet refuses to fund them. Organizations like can provide support through the promotion of these student athletes by having college athletes be part of the movement and having the campaign inform people of their major role in society. Every year, several events profit the NCAA from advertising the different athletic programs academic institutions offer. One of the largest events is March Madness, which stands for the period of time in March where the NCAA college basketball tournament begins to finalize. Recently, the NCAA made 14.2 Billion dollars of a contract where CBS sports acquired all the rights to telecast March Madness for 14 years. Furthermore, the different competitions held by the NCAA provide athletic departments with subsidy of 8.8 million (Hoffer). These are just two of the examples that display the mentioned corruption in the system. Student-athletes spend 20 hours of practice a week with one day off. College hard work is displayed by providing their best performance in the games that are telecasted. While the NCAA gains full profit, the main characters of the event do not earn anything. Another factor that affects the collegiate athletes is the amount of money they receive from a scholarship. average athletic scholarship is about which represents around three fourths of what an average annual tuition is Student-athletes must complete 20 percent of their major every year and with practice time there is no space for a part time job. These statistics display the need of a different kind of aid that could be provided from the NCAA. Even though student-athletes receive an annual scholarship to become part of the athletic community, they are required to meet certain academic standards, standards that most student-athletes do not meet due to the amount of time that is consumed by practice. These Osorio 3 conditions are inconsiderately set due to the corruption of the NCAA on the student athletes. Eventually, student-athletes meet failure and loose both the scholarship and the spot in the athletic program. Also, Hoffers states that the market for student-athletes has strict compensation restrictions, the market for coaches is relatively (Hoffer). Around 39 states within the nation the highest paid employee is an athletic coach. College athletes receive no benefit in any aspect due to the NCAA legislation where it states that no student-athlete will receive any monetary profit from any source, while coaches receive most of the benefit that should be properly split for every member. Several factors prove the fact that student athletes are in need and deserve more. by Michelle Obama was created in order to decrease the rate of Obesity in the United States by helping raise a healthier generation of kids. This campaign provides the necessary resources to inform and help society take action over Obesity. An example is the plan that is displayed on their website. This plan consists on informing the audience of the necessary amount of exercise that is needed in order to become a healthy individual. It also discusses the ways and places where one can be active. This program encourages families around the entire nation to become part of this community to get rid of the elevated numbers of Obesity in the United States. While student-athletes require a group that informs society of their college hardships, the campaign demands the spread of the call to be active and make a change. represents a movement of athleticism and faith values student-athletes contain in their daily life. Academic Institution around the United States can engage student athletes to advertise the mission statement through describing a day in the life of a student athlete. This Osorio 4 will engage numerous kids to believe in a life where exercising can benefit your future. On the other hand, the campaign influences the necessary sources in order to inform society with the reality of the corruption in the system on athletic departments. Michelle Obama and the Student-Athletes can become part of a movement that will set the expected standards for both society and the NCAA. In order for this movement to be executed, the community of student-athletes will have to agree to the needed conditions the campaign will set. After, the student-athletes will advertise the purpose of this movement by commenting in Social Media and representing it in their daily life. Nonetheless, Michelle Obama will advertise and inform society and the NCAA of the need of revision in the legislation by providing the several facts that are found in the annual income of the NCAA that is profited off of student-athletes. This will set common ground for both stakeholders, who both are seeking for a change. The term student-athlete, stands for an individual who prioritizes his scholar conditions followed by his condition as an athlete. The NCAA provides student-athletes with several benefits throughout their college experience, nonetheless, these benefits disguise college athletes in order to cover the fact that they are being exploited. Student-athletes should earn an annual salary that compensates the hard work and the time that is invested in the program. Michelle Obama and her campaign provide student-athletes with the necessary tools that they need in order to inform society of their ongoing issue. It is necessary that the NCAA and the student athletes come to a compromise where both sides are benefitted. Osorio 5 Work Cited Hoffer, Adam and Jared A. Pincin. The Effects of Revenue Changes on NCAA Athletic  Journal of Sport & Social Issues, vol. 40, no. 1, Feb. 2016, pp. 82-102. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=sph &AN=112017404&site=eds-live.  Blog post. National Archives and Records Administration. National Archives and Records Administration, n.d. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. Lynn. 7 Things You Need to Know About Sports  U.S. News & World Report. U.S. News & World Report, 22 June 2010. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. Volk, Pete. Seahawks Slam  SBNation.com. SBNation.com, 30 Jan. 2015. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. Osorio 6