Student 1 Student Kimber Wiggs ENC 1101 16 April, 2017 Adoption Adoption is the process of being adopted or taken care of. There are many forms of adoption such as adopting a child, pet or a family. This main focus is going to be about adopting unfortunate children who need financial and emotional help and support. According to Robin Chernof, a pediatrician who chaired the committee of foster care, indicate that >90% of the children had an abnormality in at least one body Any parent who is capable financially of supporting and taking care of a child should consider adoption. Before adopting the child, parents should consider the background and age of the child. Adopting a child will not only benefit the child, but also the parents. It will create a stronger bond between both partners when they realize that they are affecting a life in a positive way. Adopting a child will help grow the relationship between both partners. In addition, adopting a child keeps the original parents of the child less stressed when they realize that their child is living with a healthy family. Although parents would prefer having their own child rather than adopting a child, parents start developing a strong relationship with the adopted child when they realize that they are changing his/her life, and therefore parents should adopt a child when they can afford to. Foster children or children living in an orphanage suffer from high emotion instability which will effect their future. If these children were placed in a loving and caring household, this will definitely help them emotionally. Also, when children live in a healthy household, this will effect the future as a society. The age of the adoptive child matters because children have a better Student 2 understanding about life as they grow older. According to Joanna Soares, indicated that the longer the institutionalization, the higher the emotional Soares has a degree in chemistry and Ph.D. in Pharmaceutical science. Also, Soares concluded that parents with longer schooling showed higher acknowledgment of differences, but also poorer quality of communication about This shows that willing to adopt do not have to be well educated. Education will help the adopted child in school, however it will not effect the emotions (Soares et. al. 53). Unfortunately, many wars are occurring in different parts of the world which is causing many refugees to enter the United States. Many of these refugees are children who are not fortunate enough to survive with their parents. After suffering from a war in their original country, they still suffer in the United States trying to understand the different styles of communication. Children refugees need a caregiver that can provide them with food, shelter, and safety. According to Ketil Eide, the words of Professor Ravi Kohli, a leading expert in the welfare of unaccompanied minors, they to experience safety, belonging and success in their life (Eide and Hjern 668) Ketil Eide has earned his Ph.D. in Social Policy, Quantitative Social Research, and Qualitative Social Research. In addition, research shows that race and ethnicity does not affect the relationship between the adoptive parents and the child. In the beginning, it would take the child a little bit of time to adjust to his new environment. After time, with a little bit of patience, the parents and the child would develop a strong connection. Most children refugees suffer from post traumatic stress disorder, which is the feeling of being traumatized after a bad experience. According to Samir Quota, prevalence and determinants of PTSD were assessed among 121 Palestinian children (6-16 years; 45% girls and 55% boys) living in the area of (Quota et al. 265) Samir Quota is a Middle Student 3 Eastern researcher who has 6 publications. Not only children from wars suffer from PTSD, but children who suffered from sexual assault and physical abuse suffer from this mental illness. Adopting these children and giving them hope for a better future will again effect us as a society in the future. As the article by Eide and Hjern mentions, all what these children need is shelter and hope for a better future. According to Kathy S. Stolley only 8% of all adoptions are the parents and children of different (34) Kathy S. Stolley is an applied sociologist managing an electronic meeting faculty. Adoption is sure a good decision to make when parents are not able to get a biological child. However, parent should take into consideration that this child needs emotional and financial help. They should keep in mind that this child has already suffered through his childhood so he needs to stay in a safe and healthy environment. Also, the needs differ from one child to another. According to Tony Xing Tan, adopted gender, age at placement, age, and special healthcare needs were more predictive of post-adoption parent-child relationship (Tony 117-125). Parents tend to want biological children rather than adoption. Most women want to know what does getting pregnant and giving birth feels like. Parents try their best and pay thousands of dollars just to bring a biological child rather than adopting a child. However, once a woman realizes that she is affecting a life, it would give her a better feeling than having a biological child. Also, if want to watch the child while he/she is growing up, they can always adopt a baby. In conclusion, parents should always consider adopting when they are unable of getting a biological child. Especially, if both parents were capable of supporting a child financially and emotionally. As for people who are incapable of adopting a child, then you should always try to support these children either financially or emotionally. Remember that these children are the Student 4 adults so they will be affecting the society as a whole. So, providing them with a better future and giving them hope will affect the society as whole. Work Cited: Chernoff, Robin, Terri Combs-Orme, Christine Risley-Curtiss, Alice Heisler. the Health Status of Children Entering Foster Pediatrics 93. (1994). Google Scholar. 16 April 2017. Soares, Joanna, Maria Barbosa-Ducharne, Jesus Palacios, and Ana Pacheco. regulation: The role of parental attitudes and communication about Psicothema 29. (2017) 49-54. USF Library. 16 April, 2017. Eide, Ketil and Anders Hjern. refugee children Vulnerabilty and Acta Pediatrica 102. (2013) 666-668. USF Library. 16 April, 2017 Qouta, Samir, Raija-Leena Punamaki, and Eyad El Sarraj. and determinants of PTSD among Palestinian children exposed to military Original Contribution 12. (2003) 265-272. Google Scholar. 16 April, 2017. Tan, Tony Xing, Deborah Major, Travis Marn, Eukyung Na, Andrea L. Jackson. country of origin and post parent child relationship quality: Findings from the United States National Survey of Adoptive Parents Children and Youth Services Review. January 2015. 48: 117-125. ScienceDirect. Web. 9 April 2017. Stolley, Kathy S. on Adoption in the United Princeton 3. (1993) 26-42. Google Scholar. 16 April, 2017. Student 5