Melissa Anne Bernal Instructor Ryan ENC 1102-001 19 April 2017 Intermediate Draft Project 3 Growing up in a Hispanic culture, we placed importance on embracing all aspects of the culture. From the food, the mannerisms, the value on respect, the religion, and especially the music. Growing up in this bubble of Spanish culture almost impossible to believe that I could live my life without music; that includes hearing it, playing it myself, and most importantly dancing to it too. It occurred to me that Deaf and Hard of Hearing people must live a life of struggle and sadness without the joys of music in their life. Now I know that a myth. Deaf and Hard of Hearing people enjoy music and other activities just as much as we do. They do not see their of as a setback much less a disability, instead they look at their of as something that makes them unique and special. It gives them a sense of belonging. In the brought this new way of communication from France. He adapted it to what is now known as, American Sign Language. Apart from their different ways of seeing the world, Deaf people usually communicate through this beautiful language. The only downfall is that not everyone is fluent in ASL. The Deaf community is only growing daily, continuing to expect them to adapt to mainstream society simply right anymore. Being a part of the Deaf community does not mean that you are Deaf or Hard of Hearing. It means one way or another you are connected to it, through family or friends who are Deaf or if you find an interest in it. the great thing about the Deaf community, they welcome anyone who wants to learn about them or learn ASL. They want more people to see them as equals rather than less than. Deaf people have struggled for centuries to get their basic rights. Originally the only way Deaf people could be seen as equals were if they took speech therapy and became oral speakers through the memorization of vibrations in their bodies. With the advancements in technology, hearing aids and cochlear implants, have made great strides in the Deaf medical community. It is never a guarantee that they will regain their hearing, but it does allow them to retrain their brain to sounds and vibrations. Unfortunately, despite these advances Deaf people everyday struggle with many things those that can hear take for advantage. Common examples are asking for cash to be broken up, asking for directions, and needing movies with subtitles, and so on. It boils down to one statement. People who do not know ASL should learn it. The main reason is for the fact that it allows society to unite rather than be broken into small portions of individual culture.