Student 1 Student ENC1101 Section 713 Kimber Wiggs April 16, 2017 Healthcare as a Fundamental Human Right The last two presidencies of the United States of American have had the spotlight focused on universal healthcare that is offered to all its citizens. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (ACA) was introduced by President Barack Obama as the first law that guaranteed access to healthcare for those who previously were denied due to the existence of pre-existing conditions. There were those who were stuck in the income gap between Medicaid and the Marketplaces where people can buy private insurance where under the ACA were granted the access to affordable coverage. The introduction of the ACA finally brought the United States, one of the most influential industrialized country, into the group of countries that already offered universal healthcare such as Switzerland, Singapore, and China. The Affordable Care Act gave millions of Americans health insurance for the first time and though the price of coverage increased for certain groups of citizens, healthcare is a fundamental right of all human beings and should remain universal to all the citizens within the United States. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act was introduced in March of 2010 and was President Barack legacy; issuing the controversial bill allowed millions of Americans who were previously denied coverage for a multitude of reasons access to healthcare for themselves and their families. The ACA did this by increasing the amount of annual income allowed to qualify for Medicaid, the service that provides healthcare to the United poorest citizens. Increasing the maximum annual salary requirement of Medicaid closed the coverage gap between Medicaid and the Marketplaces, where those who made enough money, roughly 56 Student 2 thousand a year (Jost and Pollack 547) who are able privately buy insurance and customize it to fit their needs and lifestyles. Jost and Pollack exhibit how the Affordable Care Act raised the maximum salary for Medicaid qualification and gave millions coverage for the first time because it lowered the cost for those who did not have the income to supplement the high cost of health insurance by shifting the financial responsibility to another class of the population (Jost and Pollack 547). In the Marketplaces before the Affordable Care Act was introduced the high-risk groups, or those with pre-existing conditions or with expensive, reoccurring medical costs, were paying significantly more in premiums for health insurance than those of healthy individuals. The ACA was introduced to balance these costs by distributing the inequality among a wider group of people. However, in doing so the redistribution raised the price primarily for middle class Americans, as they make more than the federal poverty line and tend to be healthy and have little reoccurring medical expenses. The Affordable Care Act raised their premiums to lower the premiums set for those with pre-existing conditions, disabilities, and who were just above the poverty but could still not afford privatized health insurance offered in the Marketplaces (Rosenbaum and Thorpe 534). This has been a major argument for all those who oppose the Affordable Care Act and its implementation as it puts a strain on the middle class, which makes up a large percentage of the population, while allowing half of the population to benefit from inexpensive healthcare for essentially nothing (Jost and Pollack 547). While redistributing the wealth from one location to another is not an answer, redistributing the cost evenly throughout the entire population would alleviate some of the excess pressure and strain that has been placed predominantly on the middle class. Foreign countries have had universal healthcare Student 3 for years, sometimes even decades, longer than the United States and have developed drastically different ways to implement universal healthcare within their borders. Though Switzerland is known for its famous neutrality during international affairs and its chocolate production, Switzerland also offers universal healthcare to all its citizens and maintains an average life expectancy of 82 years (Bessard 18). Pierre Bessard explains how Switzerland uses a third-party system to pay for its health insurance which has led to a rampant overuse and misuse of time, money, equipment, tests, and medical treatments due to the patient not paying for the treatment they received directly. In comparison, Singapore with a similar gross-domestic product (GDP) uses considerably less of its annual income to provide better quality healthcare and still has a comparable average health expectancy of 80 years to 82 years. This is done by having the patients be responsible for their own health and their health insurance (Bessard 19). Granting the citizens healthcare without the use of micromanagement or even non-management from the government puts the responsibility of the health and their expenses on the patient themselves. This keeps the expenses from spiraling out of control as the patient is still required to pay for part of their own health insurance, but the percentage they are required to cover is not so overwhelming that it consumes almost 50% of their average annual income like in the United States (Jost and Pollack 547). Singapore has managed to find a system that works within the country that offers healthcare to all its citizens but also manages to keep the costs affordable for both patients and the government. Health insurance is a practice that allows for healthy people to store away money for when they inevitably get sick and need help with the medical bills that accumulate due to that illness or hospitalization. Everyone will get sick and need to go to a hospital or doctor at some Student 4 point in their life; to deny that basic healthcare access to citizens of the United States of America due to a pre-existing condition that is beyond their control or by the salary of their job is not a policy written out of compassion but out of the intent for purely economic reasons. By introducing an addition to the Affordable Care Act, like that of individual responsibility, would lower healthcare costs for all parties involved, including the government. Healthcare is a fundamental and universal right of all citizens and human beings. If lawmakers are not driven by compassion to improve the ACA then the benefits of a healthy work force would boost the economy which is a major concern as of late with the rising cost of daily necessities and the stagnant salary earnings of the average American. Foreign countries have had universal healthcare for years before the United States implemented its first bill guaranteeing that right; with the promise of the to immigrants drawing them towards the United States with the promise that America is better than every other country, offering healthcare that can stand up to foreign systems would be a large foundation to assuring that the applies to all aspects of an life. Student 5 Works Cited Bessard, Pierre. of Mixed-Economy Solutions in Healthcare: The Examples of Switzerland and Economic Affairs, University of South Florida Online Database, volume 28, issue 4, 2008, pp. 16-21. Lyons, Barbara, and Rowland, Diane. Role in Health Reform and Closing the Coverage Journal of Law, Medicine & Ethics, University of South Florida Online Database, vol. 44, 2016, pp. 580-584. Rosenbaum, Sara and Jane Hyatt Thorpe. Affordable Care at Six: Reaching for a New The Journal of Law, Medicine & Ethics, University of South Florida Online Database, vol. 44, 2016, pp. 533-537. Sherman, Peter J. the Whole Quality Progress, University of South Florida Online Database, vol. 43, issue 9, 2010, pp. 32-36, 38. Sinclair, James A. C. Healthcare China Business Review, University of South Florida Online Database, 2009, pp. 32-36, 52. Stoltzfus Jost, Timothy and Harold A. Pollack. Health Care Truly Affordable after Health Care The Journal of Law, Medicine & Ethics, University of South Florida Online Database, vol. 44, 2016, pp. 546-554.