Paul Edward Curry Karen Hanson ENC-1102 15 April 2017 Curry1 We need to stop private prisons. The privatization of prisons is one of the leaders in financial corruption and unethicality in the United States of America today. When talking about the privatization of prisons it is quite apparent of how unethical they are and how their needs to be change. Most citizens would as could they do something to when they could easily join an organization or donate to an organization. The leading organization for stopping private prisons is the American Bar Association also known as the ABA and this organization allows citizens to make a difference on something that the truly believe is an issue. Private Prisons cause tax paying Americans over 20 billion dollars a year (Dilulio, 66), and the prisons themselves in total make much more in a year. The privatization of prisons can happen in three major ways. First, the government may build the prison then outsource its operations to third parties. Second, private companies may run the prison from start to finish; they finance, design, and construct the facilities and, once the buildings are erected, they eventually manage the prison. Third, the government may take a prison currently managed by the public sector and contract it out to a private company. In all three scenarios, the third-party company is then paid a daily or monthly rate either for the actual number of inmates it houses or the number of beds/places available (whether used or not) (ConnectUsFund.Org). Today over 3.3 Million Americans roughly one white male in every thirty five prisoners and one black male in every nine prisoners are living behind bars in some sort of correctional institution (Dilulio, 66). In the United States of America there is approximately 150,000 prisons and about 4,000 of those prisons are private. This privatization of prisons increases the war on drugs rather than putting an end to it. Most citizens would also assume, private prisons would have tough security because Americans are paying so much but Paul Edward Curry Karen Hanson ENC-1102 15 April 2017 Curry2 this in fact is not true. Guards are reported to be at a 60:1 prisoner to guard ratio in a standard private prison. Keeping this in mind it is proven that prisoners tend to kill, escape and commit other hateful crimes. Private prisons hurt this country, hurt our citizens and have far more pros than cons and need to be stopped. Private Prisons have an unbelievable effect on citizens although they are very unnoticeable. Private Prisons claim to cost less than prisons ran by the state, while offering the same level of service. In fact, the Corrections Corporation of America, one of the largest for- profit prison corporations, states that their business strategy is to provide quality corrections service while offering a better value to their government partners at the same time making a profit (CCA 2010). However, opponents of private prisons say they do not save states money because of their hidden cost (Academia.edu). These ultimately cost taxpayers more money because they are paying taxes for private prisons as well as public prisons. Compared to public prisons, private prions keep prisons an extra two- three months to make more money which is actually tax payers money. There was a study done on the private prisons in Mississippi and the University of Wisconsin states that the research found that prisoners in private facilities had an increase in their sentence of four to seven percent, which equaled 60 to 90 days for the average prisoner. With the average contractual payment to private prison operators in Mississippi being $50 for each bed occupied, an extra 60 days added to a sentence leads to an average additional cost per prisoner of about $3,000. That added expense erodes about half of the projected cost savings offered by private prisons in the state. Fueling the increase in time served is the widespread use of prison conduct violations in private facilities. Mukherjee found that prisoners in every demographic, offense, and sentence length category accumulated more Paul Edward Curry Karen Hanson ENC-1102 15 April 2017 Curry3 infractions if they were assigned to a private prison. Overall, inmates in private prisons received twice as many infractions as those in public prisons. In Mississippi, infractions are used by the state parole board in assessing whether a prisoner should be granted early release (News.Wisc.Edu). As a citizen be upset knowing that I was paying for a prison that is not saving any money. There are many ways to aid to the extinction of private prisons that you as a citizen can do. The top ways to stop private prisons are essentially to donate to corporations that fight against the privatization of prisons or joining one of these organizations. According to NoNewPrisons.Org the top organizations I would suggest the audience and other citizens to join would be the Architects / Designers / Planners for Social Responsibility (ADPSR) who pledge to not participate in the design, construction, or renovation of prisons, working towards a society that treats all its members with dignity, equality, and justice, the November Coalition is a non- profit, grassroots organization with a mission to raise awareness in individuals and communities about the spiraling increase in numbers of imprisoned in the United States due to drug-law enforcement, the Justice Policy Institute who works to increase the age for children to be tried as adults to 18 and the American Bar Association who is one of the leading organizations that works to fight against private prisons and their judges (NoNewPrisons.Org) Joining and or donating to these organizations allows you to make some sort of difference in the community and the private prison industry. Joining one or more of these organizations will allow you to have more control over what is going on in these private prisons and help end them which ultimately saves you the taxpayer money and stops unethical practice done behind bars. Paul Edward Curry Karen Hanson ENC-1102 15 April 2017 Curry4 Now that you as the citizen have a clear understanding as to what is going on behind bars, why there needs to be change and how you can do something, it is in your hands to make a difference. Do not go on in this world letting it happen to yourself without doing something to change it. Do not let human-beings experience much violence and other unethical practices on your dime. Stop funding private prisons and make a difference by joining one of the four organizations stated above and donating to other organizations. Paul Edward Curry Karen Hanson ENC-1102 15 April 2017 Curry5 American Bar Association . About  About the American Bar Association. N.p., n.d. Web. 22 April. 2017. Bailey, Brandon. Private Prisons and Their Negative Effect on States and Local  Academia.edu. Np., Nd., Web 16. April. 2017 Dilulio, Jordan. Wrong with Private The Public Interest New York Vol 0.92, Summer 1998, pp. 66. Study Finds Private Prisons Keep Inmates Longer, without Reducing Future  News.Wisc. N.p., n.d. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. <http://news.wisc.edu/study-finds-private- prisons-keep-inmates-longer-without-reducing-future-crime/>. US Groups Opposing Private  No New Prisons: Organizations and Groups Opposing New Prison Construction. N.p., 29 Mar. 2009. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. <http://www.nonewprisons.org/action/groups.html>. Who We  Corrections Corporation of America. N.p., n.d. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. <http://www.cca.com/who-we-are>. Paul Edward Curry Karen Hanson ENC-1102 15 April 2017 Curry6