Student 1 Student name ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Project 3 Intermediate Draft Since the United States was first founded there has always been differences between people based on class. Class has always been based upon how much wealth one has. Typically, when one has a very low amount of wealth or no wealth at all then they tend to be either homeless or living in poverty. Homelessness has been around for as long as the concept of wealth has been around. Nowadays those who are homeless tend to be homeless because they either lost their jobs or have lost their homes. The United States is a very prosperous country and the fact that there are people who are living on the streets in some of the biggests cities within this country is highly upsetting. No one should ever have to choose to be homeless as a last resort and there should be efforts up to help those who ever find themselves to come into that position. Frist and foremost, homelessness is not choice for many people, but instead tends to become an option. is an attitude not a (Becky Blanton, The year I was homeless) Within this TED Talk Becky discusses that she never had a plan to ever become homeless however after her dad passed away she went into a deep depression and ended up losing her job as a writer and resulted in living in her van. She got to a point within her life where she had to go to a homeless health clinic in order to seek some profession help to help her get through this. When she got there, they had told her that she was not homeless and that she Student 2 still had a job and she still had hope and those are the two things that people who are actually do not have. Afterwards she decided to get back up on her feet and get back to work. Within a year she was living in her own apartment and going back to work. This video is so important because it represents a very important message. Those who are homeless have no job or anything that they can go back to doing. They do not have friends or family that they can stay with or any sense of hope that they can accomplish something great. The reason why Becky Blanton was able to get back up on her feet was because she got free help from a homeless health clinic and she was reminded that she can still go back to doing her job and that she still has hope compared to other who may be homeless. As a matter of fact, when many people are asked to imagine the face of homelessness they tend to imagine adults. However, an unexpected face of homelessness is now consisting of children. The homeless youth population tend to feel much more shy about the position that they are placed in and try to blend in with those around them who are not homeless. (endhomelessness.org) bought him those shoes because he have In Bee TED Talk she talks about the most unlikely face of homelessness which is the youth. Bee came from a broken home where her mother faced various mental health issues and dropped out of school in 12 th grade in order to help take a financial burden off of her shoulders. She decided to work full time and became involved within a serious relationship. They moved in together and then soon realized there were far too many problems and that she was living within a very unstable environment. She then began to do what many homeless kids do and that is to and sleep on the couches of her friends every night. Many kids tend follow this path because they feel ashamed to go to a homeless shelter and to be judged by others for the position that they are placed upon. Bee was in such a tough position in her life that one of her friends Student 3 recognized the position in which she was in and volunteered to take her to a youth refuge. She did not expect to be placed in a position in her life where she would end up there but then ended up getting a job at a law firm. She hid her situation from her co-workers and no one ever discovered the position she was in. Bee spent a total of 12 months being homeless and slowly began to overcome it. The first quote in this paragraphs refers to a magazine in which Bee was reading. One day some had written a message that described a young boy who was begging for money with new shoes on and told others to not give him anything. The next day someone else wrote in, standing up for the boy, that any of your business but for your information I bought him those shoes because he have This quote relates to the topic greatly because many people tend to think that when they see someone who is homeless with a new jacket or a new pair of shoes that they had to have stolen it. No one ever thinks that maybe someone else could have gotten the shoes for them. This tends to be the common issue with the youth population. The youth tend to be much more sensitive upon their issue and do not want others to know about the situation that they are in. They try to dress and act like they are not struggling because they do not want others to pity them and to feel sorry for them. The number one thing that Bee said which stood out was that the only why she got up on her feet and got a job and overcame homelessness was because she got help from a youth refuge center. If Bee never received any type of profession help then she have the position that she is in today and most likely might have been somewhere else most likely still Receiving help for her situation is what evolved her and helped her to overcome her situation. In conclusion, homelessness is a never ending epidemic that effects adults as well as the youth. Adults may become homeless because they lose their jobs and then end up losing there homes. However for adults, although some may be embarrassed upon their situation they Student 4 sometimes hide it and have to let others no in order to get help. The youth who become homeless, tend to become homeless because they come from a broken household. When a household in which the youth is living in tends to lack the finances required to take care of the child or the teen, they tend to run away in order to take the financial burden off of the family. The majority of the youth who run away from their homes think that they are aiding their family or household and also think that this is one step to growing up and becoming more independent. The youth tend to be much more shy upon their situation because they are so much younger and do not wanted to be judged about the situation that they are in. The one thing that both of these situations have in common is that in order to overcome their problems they need to receive free help from a professional to help them get their life on track and to ultimately overcome homelessness. (WC: 1248) Student 5 Proposed Additional Sources Becky Blanton: The Year I Was Homeless. Perf. Becky Blanton. TEDGlobal. TED, July 2009. Web. 1 Apr. 2017. Can Homelessness Be Solved? Perf. John Maceri. TEDx Talks. TED, 3 July 2014. Web. 1 Apr. 2017. <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-eCROJkVc54>. Housing First - a Way towards Ending Homelessness. Perf. Juha Kaakinen. TEDx Talks. TED, 19 Sept. 2014. Web. 1 Apr. 2017. <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=k6DPjCmc3BM>. The Unexpected Face of Homelessness. Perf. Bee Orsini. TEDx Talks. TED, 3 Dec. 2013. Web. 1 Apr. 2017. <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w18ZuellVts>.