Bay Schook Kristen Rouisse Project 3 Intermediate Draft 10 April 2017 The Legalization of Physician-Assisted Suicide Since the beginning of the 20 th century, the issue of euthanasia and physician-assisted death (PAD) has raised concerns to whether it is moral enough to be of legal use. Euthanasia is the intentionally causing of a death, benefiting the patient by no more further suffering. Physician-assisted suicide contrasts because it is the helping/assisting of killing another because the patient intends to end their life. With assisted suicide, the patient is in complete control. In 1990, Dr. Jack Kevorkian assisted his first patient. Since this time, individuals have had their separate opposing beliefs about the process of physician-assisted death. The issue at hand here is whether terminally ill patients should have the option to even considering such help from a physician. The Death With Dignity act created the laws where PAD is legal. This nonprofit organization was created in the hopes of expanding the freedom of all qualified, terminally ill Americans to make their own end-of-life decisions. The act also promotes and provides useful information which may make PAS legal in more states in the future (About Us N,p). For the patients who support assisted suicide also have to deal with the people who disagree with this process. It is important to emphasize the importance as to why patients choose PAS as a way to die. For state legislators, family members, the media, and all other individuals who are uninformed about PAS, it is important to show the positive factors of assisted suicide and why certain patients choose to go forward with it. The act of PAS can best be defined as a physician providing a lethal medication to a terminally ill patient who has requested for the assistance of their suicide. From the time between 1993 to 2003, the Death with Dignity Act were trying to enforce the effectiveness of legalizing assisted suicide, whether it would be safe to. In 1997, assisted suicide was first legalized in Oregon, then followed by Washington, District of Columbia, Vermont, California, and Colorado under the Death With Dignity Act (Quill & Sussman N,p). Under the Death With Dignity Act there are certain requirements needed before a patient can choose to go through with PAD. To even be considered for PAD one must be: terminally ill with six months to live, a state resident of the legalized states (for at least 6 months), and mentally competent to make own decisions. The debate whether or not PAD is moral is because of the it may have. Although, under the Death With Dignity Act, a person cannot just go to a physician and request end-of-life medication. The patient has to have six months to live with a terminal illness, mentally stable to make their own life decisions, and also have to live in the state where it is legal. Studies have actually shown that in Oregon where PAD was first legalized, that out of around 10,000 people who had died in the state, only a small amount of people actually used PAD. Even where it is legal, not everyone is offered it and people who are eligible for it, usually do not request it. PAD is really only used in situations where it is really needed and wanted by a patient. Another reason why this is a controversial debate is because some individuals say it goes against Hippocratic this says that healthcare professionals have the responsibility to take care and do no harm to patients. In the situation of using PAD, the physician is tending to a needs and taking away their harm by ending their suffering. The mission of the Death With Dignity Act is to promote PAD laws as an option for dying patients who want to fasten their death, and also to stress the importance of the nationwide improvements in end-of-life care (About Us N,p). This issue deserves more recognition than it has gotten. Where assisted suicide is legal, it gives terminally ill patients an available option so they do not have to suffer any longer. Patients can have the opportunity to die with dignity and also are more likely to experience a less painful death. Instead of prolonging the days to watch someone die, having the choice to fasten the process may be easier for the patients and their loved ones. Having to see a family member in such pain and suffering is extremely saddening. With any terminal illness, patients are given plenty of treatments to extend their life as much as possible. Although, taking the medication to end life prescribed by a physician may cost the same or even less as other healthcare finances would. Having to find treatment plans for a dying patient sometimes may put a burden on the family. To not have to go through paying for all these types of treatment, when this one medication can fasten the process. Choosing to go forward with physician assisted death although is not something that is a quick and easy decision either. It depends on where PAD is legal, how family/loved ones feel about the decision, and whether or not one is even capable of receiving medication. The Death With Dignity Fund is a 501(c)4 nonprofit organization that legislates laws, and also campaigns, lobbies, and advocates Death With Dignity in states where PAS is not active (About Us N,p). The act works together with other advocates and organizations to bring the work of Death With Dignity to other states in the hopes of gaining support for PAD. The organization seeks to promote dying with dignity and tries to spread their goal. People who are not support of PAD or do not quite understand it have the chance to see how the process actually works through the Death With Dignity Act. Physician-assisted death is legalized in the five states mainly because the Death With Dignity organization have proved its mission statement to these state legislators and the residents that PAD is effective and useful in certain cases. Donating to the Death With Dignity National Center will help to better advocate for the organization. The Death With Dignity is trying to make a difference in individuals lives for the better. Their mission is make those are dying happier when at the end of life. Supporting the Death With Dignity will help it become legalized in more states. Word Count: 1050 Works Cited About  Death With Dignity. N.p., n.d. Web. 11 Apr. 2017. Euthanasia and Assisted Suicide, and Aid In  American Nurses Association. N.p., 24 Apr. 2013. Web. 11 Apr. 2017. Gorman, Anna. From Doctor to Patient to Assisted-Suicide  The Atlantic. Atlantic Media Company, 31 Mar. 2015. Web. 11 Apr. 2017. Quill, Timothy E., and Bernardd Sussman. Physician Assisted  The Hastings Center. N.p., n.d. Web. 11 Apr. 2017.