Caroline Jeczalik Professor Aranda ENC 1102 April 16, 2017 Immigration In The United States Immigration has been a popular topic of dissolution or years. Although many people lean to one side or another, immigration should be accepted in the United States because they bring economic, and social benefits into this country. Immigrants are what made this country what it is today. Throughout time, the benefits of keeping immigrants outweigh the cost. Many people understand how immigrants made a huge impact over the years. This generation should be informed about the benefits immigrants bring to our country from when they first stepped foot on this land to what they do today. The University of South Florida is holding an event June 19 called, This Country with which informs and educates the students and parents the achievement and the value gained from immigrants with the philosophy of utilitarianism. Informing and educating others shows people why immigrants should be welcomed greatly into this country. From the beginning of time the United States was built from people from all over the world. These people made a huge impact in the world that makes America what it is today. Each year we have vast number of immigrants coming into the United States seeking an opportunity. Wether it is a job, experience or a dream immigrants come to this country seeking something they believe they can achieve. For example, Albert Einstein was an immigrant from Germany. Einstein fathered modern physics, discovered the most famous equation (E = mc 2), developed the special theory of relativity, and a lot of other things people who are scientists need to learn. He also warned the world of the danger of nuclear weapons way back in the (Fleischner 2015) Without Einstein the world would be such a different place. Without immigrants the world would be such a different place because immigrants are what shapes this country. Immigrants bring innovated ideas, start many successful businesses and keep our economy circulating. Many immigrants come to the United States well educated with a college degree. However, most of the immigrants that come into the country start their own businesses. Businesses that immigrants start are an important role in our economic system. Immigrants start up successful businesses, for example, Estrada from the Center for American Progress Google founder Sergey Brin, who fled the Soviet Union as a young boy almost 40 years ago; Yahoo founder Jerry Yang, who emigrated from Taiwan at age 10; and Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella, who emigrated from India. In fact, more than 40 percent of Fortune 500 companies in 2010 were founded by immigrants or their (Estrada 2016). These immigrants have started large companies that have created jobs for millions of people in the United States. Many people mistake immigrants for taking jobs away from them, when in fact they are just creating more jobs for individuals in the United States. These businesses create economic prosperity. According to Goldin from The World Economic Forum, he on the net fiscal impact of immigration shows that immigrants contribute significantly more in taxes than the benefits and services they receive in return. According to the World Bank, increasing immigration by a margin equal to 3% of the workforce in developed countries would generate global economic gains of $356 (Goldin 2016). Individuals who are uninformed about how immigrants contribute heavily to our economic system should strongly attend The University of South Floridas event June 19 which talks more about the economic benefit. Immigration in the United States correlates with the philosophy of Utilitarianism. Utilitarianism was developed by Jeremy Bentham and John Stuart Mill in the 19th century. This philosophy is constructed under the 5 plank. The first plank described how the environment controls ones self. When immigrants come to the United States they have any control of much because they made a living for themselves. They are forced to get a job and learn the language in order to survive and make a living. The environment or the place they have migrated to forces immigrants to get a job or get education because its what they need to make a living and survive in this country. By having the environment control them they are benefiting the US economy by participating in society and starting jobs and businesses which helps millions of Americans get jobs. This starts to tie into the second plank of Utilitarianism which is, the good equals the greater good. When immigrants start new businesses they help millions by giving jobs. By increasing job significantly we see an increase in the economic process. Not only does the greater good apply to jobs and the economic process it also applies to education. Many immigrants have college degrees. Some people (Americans) look at this aspect as competitive tool to take jobs away from them (which is not the case). So the achievement of earning a college degree by immigrants which is looked as the good, is passed down to the Americans as a so they earn a college degree. The next plank is, by working for the group you benefit yourself. Immigrants are very dedicated in what they do, they come into this country not having a plan. They have jobs and hobbies just like the rest of us in which they benefit themselves. They work very hard with everybody in order to benefit themselves just like everyone. The last two plank are fixed truths and tabula rasa. These two plank tie with each other because they are a free choice. Fixed truths means you have any rules controlling your will or life. You have anyone telling you whats right or whats wrong. You learn things through experience which is tabula rasa. Immigrants come to the country having a goal in place with nobody telling them whats right or whats wrong. Utilitarianism is a philosophy which is broken down into plank to determine what the best action to take. This philosophy displays how immigration is should be allowed in the United States because the benefits outweigh the cost. Immigration and utilitarianism shows how working together brings success and happiness in a community. Utilitarianism will be mentioned in the event The University of South Florida will hold June 19. Understanding how the philosophy of utilitarianism ties into immigration is very interesting and beneficial. Immigrants should be aloud in the United States because they are hardworking individuals who contribute to the United States quite significantly. Immigrants start new businesses and jobs that help our economy rise everyday. Immigrants are the individuals who made this country to what it is today. The event at The University of South Florida on June 19 called This Country with teaches individuals the importance on immigration and how it changes our country in a positive way. Immigrants should be able to come to the United States because of the many benefits they bring to the country. Work cited Fleischner, Nicki . 17 immigrants the world would be very different  Global Citizen. N.p., n.d. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. <https://www.globalcitizen.org/en/content/bet-you-didnt-know- these-game-changers-were-immigr/>. Estrada, Cesar Maximiliano. How Immigrants Positively Affect the Business Community and the U.S.  Center for American Progress. N.p., 14 July 2016. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Goldin, Ian. immigration has changed the world for the World Economic Forum. Np., 17 January 2016. Web 15 Apr. 2017.