Yates 1 Evan Yates Professor Carter ENC1102-034 18 April 2017 Combating the Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons The nuclear bombing of the Japanese cities Hiroshima and Nagasaki in 1945 forever changed the way in which the world conducts warfare, and ushered in the atomic age. Since this pivotal event, people all over the globe have questioned the possession of these incredibly powerful weapons capable of eliminating mass amounts of human life. The mining and processing of uranium for energy uses can also endanger lives, as well as lead to easier access to weaponized use. A both cost-effective and environmentally friendly method of disposing nuclear waste has yet to be found. Several organizations and movements have fought against the proliferation of nuclear weapons over the years, one of which is the Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament (CND). This group has fought non-violently for almost 60 years to rid the world stage of nuclear weapons, and claims to be largest single-issue peace campaign. Because of the dangers that nuclear weapons and nuclear energy pose, citizens should contact their local state representatives about nuclear funding and support alternative energy sources to combat the threat that nuclear implementation poses. The development of nuclear reactors for generating electricity began as a side project of the nuclear arms race of the WWII era. The destructive capability of harnessing nuclear chain reactions was the original reason why research began on the topic, and it remains a major Yates 2 problem in the eyes of many when it comes to continuing the use of nuclear energy. A good example of just how devastating these weapons are lies in the payload of the the largest nuclear bomb ever detonated, launched by the USSR in 1961. The blast yield equaled 50 megatons, or about 1500 times the energy released in the bombs dropped on Hiroshima and Nagasaki combined Heritage Foundation). With weapons this powerful, warfare is now conducted differently among global superpowers than it was 100 years ago. assured is a military doctrine that emerged from the possession of nuclear weapons, and entails the complete annihilation of both parties involved in a nuclear engagement. This policy exists as a defense against nuclear weapons, as the aggressor would end up destroyed themselves. This policy is why this issue affects every citizen globally, as one country deploying nuclear warheads would result many more being deployed in response, ending in many deaths. The initial blast of a nuclear warhead, or the collapse of a nuclear reactor, results in toxic radioactive fallout. The two largest and most notable nuclear disasters were the Chernobyl and Fukushima disasters, which caused an combined cost of over $100 billion dollars and hundreds of estimated deaths due to radioactivity (Davies, pg. 49). Given the numerous dangers of nuclear weapons and nuclear energy, global citizens should feel some responsibility to take action. It may seem that this issue is too large scale for individuals to make a difference, but even changing one policy could make a large impact on the global perception of the issue. George Shultz, from the Wall Street Journal, claims that of the vision of a world free of nuclear weapons and practical measures toward achieving that goal would be, and would be perceived as, a bold initiative consistent with Yates 3 moral A vote for a U.N. sanctioned nuclear weapon ban from a global superpower could have big implications, and could bring us closer to a nuclear-free world. Few issues are so universally relevant to the average person. With such a large scale issue, one might wonder how to make a measurable impact. One method would to be to contact local representatives and show opposition to state funding of nuclear facilities. The contact information for both Florida Senators for example can be found at . State representatives regularly receive feedback from citizens, and persistence and reason can sometimes be rewarded with real world change. Another way to make a difference would be to support alternative energy sources, such as solar, natural gas, and hydrogen. This can also be vocalized to representatives, but in this case, the individual can make a business choice to lend support. Choosing to power your home through solar energy can have high initial cost, but can pay off in the long run, all the while staying eco friendly. In conclusion, the possession of nuclear weapons by world powers continually endangers the populace by subjugating them to a constant threat of thermonuclear warfare. Citizens should feel compelled to end unnecessary risk of mining and processing uranium when other alternatives exist for energy. Changes can be made on the world stage by individuals who vocalize their opinions on current nuclear policy to state representatives and who support alternative energy sources to power their homes. Yates 4 Works Cited Davies, Lincoln L. Beyond Fukushima: Disasters, nuclear energy, and energy  (2011). Shultz, George P., et al. A world free of nuclear  Wall Street Journal 4.01 (2007): 2007. Tsar  Atomic Heritage Foundation. N.p., n.d. Web. 18 Apr. 2017. Senators of the 115th  U.S. Senate: Senators of the 115th Congress. N.p., 05 Apr. 2017. Web. 19 Apr. 2017.