Jonathan Hernandez ENC1102 Adam Carter 18 April 2017 Project 3: Composing Multimodal Arguments Since founding, what role women in society should play has always been a fierce battle. In the past decade, with the help of modern education and social media, this debate has resurfaced and found its way into the limelight. Even more recently, with the latest election, and the policies that candidates did or did not present, issues are front and center in cultural wars. With ability to change opinions with a single post on a social media site, these matters are always a topic of discussion, and even argument. Many times, with issues that offer such strong positions on both sides, a compromise or a way to take reparable action between the two is difficult to see. One way those who are involved on either side of the spectrum can get involved with these matters is to rally together and make their voices heard. By speaking out in numbers, no matter what side they support, people can empower not only themselves, but also those around them, including the governing officials that they want to persuade. By finding real groups that support either side, to the extent that they strive to make a real difference for their sake, people will be able to take action against any injustice where they see fit. Both sides of any argument would insist that their side offers the only correct way to view an issue. However, in the case of issues, there are evidentiary claims that support both sides. It is the responsibility of the individual to find organizations, such as the NOW organization (National Organization for Women) who are actively protesting and fighting the higher ups in government for equality. Since there are not any real groups actively fighting against American women, it is more reasonable for people to support groups like NCFM (National Coalition For Men) who rally behind the idea that the way things are currently is best for both genders. Which ever side one supports, there is room for improvement, so that is the main reason the best way to take action is to physically support their respective sides. To better understand what either side wants, there is plenty of room for better education on the subject matter of American women and the rights they have, or may not have according to some. The most recent argument that has recently surfaced, and gained even more momentum from the recent elections, is the idea that the wage gap is a construct set in place solely by sexism in the work place. Groups like NOW have been actively fighting this with efforts to get rid of the cents to every rally point (Ludsteck). However there are groups, like NCFM, that see the wage gap, identify that it is real (although not nearly so high), but put the blame on individual choices and instances rather than a malfunction of the market place (Lui). Recent studies have shown that both these sides, and their arguments, have valid points. Because this issue is so important to many Americans, an choice to side with either camp will depend heavily on what evidence they are presented. This is another reason why education on this matter is so important. By own research on issues, such as wage gap or workplace sexism, they can gather the information needed to decide whether or not taking up an action, such as protesting or rallying behind their respective side, is the path needed for what they see as justice. The importance of this issue lies in an desire to do more for women in America. Because it has such a large amount of involved individuals, its impact is equally great. It affects not only the people involved, most importantly women, but also those around them. The people of America, men or women, are all a part of this issue because whether or not they have an opinion on the matter, it will still affect America as a whole. The way Americans look at and treat women in their own country will also directly impact the way the world looks at women. Because America is always in the spotlight, good or bad, it would be foolish to think she, as a nation, does not have huge impact on other social tendencies. This is why having an informed opinion on this subject is so important. It has implications that reach farther than just having a woman for president or more leading roles in movies. It is about protecting women and the need for more change, or being content where things are now. Neither side would argue that women do not need protection or that they are not important enough for this kind of national attention. Instead, there is the conflict on how prevalent they are or why they suddenly came to be riot worthy in America. There will always be debate on the amount of rights groups of people have in a diverse America. In the instance of women, it is usually either work related or a need for equality in eyes. With any national debate, there is never an easy way to solve the most pressing problems, because everyone thinks they are right. However, in the instance of rights in America, rallying with a group that supports your own personal decision has been proven to be the most effective way to get your ideas across. Two organizations on either side of the spectrum that have used this rallying technique effectively are NOW and NCFM. They have both used protesting and public rallying to their advantage, and both have been nationally recognized as having a major impact on the lives of American women and those who watch them across the world. Bibliography Liu, Kai. Explaining The Gender Wage Gap: Estimates From A Dynamic Model Of Job Changes And Hours  Quantitative Economics 2 (2016): 411. Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Ludsteck, Johannes. The Impact Of Segregation And Sorting On The Gender Wage Gap: Evidence From German Linked Longitudinal Employer- Employee  Industrial & Labor Relations Review 67.2 (2014): 362-394. Business Source Alumni Edition. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.