Patella 1 Jason Patella Adam Carter ENC 1102 18 April 2017 Marijuana and schedule 1 Marijuana, hemp, weed, grass, Mary jane, pot, dope, we have all heard of the drug called cannabis in one form or another. We may know people who have tried it or we have seen people in movies use it or heard about it due to big debate on if it should be legal or not. The United States government has called cannabis a horrible vile drug that is bad for people. The have lead a big campaign against using it and making it illegal. The United States government has long since labeled cannabis as a schedule 1 drug meaning that it is categorized to be as bad as heroine and less harmful than cocaine and other things. However, cannabis has lots of benefits over its disadvantages it presents. We are now even using a certain specific type of cannabis as medical cannabis to help certain people yet we still place the regular nonmedical used cannabis in a category that is extremely negative and in a category where drugs have no medical benefits at all. Even the non-medical version of cannabis has some medical qualities and for that reason alone it should be moved from schedule 1 to some other place such as a lower classification or off the list entirely. To combat this problem of cannabis being wrongfully classified, we all need to get out there are raise awareness about marijuana being a schedule one drug and why it be there by either telling our friends or anyone who has misconceptions about cannabis as well as call your representative and let them know you want cannabis reclassified and made legal. Cannabis has been talked about for a long time and there are many different misconceptions about it and they are just not true. First off you might ask what is cannabis and Patella 2 what are the effects of using it? Cannabis or commonly known as marijuana is greenish to brownish color, mixture of dried, shredded leaves, stems, seeds and flowers of the hemp plant Cannabis sativa. It is an old and natural psychoactive (mind altering) recreational drug, and used for certain religious, spiritual or medical purposes (L. Anderson). The effects of cannabis, depending on the dosage and amount used are a feeling of calm, lowered reaction time, hallucinations, painkiller, anxiety can decrease, and possible replacement for alcohol (Welsh and L. Anderson). So, there are so benefits to taking it and not taking it. It is also shown to be not too addictive and it can have the same long term effects as smokers after a slightly longer period of use than smoking and due to the nature of it being fat based instead of water based it stays in a system for a longer time than other drugs such as alcohol, heroine, and cocaine (L. Anderson). The united states classify cannabis as a schedule one drug. According to the website a schedule one drug is a drug with no accepted medical use and a high potential for abuse (United States Drug Enforcement Administration). However, if that is the real way to categorize drugs tobacco would be on there too due to its nature as a not accepted medical drug and with the high potential for abuse considering how many people already abuse tobacco and die by it each year. Medical Cannabis has been reclassified into either a schedule 2 or 3 drug but normal cannabis that has some of the same effects meaning some medical benefits with a low abuseable rate is still classified as a schedule 1 drug. Even though cannabis has some disadvantages it has enough advantages to be changed from a schedule 1 drug to a different classification. Even if you smoke cannabis or really care, you should because if it legal or not has a huge impact on the United States society. Plus, roughly 60 percent of the United States population is pro-legalization of cannabis so there is a high chance things might change soon Patella 3 (Rettner). The legalization of cannabis effects even non-smokers. There are many befits to legalization of cannabis as well as the few disadvantages that go along with it. One huge benefit that would incentive someone to legalize cannabis is an increase in revenue, an increase in revenue would lead to the USA being less in debt and more money to companies which might allow them to expand the number of workers they employ. There would also be less money out there supporting organized crime because any money they got selling cannabis is now directed to the USA government and away from crime organizations (NYLN). If cannabis was controlled by the government they also could control what is in cannabis because most times when someone smokes marijuana it is most likely laced with other harmful chemicals. It also would give a wider access to cannabis so certain people who have trouble sleeping or have lots of anxiety can use it to calm down and mellow out (NYLN). Law enforcement can also dedicate their time and energy to other problems instead of donating manpower, money, and time to cannabis busts and criminals (NYLN). The disadvantages of having cannabis out would be danger of second hand smoke, lung problems to users, and the altered status it gives. When being in an altered status, the perception and reflexes are decreased which would lead to more car accidents with an increased rise in driving while stoned incidents (NYLN). It also is a drug that has additive properties even though the additive nature as bad as alcohol and tobacco. Cannabis has many positive and negative aspects to legalization; however the number of positives outweigh the negatives. Cannabis might have the highest support rating in years but mean much unless people are going to go out and do something about it being misclassified. Cannabis has many advantages to people if someone chooses to use it and has major benefits if it were legalized. The only way to change the classification is to inform everyone and anyone about the Patella 4 misclassification of cannabis and make sure to make them known and care about the issue. Also, the lawmakers have to pushed to change their minds about cannabis. One way to do this is to call your representative because they want your vote and if you tell them not voting for them and are unhappy with how they are not doing anything about the issue they might change their mind to keep some votes. If you are scared to call them you can always handwrite a letter or send an email but they do not have nearly as much effect as a phone call. There is many things we have to do to get cannabis reclassified but we all need to do our part if we are to get cannabis reclassified. Cannabis is a drug that is classified as a schedule one drug which means it is viewed as bad as heroine and is supposedly highly abusive and has no medical benefits. Cannabis is a drug that has less rate of addiction and abuse than alcohol and tobacco and does have medical benefits which is a huge reason it should be classified. There are also many benefits to legalization of cannabis. In order to combat the misclassification of cannabis we all need to get out there and inform and raise awareness about marijuana being a schedule one drug and why it be that as well as call your representative and let them know you want cannabis reclassified and made legal. Patella 5 Works Cited L. Anderson, PharmD. Drugs.com, 13 Nov. 2016, https://www.drugs.com/illicit/marijuana.html. NYLN. Primary Pros and Cons of Legalizing NYLN, 12 June 2015, https://nyln.org/19-primary-pros-and-cons-of-legalizing-weed. Rettner, Rachael. Marijuana Be Legal? 60 Percent of Americans Now Say Fox News Health, 20 Oct. 2016, http://www.foxnews.com/health/2016/10/20/should- marijuana-be-legal-60-percent-americans-now-say-yes.html. United States Drug Enforcement Administration. United States Drug Enforcement Administration, https://www.dea.gov/druginfo/ds.shtml. Welsh, Jennifer, and Kevin Loria. Health Benefits of Business Insider, 20 Apr. 2014, http://www.businessinsider.com/health-benefits-of-medical-marijuana-2014-4.