Daniel Malanga ENC 1102 Professor Ryan April 19, 2017 Pro Life Whether or not abortion should be legal is one of the most commonly discussed debates in the U.S. Both sides of this issue have strong and validated opinions, which makes the decision of where you stand that much harder. The Pro-life movement takes a stand against the legalization of abortion. Through educating women about fetal development and statistics, showing women how abortion may affect them and guiding people on how to take action by educating women at abortion clinics, the pro-life movement is validated in their beliefs and actions. Education is a major issue regarding Abortion. In recent years, society has become much more desensitized to the idea of abortion. Due to this desensitization, most would believe that the abortion rates have gone up, but this is incorrect. In fact, abortion rates have declined in the U.S. report released February 3, 2014 by the Guttmacher Institute found that abortion rates and ratios are continuing to decline in the United (nrlc.org). Before women decide to abort their baby, they should know what the fetal process is like and what is taking place within their bodies. days from conception, heart begins to beat, with the own (prolifeacrossamerica.org 1). Many people overlook abortion as a life changing thing because they minimalize the value and reality of a developing fetus. This is dangerous because a negligence to educate herself can cost a life. The U.S has not provided nearly enough education for women who encounter unplanned pregnancies which is why abortion has become such a deadened topic and why women have been impulsively getting abortions. If abortion remains legal, Americas government should not be morally justifying it without (at the least) enforcing some sort of regulation, such as a required education class that must be taken before the abortion. With the lack of education for women who encounter unplanned pregnancies and the factual development of a fetus, it is more than unfair to legalize abortion. Some women may not have formed an opinion on abortion because they put in the effort to research or just simply care. Remaining ignorant to the negative effects of abortion can be a detriment to a health both mentally and physically. Nearly all women face the chance of an unplanned pregnancy.. If a woman chooses to proceed with an abortion without taking the time to research the physical and mental risks that it entails, then that woman could potentially be making a catastrophic mistake. Some would say that is a hyperbolic statement, when statistics clearly state the dangers of abortion, one might think twice about proceeding. Abortion procedures can go wrong just like any other, and can even cost the life of the mother. have died of legal and illegal abortions. Moreover, over 347 women have died from supposedly and abortions (college.studentsforlife.org 1). The potential physical dangers the only thing that should worry women who are planning on receiving an abortion. Most women who do decide to get an abortion have deep feeling of regret and can even result in severe emotional or mental damage. 8 weeks after their abortions, 55 percent expressed guilt, 44 percent complained of nervous disorders, 36 percent had experienced sleep disturbances, 31 percent had regrets about their decision, and 11 percent had been prescribed psychotropic medicine by their family (iowartl.org 1). The logic that is given from the opposing side of this issue, which is that women should have the right to choose what happens to their body, is not equivalent in importance of the safety of women. With the risk and threat that abortion poses on pregnant women, the legality of it is immoral and hazardous. Taking action to defend against abortions can be nerve wracking and takes courage. However, standing up for what you believe in, in a peaceful and respectful manner, will ignite change in our society. Whatever the matter may be, standing up for what you believe in just once can give you the courage to speak your mind for the rest of your life. If you feel compelled to take a stand with and for the Pro-life movement, there are many things you can do. Going to a local abortion clinic and standing outside offering education and guidance to women is a great way to reach out to mothers who are questioning abortion. most effective thing you can do as a pro-lifer is to get involved at the nearest abortion (Prolifeactionleague.org 1). This may seem imposing on the women going into the clinic, but with the right approach this can be a very successful take of action. One could host a learning table for woman with a sign that reads a thought provoking statement or type of slogan. Something like the facts, before you or sure you know, before you are thought provoking phrases that may cause a woman to pause and think about the gravity of her decision.. Another form of action you could take as a pro-lifer is to hand out pamphlets featuring statistics and fetus development facts at your school or place of work. Acting on this cause can save a lot of lives if you truly pour your heart and passion into it. With great effort and consistency, anyone can make a change for a cause that they believe in. The pro-life movement possesses many merits that have proven it to be a worthy cause. Too many women are ill informed of the mental and physical risks, the statistical facts, and alternative options they have that could deter them from proceeding with an abortion. I personally believe that the pro-life movement has a lot of compelling evidence and support to prove that abortion should be illegal. The debate of pro-life vs. pro-choice has a long way to go before any sort of compromise or conclusion will arise, but until then people should educate themselves and stand up for what they believe in.