Shaheen 1 Ferris Shaheen Prof. Karen Hanson ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Cyber Lives Matter Being a cyber citizen in the modern world comes with a lot more than most people might not have considered before. As of 2016, nearly 300 million people use the internet in the United States alone States Internet Each and every one of these activity online are protected by various acts and bills passed by Congress and the signed by the president. Without these legislations in place the online population would be prone to exploitation by anonymous sources on the internet. To combat this, many nonprofits fight in courtrooms and lobby to influence senators and house representatives to vote on acts that protect user safety on the internet. The Electronic Frontier Foundation is an example of such organizations, and with their effective propaganda they are able to influence a population to make a difference in online safety by making them aware of legislation that affects their privacy and liberty Organizations like the EFF are invaluable to the internet users everywhere as they effectively make the internet a safer place for everyone. One of the arguably most overlooked things by people today is the amount of time and effort spent on protecting their internet privacy. Nonprofits and internet service providers alike fight tirelessly for Congress votes on bills that restrict or enable internet privacy and liberty. One prominent and relevant case is of NSA whistleblower Edward Snowden. Snowden revealed documents that gave the public a window into the NSA and its secret mass Shaheen 2 surveillance programs Is Edward Though the opinion was divided on whether Snowden was a traitor or a metaphorical martyr, many agree that the anti-terrorism policies need to be reformed (Rainie). The privacies and liberties of cyber citizens is a topic that is frequently debated in Washington D.C. important to follow these discussions as the online rights and privacies is in the hands of Congress. Something a lot of people fear is a world where the government tracks their behaviors in an Orwellian manner, and many believe that these bills are steps being taken today in the way of this kind of dystopian future. Being active in voting and political awareness can help prevent nightmares like these. Though voting is a powerful tool in the role of US government, 46.6% of the population vote last election November Election Turnout Regardless of this minority percentage, these people likely also have an opinion on internet privacy and liberty and their votes can make a difference. The Federal Communications Commission (FCC) adopted privacy rules to give broadband consumers increased choice, transparency and security for their personal data as of October 2016 In March of this year, Congress passed a vote to revoke this act. Large demographics like college students can make an impact on these bills and whether they pass or not. As a registered voter, you can call your district representative and let them know your opinions about certain bills, donate to causes that protect cyber liberties and privacies like the Electronic Frontier Foundation, and be aware and active in relevant political discussion (Zamorodi). The works of nonprofits and whistleblowers alone are not always enough to protect the internet privacy, important for everyone who is eligible to share their voice to do so Shaheen 3 and make a difference in the way the government handles cyber security. The Electronic Frontier Foundation does an excellent job at reporting government activity involving signing bills and enacting laws that violate this security. Together, the constituents of this nation can vote to make internet liberty and privacy safe again. Works Cited Frontier Foundation, Accessed 12 Feb 2017 Bauman, Zygmunt et al. (2014) Snowden: Rethinking the Impact of Political Sociology doi: Adopts Broadband Consumer Privacy Communications Commission, Web. Accessed 16 April 2017. Rainie, Lee, State of Privacy in post-Snowden Research Center, Sep 2016. Web. Accessed 16 April 2017 States Internet Live Stats, Accessed 16 April 2017 Is Edward Snowden Web. Accessed 16 April 2017 Zamorodi, Manoush, Votes To Roll Back Internet Privacy Web. Accessed 16 April 2017 November Election Turnout Project, Accessed 16 April 2017