Jescelyn 1 Jescelyn Wijaya Robert Ryan ENC 1102.057S17 16 April 2017 Gun Control in Schools in the America America is one of the countries that legalized the right to keep and bear arms. Therefore, the debate on gun control has been going on for many years. Even though many laws have passed and changed, the death rate due to gun violence still remains high. This poses a problem as it causes America to be one of the countries that has the highest crime rates in the world. Throughout the years, there have been many tragic incidents that took many innocent lives due to guns especially in schools, where it should be a safe environment. Since 2013, there have been over 220 school shootings in America. Nearly 53 percent of the shootings took place at K-12 schools and 47 percent of which took place in college or university campuses (Everytownresearch). Therefore, a new education program on gun safety needs to be implemented in schools where students will be taught on the danger and impacts of guns as well as the importance of keeping school grounds free from guns. Gunfire in schools and at colleges undermines the sense of security that all students should have in their learning environments. Communities all over the country, especially parents are living in fear of gun violence, as they want to feel secure sending their children to school with the knowledge that they will be safe. According to the data analyzed by Everytown, it shows that one in six shootings occur after a confrontation or verbal argument This suggests that many students are still not educated on how to solve conflicts humanely with Jescelyn 2 each other as they think that guns are the best way to resolve conflicts and arguments. There is evidence that these shootings can have long-term impacts on the school as well as students. A recent analysis of school shootings states that those schools and students who are involved in gun violence, they have reduce in student enrollment which affect student enrollment in the affected schools, causing some students to be traumatized and reduce in depressed standardized test scores by nearly five percent (Beland and Kim 1). Therefore, a new education program on gun safety needs to be implemented in colleges in order to educate students, staffs, committee and members of schools on the danger and consequences of guns as well as being aware that school should be a safe place and on how to take action when these shootings happen. This new education program would teach students about anger management, conflict resolution and the consequences of handling gun and using it to resolve a conflict (Moore, 1). According to the statistics found by Everytown Research, between 2013 and 2015, an average of two school shootings took place at primary and secondary schools each month. These incidents were perpetrated by minors who are not supposed to have any knowledge on how to fire a gun. However, the fact that these children know how to fire a gun and use it to hurt someone shows that children as young as 7 years old are not taught and aware of the danger and consequences of guns and instead, use it as a solution to resolve conflicts. Therefore, the topic on gun control has been a big issue due to the repeated occurrences of gun incidents in schools especially among young children. In order to decrease the rate of gun violence in school grounds in the future, a new education program of gun safety needs to be introduced as early as from elementary school which educates students that Jescelyn 3 schools should be a safe havens from the gun violence that is already so frequent elsewhere (Analysisofschoolshootings). More awareness should be brought into this topic, as it is one of the biggest problems that America faces with its crime rates. Gun shootings in school grounds not only traumatize others, it has also been proved that it increases the suicide rate in the country. In 14 months, there has been 33 school shootings and in 11 out of these 33 shootings, the shooter attempted or completed suicide. The Brady Campaign, which advocates for gun control, also suggests that homicides and suicides due to guns play a big part in the high death rate in America (thebradycampaign). Therefore, the most effective way to reduce gun violence in school grounds would be to educate students from elementary schools all the way to colleges that guns are not the answer to resolve conflicts since it has been proved that high percentage of gun deaths in schools are due to verbal argument or confrontation being intensified. Parents should also educate children at home where when conflicts arise, guns should not be the solution and instead, they should seek help from teachers or those in charge. When shootings happen, not only the target dies or gets injured, but the perpetuator also ends up killing themselves as well due to being shocked of what they have done. Gun violence in schools has started as early as since 1764, however it increases significantly and drastically throughout the years even after many laws of gun control has been implemented in the country. There are various of ways where students are able to access guns, however, that cannot be easily controlled or managed. Therefore, the most effective solution is to introduce an education program of gun safety in schools starting from elementary schools to colleges. This will remind students that firearms such as guns are very deadly and should not be allowed in school grounds as it is a place for education and parents should not have to worry Jescelyn 4 of sending their children to schools. Students should also be taught that conflicts could be resolved by seeking other alternatives and not by attacking others with guns. The statistic of gun violence in the country has been increasing throughout the years and gun shooting in schools also contribute to the high number in the statistic. Therefore, if the gun safety program can be introduced in schools and to educate students on the danger of guns, it will decrease the high crime rates in the country as well as reducing death rates Jescelyn 5 References: 1. Beland, L., and Kim, D. (2015). Effect of High School Shootings on Schools and Student Educational Evaluation and Policy Analysis, Vol. XX, No. X, pp 1-14. 2. in Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence. N.p., n.d. Web. 19 Apr. 2017 at smartgunlaws.org/gun-laws/policy-areas/firearms-in-public- places/guns-in-schools/ 3. of School EverytownResearch.org. N.p. 31 December. 2015, n.d. Web. 19 Apr. 2017 at https://everytownresearch.org/reports/analysis-of-school-shootings/ 4. Campaign to Prevent Gun About Gun Violence Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence. N.p., n.d. Web 19 Apr. 2017. 5. Href, Mailto, CLAIRE.MOORE, ABCNEWS.COM, and Claire Moore. Teach or Not Teach Gun Safety in ABC News. ABC News Network, 20 Aug. 1970. Web. 19 Apr. 2017 at abcnews.go.com/US/story?id=96091&page=1