McKinley 1 Dillon McKinley Instructor Ryan ENC 1002.097 18 th April, 2016 Proposal As of right now, about 1 in 2 students at the University of South Florida are walking around knowing that when they graduate college, they will have a significant amount of debt compiled up. When you interpret that in another way, that means if not you, the person next to you has had to depend on government subsidies in order to stay in school. It is a shame that the American education system has become such a monopolistic structure that the standing point of continuing your education, no matter how academically qualified you are, is whether you can afford it. The issue may seem of non-importance to those not affected, but to those who are affected, common living factors like your health, credit, and your personal goals are all affected by accumulated debt you receive in college. As of in the past couple of decades, student loans and tuition rates have increased to a point where most students in college pay tuition fully. According to research at MIT, tuition rates have increased by 250%. In 1985, the cost of yearly tuition for a 4-year university was averaged at $5,160. As of 2015, that has increased to $25,409. This is due to a lacked system created by the Department of Education known as Financial Aid which is willing to disperse large loans to anyone qualified without including grants and scholarships, including high interest rates, and expects it back no matter the consequences. Because of this, colleges have had to increase tuition rates to make sure they are able to keep a profit. McKinley 2 With this inundation of college debt present in the college and working community, I cannot guarantee a proposal to those who have already surpassed college, but only to those who are in it or are about to be. The increase of subsidized loans causing tuition rates to increase can be reversed by lessening the amount of subsidized loans we allow into the market. By putting a low cap on the amount of loans a student is allowed to take out for college, it forces colleges to lower tuition costs so students could afford to stay at their college and not go somewhere else. If the students did leave, it would lower the profits of the school which would cause programs to shut down, and ultimately get rid of the school. On top of all of this, for those that already have debt obligations, lowering or getting rid of interest rates will help students be able to pay off their loans faster. With the absence of interest rates, obligations are not being extended over a longer period of time. This can decrease defaults and quicken the payback process. The logic behind capping loans at a lower rate can be seen in the works of William Bennett. A former Secretary of Education, he researched the correlation of tuition rates an subsidized loans and found that as more subsidized loans are used to pay tuition at given universities, the more tuition rates increase. When he observed multiple schools tuition rates in comparison to previous college costs or neighboring state costs, he found that many schools had raised tuition rates after more subsidized loans were implemented. As for lowering interest rates, the Federal Reserve Board of St. Louis states that, rates (adjusted for expected inflation and other risks) serve as market signals of these rates of This evidence shows that not only do students feel positive effects of low interest rates, but the economy as a whole benefits as more money is able to be redistributed for other businesses or ventures. Critics may see the decrease in loans a problem as so many people depend on the loans in order to stay in school. A lot of factors they attribute to that is their ability to work, amount of McKinley 3 scholarships they apply for, and whether or not they are actually prepared to be in college. Many students who take these loans end up solely depending on their loans to pay for tuition and search for other financial options due to the lack of effort it takes to get subsidized loans. If they did extend some effort in to pursuing these routes until they achieve success, it would make it easier for students to deny loans which lowers their debt tremendously. With interest rates, economists would argue that a constantly low interest rate would cause people to take out too much money which would mean that less money would be able to be distributed. The counter to that is that if we cap the subsidies, we have to worry about mass borrowing because there be a necessity to take out large loans for low tuition costs. hard to debate that student debt is a serious issue for young Americans and the consequences of allowing students to continue increasing their debt can only lead to economic problems in the future. Making affirmative motions such as creating new legislation to repeal certain powers the Board of Education has on distributing subsidized loans is the first of many ways to alleviate debt held by present-day students. Making sure that students are also opting to use all other options of payments is also important. Increasing advertising and access to other sources of income need to be spotlighted on college campuses and even in high schools so that way students are getting the best opportunities as soon as possible. The time has come where the education system needs to focus more on the progression of future generations rather than focusing on profiteering on the youth. McKinley 4 Work Cited http://www.collegefactual.com/colleges/university-of-south-florida-main-campus/paying-for- college/student-loan-debt/ Kliesen, Kevin L. Low Interest Rates Have Benefits... and  Low Interest Rates Have Benefits ...and Costs. Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, n.d. Web. 19 Apr. 2017. Lee, Jungmin1, jungmin.lee@uky.edu. Does Merit-Based Aid Improve College Affordability? Testing The Bennett Hypothesis In The Era Of Merit-Based  Journal Of Student Financial Aid 46.2 (2016): 51-78. Education Source. Web. 11 Feb. 2017. Temin, Peter. The American Dual  International Journal of Political Economy, vol. 45, no. 2, Apr. 2016, pp. 85-123. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1080/08911916.2016.1185311. Tuition Costs of College and  Fast Facts. National Center of Education Statistics, n.d. Web. 19 Apr. 2017.