Lyn 1 Mellissa Lyn Professor Aranda ENC 1102 April 16, 2017 Dangers of the Internet One important reason why the internet does more harm than good is that it causes thousands of potential threats towards young children. The internet is a global communication network that allows all computers worldwide to connect and exchange information. It is presently the most popular technology used conveniently by students. However, just like everything else, it has its disadvantages. These drawbacks affect the younger generation and preys on them by making them vulnerable to online pornography, anonymous chat room, cyberbullying, sexual predators and pedophiles etc. To create more awareness and influence internet safety for the children, the parents of young victims have partnered with the Enough is Enough organization to get more people involved to tackle the issue. They believe by supporting this issue they can change the present situation for the better and to promote a healthy mind and sexuality for the children. The parents along with the organization are actively reaching out to persons who were victims to these dangers. To be a part of this cause, individuals can sign up for the conference/seminars on the EIE website. These seminars will be hosted at participating schools on the last day of every month starting in August. Stability comes from leveling the playing field and in this case, the young children are losing and have lost their will to fight. This is a fight they cannot win on their own. This kind of rupture is causing humanity to lose their set of values and morality. The sexual satisfaction Lyn 2 driven by the sexual urges, is corrupting the minds of the victims and especially the abusers. The internet drives the curiosity and intensity of the mind and so it is the platform for child destruction. To control or suppress what is accessed, published and viewed on the internet may be behind reach, but if people of similar minds and who wants the same things, can accomplish it together. They can initiate measures to limit criminal activity, protect the children, strengthen online security and even be aware of what is being published in real time. Since 1992 Enough is Enough (EIE) has been an organization dedicated to raising public awareness about the dangers of internet pornography, sexual predators and cyberbullying among other dangers. They strive to protect the innocence of the children, for a healthy sexuality and to build a society free from the sexual exploitation, (enough.org). This outreach has greatly impacted families and the society and they have been recognized for it. Mr. Andrew G. Oosterbann, the Chief of the United States Department of Justice, Criminal Division, Child Exploitation and Obscenity Section, stated the EIE, headed by Donna Rice Hughes, has been a leading force in raising national recognition of the critically serious problem of Internet child pornography and sexual predation, (enough.org). A mother of a victim of internet pornography stated that, Donna and Enough Is Enough are doing is fabulous, because the prevention is huge, (enough.org). They have seen difference in their lives, and the reality is that the SAFE seminars will be able to reach more students, as they are more vulnerable to an attack. It is so easy to just access the internet and be captive to its dangers but establishing and fully understanding how to not be a prey to the dangers is by knowing the real-life perspective of these dangers. On average, 12-15 years old spend 17 hours a week on social media and online. The more they spend on the internet, the more they are vulnerable to sexual predators, sexual offenses, Lyn 3 porn and cyberbullying. At this age, children should be involved in extracurricular activities, going on family outings, spending quality time with friends, having a hobby, doing homework or just being creative. Statistical data shows that 75% of the victims of internet-initiated sex crimes are girls, with a large majority of them being between 13 to 15 years of age, (kidslivesafe.com). The site explicitly goes on to explain and show statistics of the number of aggressors. The number of sexual predators and online sexual offenses has more than doubled in the last three years, with more than 82% of online sex crimes originating from social networking sites that predators use to gain insight into their habits and likes, (kidslivesafe.com). It is difficult to comprehend that in the community of kids so many are left in the dark, unware of the true dangers of their actions, and this has become prevalent throughout the years. The evidence of the internet dangers does not only surround sexual content. Thirteen-year-old, Hope Witsell of Sundance, Florida committed suicide because she was cyberbullied. Her only crime was forwarding a nude photo of herself to a boy she liked, (puresight.com). The incidents of cyberbullying have spiraled out of control and 65% of 8-14 years old have been involved, (kidslivesafe.com). Cyberbullying threatens existence as it spreads rumors of society formed opinions and very rude comments. This online danger provokes the minds of these victims making them feel unworthy and not good enough. Also, their need to have people accept them and be their friends. To avoid this, parents should be involved in their life 100%, teaching them that they are good enough and that sexting is wrong. These supportive relationships, including the SAFE seminars can help result in a change for the children. This situation is very delicate and it deserves all hands-on deck. Everyone with concern are welcome to help and be a part of the cause. Ultimately, not all incidents from the internet are reported. This does not mean that they should be left in the dark and be locked away Lyn 4 in the cold cases. It is better to speak up and fix the matter before someone else becomes a victim. The key to moving on could be reliving what happen and accepting that it happened and move on. In January of 2002, Alicia Kozakiewicz became the victim of an Internet luring and was abducted to another state where she was held captive, (aliciaproject.org). Alicia has used her recovery and experience to spend her life educating and protecting children, sharing her story and helping to get the word out to parents and kids about the real-world dangers posed by online predatory offenders. A grade 7 student from Chicago thanked Alicia for her remarkable insight, Alicia, I am so grateful that you took the time to come to our school and share your story. Your presentation taught me how to be more careful online and be more aware of online predators. I did not realize how dangerous it could be, until I heard it from you. Thank you for sharing your experience and teaching me a valuable (aliciaproject.org). The organization in which she has built has changed the lives of other children. She accepted what happened to her and saw a way in which she can live with it by being an inspiration for others. An investigator from Internet Crimes Against Children, Terry Buckley quoted, amazing how students respond to Alicia Kozakiewicz in the classroom. She is able to connect with kids in a way that law enforcement cannot. Additionally, The Alicia Project brings a unique perspective to child abduction and child sex abuse from the eyes of a survivor. As a law enforcement officer, it is crucial to understand both sides of this gruesome crime, not only for the purposes of prosecution, but for the influence and support that I want to have with my (aliciaproject.org). Her devotion is raising awareness, and the SAFE seminars can also. The monthly SAFE seminars will offer the guidance, inspiration, lessons and real-life perspectives to lead the change. To be a part of this change, sign up on the EIE website, www.enough.org. Lyn 5 Works Cited of 8 Advantages and Disadvantages of Internet Censorship, Future of Working.com, https://futureofworking.com/8-advantages-and-disadvantages-of-internet- censorship/ Live Online Predators and Cyberbullying Statistics, KidsLiveSafe.com, http://www.kidslivesafe.com/child-safety/online-predators-and-cyberbullying-statistics Life Hope Witsell, Puresight.com, http://www.puresight.com/Real-Life- Stories/hope-witsell.html Alicia About Alicia Kozakiewicz, Aliciaproject.org, http://www.aliciaproject.org/about-alicia-kozakiewicz.html Testimonials, Aliciaproject.org, http://www.aliciaproject.org/testimonials.html