McIver 1 Jasmine McIver Instructor Townsend ENC1102 15 April 2017 Getting Involved in the Mistreatment of the Killer Whales The first SeaWorld park originally opened in San Diego in 1964 as a marine zoological park. Today, there are three SeaWorld locations as well as other parks that have the goal of connecting guests with marine life in new ways SeaWorld has rescued and sheltered over 25,000 animals between their three locations (SeaWorld Parks & Entertainment). Among these numbers is their twenty-two killer whales (Entertainment). The orcas are captured and kept in captivity to be shown off to the audience through different shows. The park uses these shows as a way for their visitors to see and learn about the killer whales up close. Through all their different activities, the parks hope to give guests an experience that is not only fun, but one that will help the audience develop a sense of appreciation for the environment around them. With that being said, there has been a negative side that has been exposed over the past couple of years. SeaWorld became involved and accused of the mistreatment of the killer whales they kept captive. In its defense, Jim McBain explained that keeping zoos and amusement parks such as SeaWorld are the only ways to keep the public knowledgeable about wild animals Since then, many parks have imported and bred animals to put them on display for their visitors to interact with. The most controversial issue revolving SeaWorld and its captive killer whales is the mistreatment of these precious animals that deserve to be treated equally as well as we want to be treated. If it has been scientifically proven that these killer whales are suffering in captivity, why is it that we still keep them there? Former SeaWorld trainer Jeff Ventre notes: McIver 2 The fatal attacks are manifestations of stress, even madness, in animals forced into miserable, unnatural  Not only do these amazing sentient beings suffer major psychological trauma but they also typically have broken teeth because they bite on the steel gates that are used to separate them and suffer from dorsal fin collapse from endlessly swimming in circles. Wild killer whales normally swim upwards of 100 miles a day in straight lines and dorsal fin collapse is very rare among wild orcas. (Bekoff) It has become noticeable that the killer whales kept in captivity not only unhealthy, but they are unhappy as well. In recent years, there have been alternatives found to teach the public about these animals in ways that do not involve their captivity. Out of the few ideas, one idea would include giving boat rides out to the sea in order to see the killer whales in their natural habitats/ One way this could be done would inclde taking after or partnering with whale watching companies such as The San Diego Whale Watch. The parks could teach their customers about these mammals by taking them out on boat rides into the water. For instance, SeaWorld San Diego could partner with the San Diego Whale Watch as a way to get their guests into the sea. The San Diego Whale Watch is a company that provides whale watching all year long (San Diego Whale Watch), meaning they could offer transportation for the SeaWorld viewers throughout the year if they wished to as well. If the two join together, it would be an example of how of the public could learn about the whales while keeping them happily in their natural habitat. For the most part, everyone either owns a pet or knows someone who owns a pet. That pet is more than likely treated respectfully, is cared for, and is loved. The killer whales at SeaWorld are equally important animals as the ones we own as pets. No one wants to be held captive and kept in a box for the rest of their lives, no one wants to be separated from their McIver 3 families at a young age, and no one should suffer from depression. The saying others the way you want to be is fully relevant to the fact that the killer whales are mammals just like humans. They have feelings the exact same way humans have feelings and emotions and it is unfair for them to be mistreated the way they are in captivity. What if humans were captured and kept in a space so small, they soon gained experienced fractured backs as well as depression? The amount of stress the orcas go through just so people can learn about them through shows is unreal and no animal or human deserves to be treated so poorly. Students at the University of South Florida especially should care for the topic. Some of the students could be studying or just be interested in animals, specifically killer whales and could care about the well-being of these mammals. There are several different ways you can become involved in the issue. The first and possibly most simple way would be to boycott SeaWorld until they release all the unhappy killer whales currently held in captivity. This way, SeaWorld would slowly start losing visitors which would lead to decrease in revenue and lead them to no other option but to set the orcas free. Considering SeaWorld Orlando is not too far from the University of South Florida, it would be easy for students to participate in the boycott. If students have passes to SeaWorld, they could switch to different amusement parks such as Disney, Busch Gardens, or Universal Studios that do not capture killer whales. Another way the audience could get involved would include signing petitions that call for the let go of the killer whales. There are several petitions online that could be found simply through a google search that would make a difference if people take the time to sign one. The petitions online are extremely helpful in showing that your vote matters and it does make a change. They show how many votes they have, how many they need, and the percentage of the way they are complete. This way could also be easy for college students at the University McIver 4 of South Florida to participate in. Most students own either a laptop or a smartphone and it would not take them long to google search a petition and sign it within a few minutes. The killer whale issue is one that should have a little more attention. It is relevant to students at the university because of the mistreatment of the animals and the proximity of the park as well. As a whole, if we all work together the captive killer whales could be released and live happily and stress free back in its natural habitat. McIver 5 Works Cited Page Bekoff, Marc. Captivity Drives Killer Whales Crazy: SeaWorld Fights Fines For Placing Profit Over  Psychology Today. Sussex Publishers, 20 Sept. 2011. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. < https://www.psychologytoday.com/blog/animal-emotions/201109/captivity-drives- killer-whales-crazy-seaworld-fights-fines-placing>. Entertainment, SeaWorld Parks &. Orca Profile  Orca Profile Pages SeaWorld Cares. SeaWorld Cares, Web. 12 Feb. 2017. <https://seaworldcares.com/the-facts/Orca Profiles/>. Jim McBain & Brad  PBS. Frontline, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://www.pbs.org/wgbh/pages/frontline/shows/whales/debate/procap.html>. San Diego Whale Watch.  San Diego Whale Watch. N.p., Web. 11 Feb. 2017. <http://sdwhalewatch.com/>. SeaWorld Parks & Entertainment.  Where Imagination Meets Nature. SeaWorld Parks & Entertainment Inc., Web. 11 Feb. 2017. <https://seaworldentertainment.com/en/who we-are/history>.