Blew 1 Ryan Blew ENC 1102 Alison Missler 16 April 2017 Autism Now One of the biggest debates in education system is what to do with students with disabilities. Students with disabilities have been faced with exclusions from classrooms, which leads to many negative effects to their personal self. However, those with Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) have recently been slowly getting acquitted into everyday classrooms. However, you can allow all students to be in the classroom. Most people do not realize that students with autism are excluded from the classroom. Although Catholic schools believe that those students with Autism Spectrum Disorder should be excluded from the classroom by going to specialized schools, their position on ASD in the classroom should be reevaluated as research has shown that those with autism are more successful if they were included with those that are different from them. The stated mission of catholic schools included inclusivity and promotes the availability to all students. According to Durrow, a researcher studying Catholic schools, his studies notice that of the 19 schools in the study, only 8 believed that their mission was intentionally about those with special needs. With the average number of students with special needs in elementary schools being 8%, it is important for all schools to make special needs part of their mission. One reason that this became such a major issue is that of the 19 schools, 13 schools had students with ASD (Durrow 481-484). The stated mission of most catholic schools was Blew 2 inclusive and promotes the availability to all students, however they are not including those with autism spectrum disorder. Being in an inclusive classroom has many benefits, and if a child is in one, it should be obvious. Mesibov and Shea from the University of North Carolina, discovered that students who have a disability and are included in the classroom receive modeling of lower spectrum students, higher self-esteem, and less stigma of disabilities (Mesibov 338). It was also reported that learned social interaction skills were generally better in integrated setting, though this was qualitative data. It has also been reported that students with disabilities have a plethora of benefits when in the classroom, compared to those that are excluded to another school. When students are included, they have an increase in social initiations, relationships and behavior skills. This increase in social interactions will allow for students to be successful in future career opportunities because most jobs, especially for those with disabilities. According to Autism Speaks, an organization that promotes autism awareness, stated that 1 in 68 people fall on the autism spectrum (Home). Thus, it is important to get the necessary communication and interaction skills to those with autism, so they will be better prepared to work with us. Some people believe that it is better for those with autism to be in the classroom because it is a more individualized approach to their needs as they can get one-on-one attention from a special teacher who is specifically trained. However, it has been shown in schools that having a special education aid in the regular classroom, would allow for autistic students to get that exclusive interaction within an inclusive classroom. While it is important to have students have a specialized person with the student, according to Stainback, a professor Blew 3 from the University of South Carolina, stated that test scores have risen over 32% for students that had both an inclusive and exclusive interaction (Stainback). It is clear that students with autism should be included in the classroom, which is why a group of students at the University of South Florida created the club This mission is to make sure that all students are included in the classroom at some point of the day, to better prepare autistic students for the future. In order to officially make this a club, we are currently going through the verification process. We are going to be a service club because we fit that category in the Student Handbook for USF, where it states that service clubs are that provide volunteer opportunities for civic-minded students eager to serve the campus and/or We also need a full-time staff member to be the advisor of the club, at least 10 students to show interest, a constitution on Bull Sync, and agreeing to all rules of the Center for Leadership and Civic Engagement The club will be having a kick-off on May 31st from 1:00 pm to 3:00 pm, where students can get more information on why they should care about autistic The students at USF want to create awareness about including students with autism, and hope that they will become aware of the issue at hand. Students with autism have seen traumatic effects throughout time. Catholic schools have a lot of power when it comes to the education they provide. Due to catholic schools being privatized, and the government cannot have many regulations on them, since it is not tax payer funded, they have the ability to do whatever they want. In the end, this is effecting those with autism, and it is not helping them for their future. You have the change to help student with autism to be better off in the future. This event will help everyone in the future to allow better Blew 4 jobs for those with autism. You have the power to make a difference, so go out and help all students. Blew 5 Works Cited Durrow, W. Patirck. And Serving Students With Special Needs In Catholic Schools: A Report of Catholic Education 4 (2007): 473-489. Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.  Autism Speaks. Autism Speaks Inc., 24 July 2012. Web. 20 Apr. 2017. Mesibov, Gary B., and Victoria Shea. Inclusion and Students with Journal of Autism & Developmental Disorders 26.3 (1996): 337-346. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 7 Feb. 2017. Stainback, W., & Stainback, S. Controversial issues confronting special education: Divergent issues. Needham Heights, MA: Allyn and Bacon. 2016. Web. 16 April 2017.