Hernandez 1 Juan Hernandez Alison Missler ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Discriminatory Ban on Donations It is common knowledge that blood is essential to every living person. Blood is what transfers oxygen throughout our body so that we can function. Though blood is essential, it can be replaced, which is a good thing, or else it would be difficult to help patients that have lost an excessive amount of blood. Since blood cannot be made, it has to come from people who are willing to donate it. Even though people are encouraged to donate blood, there are certain groups of people who are unable to donate blood. According to the guidelines, people who have been treated for syphilis or gonorrhea are unable to donate blood for about twelve months which is understandable since these two diseases are transferable through blood, but what is not reasonable is that a man who has had sex with another man (MSM) is unable to donate blood for twelve months (Questions about blood). It comes across as homophobic, and feels discriminatory to stop someone from donating blood because they have had sex with another man. In order to show the FDA how the gay community and its straight allies feel about this ban, there is a yearly Gay Blood Gay and bisexual men, who are ineligible to donate, promote awareness about this discrimination, and encourage those who are eligible to donate blood to do so. It is not as though there is no reason for this twelve month ban, the problem is that the logic behind this ban seems like rather outdated thinking. The reason that MSM are specifically targeted is because of HIV/AIDS. During the the world was introduce to HIV/AIDS, which Hernandez 2 was originally coined as the term since it was predominantly showing in gay men, but that was back in the (A time line...). The CDC reports that in 2014 that 54% of people that were diagnosed with AIDS were gay and bisexual ). With half of the cases of AIDS coming from gay, and bisexual men it might make sense to put some precautions in place, but this statistic is a little misleading as it is referring to the amount of people who are diagnosed with AIDS, but not this is not the same as the percentage of people in the gay community who have AIDS. Statics like this make it seem as though half of the gay population has AIDS, when in reality they do not. In 2014 there was actually a only less than a 1% percent increase of gay/bisexual men who were diagnosed with HIV/AIDS from 2010 ). Banning an entire group of people for 12 months based on statistics such as this seems to be more based on old thinking rather than facts, and shows little faith in the improvements of blood testing that the FDA has approved of. Technology can change vastly over the course of three decades, and blood testing techniques are no exception to this. Having a ban in the and even the may have been reasonable since HIV/AIDS was new and not much was known about it, but today there is almost 4 decades worth of information on HIV/AIDS. The Red Cross, like all organizations should, tests all donated blood for HIV, even back in the the Red cross tested donated blood once the FDA had licensed a test for HIV (History of Now HIV test are far more accurate, according to AIDS.gov, HIV current HIV tests can detect HIV as early as one month after contraction of the virus, and these tests can have results back as quickly as one hour (HIV Test types). There has been a vast improvement in the way blood is tested in the past three decades and the FDA should trust that testing methods they themselves have approved of, are able to accurately detect HIV. Hernandez 3 With these improvements in blood testing it does not seem necessary to have a twelve month ban on MSM. Yes, half of the people diagnosed with AIDS are gay or bisexual men, but that does not mean the majority of gay men and bisexual men have AIDS. This ban is discriminatory because it makes assumptions based events that transpired 3 decades ago, and statics that can be misconstrued. This ban does not take into account the lifestyles; gay men are statically more likely to contract HIV, but anyone can contract HIV or any other sexually transmitted disease if they do not take precautions. The ban is assuming the worst of the gay community, that the majority of gay men are having unprotected sex. Thinking like this is probably what perpetuated the term because the ban makes it seems as though heterosexual man is highly unlike to have or be at risk of getting HIV. There is no question that this ban needs to change so that it stops discriminating against gay and bisexual men. That is why the Gay Blood was created in the first place, to help spread awareness of this issue. But this issue will not be properly addressed until more people to get involved. Anyone that is eligible to donate can participate in the national gay blood drive to help spread awareness. You can create your own blood drive, petition, or create a hashtag on twitter discussing the ban, anything that helps to spread awareness of this can make a difference. There does not seem to be a need for a twelve month ban for MSM when testing for HIV has improved vastly over the past three decades. It feels discriminatory that gay and bisexual men are basically being singled out, and this only helps to perpetuate more discrimination against the gay community since it makes it seem as though there is a problem with their blood; it makes it seem as though their blood is unclean, or dirty. The only way to change this ban is if there is more awareness of this issue. Everyone that is able to should go out and spread Hernandez 4 awareness in some way or another. Things will only change once more people get involved to help change it. Hernandez 5 Works cited A Timeline of  AIDS.gov. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research. Questions about Blood Revised Recommendations for Reducing the Risk of Human Immunodeficiency Virus Transmission by Blood and Blood Products - Questions and  U S Food and Drug Administration Home Page. Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research, n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. History of Blood  American Red Cross. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 30 Sept. 2016. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. HIV Test  Welcome to AIDS.gov. N.p., n.d. Web. 07 Feb. 2017.Disease Control and Prevention, 30 Sept. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.