Quadros 1 Nicole Quadros Dr. Oana Cimpean ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Save a Life: Choose to Save Everyone loves babies, they are cute and fun to play with. Then why are we taking a life? Many women who abort were probably not ready for a baby. Nevertheless, women have many other options to take into consideration other than abortion. Abortion is the elimination of the fetus in its initial stages of development. This act is not fair to the baby, since you are determining the fate of his or her life. Saving lives should be the motto and main objective and taking it away should be the last resort when no other options are viable. Creating awareness and increasing education about abortion will help spread the word that we should choose life instead of taking it away. Abortion, in my opinion which does not give the baby a chance to life should not be a legal right. A baby has rights too, how can you kill a fetus that cannot voice his or her opinions or their choice? A woman has rights too, but being a woman myself, we respect a right the same way we want our rights respected? A baby have a choice, and depends solely on the mother to make the right one. So, must put themselves in their place and decide what is best for their child. Abortion be one of their options unless life threatening. Quadros 2 first understand what abortion really entails, since most women really realize what actually happens when an embryo (fetus) is conceived. Abortion is the termination of a fetus, usually during the first 28 weeks. During the first 28 weeks, the baby is getting developed and during week 28 the baby is settling into the proper position for birth, with his head facing downward. (What to Expect) So how can one terminate a baby when it is getting ready to exit and see the world. In 2014, around 926,240 abortions took place in the U.S., down from 1.06 million in 2011. (Annual Abortion Statistics) The abortion rates have reduced, but we need to continue to educate women on abortion and the other options they have available at their disposal. So take a look at the various options women have other than abortion. Adoption through an agency or finding parents through your family and friends who are willing to adopt is one of the main choices. There are several organizations that help pregnant women find eligible couples to adopt their baby. 1 in 8 couples have trouble getting pregnant or sustaining a pregnancy. (Infertility Advocacy) Many couples world over have babies and go through so much emotional havoc to have one, they would be more than willing to adopt babies from mothers who are young and not ready to raise children yet. Pro-choice support abortion because their line of thought is more focused on the woman and her right to choose what happens to her body. But pro-choice supporters need to broaden their outlook and understand point of view. Pro-life supporters want to take rights away, they just want to save the life along with the mother. Both lives are important to them. Life as an adult or life as a fetus demands equal rights and cannot be lopsided that one life is more important than the other. All life in general is important and needs to be respected that way. Women were created to pro-create and become mothers. Maternal instinct has been in place throughout history. You even see that maternal instinct in other species Quadros 3 of animals and birds living on this planet. By default, save their lives over themselves. part of their genetic makeup. Science has several articles displaying this relationship over the ages across different animal species. Abortion, as indicated previously should be the last resort and performed under dire circumstances. These dire circumstances include women who are raped, mothers who could possibly die if they gave birth, or children who may have a birth defect that could endanger them in the future. Even under these circumstances, however, it would be totally the choice if she wants to go through with the abortion. If pro-choice engages in this way of thinking, we can reach many women who are uncertain about their pregnancy decision. So, if we come together and spread the word and increase awareness about abortion, we can reach many women and possibly change their mind to abort. Pro-choice supporters probably want to enforce the choice of killing the fetus, but tend to give women the right to decide. However, for women to make the right and informed choice they need to be educated on that subject so they can choose to save a life. Once we educate them, we can support them and give them names of organizations that can help them if they are not ready to have a child. American Adoptions and World Association for Children and Parents are some of the many organizations that can help women find parents for their baby. We need to make a difference and save a life. We should choose to save a life, instead of choosing to kill it. We need to encourage women to make the right decision and value life in every which way. Pro-choice can benefit by encouraging women to express their right to save a life. We need to get the word out so that women can get educated about abortion and make wise and right decisions. We can save more babies with every person that helps educate women about abortion. Quadros 4 Works Cited Collura, Barbara. Many People Have Infertility? RESOLVE: The National Infertility Association, Resolve, 8 July 2014, www.resolve.org/get-involved/the-center-for-infertility- justice/blog/how-many-people-have- infertility.html?referrer=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.google.com%2F. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017 Abortion Abort73.Com / Abortion Unfiltered, Abort73.Com, Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. to Whattoexpect, What to Expect, 7 Apr. 2017, www.whattoexpect.com/pregnancy/week-by-week/week-28.aspx. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017.