Ainong Song ENC Professor Kristen Rouisse April 16, 2017 Encourage Chinese Traditional Culture elements Combine with Modern life The Culture of China is home to one of the oldest and most complex civilizations covering a history of over 5,000 Years (New World Encyclopedia Contributors, 2017). Traditional culture element is a reflection of traditional values and traditional beliefs, the main origin of Chinese culture thoughts comes from three parts: Confucianism, Taoism and Buddhism. Under the influence of these faiths, Chinese culture has a generated a rich and profound system of values. The concepts of and culture must be in the five cardinal virtues of benevolence, righteousness, propriety, wisdom, and faithfulness. These principles have constantly played out over 5000 year-long history (Wu, 2015). Traditional Chinese elements has been influenced greatly by traditional Chinese culture. For example, music, Chinese ideograph, Chinese Painting, and traditional opera. During the old China, traditional Chinese culture element had been used in the product design and life. For example dragon, dragon as important totem of China is often used in the product design and instruments of sacrifice. But in the modern social, when a lot of new modern elements enter into China, traditional Chinese elements begin to be forgotten by the young people. They think modern elements can give them more better and fashion life. Although some old people still use traditional Chinese elements in their work and life, the big trend is not optimistic. So the best way that the keep traditional Chinese elements is combine with the modern life. When the traditional Chinese elements also become a design concept of fashion, traditional Chinese culture elements will have second life. The same point between the traditional Chinese elements and modern elements is they both have inseparable connection with culture. Chinese traditional culture still have big influence for Chinese consumers. So not only the designers can not give up traditional Chinese elements, but also they should try to use traditional Chinese element in their design and to open the world market. In fact, the product which has traditional Chinese elements will be popular in the world market. So the requirement that traditional culture factors in design do not only strive to make advanced technologies more appropriate for their social context, but also to make better use of traditional culture inself as a resource for innovation (Wu, 2015). Product is the carrier of the culture, so the designer is not only a product in the design, but also they pass the traditional culture at the same time. in a practical design process, four relative steps are used to design a cultural product, namely, investigation,(setting a scenario), interaction (telling a story), development (writing a script), and implementation (designing a product) (Lin, 2007). In the traditional culture elements, Chinese traditional painting freehand technique has a very important status in traditional Chinese culture. As one of the most representative are form in China, Chinese traditional painting is widely used in daily life. During the old China, the Chinese traditional painting elements are often used in chinaware and interior decorate. Until now, Chinese traditional painting elements are often used in the clothes design, building design, and fitment. Traditional arts can bring designer with art inspiration (Lu, 2010). For example Wanda Shopping mall, the whole building use the porcelain concept, the outside tile are decorated in specially images of auspicious animals birds, plants and evocations of landscapes, reflecting local Chinese cultural heritage (Stufish Entertainment Architects, 2016). The text of a country is the most Characteristic elements, of course Chinese ideograph also is one of the features of Chinese traditional culture elements. Chinese calligraphy is one of the traditional culture, It is written with ink brushes. Chinese characters are composed of a series of strokes. Chinese Characters is different English, the every Chinese character both has their different meaning. So every Chinese character can be called a special painting. This finding give clothes designer a design inspiration, they use Chinese character into T-shirt design. This kind of T-shirt can be found in shopping website and some shopping mall. Tattoo is a from of body modification, where a design is made by inserting ink, dyes and pigments, either indelible or temporary, into the dermis layers of the skin to change the pigment (Wikipedia). In the tattoo design, many stars begin to fall in love with tattoos of Chinese characters, even if they understand meaning. For example Beckham, Justin Bieber. More and more young people like listening popular music, they think traditional Chinese music be shown in their daily life. A large number of western Musical instruments into China, they think popular music more fashion. But Baltzis give a word the main is that using popular music and different traditional cultures to create new music style. For example Chinese style popular music, class Chinese pop combine popular music with traditional Chinese Beijing opera, and then create a new style of pop music. The famous music include is and The singer of is famous Beijing Opera actor. He broken the traditional forms of performance, and use Beijing Opera elements enter into popular music. That is a good beginning the traditional Chinese culture elements combine with more life. Actually, the biggest hurdle is from the traditional old handicraftsmen. They believe new technology and they think traditional Chinese culture combine with the modern will make traditional culture lost their characteristics of the original. In other means, the most of old handicraftsmen worry about their traditional elements be great used in the modern life, modern elements will broke the value of original. This is not a problem, the key point to solving the problem is from the young designers. When the young designers design a new product and plan to use traditional Chinese elements, they should pay attention to keep the original characteristic. The young designer need pick up the good elements and remove the bad parts. Old handicraftsmen should support traditional Chinese elements combine with the modern life. Because all thing must can be used in daily life and improve economic, if their traditional culture do it, the culture will lost young people. In my conclusion, Modern product design is originated from culture, culture is the basis of forming products. (Wu, 2015). China has a long time history, traditional Chinese culture elements are very rich. How to keep them? How to make them to be used in the daily life and modern life? Chinese is not only inherit tradition culture, also they need carry forward traditional culture. The development of the traditional Chinese culture should be combined with the development of the times. So traditional Chinese culture can not be inherited mechanically, people should absorb the idea and artistic essence of traditional Chinese culture to promote social progress (Wu, 2015). Encourage the traditional Chinese culture elements combine with the modern life, this way can make world people learn about Chinese traditional culture. This way can inherit and carry forward traditional culture. Word: 1164 Work cited Works Cited Lin, R. t. (2007). Transforming Taiwan Aboriginal Cultural Freatures into Modern Product Desing: A case study of a Cross-Cultural product design Model. International Journal of Design. Lu, Y. (2010). Inspiration of Chinese Traditional Culture to Modern Industrial Design. IEEE Xplore. New World Encyclopedia Contributors. (2017, Apri 16). Culture of China. Retrieved from New World Encyclopedia: http : Stufish Entertainment Architects. (2016). Nanchang Wanda Mall. Stufish Entertainment Architects. Wu, Q. (2015). Traditional Chinese Culture in Modern Product Design. Quebec : Canadian Social Science.