Dor Lotringer Lotringer 1 Karen Hanson, PhD Composition 2 16 April 2017 Testing for drugs in the workplace The image of drugs in the workplace can be misunderstood by many members of the society in modern world. Drugs, which are used often nowadays, can have a negative correlation to the workplace and to the employees on the job. In fact, 65% of all accidents on the jobs are drug and alcohol related More people begin to notice this issue, and plan to address it by placing mandatory drug tests to detect the problem before it occurs. A company has a right to drug test its employees, however, the disadvantages that go along with it can be alarming to many corporations. For example, drug testing every employee can be costly and too time consuming. Placing drug testing policies require additional training, HR policies being put into place, and executing the policies before employees are drug tested All of this issues require a large amount of work, time and money. This can sound threatening to companies, however, drug testing has become cheaper for corporations, and is now ranging in a price lower than $75 per applicant This is a small price to pay compared to the amount of money needed to deal with this situation later on. Studies have shown that companies that drug test their employees have reduced absenteeism, accidents, workers compensation claims, loss of productivity Lotringer 2 and employee turnover This proves that without drug testing, many issues can occur and cost the company a lot more time and money. According to the US department of labor, use in the workplace costs employers $75 to $100 billion annually in time lost accidents, health care, and workers compensation Department of Not only that, but drug users are sixteen times more likely to use health care benefits and are six times more likely to file workers compensation claims after injuries caused from abuse of alcohol or drugs Considering the price of recruitment, hire and train new employees, the cost of drug testing is completely justified. All things considered, having drug testing policies reduces risk in the workplace, and with the reduction of risk, insurance for employees can cost a lot less for the company, which saves money for both the employee and the employer in the long run! Another argument that can be used from critics to deny drug testing in the workplace is the lawsuits that claim that drug testing is an invasion of privacy. This claim is understandable but incorrect due to the fact that there is a set legislation all across the U.S that protects companies who choose to drug test their employees. true to say that ss long as all policies are laid out before the drug tests and the consequences of a positive drug test is positioned and given to all employees, there will be no employee that can legally sue their employers for invasion of privacy or discrimination against them due to the clear rules that was posed and shown to them before their drug test was taken and before they decided to take it and fail it with or without warning beforehand Lotringer 3 Some impacts that engage employees to take their drug tests include the causes of drug abuse at work like Tardiness/sleeping on the job, After-effects of substance use (hangover, withdrawal) affecting job performance, Poor decision making, Loss of efficiency, Theft, Lower morale of coworkers and so much more! There is no reason to why an employee will not engage and perform their tests after these causes are presented. Lastly, critics of drug testing argue that it creates resentment in the workplace, because it makes applicants and employees feel like the company trust them. But while drug testing is inconvenient to some employees, it ultimately makes the workplace into a safer place for everybody, while creating profit and incredible margins to the corporation, which are both important benefits to companies all around the world. It is important to remember those remarkable benefits, due to the fact that it is safe, reliable, profitable and also functionable in all businesses. When it comes to supporting drug testing in the workplace, any employee can submit a request, memo or email to their employers requesting further information to why their business incorporating these important advantages. It is crucial to understand that without the implication of drug tests, no one is safe. Many employees who do drugs tend to believe they are sheltered from this issue, when in reality, it impacts everyone they work with. To conclude, the advantages of drug testing in the workplace are clear. It is very important to understand that with a safer, more enjoyable environment, change must occur. If an employee being drug tested, reach to the employer today to find out the Lotringer 4 reason why, and use the arguments to why drug testing can benefit the company by saving money, legal help, and safety hazards from occurring. As companies attempt to make the change and turn away from inferior habits, the use of drug testing has a positive impact, and the decisions made that can turn horrific future events into a safe and sustainable workplace for all. Lotringer 5 Works Cited Current, William F. Drug Testing: How Both Employers and Employees  N.p., 12 Dec. 2002. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. International Labour Organization. Clean: Drug and Alcohol Testing in the , 01 Sept. 2006. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. Medical disposables Drug n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Pre Employment Drug Testing Why Drug Test in the  Medical Disposables. YouTube, 21 Apr. 2014. Web. 09 Apr. 2017.