Dhanashree 1 Dhanashree Rawalgaonkar Ms. Erika Staiger ENC-Composition II 4/16/2017 USF students against GMOs Genetically modified organisms (GMOs) are hybrids produced by mixing DNA or genetic material of two or more species artificially with the use of biotechnology. Consumers criticize genetically modified food, also called GMOs, because of health and safety concerns. Monsanto is the leading producer of genetically modified food crops, and pesticides. However, GMOs are often viewed with skepticism due to the lack of experimental designs, and studies to prove the sustainability of their products. There have been numerous studies by experts which suggest that GMOs can adversely impact humans and the environment. A recent study of Bt. cotton (hybrid genetically modified cotton variety) in India by Bhardwaj concludes that farmers were plagued with problems like crop failures, over fertilization, high requirements for pesticides leading to smaller yields and high expenses (31). Countries like Germany, France and Bulgaria have already banned GMOs based on the safety clause passed by European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) based on research which suggests hazardous impacts of GMOs on health and environment (GMO legislation). EFSA is a trusted organization and contribute to the regulations regarding food safety in the European Union. Considering the actions taken by other countries in the world, and the research by many scholarly sources regarding the ill effects of GMOs, Eat Organic, and Eat Healthy Association (EOEH) urges USF students to buy organic food and products to support sustainability. USF students can be a part of Eat Organic, Eat Healthy Association (EOEH) which is a nonprofit organization established at USF to support organic products. The organization Dhanashree 2 conducts many programmers and drives to support organic products. According to EOEH, genetically modifying genes and introducing new unknown genes into the ecosystem can disrupt the balance in nature and lead to dire consequences in the future. Therefore, our community should act on it and take steps towards a more sustainable living. The organization believes that people should work with nature instead of altering or changing it. In order to act against genetically modified organisms, it is necessary to understand the rationale about the side effects of GMOs on the environment. Genetically modified organisms are hybrids produced by mixing DNAs of organisms for favorable traits like insect resistance or drought tolerance; however, these modifications cannot occur naturally. According to Kruft who is a legal research assistant, since the organisms have not been modified by traditional methods like cross fertilization over generations, GMOs can have adverse effects on the environment and human health. Introducing drastic changes in the genetic makeup of organisms can disrupt the systems of the organisms leading to overly invasive species of plants (1). Also, insects and weeds are found to develop resistance against GMOs forcing farmers to use pesticides with more toxic chemicals (Kruft 4). These are only some environmental impacts of GMOs. Genetically modified organisms also pose risks to human health. Professor Mather form the University of South Australia put light on the adverse effects of GMOs on human health. Mather cites a study by Professor Joe Cummins of the University of Western Ontario in his article which suggests that Bt (genetically modified form of biological pesticide) can cause severe digestive problems and chronic diseases like fecal incontinence (43). According to the article Testing Methods for Food Contaminants and toxins found in genetically modified organisms for pest resistance are noxious to human cells and health (Chiou et al. 2251). According to a study published in the International Journal of Biological sciences by European Union experts like Dhanashree 3 Vendomois, Cellier, Velot, Clair, Mesnage, and Seralini, genetically modified organisms can contain pesticide residues having human cellular endocrine disruptors. The European Union experts question credibility of the studies performed by chemical agencies, and companies like Monsanto regarding the safety of GMOs due to lack of data, and inability to reproduce the experimental setup and results. The experts call for lifetime studies on laboratory animals to study the side effects of GMOs in the long run instead of only two month or two year long studies carried out by the company and chemical agencies (Vendomois et al., 590). Considering the side effects of genetically modified organisms, it is necessary for the community to take action against GMOs. As responsible and informed members of a community, USF students can get involved in clubs and organizations that support organic products. Eat Organic, Eat Healthy Association (EOEHA) was established in 2000 at University of South Florida, and has been working ever since to highlight the ill effects of genetically modified food. The organization is against companies like Monsanto who are at the forefront of producing genetically modified food. EOEHA established the Organic Gardening Drive at USF in 2005. In the drive, volunteers help USF students set up their own organic container gardens to grow easy vegetables like lettuces, spinach and radishes. The gardening drive is also involved in planting trees around the USF campus. Every month, the volunteers also conduct a walk in gardening session in which USF students can plant vegetables, and herbs in organic vegetable garden established by the Eat Organic, Eat Healthy Association. The organization has also established a small scale organic grocery shop that is managed by the volunteers and members of the organization. The shop sells organic produce from the organic garden. Members and volunteers of the organization offer free help and advice on choosing a healthy and organic diet. The shop also sells sandwiches made from organic food products and vegetables. The shop represents how Dhanashree 4 USF students can take charge of their diet and make the right choice by choosing to buy organic food and products. A healthy living is a happy living. By choosing to go organic, people are setting an example sustainability for future generations. As responsible citizens, people should protect the environment and take actions against genetically modified food. USF students can play their share by educating themselves about GMOs and participating in different organizations that support organic products. Works Cited Bhardwaj, Asmita. Genetically Modified Crops and Sustainability of Farm Livelihoods: A Comparative Analysis of India, China and  Asian Biotechnology & Development Review, vol. 15, no. 2, July 2013, p. 31. EBSCOhost, Dhanashree 5 ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx?direct= true&db=edb&AN=92533652&site=eds-live. Chiou, Jiachi, et al. REVIEW: Rapid Testing Methods for Food Contaminants and  Journal of Integrative Agriculture, vol. 14, 01 Nov. 2015, pp. 2243-2264. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/S2095-3119(15)61119-4. GMO legislation - Food Safety - European  Food Safety. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Spiroux de Dominique Cellier, Christian Emilie Clair, Robin Mesnage, Gilles- Eric Debate on Gmos Health Risks After Statistical Findings in Regulatory  International Journal of Biological Sciences, Vol 6, Iss 6, Pp 590-598 (2010), no. 6, 2010, p. 590. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx?direct= true&db=edsdoj&AN=edsdoj.f614ea0c4148ee9d3ef5020e1aa776&site=eds-live. Mather, Robin. The Threats from Genetically Modified Foods: Demand for Regulation and Labeling of GM Products Is Growing as Evidence of Dangerous Side Effects  Mother Earth News, no. 251, 2012, p. 42. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx ?direct=true&db=edsgbe&AN=edsgcl.289214955&site=eds-live. Dhanashree 6