Steuer 1 Abi Steuer Mr. Carter ENC 1101 18 April 2017 Text vs. E-books There are currently more e-books being sold than hardcopy books and at the rate things are going, there is a chance everything will be stored online in the near future. As convenient as that sounds, all of our information can be lost if it is kept on this platform. The consumers control this pathway, though, and if we change what we invest in, the route of our future will alternate for the better. If we begin to buy hardcopy books again and give money to the companies that house them, we will stifle the increasing technology department. Currently, technology is on the path to take everything over but if we were to put less interest in that area and focus our minds on preserving tangible artifacts of our generation, we could make the world a bit more even keeled and live harmoniously with technology and textbooks. Recent studies show that sixty-three percent of colleges offer e-books and twenty-seven percent plan to (pewresearch.com). This does not mean that every student uses that technology, some like having the book in their hand and enjoy writing in it, but many are purchasing e-books because it is cheaper. That is the defining factor: text online costs less than most other college textbooks. Publishers notice that students are buying electronic books and are therefore putting more online for students to purchase. They realize the market is thriving on the internet and the publishers want to keep up with the times. The lower the prices become and the higher the number of e-books posted, the more students will continue to buy these books. This is harmful for two reason, however. First, reading books online is bad for an eyesight. Our eyes Steuer 2 are not made to sit and stare at a screen. If we use them too long, we often get a headache from too much exposure to the monitor. As the years have gone on, overall eye sensitivity has increased. Our constant use of electronic devices has truly depleted our full potential. Studies shows that watching a screen for too long can give individuals permanent eye damage and can set off certain types of brain impairment, as well. That, in it of itself, is enough proof to back up the claim that electronic books are not beneficial to us (medicaldaily.com). The second reason the practice of buying e-books is harmful is because of how much money is being put into that market. Since e-books are selling faster than hardcopy books, the electronic book market is obliterating their competition - old fashioned book stores. Most stores that just sell books cannot stay in business unless they join the fad of selling e-books. Many owners know that the more e-books sold, the faster the internet realm is going to take over. They often do not sell their books online for this reason and that tends to hurt their business (scroll.in). Since the internet realm is rising and becoming advanced, many people trust the direction it is going. People are enjoying the convenience of e-books, the fast speed of the internet, but they do not realize what that means for their future. Technology is in line to take our jobs and run our stores (economist.com). As the years go on, people are slowly but surely losing their businesses. Consumers, without realizing it, are supporting this unfortunate industry every time they buy an e-book. A lot of our money is going to the companies that are in the business of creating technology and sending it out to take our jobs. This also supports the notion of storing all our information on computers. Our generation is transitioning into a time of total technology dominance and many people are trying to work towards putting everything online. This is a terrifying thought because the internet realm can be easily lost and all our knowledge would be Steuer 3 swept away with it. Therefore, the fact that e-books are being sold more than hardcopy books supports the idea of technology taking over. This potential tragedy can be stopped dead in its tracks, though. If consumers were to buy hardcopies over e-books, it would set the track our world is headed on back a few years. However, it is unreasonable to ask everyone to stop buying e-books and to make publishers and authors discontinue their internet businesses. People from all over use this as their main source of education, especially because people cannot afford hardcopy textbooks sometimes. In this case, the best and most reasonable solution to stifle the technology market is to support your local bookstores. There are numerous stores that make their income on selling tangible books and they house events. They are always looking for new authors to come in and speak and every time they have them come in, the store opens the event to the public. A great way to give the company support is by going to these fun, local flings. The people that come in pay the bookstore and help the company thrive. The store gives resident individuals some good, clean entertainment and their name is spread among the people that visit there. When stores do events like this, it helps their business and it sparks intrigue in the visitors. Many times, people come back after small shows like this and they apply to work or volunteer there. All in all, the best and most logical way to hinder the technology market and keep our tangible books alive is to begin supporting your local bookstores. If we all came together and did this, we would see a change. As one can see, the rise of e-books is harmful rather than helpful for it will lead to a destructive future. E-books have been a very recent technology; however, they have impacted a wide array of those that are interested in literature. Literature has been an aspect of history and the written word has been an integral part of society. E-books have been an easily accessible technology but they diminish the historic and individual take away gotten from holding a Steuer 4 physical copy. Technology is quickly uprising and it is apparent that the internet realm is favored over the physical one. Not everyone agrees, of course, but the fact that people are choosing technology over tangible items means we are going to see more of this in the future. Right now, this is very relevant in the subject area of books but it is foreseen to spread and take over other areas of our lives. Steuer 5 Works Cited Bushak, Lecia. Why We Should All Start Reading Paper Books  Medical Daily. N.p., 12 Jan. 2015. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. <http://www.medicaldaily.com/e-books-are-damaging-your-health- we-should-all-start-reading-paper-books-again-317212>. Rainie, Lee, and Andrew Perrin. Slightly Fewer Americans Are Reading Print Books, New Survey  Pew Research Center. N.p., 19 Oct. 2015. Web. 18 Apr. 2017. <http://www.pewresearch.org/fact-surv tank/2015/10/19/slightly-fewer-americans-are-reading print-books- ey-finds/>. John, Binoo K. Why Bookshops Are Closing down When Book-reading Is  Scroll.in. Http://scroll.in, 03 Jan. 2017. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. <https://scroll.in/article/746751/why-bookshops-are-closing-down- book-reading-is-thriving>. Automation and  The Economist. The Economist Newspaper, 25 June 2016. Web. 18 Apr. 2017. <http://www.economist.com/news/special-report/21700758-will- machines-cause-mass-unemployment-automation-and-anxiety>.