Wood 1 U09256244 Angelica Aranda ENC 1102 11 April 2017 Protecting Endangered Species Many people enjoy going to the zoos to see animals from the wild which they would otherwise not be able to see. If endangered species are not supported, the future generations will not be able to have that pleasure. The only place certain animals will be able to be seen will be in museums. There are thousands of species who are endangered with dozens of species going extinct everyday (Center for Biological Diversity). The main dangers to the animals are excessive hunting, destruction of their habitats, new diseases and pollution (Tischauser). The University of South Florida works hand in hand with the World Wildlife Fund to spread awareness of the issue of dying animals. The university will be hosting a t-shirt drive to raise funds and spread information on how to make a difference in the lives of the dying animals. If you are reading this that means you are a student of USF and are being urged to support this cause to help prolong the wildlife. According to the Center for Biological Diversity, 99% of the species at risk of extinction are at risk because of the repercussions of human activity while in the years before mass extinctions were caused by asteroids, volcanic eruptions and natural shifts in climate (Center for Biological Diversity). A major killer of many species is habitat destruction which mainly includes deforestation, whether it be for lumber, the expansion of land for agriculture or raising new buildings, or even for obtaining fuel. When the trees are cut down, the animals who live in Wood 2 the trees or in the forests are sometimes killed in the process, or they are forced to evacuate their habitats and find somewhere else to live. When this happens their whole way of life is disrupted and they may not be able to find the necessary food, all this could eventually lead to death. Hunting animals is a pastime that numerous people take part in whether out of necessity, greed, or recreationally. When people hunt, usually the same species are targeted which allows that population to decrease in numbers more rapidly than they should. The worst form of hunting however, is the illegal trade of animals where they are taken for things like their fur, horns, or bones in most cases. This is called poaching. There are only approximately 3890 remaining tigers and their biggest threat is poaching. Animals are poached because the prices for the items such as a horn and ivory from elephants are extremely high and a large profit can be made from obtaining and selling these products. Animals are exposed to new diseases by the contamination of their habitats, or theif food and water sources. When the animals are forced to cohabitate because they have been forced out of their habitat diseases that affect one species may start to affect the other and having not built up any resistance to these new illnesses it will be more detrimental to them thus speeding up the rate of extinction. Many people hear of all these threats to the animals and decide that they can no do anything to stop this because it is not directly being caused by something they are doing. This is not true, there are many organizations out there who work to protect and save these animals such as the World Wildlife Fund (WWF). Donating to these organizations is one of the main ways to try to help with this issue. Many of the organizations even start petitions to try and combat certain attacks on animals. The University of South Florida agrees that is a very large issue that needs to be addressed so on May 1 st they will be holding an event in which they spread the awareness of the Wood 3 extinction crisis. During this event they will be selling various t-shirts, with the funds from each different t-shirt going to a specific organization which work to protect and save endangered animals. This is an opportunity for you to become more educated and aware of the struggles and allows you to spread the word because the more people willing to try to speak out against this issue, the higher chance of the animals living a much longer life. Wood 4 References Impact of habitat loss on  WWF. N.p., n.d. Web. 10 Apr. 2017. Center for Biological Diversity. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. Wildlife  WWF. World Wildlife Fund, n.d. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. Tischauser, Leslie V. Endangered  Salem Press Encyclopedia of Science (2016): n. pag. Web. 05 Feb. 2017.