Ismail Jhaveri Erika Staiger English Comp 2 4/16/2017 Oil, coal, and natural gas are all fossil fuels that fuel most of the worlds energy needs. Temperatures around the world have been steadily increasing over the past century in a phenomenon known as climate change. Climate change is caused by the burning of fossil fuels which release greenhouse gases and destroy the environment. Fossil fuels have led to an increase in pollution and health problems especially in impoverished areas where proper filtering and disposal techniques are not used (Perera 1). The use of fossil fuels is extremely harmful to our health and our environment and steps need to be taken to decrease the use of these harmful energy sources. There is no scientific evidence to suggest that climate change is a natural occurrence. In fact, according to a study done by the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) the earth should be cooling instead of heating up. The sun is currently in a low activity period and the orbit is slowly moving the Earth farther away from the sun. These activities should in theory be cooling the climate (Romm 9). However, scientists are viewing the opposite effect in the weather. The oceans are getting warmer and the global climate is slowly rising. The rise in the temperature is directly correlated and caused by the release of greenhouse gases such as methane and carbon dioxide into the atmosphere. Human activity is the only reasonable explanation for the high numbers of greenhouse gases in the environment. Carbon dioxide and methane are all produced through the combustion of fossil fuels. The IPCC has stated that all the warming since 1970 is due to human causes (Romm 10). If the release of greenhouse gases is not slowed and eventually stopped then there will be catastrophic consequences on the environment and to the health of human beings all around the world. The burning of fossil fuels has caused quality of life to decrease throughout the world especially in children. A study done by the Columbia Center for Environmental Health has found that fuel combustion inflicts a multitude of serious health and developmental harms in children through its emissions of toxic particles and gases. (Perera These toxic particles can cause respiratory and neurological effects in young children. According to the World Health Organization third of the existing global burden of disease is caused by environmental factors: More than 40% of that burden is borne by children < 5 years of age.(Perera This is because infants are much more sensitive to pollutants in the air than adults. Low income areas are most affected by pollution especially from coal power plants. Toxins in the air often cause infant mortality, low birth weight, allergies, asthma, neurodevelopmental disorders and cancer. The number of children suffering from these conditions will only increase the longer we rely on fossil fuels as our primary energy source. Climate change and pollution are critical issues that affect everyone. At the current rate of global warming the ocean levels are projected to rise 4 to 6 feet by the year 2100. A 4 to 6- foot rise in the sea level is enough to almost completely submerge the Florida Keys and New Orleans. The mix of increased sea levels and increased temperature will cause a hostile climate of drought broken by heavy rains and hurricanes. This inconsistent weather is horrible for agriculture and would cause worldwide famine (Romm 92). The toxic pollution caused by combusting fossil fuels also affect everyone. The more particulate matter in the air the less lung functionality you have. Children who live in areas with a high concentration of pollution have been found to have an increased chance of asthma and begin to develop psychological disorders which can grow and worsen as they become adults (Perera 3). The use of fossil fuels greatly reduces the quality of life for everyone. To reduce our use of fossil fuels it is necessary to first reduce our individual carbon footprint and get involved in larger projects to reduce energy consumption. According to Joseph Romm the single largest way to reduce your carbon footprint is to place solar panels on the roof of your house (259). However solar panels can be expensive and inconvenient and most college students have the option to replace their dorms roof with solar panels. Another option is to change your mode of transportation to more ecofriendly options when possible. Airplanes are the least environmentally friendly form of transportation. Always use public transportation when available to you such as trains and buses. If you must use a car then make sure to buy one that is fuel efficient not only will this decrease your carbon footprint but it will also save you a ton of money on gas. Another way of cutting your carbon footprint is to eliminate beef from your diet and supplementing it with plant products. Beef is the most energy intensive food to cultivate not only to feed and transport but cows also produce methane which is a greenhouse gas (Romm 261). If you want to reduce the carbon footprint of your community then you will have to take larger steps to cause change. Stanford University has recently created a cheaper and more energy efficient heating and cooling system and have implemented them in their dorms. The ingenious system uses solar panels to both heat and cool the dorms but also use excess heat to heat the water in the building. This system is so much cheaper than standard heating and cooling systems that the University of Louisiana, Utah, and Arizona have all switched to it (Barger 3). USF has many dorms that would benefit from this cheaper and ecofriendly system. For this system to be put in place at USF public support is needed from the student body. Fundraisers can be started to raise money for the project and the approval of prominent members such as the president of USF Judy Genshaft is required to get this project started. This project not only will save the school money but will also help save the environment and with the support of enough people USF can take a large chunk out of its carbon footprint. If we continue to use fossil fuels at the rate we are today then we will quickly see a drastic drop in our standard of living. The use of fossil fuels not only causes climate change but also negatively affects our health and the future. However, there is something we can do to fight against the rising pollution caused by fossil fuels. Begin to cut down on your carbon footprint and bring awareness to the problems fossil fuels bring. Eventually we may even be able to completely abandon fossil fuels and replace it with a clean renewable fuel source. Works Cited Barger, Theresa Sullivan. Some Like It Hot: How Colleges Are Getting Creative about Energy Supply to Save Money on Heating and Cooling and to Boost Building Comfort for  University Business, no. 3, 2016, p. 53. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ed sgao&AN=edsgcl.446328252&site=eds-live.n Perera, Frederica P.1, fpp1@cumc.columbia.edu. Multiple Threats to Child Health from Fossil Fuel Combustion: Impacts of Air Pollution and Climate  Environmental Health Perspectives, vol. 125, no. 2, Feb. 2017, pp. 141-148. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1289/EHP299. Romm, Joseph. Climate Change : What Everyone Needs to Oxford : Oxford University Press, 2015., 2015. What Everyone Needs To Know. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ca t00847a&AN=usflc.034900260&site=eds-live. Schanes, Karin, et al. Low Carbon Lifestyles: A Framework to Structure Consumption Strategies and Options to Reduce Carbon  Journal of Cleaner Production, vol. 139, 15 Dec. 2016, pp. 1033-1043. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.jclepro.2016.08.154.