Stephen Rudderham 4/16/17 Dr. Karen Hanson ENC 1102 Outsourcing As an American or an inhabitant of a developed country, citizens take for granted the safe way of living as well as the cheap materials they can find in clothing stores. This is because those companies send out their materials to be made in undeveloped countries as a process known as outsourcing. Outsourcing is the of externalizing tasks or that could be performed inside a own country (Jenster 147). These employs workers for low wages and typically exceedingly harsh working conditions. Although, large companies are at the head of outsourcing and just an ordinary person may seem like they are helpless in the cause, they can in fact prevent outsourcing. Together we must refrain from buying clothing articles from places that take advantage of outsourcing in order to increase their own profits at the expense of lives. Corporations and businesses use outsourcing to produce cheap goods and services. They can do this by leaving a country with strict labor laws and going to another country, usually and undeveloped one, that has less stringent labor laws. According to outsourcing can be less expensive when given to another company than your own. Tax and insurance costs are diminished because these workers are not for your business. Another reason it is beneficial and companies choose to do this is because it gives them more time. This time can be used to critique the final product and make that more cost efficient. Even with these business aspects, there are numerous that can affect people and families (Garaventa). Some of these costs can be started by a fear of meeting quotas. Then that can lead to harsher labor conditions and less pay. According to a graph published by Powell and Skarbeck, a Bangladeshi labor worker will only make about 13 US cents per hour of work. And a Chinese worker only making about 44 US cents per hour. Then will the added pressures and failure to meet them can lead to depression and in extreme cases suicide. This is no way for people to be treated or have to live by. These working conditions can make it extremely hard for families that are having to live off of barely making a living. For example, a mother of three children has to wake up every morning to go to work in a factory. The hours can be long, sometimes 12 to 14 a day. The pay is low, but she has to go into work in order to support her children. Eventually, as the children get older they too will have to work in this factory to bring home more money. Without strict labor laws and the management not following them, the workers become depressed because there is nothing they can do. Imagine being stuck in a situation where you cannot do anything. These workers are basically owned by the companies and have to react to whatever they say. Without laws prohibiting the companies to enforce these unfair terms and conditions the people are helpless. These types of companies are just looking for the profit from outsourcing goods. They do not care about the lives of the workers being harmed. Now, although you feel that just as a lone person you cannot individually fight a large corporation, I am telling you that there are things you can do. First, research clothing lines and see how their articles of clothing are being produced. Next, if they are being made in an undeveloped country, do not buy clothes or shoes or anything from there. Places like H&M and Old Navy have cheap clothing for a reason, and that reason being they outsource in order to make a greater profit. This is the way that an ordinary person can help this issue. This process will take some time and dedication into not buying cheap items. But, eventually through not buying these items, the demand for outsourcing will go down and clothes will be manufactured lawfully. Outsourcing has become a big issue in many undeveloped countries, particularly southeast Asia. The problem is getting out of hand and the issue needs people being proactive in stopping it. When this happens the countries will be able to build their own stronger economies and the way of life will increase dramatically. These poor people are unable to have a healthy life because the wages are not there for them. But, in the future when this problem is fixed the people will be paid properly and have a respectable way of life. The problems like stress and depression will decrease. All this can occur from avoiding companies that use outsourcing to manufacture goods. Garaventa, Eugene, and Thomas Tellefsen. Outsourcing: The hidden  Review of Business 22.1/2 (2001): 28. Jenster, Per V., and Henrik Stener Pedersen. Outsourcing--facts and  Strategic Change 9.3 (2000): 147. Powell, B., and Skarbeck, D. Sweatshops and Third World Living Standards: Are the Jobs Worth the Sweat?: Publications: The Independent  Picture. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Why Outsourcing Part of Your Business Just Works  Techni-Pak. N.p., 27 Nov. 2015. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.