Roman Dominguez Ana Adam Carter ENC 1102 04/16/2017 Rights in Prostitution Prostitution is considered as a violation of human rights. This is because prostitution leads to human trafficking. That means that people buy women and children as merchandise or objects because that will help them to make more money making their bussiness. Every child that forms part of this field is considered harmed because they do not have enough age to decide by themselves. On the other hand the prostitutes that actually decide to be working in this area do not have the same rights as others workers do, and since it is considered a work they should have the right to request it. Since it is an illigal practice prostitutes cannot appeal for their rights or cannot report any of the issues that they have. People will consider that prostitution is a form of slavery and if they chose it its their problem. Also for some people it is hard to defend this work, especially for the feminist women that fight for the equal rights, for the same reason as before, they are being sold as a product for the public and a form of slavery. So why would you do that to yourself? For some of them that is unacceptable. It does not matter if you understand their job or not, the rights are what matters and that should never be a question while being a worker. The are so many factors such as sexism or poverty that limit a job when choosing. Some workers choose their occupation and some prostitutes choose theirs. At the same time, the way that some workers cannot choose theirs and end up being forced and doing something that they do not like, can also happen with prositutes. This can happen in two different ways, when they do not find other ways to make money, which does not cause a Roman Dominguez 2 problem, or the second one which is the most conflictive one, when someone forces them to be a prostitute. This is called human trafficking. to U.N. estimates, approximately 2.5 million people are being trafficked around the world at any given time, 80% of them are women and (Melissa Farley). They get it by using different methods against their victims such as and denial of physical violence, economic exploitation, social isolation, verbal abuse, threats and intimidation, physical violence, sexual assault, and Melissa Farley).These methods are the same that assailants or batterers use with their victims. Sex trafficking occurs all over the world. Women are being exchanged as a merchandise in their own countries but from their city to another one, or internationally, getting them from their country and moving them to another one completely different. By making them feel that they are not at home, they will feel unprotected and that will give them more power. The world in general accepts prostitution. Even though there are few places where it has become legal, and others where it is still being practiced even though the legality has not changed. With that said, prostitutes cannot appeal for their rights even when they are the ones who chose that occupation. It is not about making prostitution legal or not, it is about human rights. has been far more clinical attention paid to sexually transmitted diseases among those prostituted than to their depressions, lethal suicidality, mood disorders, anxiety disorders (including post-traumatic stress disorder) dissociative disorders, substance abuse, and traumatic brain Farley). A lot of prostitutes have traumas because of their experience while working and especially while being on the streets. Norma Hotaling was a prostitute who was helped by a psychologist and now she has a rehabilitation place where she helps people do the same that she did. Roman Dominguez 3 Prostitution is not safe for their workers and a frequent cause of death is homicide. If you work, and you care about your rights you should also care about theirs. It would not be fair for you to be able to complain about your conditions at your work when they do not have that opportunity. If you are a woman and you are always talking about the injustices in the world of workers, this is another case where you can give your voice for. For all of these problems there is a rights movement initiated by Emi Koyama. This movement has been made to explain the different stories in prostitution, to give answers to the audience for the different doubts that they can have in this field. Questions as how they choose this job, how prostitutes are forced or how prostitution is a form of slavery are answered by a woman on her page. So if you want answers to all these questions you can find her movement and her page, and hopefully after that you can be more open minded about this issue. Also in order to reduce this issue and to get prostitution rights I want you to report to the police if you ever see any strange behavior or any unequal condition at any moment or any time. I would like you to think that at the end of the day, they are human like you, like me, like your family and their job does not define them. Their job does not make them less and you should treat them the same way as you would treat your mom, your daughter or your family. In addition, for the same reason as before you should not let anyone treat them badly and if you see this behavior you should help them. At the same time if you are the person who runs the jobs or you are the boss at any business I would like you to reserve some of those spots for prostitutes that want to finish their job or for the ones that have already left it and are looking for a job. In addition if you have been a prostitute or if you are still in the business, I would Roman Dominguez 4 like you to share your case to help other people and make them learn from your experience. I hope that by now you are more open minded about his problem and I also hope that you have realized that your help can make huge differences. There is always something you can do. Help us fight for rights and make a safer work environment for all of them. Roman Dominguez 5 Works Cited Human Trafficking and  PsySR: Psychologists for Social Responsibliity. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Apr. 2017. Protecting the Rights of  Findlaw. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Apr. 2017. Support Rights Now! N.p., n.d. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. WHY IS PROSTITUTION A VIOLATION OF HUMAN  Abolish Prostitution Now! N.p., 17 May 2014. Web. 12 Apr. 2017.