Santos 1 Arturo Santos Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 4/16/17 Exotic Animal Abuse: Why Banning Exotic Pet Ownership is not the Answer Every day, an exotic animal is intentionally abused, neglected, or even forced to fight. These actions are indubitably unethical, and only proliferate and accelerate the spread of malicious intent among people. Fortunately, some animal rights organizations formed to act on the issue. On the other hand, these organizations turned to the root of the problem spurring the exotic animal industry: the desire of people to raise exotic pets. An exotic animal is one that has not been domesticated unlike a dog or cat. To retaliate against the abuse done to these animals, animal rights organizations proposed the elimination of exotic pet ownership, which is not a viable option. Along with the animal rights activists, several organizations seek to educate people, particularly children, of the risks associated with exotic pet ownership. Everyone, including domestic pet owners or non/ex-pet owners, should hastily donate to these educational organizations and avoid those supporting a ban on exotic ownership because, while generally unethical to abuse animals under any circumstance, simply banning exotic pet ownership is a fallacious option causing emotional stress and jeopardizing of the environment. The possible long-lasting effects include attenuating dissent towards exotic pet owners and encouraging a practical solution to abuse in the exotic pet trade. The fact of the matter is, animal rights activists are targeting exotic pet owners, claiming that they are contributing to animal abuse in the exotic pet trade. Markets involved in this commerce commonly host exotic animals in inappropriate and neglectful conditions (Harrison, Santos 2 13-21). For example, in Europe, various wildlife markets did not offer adequate heat for reptiles, amphibians, and other cold-blooded animals, which is needed for proper metabolism (Arena et al., n.p). For birds, approximately 1,000 species are kept in captivity, with some still imported from the wild. Sometimes, birds were housed near boa constrictors in pet shops, and would die as a result of panic in trying to escape from the snakes. As for exotic mammals, they vary widely in appropriate care and require special care. For instance, sugar gliders need a temperature of 21- 32 degrees Celsius to keep from entering a hibernating state or torpor, as well as a very large cage to provide gliding room (RSPCA, 21-28). Exotic animals are clearly being exploited by people in an unethical and ignorant manner, but banning exotic pet ownership, which seems to be called for among animal rights activists, is not a viable option. Millions of exotic pets are owned in just the United States alone (AVMA, n.p.). If exotic pet ownership became any more regulated, permit-required or not, there will always be some owners who can no longer legally care for exotic animals, which would also have nowhere to go. In Michigan animal shelters, nearly 1.5 times more animals are euthanized than adopted because they do not have space (Bartlett et al., 97-104). If the former exotic pet owners decide to place them in animal shelters, they will be more overwhelmed than they already are with pets. In addition, very few shelters accept exotic reptiles such as snakes, so exotic pet owners will dump them into the wild (Brown, article 6). Death for many of these exotic pets will be inevitable. They will be either euthanized or released into the wild which will either result in environmental disaster or absolute death from maladaptation. Despite exotic pet owners being the involved demographic, domestic pet owners as well as anyone with an interest in animals should care about this issue. Animal abuse is an ethical implication that must be stopped, but in a rational manner. If exotic pet ownership becomes Santos 3 restricted, then more exotic pets may be released in the wild by the now-illegally owning pet owners. This will cause a number of problems such as jeopardizing of wildlife as well as our domestic pets (Pimentel et al., 53-65)! Many domestic pet owners leave their pets outside, and some released exotic pets can fatally attack them. If, instead of releasing them, the route of euthanasia of all exotic pets is taken, then great emotional stress and controversy will radiate. Exotic pet owners will mourn over their animals and a large movement may develop. To consul themselves, they may purchase domestic pets, increasing the domestic pet population. This is a whole problem itself; more dogs and cats roaming loose has high consequences in the native fauna (Young et al., 125-132). If animal abuse in the exotic pet industry can be combated without banning exotic pet ownership, it would certainly be one less ethical issue to worry about, with minimal consequences. Since banning exotic pet ownership will only worsen the welfare situation of exotic pets, everyone with an interest in animals and pets, including domestic pet owners, should avoid supporting bans on exotic pet ownership set by animal rights activists and support legislation and organizations preserving the right to own exotic pets. Organizations supporting these bans are PETA and, sadly, the Humane Society of the United States. However, this does not mean the organizations should be opposed, but only the bans they call for on exotic pet ownership. Instead, organizations should be supported in their search of a better solution to the exotic pet dilemma. Unfortunately, no known organizations are pursuing this task, which means they should be developed! On the other hand, animal enthusiasts should donate to organizations like the Pet Leadership Council to protect exotic owners and their pets (Pet Leadership Council, n.p). In favor of the animals and safety of society, animal enthusiasts and domestic pet owners should encourage the education of aspiring exotic pet owners on exotic pet behavior, proper care, and Santos 4 the risks of keeping exotic animals. To accomplish this, they can donate to organizations such as the International Fund for Animal Welfare (IFAW), who provide programs that teach young students not to take animals from the wild and the risks of keeping exotic pets. In addition, domestic pet owners should personally encourage their exotic pet owning friends to understand the safety risks with exotic pets. If these organizations and policies are supported, an improvement to exotic animal welfare can be possible without banning exotic pet ownership. When it comes to ethical issues like animal abuse, important to come up with a rational solution to prevent other ethical issues and consequences from germinating. It is imperative that animal abuse be stopped, but banning exotic pet ownership is simply not the proper solution. If more people could understand the detrimental effects of exotic pet ownership bans, then a more ideal and less costly solution can have the opportunity to come forward. Therefore, animal enthusiasts and domestic pet owners must donate to organizations protecting exotic pet ownership but also fighting animal abuse and ignorance. Once this ideal solution is found, then attacks on exotic pet owners by animal rights activists may finally be quelled, and an ethical crisis will finally subside. Word Count: 1138 Santos 5 Works Cited Arena, Phillip C., Catrina Steedman, and Clifford Warwick. Amphibian and reptile pet markets in the EU: An investigation and  Animal Protection Agency, Animal Public, International Animal Rescue, Eurogroup for Wildlife and Laboratory Animals, para la el Apadrinamiento y la Defensa de los Animales 52 (2012). Bartlett, Paul C., et al. Rates of euthanasia and adoption for dogs and cats in Michigan animal  Journal of Applied Animal Welfare Science 8.2 (2005): 97-104. Brown, Robert. Exotic Pets Invade United States Ecosy8stems: Legislative Failure and a Proposed  Indiana Law Journal 81.2 (2006): Article 6.  Market Research Statistics - U.S. Pet Ownership  Avma.org. American Veterinary Medical Association (AVMA), 2007. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. Handle with Care. Rep. Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (RSPCA), 2004. Web. <https://www.rspca.org.uk/ImageLocator/LocateAsset?asset=document&assetId=123271 4006362&mode=prd>. Harrisson, Barbara. Animal trade, an international  International Zoo Yearbook 14.1 (1974): 13-21. Home IFAW - International Fund for Animal Welfare. International Fund for Animal Welfare, n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. <http://www.ifaw.org/canada>. Santos 6  Pet Leadership Council. Pet Leadership Council, n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. <https://petleadershipcouncil.org/>. Pimentel, David, et al. Environmental and economic costs of nonindigenous species in the United  BioScience 50.1 (2000): 53-65. Young, Julie K., et al. Is wildlife going to the dogs? Impacts of feral and free-roaming dogs on wildlife  BioScience 61.2 (2011): 125-132.