McVety Colton McVety Sarah Roth ENC 1101.018 April 18, 2017 The Effect the Space Race Had on The Twenty First Century In the 1950s and 1960s, the United States and the Soviet Union were on the brink of war. One of the biggest battles of this war was known as the space race. The war itself was given the name the Cold War by President Eisenhower when he addressed the nation and proclaimed, soviets are waging total cold (Neufield, 2006). Nations around the world channeled millions of dollars into competing to be the first to arrive in space. On October 1, 1958, the United States Air Force passed the responsibility of the space race to a newly created organization named NASA, short for The National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Wilson, 2015). For the next 11 years, America and The Soviet Union fought to be the best and to reach the furthest. Although given its somewhat turbulent historical connotation, the space race helped to shape the field of modern day technology and added new depth to the global political stage. The official start of the race in space began on October 4, 1957 when the Soviet Union launched Sputnik 1, the first artificial satellite (Caselli, 2012). Only about a month later, they had also managed to send a dog into space. In December of 1957 America responded with an attempt to launch their own satellite. Unfortunately it became known as due to its failure to make it more than four feet off the launch pad. It took America until the following year but they launched Explorer 1 on January 31, 1958 to successfully join the Soviets in the space race. McVety The leading engineer at NASA for the majority of the space race was a man named Warner Von Braun, a German-American rocket Engineer. He pushed for space superiority. In his mind, the way of achieving this was to launch a fully armed space station and accomplish human spaceflight. In the early the fear of technology and the space race became a global concern (Neufield, 2006). Until the Partial Test Ban Treaty of 1961 the United States had successfully managed a nuclear explosion in space. American Scientist where scanning space everyday for x-rays trying to determine how many nuclear tests they were doing. In mistake The United States discovered the first black hole because of this. Technology was advancing at an alarming rate, and fear was growing just as rapidly. Citizens were living in fear that the growing tension between these two political powers, the United States and the Soviet Union, and the intensity of the space race between them would eventually lead to a discrepancy in which the tested weapons could, or would, be used in an offensive manner. This fear created the Partial test ban and eventually the ban of nuclear power/ weapons in space (Neufield, 2006; New Scientist, 2007). The space race was driven by the tension and competitive nature of both nations, without the tension, the Apollo, Sputnik and Vostok programs may never have happened. The political tension of the time created the space race; it was a form of war in which both sides lost valuable lives. In the end America succeeded in reaching the moon and landing man on the surface of a new astral body in July of 1969. Only 6 years later a handshake that changed the world took place, between American astronaut Thomas Stanford and Russian cosmonaut Alexey Leonov aboard the space station. This gesture was aired over live television, and was considered the handshake that ended of the Cold McVety War. After this, an unsettled peace took over the world, with no nuclear threats and political tranquility between the two nations. Without the push start of the space race the desire and search of space, mankind may never have reached the moon much less sent man to space. Without this many different inventions and even a mutual trust between the USSR and the USA may never have been formed. With political tension calmed, NASA was able to focus on more scientific discoveries. Over the course of the last 57+ years NASA has pushed the limits of technology with cutting edge research, which has radically changed the way in which airplanes are constructed and function. NASA has also been scouting the edges of our solar system and universe. This includes intense investigations of planets both nearby, and hundreds of light-years away. NASA has also drastically changed our comprehension and understanding of the cosmos and earth through the use of orbital satellites such as the Hubble Space Telescope (Wilson, 2015). One discovery that has been made was that one of moons of another planet in our galaxy has a crust of regular, earth-like ice; made of H20. The inside of it is mostly water, and the motions of the planet it orbits, both vibrational and gravitational, prevent the inside of the moon from becoming solid, so it exists in a slurry of liquid water and ice. moon Titan is believed to have atmosphere, but in a deep-freeze. Another, more recent discovery are the 7 earth-like planets that are 40 light-years away that seem to have the ability to sustain life and even have the ability for the life to jump from planet to planet, via an overlap of their atmospheres and gravitational spaces. NASA stop at discovery though, it progressed into communication and weather satellites, which have fundamentally changed every day life and created an environment for new business and corporations McVety (Wilson, 2015). Artificial satellites have changed the world, from helping predict weather patterns to even allowing for communication around the globe. In world a majority of the population uses smart phones, which would not be possible without the communication net of satellites orbiting Planet Earth. In todays world Elon Musk leads the world in space travel, offering even the possibility for commercial space flight and a journey to Mars through Space X. According to Space X, they are a company revolutionizing space technology with the ultimate goal of enabling people to live on other planets. From the challenge of launching a rocket into space to the idea of commercial space flight, the space race has significantly impacted the technology and political stage of the twenty-first century. McVety Works Cited 1. Appel, Allen, IV. Beyond the iron curtain: twenty-five years after the fall of the Soviet Union, new books explore what we have yet to learn from the Cold  Publishers Weekly 2016: 25. Literature Resource Center. Web. 17 Feb. 2017. 2. Caselli, Leonardo P. Space Demilitarization Treaties In A New Era Of Manned Nuclear  Journal Of Air Law & Commerce 77.4 (2012): 641-669. Index to Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 5 Feb. 2017. 3. Dan Lockney. NASA Technology Benefits our  Spinoff, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. 4. Neufeld, Michael J. Wernher Von Campaign For A Nuclear-Armed Space Station,  Space Policy 1 (2006): 52. Academic OneFile. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. 5. The Space Race  New Scientist 194.2599 (2007): 16. Applied Science & Technology Source. Web. 17 Feb. 2017. 6. NASA History  NASA. Ed. Wilson, Jim. NASA, 17 Dec. 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.