Penyak1 Tyler Penyak Mrs. Hernandez ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Gun Related Incidents in the United States Ever since the first recording of a firearm being used in 1364, there has been repercussions that have come with the weapons (PBS). In 2016 alone, there was over 58,000 gun related incidents ). Every year this number is increasing due to improper safety on these weapons and how easy it can be to obtain one of these dangerous firearms. We as a community need to rise and get the amount of death related incidents lower in the United States. With every firearm that is manufactured there is an extremely fine line on what is the correct way to handle these precious items. In 2016, there was 2,200 unintentional shootings that took place ). This can be avoided by just taking a few small steps to ensure that the person holding the firearm and everyone around them will be safe. Per the Springfield Armory, there are four main points when handling a gun. First, always keep the gun pointed in a safe direction. If the gun were accidently go off, then it could not cause harm to anyone around. Secondly, keep your finger off the trigger until ready to shoot. With keeping your finger off the trigger, it can prevent any accidental shooting that may occur. Thirdly, keep the gun unloaded until you are ready to use it. Always treat a gun like it is fully loaded until that it is positive that the gun is not. Finally, never under any circumstances use alcohol or any type of drug when handling a gun. Alcohol and any other substances impair the body in many ways in such that of reaction time and judgement. With these four simple steps being taken by anyone that owns a Penyak2 firearm it can reduce many of the incidents that take place when these steps are not followed. The best way to ensure that these rules are properly followed any person that owns a firearm should attend a gun safety course in their area. Improper storing of weapons also creates many incidents. Many firearm owners do not own a gun safe or have the proper holster to keep their weapons in. These gun owners leave their weapons out in plain sight for anyone to get their hands. In 2016, 672 children from the age 0-11 were killed or injured These children at this age are very curious and do not understand the full meaning behind a firearm. Many of them grab the weapons and point it at themselves or another person then pulling the trigger killing or seriously injury. If gun owners had a gun safe to keep their weapons in, then this would prevent the children causing serious harm to themselves or others. By making sure every person that owns a gun has the proper safety training and by keeping their guns in the correct places it can stop many accidental shootings that take place. There are approximately 270 million civilian firearms in America. Just to break that down a little more for every 100 residents, 88.8 of them have a firearm. That is a lot of guns in the United States. How many do you drive by on a daily or how many are in your town. Well every single one of those sells firearms. There are also tons of other guns stores in every town. When a weapon is purchased at a store the buyer must pass a background check. This background consists of questions such as you ever been convicted of a or you ever been committed to a mental Well for many people these questions are a no. After the background check has been completed, the FBI is contacted and they run a different background check. Once completed the buyer can walk away with their weapon. People being denied of a firearm is very rare, occurring less than 1% of the time a firearm is bought in a store (Guns, Hundreds Of stores sell.). These background checks are Penyak3 consisting of broad questions and are taking a couple minutes to complete when they should be taking days or even weeks. The background checks behind firearms needs to consist of an in- depth questionnaire that digs deep into the background. On another point, a background check does not need to completed if the gun is bought at a gun show. Gun shows take place all around the country and can easily be accessible by anyone. These gun shows need to be regulated and not so easily accessible by anyone in the public. Also, a background check of some kind needs to take place because one person could be mentally unstable and end up seriously hurting someone when they leave with the weapon. When a weapon is purchased there needs to be an extensive background check on all buyers and not have gun shows be so accessible for the public to buy firearms. The number of guns that roam around the United States is an extensive amount and they are increasing each day. With the number of firearms increasing also means that an accident is just waiting to happen. If you or someone you know owns a firearm, they need to be properly trained on the best ways to handle the gun safely. As a community, the need of a more extensive background check will make the people feel safer that some person who should not have a gun in there will never obtain one. Together, guns can still be used for safety and recreational purposes, but also can be controlled in a better manner. Penyak4 Works Citied PBS. Public Broadcasting Service, n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Guns, Hundreds Of stores sell. This is how easy it is to buy guns in  CNNMoney. Cable News Network, n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.  Guns in America Facts and statistics about firearms in the USA. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Past Summary  Gun Violence Archive. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Gun Safety Tips How to Properly Handle a Pistol or  Springfield Armory. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.