Zaid 1 Yossef Zaid Professor Karen Hanson ENC1102.084 16 April 2017 Animal Abuse Pets, the gift from god that man deserve, or that is what any pet owner would say. Most people grow up with at least one pet in their household, around 75% of americans to be specific (Shelter Intake). Pets can be friends, they can be family, but to some they can be property. Pets can love and can be loved, they also can be used and abused. Some people buy pets for companionship, love, or trust, they buy pets to feel powerful, to control another living thing (Animal Abuse: Helping). Catherine Tiplady wrote a book titled Abuse: Helping Animals and in this book she details what animal abuse is and why people commit animal abuse. People who abuse animals purposefully do it because they enjoy the power that comes with being able to command the life of another being, almost like a god complex of sorts (Animal Abuse: Helping). Animal abuse is a problem as old as the domestication of animals, it is not a problem that will be solved in a matter of years (Confronting Animal Abuse). It is a problem that may never be solved, but it is a problem that we can try and fix. Animal abuse may never be solved, but we can start trying to fix it today. The act of causing harm to another living being for no reason what so ever, it seem logically does it? Does it seem morally sound, absolutely not. But, there are people that enjoy causing harm and controlling other beings. This the only reason for people to cause harm to animals, some people do it out of anger, some for hate of animals, some for fear of Zaid 2 animals, and some do it for money (dog fights & etc) (Animal Abuse: Helping). When people cause harm to animals instead of people it is because animals tell on them, the get in trouble for whatever they do (Animal Abuse: Helping). The problem is that the act of causing harm to animals has been linked to causing harm to people and other crimes (Animal Abuse: Helping). Correlation do not necessarily mean causation, but the correlation does exist that, if someone abuses animals they are more like likely to commit a different crime (Animal Abuse: Helping). In a study conducted on 354 murders 21% of them admitted to abusing animals before their crimes (Animal Abuse: Helping). The abuse of animals is seen as moral deviation and in studies has been shown to correlate with other acts of moral deviation. It may not be possible to stop animal abuse, but knowing what causes it and what effects it has is an important thing. Not just for animals but for society as a whole. It hard to feel sympathy for another person or an animal. This feeling of sympathy is something people have in our nature. The ability to feel bad for someone or something else has helped humans struggle and survive for a long time because humans are social creatures. Most people enjoy the company of another person. So, when we see a hurt person or creature it is in our nature to feel sympathy for them (Confronting Animal). We feel bad when we see a starving person, this feeling is also there for when we see a starving animal. From an intrinsically moral standpoint it would make sense that people would help animals in need. So, other than intrinsical moral value why else would people help abused animals? Other than the sense of right and wrong morally, having a large amount of abused and abandoned animals can be bad for both the environment and economy. Abandoned animals such as dogs and cats can cause stress on a local ecosystem by adding invasive predators. The dogs and cats begin to hunt for food while there is Zaid 3 nothing to hunt them. This allows for the population of feral cats and dogs to rise and the population of other animals to drop, 33 species of birds have went extinct because of feral cats (Confronting Animal). Economically speaking there are a lot of resources put into helping abused animals, but not that many that aim to end animal abuse. If animal abuse ended a lot of the money put into stopping the feral cats from wiping out the birds, saving abused animals, and sheltering them could be allocated for other things. Animal abuse a problem that will disappear overnight, but the more we learn about it and the more of it we stop the better for everyone it is. Abused animals are one the the most pitied existences on earth. Almost everyone can relate to watching a television commercial with sad music showing images of abused animals and someone telling them to donate and make a difference. These commercials exist because it is easy to get people to feel bad for animals, but feeling enough, action needs to be taken for a difference to be made. Donation is just one of the ways to take action. Volunteering is another way to take action and make a change. Petitioning to the government to make laws is another way to take action. These are three of the most commonly mentioned acts when taking action is mentioned. There are a few more in this case, people could adopt animals. Adopting a pet fix the root problem but it can make things better. If the rate of adoption went up shelters would be less likely to put animals down (The Waltham Book). The act of adopting a pet not own helps the adopted animal but it can help the adopter as well. Owning an animal can lessen the stress someone feels and give them companionship (The Waltham Book). Another way to make change is by educating oneself and those around them, by becoming educated in this topic people will be less likely to abuse animals and can educate more people (Small World Yields). This could cause Zaid 4 a wave of knowledge to spread educating a community causing the amount of animal abuse to drop (Small World Yields). Lastly, and the most extreme measure for someone to take is to make it their career. To become a researcher and try and find the solution to the overarching problem that is animal abuse. They be the first to try to do so and they probably be the last, but there is a chance that they may find the solution. No matter which action is taken you can make a difference. Animal abuse is a large problem that may never be solved, but a difference can be made. Little by little the situation can get better. We have come a long way in terms of animal treatment and there is a lot more we can do. The first animal rights laws were made in 1635, they said that people over work their horses (Confronting Animal). We have so much more than that and more can be done. Information exists describing the negatives of animal and the positives of reducing it. The reasons to make a change are there, and there are enough people to pitch in and help. Animals need someone to help them. Now, what difference will we make? Zaid 5 Works Cited Beirne, Piers. Confronting Animal Abuse: Law, Criminology, and Human-Animal Relationships. Lanham, Md: Rowman & Littlefield, 2009. Internet resource. Tiplady, Catherine. Abuse : Helping Animals and Wallingford, Oxfordshire : CABI, 2013. ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ca t00847a&AN=usflc.031810956&site=eds-live. Linyuan, Duan-Bing Chen, and Tao Zhou. Small World Yields The Most Effective Information  (2011): arXiv. Web. 9 Apr. 2017. Robinson, I. Waltham Book of Human-Animal Interaction : Benefits and Responsibilities of Pet Kent : Elsevier Science, 2013., 2013. ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx ?direct=true&db=cat00847a&AN=usflc.034842365&site=eds-live. Intake And 9 Apr. 2017, homelessness/shelter-intake-and-surrender/pet-statistics