Unwanted Pets With the development of society, living standard of human beings have been raised. People have the time, money and resources to own a pet (pets) at home. However, raising a pet is complicated and troublesome and requires long-term commitment. These discrepancy between conception and the reality results in lots of People tend to deal with their unwanted pets in three main ways. First, some people have the pet euthanized, which means putting the pet down. Euthanasia has been causing controversies, as many veterinarians consider it unethical for young and healthy animals, while others argue that euthanasia is a more humane option than leaving a pet in a cage for very long periods of time. Second, many people simply abandon the pet, with the expectation that it will be able to take care of itself in the wild place or that it will be found and get adopted. However, these pets usually get killed because of hunger, weather, traffic, or normally easily treatable diseases. Third, those more responsible owners will take the pet to a shelter, or call an animal rescue organization, where it will be cared for properly until a new home can be found. However, there are far more animals that are waiting for a home than the potential adopters. This means the shelters need to get rid of the excess animals to make room for newer pets and euthanasia is often used unless the place has a no-kill policy. The Shocking and Cruel Facts According to the research of the Mosby Foundation (2015), only 1 out of every 10 dogs born will find a permanent home. actually impossible to determine how many stray dogs and cats live in the United States. Estimates for cats alone range up to 70 million (American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, 2015). Among them, approximately 7.6 million companion animals enter animal shelters nationwide every year. Of those, approximately 3.9 million are dogs and 3.4 million are cats (American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, 2015). According to the National Council on Pet Population Study and Policy (NCPPSP), less than 2% of cats and only 15 to 20% of dogs are returned to their owners. The Humane Society of the United States estimates that 3-4 million dogs and cats in shelters are euthanized each year in the US because shelters are too full and there enough adoptive homes (The Humane Society of the United States, 2012&2013). Why do we need to concern? Many people in the United States are actually aware of the issue of homeless animals. What they are not aware is that with tens of millions animals getting homeless annually and millions of them getting killed inside and outside the shelter, this issue has become very severe for both society and humanity. Firstly, government invests huge resources, including the money and personnel to run the animal shelters normally, which, if this problem does not get alleviated, will eventually become a burden to the whole society. Meanwhile, companion animals are not only best friends, offering their owners companionship, happiness and unconditional love, but they are also carrying important social responsibilities, for which some even sacrifice their lives. There are 2500 dogs in active services in the US military now, and 700 of them are deployed overseas. Every year, numerous well-trained guide dogs start their life-long mission to serve, help and accompany blind people. Now leveraging the power of pets is becoming a vital tool in the treatment of a variety of medical conditions and those associated with mental health. The devotion animals have made to society is huge and it is unfair and merciless to simply kill them. As a matter of fact, in order to help lower the number of animals euthanized each year, some shelters have developed a no-kill policy which means they strive to keep their animals as long as it takes to find them new homes. No-kill shelters are usually run by groups that have volunteers or individuals with enough space to foster pets until a permanent home can be found. However, many of these groups and individuals have only limited space, fund and resources available, which means what they can do is very limited. What can we do? There are couple of things that we can do as to alleviate this problem even it means it is just a small step. The firs time thing is have a clear thought and plan before you eventually decide to have a pet. Raising a pet will definitely brings companionship and happiness, but on the other hand, it is complicated, troublesome, and costly and requires long-term commitment. So beforehand, you will need to make sure you are making a responsible decision and are fully prepare to take care of your pet for the entirety of its life. The second thing that we can do is to adopt pets instead of buying from breeders and pet stores. Animal protection communities advocate campaign for adoption instead of buying animals in order to reduce the number of animals who have to be euthanized. There are lots of benefits to adopt the pet. Adoption will not only save the life of the pet you adopt from the shelters that are over-crowed but will also make room and free up precious resources for another animal that the shelter will take in. Adopting an animal from a shelter is the best way to help the shelter continue its work. Second, shelters are full of healthy, sweet and smart animals who were abandoned not because of their behavior but generally due to the issues of their guardians. These animals are mostly house-trained and will save you lots of trouble with the training from the beginning. Thirdly, pets adopted from shelters and rescue groups usually cost less than pets purchased or even obtained for free. The total cost of vaccinations, spay/neuter surgery, microchip, deworming treatment and health guarantee is usually covered by the shelters for an adopted pet. There are several other ways to contribute to alleviate this issue. As a pet owner (not matter you adopted or purchased it), you should make sure that your pet is kept safely and can not get lost. Secondly, you should microchip your pet so it can be found when it somehow runs away. Thirdly, unless you are sure you want your pet to mate and reproduce, you should spay/neutralize your pet to fight pet overpopulation and allow other pets to be adopted. In fact, shelters and animal rescues also encourage the education of spaying or neutering a pet in order to reduce the number of animals euthanized in shelters and to help control the pet population. Conclusively, in modern society, unwanted pets are a serious issue. The exacerbating of this issue will eventually cause social burden and simply euthanizing the animals is the most merciless way to deal with it. The most humane way to deal with it is to adopt and encourage adoption. At the same time, making sure that your own pet will not become stray animal by keeping it properly locked inside and implant it with a microchip is essential. Meanwhile, in order to fight pet overpopulation and give the chance to the pets in the shelters to get adopted, pets should be properly spayed/neutralized. Although what we can do as an individual only forms a small contribution to solve this problem, our joint effort in long term will finally take effects. Works Cited American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, 2015. Web Accessed. The Humane Society of the United States, 2012 & 2013. Pet Ownership and Shelter Population Web Accessed The Mosby Foundation, 2015. Truth of what happens to shelter animals  Web Accessed Dogtime.com, 2014. Pets And Humans With Mental Health http://dogtime.com/dog-health/general/20839-pet-therapy-and-human-mental-health-i ssues Why Adopt Instead of Buying a Pet?