Hall 1 Samantha Hall Professor Ryan ENC 1102.001 19 April 2017 Composing Multimedia Arguments Sexual Education in public schools is a controversial topic that most people tend to avoid when having a conversation. This has led to an uneducated youth and a lack of knowledge on the topic. Sexual education is currently in schools as an abstinence-only class, which is teaching to avoid sex until marriage. Sexual education is defined as the instruction on issues relating to human sexuality (Advocates for Youth 2008). Comprehensive sexual programs also teach that abstinence is the only way to guarantee that they become pregnant or contract a STD, but it also gives information about safety. Abstinence-only programs leave out important information when it comes to human sexuality. Therefore, sexual education needs to be placed in schools as a comprehensive program that covers all the topics related to sexual education, not as an abstinence-only program. Abstinence-only sexual education teaches as a morally correct option and avoid talking about contraception options and abortions, where comprehensive sexual education includes information that is beneficial and allows one to make educated decisions about their life when it comes to having sexual intercourse. If abstinence-only courses discuss contraceptives or STDs it is focused on the failure rates of contraceptives, often exaggerating the medical information and suggests STDs are a result of premarital sexual intercourse (Advocates for Youth 2008). While Comprehensive programs provide information regarding proper use of contraceptives, accurate information about STDs, and all the information teens need to make educated decisions about Hall 2 their sexual health. According to the study posed by Adam Lang approximately 50% of teen females and 58% of teen males were taught how to use a condom in their sexual education class (Lang 2015). This study suggests that a program that withholds information about contraceptives or delay sex. It shows that teens that only take an abstinence-only program are at an increased risk of pregnancy and STDs. There any study of comprehensive sexual education programs, to date, that has found evidence that providing teens with sexual and/or reproductive health information results in an increased sexual risk-taking behavior (Kirby 2008). This is one reason that comprehensive programs need to replace abstinence-only programs in school as well as being placed in schools that are currently lacking a sexual education class. One of the biggest issues about an abstinence-only sexual education program is that it takes away the teens chance to learn about options that keep them safe other than an abstinence life. When it comes to a teen teachers, parents and adults want best for them, but more importantly they want to keep them safe, and the abstinence-only program do the best job at protecting them when it shields them from sex related topics that are viewed as morally right. One issue that is brought up against a comprehensive sexual education program is that the students are too young to be learning about the topics related to human sexuality. However, sexual education typically starts in middle school, sometimes as early as fifth grade when the students start to experience puberty. Puberty is when the teens have new chemicals where they change from a into an which just means they have adult levels of hormones (Dowshen 2015). These hormones are estrogen, progesterone, and testosterone and they affect teens sexual desire and functioning. In other words, they have a desire to have sexual intercourse because they are going through puberty and are more likely to engage in these activities. Incorporating a sexual education class when these hormones start to change will benefit the Hall 3 students and teach them the information that they need to stay safe. They are young, but because this is happening to their body they deserve to know how to react. If this is still being too young, why are we teaching elementary aged children about drugs? Throughout elementary school these programs like no to where students get a ribbon that says they are drug free, and has a whole month dedicated to teaching students how to say no, when they even know what drugs are is a good idea, then why is comprehensive sexual education a bad idea. If the teens are too young to learn about human sexuality, then elementary students should be too young to learn about drugs. Another reason abstinence-only sexual education is the first pick for schools is the belief that comprehensive education teaches in intricate detail everything to do with sex. However, that 100% accurate. Comprehensive Sexual education focus only on the sexual intercourse as many people believe, it teaches the importance of healthy relationships as well as improving the self-esteem of a teen and the understanding of how to protect their physical and mental well-being. It provides means of protection and prevention of pregnancy and sexually transmitted infections (Siecus 2015). As a college student, this means nothing to you since you have already spent your time in a sexual education course, however over the past 15 colleges have been hosting a week long sexual education program. This began in 2002 at Yale University spreading to other campuses over the years 2012). It the traditional sexual education that lectures on safe sex and the risks that come with sex, but gives advice for different scenarios. This goes to show that not just for middle schoolers and high schoolers. Comprehensive sexual education programs need to replace the abstinence-only programs so the future generations are educated and safe. One way to take part in this is to join AccountaBULL, a USF big brother program that goes into schools in the local communities and teaches a comprehensive sexual education Hall 4 program. College students just like you participate in making a difference in teens lives. Through partnerships in community schools, we can reach out and give teens the proper and full information they need to remain protected and aware about their sexual health. We provide accurate medical information about the health benefits and side effects of contraceptives and birth control. There are multiple things that you can get involved in, whether it be teaching the students in the classes, creating the lesson plans, creating worksheets that the students complete to assess their understanding, or contacting the schools and facilitating the partnerships with schools in the community. Abstinence-only sexual education the answer for lowering pregnancy and STD rates. Students need to be given the proper information to make educated decisions when it comes to their bodies as well as the tools and resources to protect themselves from pregnancy and STDs. Teens should be given the option on what to do when it comes to their bodies. They may be young, but when the information they will need one day is withheld they will make decisions and must face the consequences of them because they supplied with the proper information. let teens continue to be uneducated, make a difference in their lives by supporting comprehensive sexual education and rejecting the abstinence-only courses. Hall 5 Works Cited Dowshen, Steven. About KidsHealth, The Nemours Foundation, 17 Oct. 2015, kidshealth.org/en/kids/puberty.html. Accessed 10 Apr. 2017. Kirby, David D, impact of abstinence and comprehensive sex and STD/HIV education programs on adolescent sexual Sexuality Research & Social Policy, 2008, Accessed 10 April, 2017 Lang, Adam W. Features Adam SIECUS, Sieces, 16 Mar. 2015, www.siecus.org/index.cfm?fuseaction=Feature.showFeature&featureID=1041. Accessed 10 Apr. 2017. Anahad. College Students Need Sex The New York Times, The New York Times, 17 Apr. 2012, well.blogs.nytimes.com/2012/04/17/do-college-students-need-sex- Accessed 18 Apr. 2017.