Kamadia 1 Ayaan Kamadia Janie Gill ENC 1102 April 16, 2017 Those who would give up essential Liberty, to purchase a little temporary Safety, deserve neither Liberty nor  This is a quote from Benjamin Franklin, one of the founding fathers of the United States. While Benjamin Franklin was reported to have said this almost two centuries ago, this quote still holds true in day and age. The in day and age is the veil of privacy. In an age filled with smartphones and increasingly new advances in technology, the value of privacy is more important now than ever. On that note, when will the people act against the illegal surveillance conducted by the NSA? The National Security Agency is a branch of the United States government that was formed on November 4, 1952 National Security ). The NSA specializes in maintaining safety and security of the United States through means of technological advances and security. The main aim of the NSA is to ensure the safety and security of the country through means of cryptology Mission & ). Therefore, they ensure security by the study of computer code and its effects on systems. Their mission statement states that the NSA is at the front of different forms of cryptology that contains different information products and services so as to be at an advantage for the USA and their allies Mission & ). The main aim is to ensure the safety and security of the citizens, and they aim to achieve this goal by going through any methods at their disposal, even if these said methods are legally questionable. Kamadia 2 Modern day illegal surveillance is the conception of the 43 rd president of the United States, George W. Bush. According to The New York Times, the then president signed a presidential order that allowed (and still allows) the National Security Agency to illegally surveil everyone inside the United States (Lichtblau, James Risen and Eric). The ideals of freedom and liberty were instantly thrown out the window when the privacy of the people was being breached. The presidential order was signed at the time with the intention of finding numbers that Al-Qaeda used. However, it has now been over a decade that Al-Qaeda conspirators have been gotten rid of. Over the years many laws against illegal surveillance was passed but all these laws were effectively rendered useless by president Bush. This mass surveillance is clearly illegal as it comes in direct conflict with the 4 th Amendment of the United States Constitution which states that right of the people to be secure in their persons, houses, papers, and effects, against unreasonable searches and seizures, shall not be violated, and no Warrants shall issue, but upon probable cause, supported by Oath or affirmation, and particularly describing the place to be searched, and the persons or things to be This basically means that any federal agency (the NSA included) can only surveil individuals if they have valid warrants to do so and said warrants should include specifically which person to surveil. This means that the NSA is violating the 4 th amendment right of all the Americans in the United States. It is important to note that all government agencies were formed with the intention of protecting its citizens and upholding all their rights instead of being the violators of said rights. How would you feel if you knew that every intimate detail of your life, including the communication you have with your loved ones and everyone else was monitored every second? The word scared cannot even come close to describe the feeling that you must be experiencing. But how would you feel if anything you said at any point of time could be used Kamadia 3 to mistreat you? The answer to that question is utter fear. Over the years since these forms of mass surveillance have been authorized, many individuals have been affected. The gathering of this information is not only illegal but leads to a great abuse of power by the government. Individuals whose data has been collected can become susceptible to any form of abuse. Innocent individuals have been denied access to many services due to the government deeming them as a threat without any legally obtained or actionable evidence. According to the American Civil Liberties Union, affected individuals have been denied entry from airplanes, denied job opportunities, had their bank accounts shut down and worst of all have been consistently interrogated by the government (American Civil Liberties Union). Imagine the sheer embarrassment of being remove off an airplane for no fault of your own. Or not being able to work for a company due to something you may have said years ago. Imagine not having access to any of your money, having your bank account frozen simply because certain authorities have a cause for concern when you have done nothing wrong. The most horrific of them all however is being constantly interrogated by the authorities, pushed for information you simply do not possess. The horrors of unethical interrogation tactics that have been used in the past to get coerced confessions is something that should make anyone with a conscience sick to their core. Even though there are grave injustices being carried out against us, there is something that we the people can do. One such thing that we can do is work with organizations that are against illegal surveillance. One such organization is Stand Against Spying. Stand Against Spying is an alliance of different organizations that have come together to combat the spying of the NSA on its citizens. Stand Against Spying was formed after the Snowden disclosure Where Do Your Representatives Stand On Illegal ). The Snowden disclosure refers to the information released by Edward Snowden about the NSA. Edward Snowden was Kamadia 4 an NSA contracted employee who discovered that the NSA was conducting mass surveillance on all its citizens irrespective of any involvement with red flagged individuals or organizations. He then managed to gain proof of the actions and was able to release his message to the public (University of South Florida Libraries Catalog). Stand Against Spying on their website has an petition section. This petition is addressed towards the President of the United States and stresses how the people are against the use of mass spying and are requesting for it to be stopped. It emphasizes on the lobbying of Congress so as to pass laws that outlaw this spying. Another thing that we as the people can do is speak to our local Congressman (or its office). This is important because if we all lobby our representatives then they will be more inclined to act than if we simply accept this injustice. To conclude, there are many facts of illegal mass surveillance need to be considered before acting on solving them. The 4 th amendment rights of us the people are being constantly violated and we need to act to stop them. The aim of government is to protect its citizens, not violate their rights. It is only if we act that we will eventually be able to stop the plague that is mass surveillance. Now more than ever are Benjamin words true and we must act now to rid ourselves of this invasion of privacy. Kamadia 5 Works Cited Edward Snowden. n.p.: Farmington Hills, Mich. : Gale, 2010-, 2010. University of South Florida Libraries Catalog. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Jacob, Leah, MA. National Security Agency  Salem Press Encyclopedia (2016): Research Starters. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Lichtblau, James Risen and Eric. Bush Lets U.S. Spy on Callers Without  The New York Times. The New York Times, 16 Dec. 2005. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Mission & . Nsa.gov. n.p., 2017. Web. 26 Jan. 2017 . <https://www.nsa.gov/about/mission-strategy/>. NSA Spying on Americans Is  PRIVACY AND SURVEILLANCE. American Civil Liberties Union, n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Where Do Your Representatives Stand on Illegal . StandAgainstSpying.org. N.p., 2017. Web. 30 Jan. 2017 . <https://standagainstspying.org/about/>.