Mouro 1 Mary Mouro Adam Phillips ENC 1102 30 April 2017 Same Sex Adoption Each state is required to monitor and submit an update of welfare states to make sure that needs are being met. However a lot of children grow up and out of the system without having the chance of being cared for, or having a loving family. Same sex parents do not threaten the welfare of a child. There are an estimated of two million LGBT people that are interested in adopting (Gates, Gary J; Badgett, M.V. Lee; Macomber, Jennifer Ehrle; & Chambers, Kate 13).There are a lot of children that need to be adopted and placed in a loving home and every one can help by donating to adoption organizations and by spreading the word of how many children are in need of homes. Many States do not allow same sex couples to adopt children, even though heterosexual couples already have this right, they can help same sex couples gain the same opportunity by, donating, volunteering, and write a letter to the Senet. Adopting a child can be difficult but it is rewording at the same time. There are a lot of ways to prepare for adoption. Of course, it is different from one child to another and from one family to another and the care for each child is diverse and unique. But children keep entering the world and they all need a loving supporting family to back them up. To build a healthy environment for the child with the adoptive parents, most agency educate the adoptive parents about need and what is accepted from them. Also it is required for the adoptive parents to go through screen background check for any criminal or child abuse. Legally a lesbian or gay person can adopt a child, even same sex couples can petition for joint adoption statewide and that Mouro 2 was the consequence after Obergefell v. Hodges Supreme Court in 2015. So both parents can have the same legal right and share the responsibility of taking in raising a child. Recently a study showed that it is four percent of all adopted children in the United States are raised by gay and lesbian parents (Gates, Gary J; Badgett, M.V. Lee; Macomber, Jennifer Ehrle; & Chambers, Kate 18). Adopting a child and raising him/her is one of the major decision in life. For going through the process of adoption heterosexual couples my not feel pressured as homosexual couples. Because as a heterosexual couples it is a one of their right to have a child and it could be one a medical or illness that prevented them to have their own child and that is why they would go throw adoption to bear a child. Whereas, homosexual couples they still get some discrimination and mostly depending on the state they are living in. Married heterosexual parent have the wright of raising a child and can help other to the same wright (Gates, Gary J; Badgett, M.V. Lee; Macomber, Jennifer Ehrle; & Chambers, Kate 22). California have the highest adoption children that are living with homosexual parents more than 16000 (Gates, Gary J; Badgett, M.V. Lee; Macomber, Jennifer Ehrle; & Chambers, Kate 15). Understand that needs comes first and that sometimes parents have to get out of their way to provide that need and they might need help and assistant first before becoming able to support and lead the child in the wright way. Today the society is facing a huge challenge to keep the children out of street and provide a safe environment especially with the increased of the danger of the absent of safeguard internet access, in addition of the natural right of same sex adoption, the rewarding of getting same sex parent engage in helping the society is devastating, everyone has a share responsibility to provide a better life and happiness for both parents of same sex and children who are in essential needs for home, love, and protection. It is time for overcome our differences Mouro 3 and look to the same sex parent as people have the same rights and should enjoy practicing their rights without any obstacles, it is everyone responsibility to make this happen and ease the process of their rights especially for adoptions where it is time sensitive for children for every day they spend outside a loving family. One of the things that heterosexual parent can do to support homosexual parents is to write a letter to the senator. That will explain how homosexual parents have a right in adoption and that their need is similar to their need in raising a child. It is also possible to help the organizations that provide adoption for same-sex parents by donating. So the organization can branch out and help more same-sex couples to achieve their desire of having a family with a child. They can offer their support on how different sex couples and same sex couples have the same aspect of life and same responsibility toward their child, and how that both parents are encouraged to make arrangement in respect of their child. And it is a good idea to wright out in plain language the responsibilities and rights for parenting agreements. And aid in spreading the word to other heterosexual parent that heterosexism can have a strong harmful effect on homosexual individuals and couples (Gonnolly, Colleen M. 5). Heterosexual parent can also help by volunteering and giving some time to other people. No matter what sex orientation of the parents are a good adoptive parents put their needs first, and have to handle parenting stress plus adjusting to the adoption. Heterosexual couples can share their experience of raising a child. Because it is the same for parents no matter what their sexual orientation is. So they can communicate on parenting stress and possible whys to avoid it. And perhaps shed a different alternative to approach a specific problem that they could be having that they did not know a way to solve it. Mouro 4 Main purpose for adoption is having a happy and healthy homes for children to grow up. Even thou some states allow same-sex adoption it is still frowned upon. Although states are required to monitor and submit an update of welfare state. Some organization monitor and keeps updates on how the adoptive family is doing and if they need or require extra assistance in taking care of the child. There is a lot of way to helping same sex parents have more right and smother life for adopting a child. Without looking at sexual orientation gender discrimination. One of them is writing a letter to the senate. Another way is it to give an ad to the organization that specialize in same sex adoption by donating. Also, there is always a chance to volunteer and give support in any way that is possible. Just giving glimpse of heterosexual parenting life could have a big positive influence and effect on homosexual parents. And it could also help in not being out of the ordinary and can relate to the same problem they could be having in raising a child. So different sex parents can provide some assistant in helping same sex couples gain the same opportunity by, donating, volunteering, and write a letter to the Senet. Mouro 5 Work Cited Cannuscio, Carolyn C., et al. I Want to Be a Basic  American Journal of Public Health, vol. 105, no. 11, Nov. 2015, pp. 2216-2219. EBSCOhost, doi:10.2105/AJPH.2015.302815. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. Gates, Gary J; Badgett, M.V. Lee; Macomber, Jennifer Ehrle; & Chambers, Kate. (2007). Adoption and Foster Care by Gay and Lesbian Parents in the United States. The Williams Institute. UCLA: The Williams Institute. Retrieved from: https://escholarship.org/uc/item/2v4528cx. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Gonnolly, Colleen M. Clinical Issues with Same-Sex Couples: A Review of the  Journal of Couple & Relationship Therapy, vol. 3, no. 2/3, June 2004, pp. 3-12. EBSCOhost, search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=aph&AN=15229033&site=ehost-live. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. www.lambdalegal.org www.lifelongadoptions.com Portwood, Sharon G., et al. Examining the Impact of Family Services on Homeless  Child & Family Social Work, vol. 20, no. 4, Nov. 2015, pp. 480-493. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1111/cfs.12097. Web. 14 Apr. 2017.