Weng 1 Shengyu Weng Karen Hanson, PhD ENC1102 16 April 2017 The use of animals in biomedical research Do you love your pet? Or your pet? The kittens and puppies are always friendly and lovely. Also, the pets are best friends, we can always see videos and pictures recording how a puppy and baby grow up together. Nowadays, a great amount of American household own their pets. As a research of The American Veterinary Medical Association shows, 36.5% of American families own a dog while 30.4% of the family own a cat.  U.S. Pet Ownership ) However, it is a common thing that the pet get lost and unable find their owners. Do you know what would happen to the lost pets which are guarded by the shelter but nobody claimed? a cold fact, a part of the loss pets would be euthanized by the shelters which means sentenced to die. Moreover, most of the pets would be sold by these shelters to universities or some research institution for the use of animal testing legally. Sheet: Pets Used in ) The animal testing is known for its cruelty that most of the animals in the laboratories are forced to take testing frequently until they become monsters or die. As we love animals, we need to do things like sign a petition or donate to stop or decrease the animal testing so we can rescue the animals. Weng 2 Agell invited 262 students from different age group to participate in a role play game discussing the social problem animal testing, after this role play game, students possess more knowledge about animal testing and then most of attitudes toward we need to stop animal changed from to It shows people would generally against the animal testing after they got enough knowledge. According to Humane Society International, out of ten drugs deemed successful in animal tests fail in human clinical Nine out of ten statistics are taken out of ) Which means most of the animal testing make no sense, and the reason of the low success rate is easy to understand. Let us assume there is a new drug passes the animal testing, it works on a puppy, and there is no abnormal condition with this puppy. However, nobody can judge how this drug works on human because puppy and human are two different species. As a result, this new drag still need to be analyze by scientists for a long time. the reason why most of animal testing are pointless. After introducing the low success rate of the animal testing, see how many animals die because of the animal testing every single year. The research of organization shows the answer is more than 100 million animals each year, which contains numerous kinds of animals like mice, dogs, cats and fish.( Experiments on Animals: ) We may have no idea about the number 100 million, shows the population of Spain in 2017 is less than 47 million. Spain is a prosperity country, however if we caught all of the Spanish to accept the testing in place of the animals, Weng 3 this test could only last for less than 6 months. Now we can imagine how plenty of animals are suffered and killed by the animal testing. All of the lives should be equal, animals also have their families, they also could live in the world with happiness instead of birthing in a cage and grow up there until they are old enough to accept some cruel experiment and then die in the lab or become some scary monster. The birds they were supposed to fly around the sky and the fish are supposed to swim in the river and sea. However, animal testing changes everything. Some of the audience may ask should we care about animal testing and stop Lots of reasons could be listed. One important reason is we are always using products which are relating to the animal testing such as cosmetics and drugs. However, before we use the drugs and the cosmetics, the companies should always force animals to do merciless things. Animals are infected by the virus which they can never normally suffer, mice in the experiment had huge tumors which are as big as themselves, some of the skulls forced to cut open in order to plant the electrodes.( Cruelty to Animals in ) Lots of animals died poorly because of the products we are going to use, the reason why should we care about the issue. In addition, animal testing is wasteful, since in most of the cases, animal testing would prolong the time of the research and development of drugs. No matter a new drug pass an animal testing or not, it have to be analyze by scientists to figure out if the new drug is safe, also, the fact is even worse, although scientists say the drug is probably safe, there should be a people who first try this Weng 4 new drug with risk, and this whole process could waste a great amount of money but still fail. The other reason is there are lots of tests are unnecessary, for example, we already have enough useful eyedrops, hand soap, shampoo and we literally do not need more of them costing lives. Once there is one more eyedrops sell in the markets, there might be more than10 thousands of rabbits became blind for the rest of their lives. Now it is time to figure out what could we do to help the animals, there is no doubt that every one of us could do something to stop animal testing. Firstly, we could take few minutes to sign a petition online, which is easy for everyone, once we signed our name, it shows our determination of helping the animals. The second way of stopping animal testing is we should stop buying products that related to the animal testing. an effective way to fight with animal testing, if more people could ban the products of companies which do test on animals, fewer companies will keep doing animal testing since they can make no profit, there are lots of websites are listing the companies which are doing test on animals, so before we decide to purchase something, we can first check if the name included on the websites and then do our last decisions. Plus, a good suggestion to become a member of an animal protect organization like Peta, HSUS, after joining these organizations, we can get the newest information of animals and keep figuring out what we could do. Also, if we eager to help the animals, we could make a donate to Weng 5 these organizations in order to help their works. Besides, nowadays the social media is well developed and millions of people are using Facebook, Twitter and YouTube, so we can always share the articles and pictures which are relating to stop animal testing, to help our friends, families understand the fact of the animal testing and invite them to join resist the animal testing. Weng 6 Works Cited Agell, Laia, Using Role Play to Debate Animal Testing, pages 309-312, 26 Aug. 2014. Cruelty to Animals in  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Experiments on Animals:  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Fact Sheet: Pets Used in  The Humane Society of the United States. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Nine out of ten statistics are taken out of  Understanding Animal Research. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.  U.S. Pet Ownership  U.S. Pet Ownership Statistics. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.