Braganca 1 Marcela Tozatti Fiuza de Braganca Andrew DeCarion ENC 1102 12 April 2017 Looking Foward to Evaluate, Not Deteriorate When talking about delicious food, the majority of the americans will think about that huge juicy piece of steak running through their mouth directly to their stomach. More than just a piece of food, eating meat became part of the American culture, a behavior that became normal to most Americans. But this behavior implemented by society goes beyond humans modern culture, this behavior was actually influenced by the australopithecus, in other words, the humans ancestors. In fact, eating meat is part of human nature; if humans can digest it, why not eat it? However, the consumption of meat in the United States has skyrocketed drastically from the early until today, making the cattle industry the leading agriculture industry in the nation. This absurd increase in consumption had cause an horrific impact on the health, but not only. Indeed, the demand certainly  the industries to increase their production which led to a greater environment deforestation, and especially to a greater animal mistreatment. Fortunately, many people started to promote awareness, just like the organization People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) in which promotes animal rights awareness to prevent animal abuse in the world. By invoking people to go against any type of animal abuse (entertainment, food, clothes, lab-testing, etc.), they are not only saving millions of animals lives but also saving lives of many people who change their eating habits to a plant based diet. Braganca 2 Without even noticing, the level of meat consumption in the United States increased dramatically over time. According to the article published by NPR, Americans are now consuming six times more meat that they used to back in 1909, but at the same time people were not aware of the effects of this behavior in the environment, in their health, and especially on animals rights. Like any other business, when the demand increases the supply has also to go along with the rhythm to avoid inflations; yet, when the beef industry started to expand, more land, water, and food were needed to sustain that growth in consumption. To be more precise, to make a quarter-pound hamburger needed: 6.7 lbs of grains and forage, 52.8 gallons of water for drinking water and irrigating feed crops, 74.5 square feet for grazing and growing feed crops, and 1,036 Btus for feed production and  A Nation Of Meat Eaters: See How It All Adds ). Keeping in mind that these numbers relates to quarter-pound hamburger; now image 52.2 billions pounds, that is the total meat consumption of the american population. Thousand of forests hectares are destroyed per year to open space for the cattle and thousands of liters of clean water are  so industries can keep up the rhythm of the meat consumption of the population. Not stopping there, waste are one of the main contributors to environmental negligence. According to the researcher Deanna Ferreira, cattle and other animals in the ruminant family, contribute a significant percentage of methane into the  (542). In reality, agricultural activities is the leading cause of methane emission, representing a total of 16% of all greenhouse emissions Global Greenhouse Gas Emissions ). Just as the Agreement of Paris helped nations to control their emission of carbon dioxide in industries and cars, controlling emissions of methane would also be helpful to the environment, avoiding Braganca 3 change in global temperature. By that, avoiding the consumption of meat will make one responsible for helping the environment to improve. Besides the destruction around us, consuming meat also causes a worrisome impact within our bodies. Meat lovers will say that ancestors used to eat meat, and for instance part of human nature to consume meat. In fact, the australopithecus had to eat meat because they did not have many options nor information as we do today; but even though, they used to consume much less than the average American does now. The world changed, and habits that were considered convenient in the past, not necessary are to be convenient today. People eat meat because it tastes good and it is also a good source of amino acids for humans, but what about the part in which red meat is heavily composed of saturated fat? According to a research conducted by doctors in Spain, higher consumption of red meat and processed meat is associated with an increased risk of total, cardiovascular, and cancer  (Boada, Luis). Some people think that cancer has most of its relation with genetics, but is pretty much the contrary. Our environment has a greater influence in cancer development than our genetic inheritance. For instance, habits such as smoking, physical exercise, and specially food intake have a direct influence in cancer development. Hence, the research  that dietary intervention (mainly reducing processed meat intake) may be a promising approach for prevention of cancers of the colon, esophagus, liver, stomach and bladder, and type 2 diabetes and cardiovascular  (Boada, Luis). Reducing meat consumption or, even better, introducing a plant-based diet to life helps not only the environment, but quality of life. Another concern could be the lack of vitamins, iron for example, if one stops eating meat. According to a research conducted by Janet Hunt comparing vegetarians and non vegetarians, Braganca 4 although vegetarians tend to have lower iron stores than omnivores, they appear to have no greater incidence of iron deficiency . In other words, the supply of iron that meat provide to humans is , and not essential; for instance, living a plant-based diet gives humans the enough amount of iron needed for survival. Calcium and amino-acids are also two factors that people tend to be concern about it when taking a vegetarian diet into consideration. Foods like beans, spinach, and mushrooms are rich in all three of those components. Plant foods have every property that is essential to sustain the human body: vitamins, carbs, proteins, and healthy fats. Moreover, they do not, by any circumstances, provoke any cardiovascular diseases (as stated earlier) like animal products do. Removing or reducing meat intake from your diet will make you live a longer and healthier life. After discussing the effects of the manufacturing process of the product and the effects of it in body, now it is time to discuss about the source of the product itself, the cattle. When people eat a piece of steak they do not necessary think I am eating a one living  they just eat and enjoy the pleasure of it. This happens because eating meat has become natural to humans, but it does not mean is ethical. The mistreatment of animals inside the agricultural industries is a subject not openly discussed as it should be; for some reason people tend to ignore this issue and live their lives like nothing wrong was being done. Some examples of animal cruelty that occurs within the industries according to PETA include: burning cows for identification purposes, cutting testicles without pain reliefs, forced intake of food until they cannot even stand their own weight, inappropriate shelter in which they die of heat or frozen and are constantly smashed for lack of space, and living under extremely dirty conditions favorable to diseases. Yet, PETA fights over this cruelty by promoting public education, cruelty Braganca 5 investigations, research, animal rescue, legislation, special events, celebrity involvement, and protest  (PETA) trying to spread awareness over the population. Having in mind that the purpose of animals are to be a source of food for humans is very unrealistic. Just as humans beings, animals are also breathing creatures that seeks for love, comfort, and happiness. This topic has been around for more than thirty-seven years, when PETA was founded, and even though it seems unnoticed for big part of the population. Documentaries, magazines, articles, and research are constantly updated and published with the purpose to open eyes to reinforce the damages caused by the animal industry. Fortunately, according to Janet Larsen, a Stanford alumni, who conducts research on global environmental trends shows that meat eating across the country fell from the 2004 high point of 184 pounds per person to 171 pounds in  and estimates that further reduction will summarize to a 10 percent drop over the years. People are actually changing their habits little by little, and by doing so they help not only to save animals lives, but to save the planet earth, and their own lives. Changing your diet into a plant-based diet or even just reducing your meat intake will improve your life quality, avoid environmental destruction, and prevent animal abuse. Be responsible for the good and not for the bad; help to change your surroundings for the best by changing your habits. Braganca 6 Works Cited About  N.p., n.d. Web. 03 Apr. 2017. Barclay, Eliza. A Nation Of Meat Eaters: See How It All Adds  NPR, 27 June 2012. Web. 03 Apr. 2017. Boada, Luis D., et al. The Impact of Red and Processed Meat Consumption on Cancer and Other Health Outcomes: Epidemiological  & Chemical vol. 92, June 2016, pp. 236-244. doi:10.1016/j.fct.2016.04.008. Ferreira, Deanne M. Camara. Global Warming and Agribusiness: Could Methane Gas from Dairy Cows Spark the Next California Gold  Law vol. 15, no. 2, Mar. 2010, pp.541-577. Global Greenhouse Gas Emissions  Environmental Protection Agency, 14 Feb. 2017. Web. 11 Apr. 2017. Hunt, Janet R. Bioavailability of iron, zinc, and other trace minerals from vegetarian diets  American Journal of Clinical N.p., 01 Sept. 2003. Web. 11 Apr. 2017. Larsen, Janet. Peak Meat: U.S. Meat Consumption  Policy N.p., n.d. Web. 03 Apr. 2017.