Rodriguez !1 Michelle Rodriguez Ms. Aranda ENC 1102 12 April, 2017 Immigration Immigration affects every aspect of society and therefore impacts the lives of many Americans. Many people are aware that immigration in the U.S. has become an issue, however, it does not appear that we are anywhere closer to arriving at a solution. Different organizations have different methods on how to combat the issue of mass immigration but these organizations have not come to terms with each other regarding a solution. The stakeholder, Federation for American Immigration Reform (FAIR) takes the position that it is important to reduce immigration to levels that existed back in the and laws should be modified to improve things in the future (fairus.org). The unengaged stakeholder in this situation are organizations that have opposing views to FAIR and the goal is that they come together one day to find a real solution to this problem. Two opposing organizations should come together to find a compromise because they both have ways on how to handle immigration yet, it is time they come together and pass legislation that can make a difference. The to is a forum where different organizations can come together to discuss different solutions in efforts to stop mass immigration. Although many are aware of the immigration issues affecting the United States, plenty of criticism exist but not many have offered solutions to a problem that is growing and likely to continue growing exponentially. In the recent presidential election, immigration was a major Rodriguez !2 topic candidates discussed and it became a large concern to many. The United States has always been a country made up of immigrants and has been known as the of therefore attracting millions of people. Immigration has reached a point where the country can not continue to absorb both legal and illegal immigrants numbering well over two million people every year. According to the Washington Post, there are 322,000,000 people who reside in the United States in 2016 of which approximately 11 million are illegal immigrants (usnew.com). At this rate, there is no feasible way that the U.S. can sustain the stress on the limited resources with the addition of approximately two million new immigrants per year. The United States has always be a country made up of immigrates and should continue to be however, a system must be put in place to balance the number of incoming people. While many may think that immigration is not an issue that effects them, in fact it effects all Americans in many different ways. Ideally, the government would like to make education, health care, welfare, and other social programs available to all but the truth of the matter is that the resources are limited. The addition of two million people a year is an extremely large number placing stress on the system as a whole and possibly leading to detrimental effects to the system. The financial burden of dealing with such large numbers compromises the system which could reach a point where the benefits are completely exhausted and no longer available. One of the largest government funded programs that can be effected by immigration is the public school system. According the National Center for Education Statistics, there are 50.4 million students enrolled in the public schools in the United States (nces.ed.gov). The more children that attend public school the less attention each student receives therefore, lowering the quality of education. Rodriguez !3 education should not have to take a toll due to immigration. The younger generation is the future of the country and their education has to become a priority. The real challenge is in finding a balance between allowing immigration and not placing such stress on our current resources because it is understood that some degree of immigration is necessary. Since different organizations have different ideas on how to approach the issue of immigration, the best way in finding solutions is to create a forum with a board of mediators. This forum will be a unbiased environment where organizations with opposing view points can come to discuss the different aspects of immigration. In order for a resolution to reached, individuals will need to compromise somewhat and identify with one of the major organizations. The main reason why individuals have to identify with a organization is so that there are not disagreements on tangential issues which are not crucial to resolving the immigration crisis. Different organizations will attend this forum and will able to collaborate to come up with solutions to problems in immigration reform. By tackling smaller issues in this immigration crisis one by one, that goal is that one day this forum will help the government implement laws that balance the competing stakeholders. Due to organizations being concerned about the issues they think need to be resolved, they are sometimes not able to see different view points on a problem that could change the lives of millions. This forum is the perfect place for different organizations to attend because it allows them to understand the various perspectives on this issue and are therefore are more inclined reach a resolution. This forum is the best way to allow people that have different perspectives to come together and form one strong organization that can help the United States find a balance when it comes to the highly sensitive issue of immigration. Other methods have been put into place Rodriguez !4 throughout the years but it has not helped with coming up with a solution. It is time to come together and make compromise so that the future of the United States is a brighter one. The forum will not only educate people but it will also empower them to take the initiative and become involved in a organization that is shaping the country. Immigration will continue to have a large impact on the country, people, jobs, and government funded programs. It is essential that we spend time and dedicate resources to solving the immigration crisis. The forum provides not only a platform but will also set up a time frame for addressing issues and making sure the problems are addressed. Hopefully this forum will be able to bring a compromise between many and will turn immigration from a problem into a solution. Rodriguez !5 Works Cited Fast  Fast Facts. National Center for Education Statistics , n.d. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. <https://nces.ed.gov/fastfacts/display.asp?id=372>. Schlesinger, Robert. The Size of the U.S. and the World in  U.S. News & World Report. U.S. News & World Report, 05 Jan. 2016. Web. 15 Apr. 2017.