Kelley 1 Jen Kelley Instructor: Adam Carter English Composition 1102.17 18 April 2017 Deaf Culture Matters Imagine a world where people on earth could communicate with aliens. Douglas explores this idea in the Hitchhikers guide to the galaxy books. In these books, a babel fish is placed on the main ear so that he can communicate with aliens. This sounds miraculous; however, it leads to extreme consequences like wars between the universes. Robert Sparrow, an advocate for the Deaf community, compares this mystical technology to a reality: cochlear implants (Sparrow). Cochlear implants are a surgically implanted device implanted into the inner ear allowing electronic signals to bypass the damaged part of the ear to reach the brain so that the brain can interpret the signals as sound The babel fish is mirrors cochlear implants in that they both raise great controversy and invade another culture. It can be a surprise to many that people who cochlear implants were designed for greet them with little enthusiasm; however, there are several reasons why this is. Cochlear implants infringe a majority culture on a minority culture; therefore, people must attend the informational event Culture to learn about the Deaf culture and the importance of avoiding its extinction. Cochlear implants are long debated between medical professionals and the Deaf community. First, medical professionals encourage that all people should be given the opportunity to hear. A key advocate for this is Alexander Graham Bell Association of the Deaf and Hard of Hearing (AG Bell). They highlight the importance of children getting implanted as Kelley 2 soon as possible so that he or she can be integrated into the hearing world Statement: Cochlear By being integrated into the hearing world, the child has the the opportunity to go to regular schools over specialized ones for people who are deaf, make navigating through life easier, and ease the response effort of communication. More importantly, medical professionals encourage the implants because it lends safety to the child because he or she can hear environmental sounds considered like a gunshot. For these reasons, they say that cochlear implants benefit children who are deaf immensely. On the other hand, the Deaf community reacted to cochlear implants with hostility. According Sparrow, the technology continues to improve then one day we may live in a world where no one needs to be (Sparrow). This indicates that medical professionals are seeking a and a for deafness thus depleting the size of the Deaf community as more people are getting the cochlear implants. According to James Cherney in his article, when the FDA approved cochlear implants in children, the Deaf saw this as doctors viewing deafness as an intolerable condition, and that living outside the hearing world was a severe (Cherney). And for this reason, they ultimately saw cochlear implants equating intrusion over helpful. With both sides considered, people must learn more about the Deaf culture instead of siding with medical professionals because cochlear implants are shrinking another culture. For instance, 90 percent of all deaf children are born to hearing parents (Cherney). This could strongly signal that parents may be uninformed of the Deaf culture deciding on a complex surgical process over the other, less invasive options. The parents may place learning American Sign Language (ASL) on the backburner focusing heavily on the child becoming fluent in spoken language. This is why people who are deaf reacted to cochlear implants with little Kelley 3 enthusiasm and much hostility: their culture is heavily reliant on children whose parents can hear. Furthermore, the cochlear implant surgery is a complex surgery which may or may not benefit the child fully. In a study done comparing language achievement in children with cochlear implants and children using hearing aids, they found that there was significant variability in language development for people with cochlear implants (Tomblin et al.) This concludes that the cochlear implants may not have the effects parents want them to have because there are several factors that go into the effectiveness of them. Also in this study, mentioned that there have been no prior studies that show the levels of improvement in learning English allow the person who is deaf to be fully part of the hearing society. Not only is the child now deprived of being fully part of the hearing community, but it also deprives them of being fully part of the Deaf community. Therefore, receiving the cochlear implants do not guarantee full acquisition of spoken and receptive communication. People must attend the Culture event with the goal to enhance the understanding of the Deaf community to the hearing community. It will be held on August 3 rd from 11am to 4pm. There will be food provided from Southwest Grill, and all donations will go to the National Association of the Deaf (NAD), which is a civil rights organization for people who are deaf. In hopes, the event will cause the to see deafness as a culture and not a disability. The event will be divided into sections, and one can schedule to either come to one of the activities, or all of the activities. First, there will be speakers from the Deaf community that will express their experiences being part of a minority culture. They will sign their stories while an interpreter translates it into English. Secondly, there will be a small 45-minute class on some Kelley 4 basic signs in sign language, hopefully inspiring one to pursue learning sign language. Here, there will be a sign-up to take additional classes if one chooses to. Thirdly, there will be a part of the event oriented toward how to handle communicating with people who are deaf. According to Kevin Cole at Gallaudet University, two to four people out of one thousand are considered functionally deaf. Although this does not seem like a lot, one will encounter people who hear, and he or she should know how to navigate through the conversation. It will include and do when one is hit with this language barrier. Lastly, there will be a section that will educate people about the long history that the Deaf culture has undergone and how it truly is a culture today. extremely important to note that cochlear implants invade on the Deaf community because children may be less likely to learn ASL, which decreases the side of this culture. One must come to the Culture event to learn about being Deaf first-hand from people who are part of this culture. It will also go through the history of the Deaf in hopes of gaining a larger appreciation from the hearing society of the non-hearing society. This minority culture has fought to be considered a culture, and the cochlear implants reverse that idea by erasing that deafness is a culture, and writing in pen that a disability. Kelley 5 Works Cited Cherney, James. Deaf Culture and the Cochlear Implant Debate: Cyborg Politics and the Identity of People with  Argumentation and Advocacy (1999): 22-34. Proquest. Web. 18 Apr. 2017. Cole, Kevin. Gallaudet  Gallaudet University. Web. 18 Apr. 2017. Position Statement: Cochlear Implants in  Position Statement: Cochlear Implants in Children AG Bell Listening and Spoken Language. Web. 18 Apr. 2017. Sparrow, Robert. Implants and Ethnocide: Learning from the Cochlear Implant  Disability & Society 25.4 (2010): 455-66. Web. Tomblin, J. Bruce, Linda Spencer, Sarah Flock, Rich Tyler, and Bruce Gantz. A Comparison of Language Achievement in Children With Cochlear Implants and Children Using Hearing  Journal of Speech Language and Hearing Research 42.2 (1999): 497. Web. Kelley 6 Kelley 7 Imagine a world where people on earth could communicate with aliens. Douglas explores this idea in the Hitchhikers guide to the galaxy books. In these books, a babel fish is placed on the main ear so that he can communicate with aliens. This sounds miraculous; however, it leads to extreme consequences like wars between the universes. In Sparrows journal article, he compares this mystical invention to a reality: cochlear implants. They are similar in the fact that they are both intruding on another culture.