Analisa Lee Karen Hanson Composition 1102 April 16 2017 Government Surveillance Imagine sitting in your living room watching TV, on your laptop hanging with loved ones but being watched. The government is capable and has been doing this for years. They have an organization called the National Security Association (NSA), that is in charge of surveilling national threats and information. They are intended to keep watch for terrorism, however, they do not follow the rules. They infringe upon our Fourth Amendment, which states, right of the people to be secure in their persons, houses, papers, and effects, against unreasonable searches and seizures, shall not be violated, and no Warrants shall issue, but upon probable cause, supported by Oath or affirmation, and particularly describing the place to be searched, and the persons or things to be Const. Amend. IV, sec. Government surveillance can be seen as a good thing, and some ways it can be. However, spying on innocent citizens is taking away freedom and liberty two of key foundations. Since government surveillance has gotten out of hand and is detrimental to our country, we must stand against it and do everything in our power to hinder it. Whether people know it or not, or are just not willing to accept it, the government is spying on us. They track our phone calls, E-Mails, they watch us through our computers. According to Jim Hightower, out-of-country call and email from (or to) a U.S. citizen is grabbed by NSA computers, and agents are authorized to listen to or read any of (Eight Terrifying). They say they are doing it to watch for terrorism, however, the extent the NSA goes to on listening in on private information is unhealthy for this country. It would make sense for the NSA to begin spying on someone who is consistently contacting someone in the Middle East, however, to watch innocent people doing no harm is not acceptable. It is terrifying to think that the United States of America, the land of the free, is essentially not free. According to a Pew Research survey, only 17% of Americans are and 33% are very (Rainie and Madden). These numbers are concerning as it is because citizens are not worried about the government having this power over us. We have been warned for centuries that if we give the government more power, the citizens will lose. Benjamin Franklin said, who would give up essential liberty, to purchase a little temporary safety, deserve neither Liberty nor People argue that government surveillance is good to stop terrorism and perhaps it can be beneficial, but it would be destructive to the freedom. Neil M. Richards says in article, that have the right to our He says, intellectual surveillance is especially dangerous because it can cause people not to experiment with new, controversial, or deviant (The Dangers). Richards says this is dangerous because when it comes to making up our mind on political matters, it can hinder our individual thinking and waver our minds. The NSA claim their main target is to America safe from outside attacks. Their mission statement is, National Security Agency/Central Security Service (NSA/CSS) leads the U.S. Government in cryptology that encompasses both Signals Intelligence (SIGINT) and Information Assurance (IA) products and services, and enables Computer Network Operations (CNO) in order to gain a decision advantage for the Nation and our allies under all (Mission). They claim honesty and transparency with what they do, but then how can they explain, internal audit in May 2012 of its DC-area spy centers, the agency itself found 2,776 of NSA overstepping its legal (8 Terrifying). Edward Snowden, a former CIA worker, leaked thousands of terrifying things the NSA does with their power. Snowden revealed, a top-secret court order, the NSA collected the telephone records from millions of Verizon customers. June 6, NSA accessed and collected data through back doors into US internet companies such as Google and Facebook with a program called Prism. June 7, NSA has a program codenamed EvilOlive that collects and stores large quantities of internet metadata, which contains only certain information about online content. Email metadata, for example, reveals the sender and recipient addresses and time but not content or subject. June 27, (Szoldra), these are just a couple of terrifying realizes that Snowden uncovered. As American citizens, we must not be satisfied with allowing the NSA to continue what they do. We must fight to put restrictions on them and stop them from infringing on our Fourth Amendment. There is are petitions and protests that everyone can sign up for. We should be less afraid to stand up and fight against government surveillance, than to continue to allow the NSA to spy on us. We need to continue to fight and support Acts and petitions that support American citizens freedom. If you ever wonder if really be affected by government surveillance or if you doubt that it will get to the point of losing freedom, just remember how far they have already gotten right under our noses. In the age of technology, it is almost too easy for the government to stalk everyday people. They will continue to do so unless we make a stand and put an end to it. Just remember, every time you are doing everyday things like playing with your kids or watching YouTube videos being watched and monitored. Works Cited Lee, Rainie and Madden, Mary. Views On Government Surveillance Pew Research Center. March. 2015. 8 Feb. 2017. http://www.pewinternet.org/2015/03/16/americans-views-on-government-surveillance-pr ograms/ Richards, Neil M. Dangers Of Law Review. May. 2013. 29 Jan. 2017. http://harvardlawreview.org/2013/05/the-dangers-of-surveillance/ U.S. Amend. IV, Sec. 1.