Chen 1 Mengshan Chen Kristen Rouisse ENC1102 16 April 2017 Help PTSD Sufferers to Reduce Suffering Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder, also named PTSD, is a mental health issue that some people develop after experiencing a life-threatening event, such as possible death, serious injury, or sexual violence (PTSD, National Center for). Since PTSD usually occurs in soldiers who come back from the war, the US department of Veterans Affairs website has a sub-area named PTSD: National Center for PTSD, which can help the public understand PTSD scientifically and promote improved treatment of PTSD for veterans. The organization believes that PTSD is curable, and veterans who are suffering from PTSD are encouraged to ask for help through this website (PTSD, National Center for). However, the symptoms of PTSD are difficult to be cured. PTSD sufferers will have sleep problems, physical pain, flashbacks of battles, exaggerated anxiety and startle  (Daniel Schacter). The symptoms may come back even if sufferers complete the whole treatment. Thus, because PTSD sufferers may bring pain to themselves and their family, teenagers who understand PTSD should visit PTSD sufferers, talking with them and helping them to reduce suffering. PTSD sufferers are very miserable. Symptoms of PTSD includes sleep problems, physical pain, flashbacks of battles, exaggerated anxiety and startle  (Daniel Schacter). In the article named Sleep problems and physical pain as moderators of the relationship between PTSD symptoms and aggression in returning veterans, authors Adam Chen 2 LaMotte, Casey Taft and Robin Weatherill point out that sleep problems and physical pain are common for veterans (LaMotte, Taft, Weatherill). From the article named Is There a Cure for PTSD is reviewed by a board-certified physician, the author Matthew Tull states that treatments for PTSD can reduce and even eliminate many symptoms of  (Tull). However, treatments for PTSD cannot erase memory of those  (Tull). In addition, in the article named PTSD Curable versus Treatable, the writer also points out that the recovery rate is 80%. Also, The remaining 5%, approximately, will have what is deemed lifetime  (MyPTSD). That means a small group of sufferers will suffer from symptoms of PTSD in their whole lives. They cannot even stop to see their therapist. Of course, those people return to their normal lives anymore. Therefore, treatment can only help sufferers control over their lives from the symptom of PTSD, but possible that symptom of PTSD can recur. There are several reasons that teenagers should care about this issue. First of all, most PTSD sufferers are veterans who come back from the battlefield. They protected the country outside the country, so citizens should protect them when they in the country, especially for teenagers. At second, even though veterans are few in daily life. However, PTSD sufferers are not rare. hard to identify PTSD sufferers in the society. Sometimes even though those sufferers know that they are suffering from PTSD. The author Stephen Goth in the article named Why Young People Should Care About PTSD states that times, people who develop PTSD are at a young age, and are unaware of the traumatic damage their brain is enduring. PTSD can form from something as simple as a single event such as divorce, or even the collection of various traumatic occurrences, such as (Goth). Perhaps one day, someone around teenagers will suicide or do some horrible things because of the disorder. Therefore, they should learn the knowledge to prepare for emergency situations. Moreover, the Chen 3 symptom of PTSD can disturb the normal life of a person. Living with PTSD, relationships, friendships, performance at school, performance in a job, or even something as simple as sleeping will become a trouble in their daily lives (Goth). In the article named Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder, the author points out that stress of PTSD can affect all members of the (Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder). a fundamental problem for family relationships. On the other hand, if there are only a few people to care about PTSD and the sufferer, there may be more PTSD sufferers suicide or hurt someone else or living in despair. Teenagers can do some simple things to help PTSD sufferers. At first, they can begin to search materials which are about PTSD or other mental disorders in a library to understand the disorder. Melinda Smith, M.A. and Lawrence Robinson think that more you know about the symptoms, effects, and treatment options, the better equipped be to help your loved one, understand what he or she is going through, and keep things in (Smith, A., Robinson). After that, teenagers will know the symptoms and understand the importance to help PTSD sufferers. Also, they can visit PTSD sufferers and try to communicate with them and their family to know their difficulties. Teenagers can write articles which are about the life of PTSD sufferers and their families. Then publishing the articles on the internet or famous magazines to touch more citizens to care about the issue and those sufferers. More people care about the disorder, more possibilities the disorder can be cured. Moreover, teenagers can build a group to help more PTSD sufferers to overcome the disorder. They can form an organization for PTSD sufferers to exchange their experiences about overcoming the disorder. They can also form a forum such as myPTSD, a website of PTSD Global Peer Support Community, which is a place that PTSD sufferers can talk together and help each other. Finally, the donation is another effective way to help those patients. very easy to find a website which is about helping PTSD Chen 4 sufferers to donate. More money can allow some organizations organize activities which help PTSD sufferers and their family members out of the shadow more frequently. As the article Support Us said, need our own facility so that we can increase our operational tempo from the current 2 - 3 programs per year, to 2-3 programs per (Support Us). All in all, teenagers or their family members who suffer from PTSD or experience the disorder should care about and help PTSD sufferers. This is because PTSD is a torturous disorder. The symptom of PTSD is painful, the pain may spread to those family members even the whole society. Therefore, by reading books about PTSD, talking with PTSD sufferers and their family members, building an organization, and donating, teenagers can help PTSD sufferers and build a harmonious society. (WC: 1053) Chen 5 Works Cited Goth, Stephen. Why Young People Should Care About  Rise News, 18 Jan. 2016. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. LaMotte, Adam, Taft, Casey, Robin Weatherill, Eds. problems and physical pain as moderators of the relationship between PTSD symptoms and aggression in returning Psychological Trauma: Theory, Research, Practice, and Policy, Vol 9(1), Apr, 2017. pp. 113-116. PTSD Curable versus  PTSD Complex PTSD Information Articles Community Forum. N.p., 23 May 2015. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. PTSD, National Center for. PTSD: National Center for  PTSD: National Center for PTSD Home. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Post-Traumatic Stress  Mental Health America. N.p., 29 Mar. 2017. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Schacter, Daniel L. Psychology. New York, NY: Worth Publishers, a Macmillan Higher Education Company, 2014. Print. Smith, Melinda, M. A., and Lawrence Robinson. Helping Someone with  Helping Someone with PTSD: Helping a Friend or Loved One Deal with Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder. N.p., Apr. 2017. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Trauma and Resiliency Resources. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Tull, Matthew. Is There a Cure for  Verywell. Verywell, 07 Mar. 2016. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.