Vandebogart 1 Skylar Vandebogart Professor Hernandez Composition II April 15, 2017 What can be done to help? When people think about the term, more often than not, the idea of African people being bought and forced to work on plantations in the Yes, that is a form of slavery, but there is another form of slavery that still exists today. It is a less stereotypic version: human trafficking. Human trafficking is a form of slavery where people are taken and more often than not, made to be sex slaves and they are bought and sold like merchandise. to some estimates, approximately 80% of trafficking involves sexual exploitation, and 19% involves labor Facts about Human People of all ages and types are bought and sold in a variety of countries. It is estimated there are over 20.9 million victims world wide Many people are abducted, forced, and blackmailed into it (Liam). Today, the average value of a human life is around 90 dollars and differs between age and gender. Human trafficking is a really tough subject to talk about, but it is something we need to talk about none the less. Many people realize that human trafficking is a real thing. Most people have a general feeling of distance from the subject; though it is not necessarily as publicized as say police brutality, abortion, or gun control, it is a very real threat that does exist in the United States. In fact, it threatens closer to home than most people believe. The top five states for the highest rates of human trafficking are as follows: 1. California, 2. Texas, 3. Florida, 4. Ohio, 5. New York. Most of these states have many Vandebogart 2 areas of tourism. Tourism allows many people to be in an area, making it easier to kidnap people. These particular people are also easier to kidnap because they are on vacation, meaning if they are gone for a few days, people will not consider them missing over a longer period of time (Top 5). This is a subject that is more relatable than perceived. In Fort Myers, a Floridian town just about two hours away, there was an incident involving a victim of human trafficking. She was treated horribly when trying to reintroduce her into school. She had been conditioned to think sexual favors were how to get around in life. Many people took advantage of her. This issue is real. Writer and director, Hayao Miyazaki tackles the subject of human trafficking in a successful and available way. Spirited Away is a Japanese animated movie that covers very adult themes, such as human trafficking. Human trafficking has been steadily growing since 1980 worldwide. Hayao Miyazaki wanted to address the subject, as he usually does in his publications. Most of works feature very strong female leads. This particular work features Chihiro, a ten-year-old girl who gets separated from her family in the spirit world and is forced to work in a bath house run by an evil witch to save her parents from being turned into pigs forever. Miyazaki presents many parallels throughout the movie. The idea that Chihiro has to work in a bath house suggests she is being sexualized in some way. Yubaba, the witch that runs the bath house changes name to Sen when she signs her contract, a contract that she has been pushed into by the threat of losing her parents forever. Chihiro has to repeatedly remind herself of her name to ensure she can find her way home. One character, No Face, is shown repeatedly trying to buy Chihiro with bath tokens and gold. Though this a movie with the target audience of ten-year-old girls, it still holds to cover a pretty gruesome topic that not many are keen to discuss. Most victims of human trafficking are kids that have been separated from their parents, presumably kidnaped or parentless to begin with. a crime that goes fairly unnoticed by the public. Society is partly to blame. The bystander effect shows that the more people are around, the more likely Vandebogart 3 people will believe it is not their responsibility to respond. This is a psychological response that society has conditioned the majority of the population with. Society as a whole cannot imagine what it is like for these poor people, but something can be done to make them feel safe and normal after the fact. Many organizations accept donations, monetarily as well as physical items, like clothes, food, volunteer work, etc. Miracle Outreach is a group located in the Tampa Bay area dedicated specifically victims of human trafficking. They provide many resources to these people. They provide foster care housing to minors. They offer many programs dedicated to mentoring victims, allowing them to set up their lives and be successful in as many ways as possible. Donations are accepted as well as volunteering. Miracle Outreach also provides psychological help in order to reestablish victims with society and be emotionally stable, as well as build self -esteem. The Salvation army has been combating human trafficking and prostitution since the They continue to educate about human trafficking as well as accept donations on the website. They have an annual Day of Prayer for victims of human trafficking. Education includes videos that are accessible on their website as well as images they have released to the public. They have been working with the United Nations in their effort to combat Human trafficking. Human trafficking is a crime and it is happening all over the world. 600,000 to 800,000 people are smuggled across international borders and 80% are women and children Facts about Human It is a hard subject to talk about. It is even harder for the victims. Communities should come together to try to help these people feel more at home and as comfortable in their own sin as much as possible. They have been beaten down and broken. The help they need could be less than assumed. A few dollars a month, a few hours a day, spare change and spare times can affect other people in a large way. Vandebogart 4 Vandebogart 5 Works Cited Liam.MCLAUGHLIN. United Nations Office on Drugs and  What Is Human Trafficking?N.p., n.d. Web. 15 Mar. 2017. https://www.unodc.org/unodc/en/human-trafficking/what-is-humantrafficking.html The  Polaris. The Polaris Project, 14 Feb. 2017. Web. 15 Mar. 2017. https://polarisproject.org/facts The Salvation Army - Combating Human  The Salvation Army - Combating Human Trafficking. N.p., n.d. Web. 15 Mar. 2017. Top 5 Human Trafficking  Humanracetohumanrights.com. GeneratePress, 31 Dec. 2015. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. http://www.salvationarmyusa.org/usn/combating-human-trafficking 11 Facts About Human  DoSomething.org Volunteer for Social Change. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. https://www.dosomething.org/us/facts/11-facts-about-human-trafficking