Zimmerman 1 Matthew Zimmerman De carion ENC 1102 April 16, 2017 Without medication and the advancement of the medical field humans would be subject hundreds of diseases we today do not even think about. Even though there has been major progress one illness that will never go away is addiction. Addiction is one of the hardest illnesses to overcome and some drugs make it even harder. One such group of drugs are opioids, which are used to treat pain and are extremely effective. Due to their effectiveness people can become attached to them as they may feel that without them their lives would be drastically worse. Each day more than 1000 people are treated for issues related to opioid abuse (Opioid Overdose). This number however could be drastically reduced and it starts with the companies that exploit the nature of the drugs and the people who are complicit in allowing them to act this way. Without a large amount of outcry from those who are not directly affected, this issue will never see any progress because the goals of those directly involved are so different from one another. For many of the worst illnesses we have today as well as injuries opioids are being prescribed. Prior to 1999 opioids were only used extreme cases, in many cases prescribed to people who were nearing death (Drug Overdose). Drug companies noticed how effective the opioid products were and sought that they be used outside of the extreme situations. became flooded with ads from the companies using doctors to endorse their products so the public would trust them. Once people saw doctors on TV disproving all the negative aspects of Zimmerman 2 opioids they became the go to for almost all medical cases. Instead of only being used in extreme circumstances like cancer treatment, they were being used to treat chronic pain even in cases where it was undiagnosed by a doctor. Patients could walk into almost any clinic claim pain and get a prescription. This caused the rate of opioid to almost quadruple since 1999 (Drug Overdose). This rate is not only due to the patients who do not know any better but it falls into the hands of doctors and companies that allow for this misinformation to occur. The addiction is also taken to another level when those addicted begin to develop a resistance to the drugs. The amounts they needed in the past no longer have the same affect and they need. They most likely will then attempt to purchase the drugs illegally. This makes the issue of addiction not only a medical problem but a legal issue as well. Once the law is broken those addicted are afraid that they will be jailed for their addiction which makes the problem worse because they cannot reach out for help if they will be prosecuted for their actions. Because opioid addiction affects as many as one in four the chances that it affects someone you know are very high (Opioid Overdose). Due to the scope of this issue it will take people who are not directly affected to step up and join the cause to help in its eradication. The two main groups in the discussion surrounding opioid abuse are the companies that produce them and people who are directly affected by the epidemic. These two stakeholders share very different views on how the problem could be solved because the companies cannot afford to have their profits taken and those affected see no reason for the extreme profits (Nuijten, Mark). Due to this sharp divide between them for any progress to be made a third party needs to be involved. They can see the issue more objectively and unite the two groups to come to a resolution. Those not directly affected also need to realize that they are indirectly affected by the issue. A massive amount of money is spent on opioid abuse related treatment each year and even Zimmerman 3 more money is spent by companies lobbying to prevent regulations, that is money that could be going other places if this issue is properly addressed. Those not suffering from addiction are being robbed by the companies that are creating the problem and not doing enough to fix it. People can get involved in fighting addiction to opioids in several ways. One of the best ways is to get involved in events that promote getting help for those affected. One of the issues around this issue is the stigma around addiction and that it is uncontrollable. These events can help show those addicted that help is available should they seek it out. By providing this outlet they may realize that they are not alone and that they do have a problem. Not being alone is a major factor in helping someone overcome abuse issues as the activity can help take mind away from addiction and doing anything illegal to get the drugs (Stavseth). The drugs are just a part of their life and it may be difficult for the problem to even be realized. Once they come to this realization they can go into a long-term care facility which was found to be very effective as opposed to detoxification which is what would occur if they stop by being forced to (Krebs). Another way for people to get involved is to contact local officials because they are the ones who have the power to make change happen. By expressing your concerns and forcing them to take a stance on the issue it can help move the conversation about opioid abuse in the right direction. Without constant pressure by both those directly and indirectly affected politicians may not be motivated to pass new laws controlling the distribution of opioids and prevent the epidemic from getting any worse. Opioid abuse is an epidemic created by people and can only be solved by people who care about the wellbeing of others not the profits that can be exploited from a sick patient. There needs to be more people involved in the issue of opioid abuse because right now there is not enough. Even though the CDC has come out against the issue almost no progress has been made Zimmerman 4 in reducing its scope. People who are not directly affected need to speak out against the companies and officials who are complicit in allowing the issue to worsen over the past few years. Only then can real progress be made and lives of people, maybe even someone you know can be saved. Zimmerman 5 Works Cited Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Opioid Basics, 20 Dec. 2016. Web. 4 Apr. 2017. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Drug Overdose, 20 Dec. 2016. Web. 4 Apr. 2017. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Opioid Overdose, 20 Dec. 2016. Web. 4 Apr. 2017. Krebs, Emanuel, et al. The Costs of Crime during and After Publicly Funded Treatment for Opioid Use Disorders: A Population-Level Study for the State of  Addiction, vol. 112, no. 5, May 2017, pp. 838-851. EBSCOhost, .lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost .com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=sph&AN=122313851&site=eds-live Stavseth, Marianne Riksheim, et al. Factors Associated with Ongoing Criminal Engagement While in Opioid Maintenance  Journal of Substance Abuse Treatment, 28 Mar. 2017. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.jsat.2017.03.010. Nuijten, Mark Potential Impact of Current and Future Pharmaceutical Policy Changes on Cash Flows for Innovative Medicines Journal of Private Equity. Vol. 18, No. 1, 2014 Business Abstracts with Full Text (H.W. Wilson)