Aldandan 1 Ahmed Aldandan Professor: Hernandez, Bianca ENC1102 April 15/2017 The Unattainable Beauty The media is considered a source of influence a from sociological perspective according to the sociologist Jon Witt (143). The influence that the media is causing can be harmful to those trying to mimic what is observed (Witt 143). Even though the media can influence men to buy certain products, or to follow certain diets to meet the expectation of being masculine, women are more vulnerable to what is known as the beauty myth (Witt 273). According Naomi Wolf, women go through surgery, and spend too much money to try to be as beautiful as women shown in the media (Witt 247). In addition, women can go through harmful diets and consume drugs in order to lose weight (Rudd). Many organizations seek to change the current situation of medias influence on women beauty. The goal of this website (Non-Engaged Stakeholder) is to educate people about the media negative influence, and show how it can be harmful to women. Then engage the audience into adopting the topic through showing the benefits of changing the current beauty perception, as that can help reduce the overall stress to beauty and reduce amount of effort that may be considered lost on surgery for example. Finally, the site is referring to the National Organization for Women(NOW) to empower the audience. Supporting NOW can provide the audience with a way to help change the current situation with the media, since NOW fight the harmful representation about beauty. Weather beauty is a something that a person can possess or not is a hard question to understand or to answer, because the meaning of beauty does differ from different philosophical perspectives, as Vacker and Kent mentioned the outset, it is important to remember that the Aldandan 2 various issues surrounding beauty have been topics of inquiry for philosophers and scholars since the time of ancient 473). That statement can give a notion of how complicated approaching the issues related to beauty can be. In addition, many organizations in the market and individuals do pursue beauty; weather that is right or not is not a focus of this website (Vacker 472). The beauty standards are culturally identified overall (Vacker 472). NOW website suggest that the media do provoke women to follow narrow standards of beauty; super slim models is an example of a standard that is set (National Organization for Women). In addition, the representations of the media are sometimes linked to dangerous images, have many options available to them when it comes to campaign tone, design, and creativity. Why do so many choose to use negative, dangerous (National Organization of Women). Even though this argument might be too aggressive it is worth to mention, but not to discuss in detail. Moreover, according to Naomi Wolf, films and magazines are setting beauty standards that cannot be meet, even if a person does go through surgery and spend a huge sum of money, it still may not be possible to be close to women on commercials, because women on commercials are in some cases even modified using computer programs (Witt 274). However, it is worth to mention that pursing beauty can have negative mental and physical affects. The body image is how someone sees himself, it is how a person thinks he looks not how he actually is. According to Nancy Rudd image plays a key role in many disorders that affect individual health and well-being, particularly among adolescent and young adult (Rudd 153). research on collage women suggest that women do try to imitate the beauty image of women in the media. Women might go through some eating disorders and consume drugs to try to be meet that body image (Rudd 155-156). Overall, the argument on weather following the media representation of Aldandan 3 beauty is more harmful or beneficial to people or women is not a focus of the website, but the negative aspects of the narrow perception of beauty do exist nonetheless. The argument on weather changing the beauty perception might far from reach, even for a huge organization such as NOW. However, if the beauty perception were not this narrow, if the media and do target a wider range of women, then women in return might be able to pursue new beauty standards, and even would be receiving less stress about not meeting the few expectations from others. The issue with following the beauty standards of women on magazines or the TV is not just that it may not be possible to meet, but also that it makes women focus less on other important issues of their lives such as gender equality as Wolf suggest (Witt 274). If women were able to reduce the stigma of not being beautiful; that is mentioned by the sociologist Jon Witt, then it might be possible that they will be able to elevate the progress to even much bigger feminist issues. The progress on helping them close the wage equality gap might come as a reward. In addition, the issues of global sexism might be helped reduced; that is identified by the NOW. The efforts spent on women reproductive rights will also increase. Even though beauty myths do exist for both men and women, women are more targeted by them. Thus, helping change the beauty standards or reduce their narrowness can help feminism even improve in a variety of ways. Changing something like social structure or beauty standards may only be approached by a sense of humor by this website. The strength of seeking a social change is in numbers, trying to do so with even a small organization or a non-engaged stakeholder is too hopeful. The best suggestion here is to join a bigger organization. According to Jurgen Williams and Marc Jegers, the achievements of any movement that is aiming at a social change are largely depended by on the organization current achievements (68). Joining a big organization such as NOW, will Aldandan 4 increase their potential of changing the beauty perception. NOW do mainly try to change beauty perception through one thing, which is awareness. Being knowledgeable about this topic, and having consent to its negative impacts can actually help. In case this message is delivered to a person that is not interested in helping change the situation but believe in its importance, that can help deliver the message to even more people. Nonetheless, joining bigger organizations campaigns is an option, and taking part in changing beauty standards can help reduce them. Educating people about the beauty myth and its negative influences is the core of this Non-engaged stakeholder argument, not on persuading people to adopt certain position against or with media representations. The beauty myth does have negative social affects on men, but there is more focus on beauty. The medias representation does emphasis to follow certain standards, these standards can harm those following them; following harmful health disorders is an example of women beauty standards social issues. If people do change beauty standards, and if that result in making advertisers and the media focuses on different beauty norms, then that may help reduce the stigmas related to it. Moreover, reducing the focus on following beauty myths can be more beneficial for women, as it will allow them to focus more on feminist issues. Increasing people awareness is something that many movements tried to do, and could be the best recommendation of the website. However, participating to change something like the beauty standards need more numbers and the trust of huge organizations. Thus, supporting organizations that already are knowledgeable about the issue might be the best way to try to help in the issue. Aldandan 5 Works Cited Organization for Web. 23, February. 2017 Rudd, Nancy A., and Sharron J. Lennon. Body Image And Appearance-Management Behaviors In College  Clothing & Textiles Research Journal 18.3 (2000): 152. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Vacker, Barry, and Wayne R. Key. Beauty And The Beholder: The Pursuit Of Beauty Through  Psychology & Marketing 10.6 (1993): 471. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Willems, Jurgen1, jurgen.willems@vub.ac.be, and Marc1, marc.jegers@vub.ca.be Jegers. Social Movement Structures In Relation To Goals And Forms Of Action: An Exploratory  Canadian Journal Of Nonprofit & Social Economy Research / Revue Canadienne De Recherche Sur Les OSBL Et Sociale 3.2 (2012): 67- 81. Social Sciences Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 7 Feb. 2017. Witt, Jon. SOC 2016. 4th ed. New York: McGraw,2016. Print.