Student 1 Student Professor Derisi ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Growing Towards a New Era of Food Production Currently, of the population is as seen on DoSomething.org, a campaign that encourages people to take action in preventing world hunger. Approximately 800 million people remain malnourished on a daily basis, and this problem is only expected to become more dire in upcoming years. According to an article by Iowa State University, world food is projected to increase another 39 percent by the year (Babckock). With increasing demand, it is imperative that scientists, politicians, and consumers come together to formulate a plan that will accommodate the food supply of future generations. In recent years, scientists have suggested the use of genetic food modification as a way to improve food production yields and provide greater nutrition to people all around the world. The process involved altering the genetic code of plants or animals in order to create a more desirable characteristic such as drought resistance. Although a stigma has be associated with the production of genetically modified organisms, young adults should strive to learn and incorporate these foods into their daily lifestyles; this technological advancement has shown positive health, social, and economic benefits on society in all corners of the world. Although the topic of GMOs has become popular in the past decade, the idea is not as recent as people may believe. As seen in an article posted by Harvard University, the process of genetic modification has been around for more than 30,000 years (Rangel). Although this ancient practice did not involve the alteration of DNA, ancestors used the process of artificial selection Student 2 in order to combine the desirable traits of various organisms. Scientists say that the first organism to be altered in this way was the Asian dog; today there are hundreds of breeds that differ greatly from their wolf ancestors including Cocker Spaniels and Yorkshire Terriers. It was not until 1973, that scientists Herbert Boyer and Stanley Cohen used modern genetic modification techniques to successfully take the antibiotic resistance of one plant organism and insert it into a new recipient. This revolutionary process instantly gained popularity and inspired scientists all around Europe and the Americas to conduct trials on plant organisms. Over the years, various uses for genetically modified organisms have been discovered, including medication for diabetes patients and chemicals for cleaning oil spills in the ocean. Although the research of genetically modified organisms has generally been supported by the US government, there have been many organizations throughout history that have voiced their doubts on the subject. Since the commercial introduction of genetically modified foods in the1990s, the general public has expressed various hesitations regarding the topic. The stigma arose early on, as people saw the modification of plants as an effort for scientists to (Omobowale). Various religious organizations have brought up the question of ethical standards when using genetic modification technology. However, a great majority of the religious ethicists today have agreed that altering the genetic code in order to create a more beneficial product is seen as acceptable by the monotheistic churches. Additionally, opposition has voiced concerns that the newly created genetic material create proteins that can trigger allergies or promote (Institute for responsible Technology). As the number of people with pollen allergies continues to rise, some scientists believe that GMOs may be a factor to blame. Although this argument has always been considered by the scientific community, negative effects have never been proven and the validity Student 3 of these remarks remains uncertain. Although the opposition has expressed its doubts, the lack of evidence against GMOs has convinced credible health and government agencies to lead the research and incorporation of genetically engineered organisms around the world. As the research on genetically modified organisms continues to show positive results, millions of people have grown to support the GMO cause. Contrary to popular belief, research over the past 20 years has shown an environmental benefit to the use of GMOs. In 2010, The National Academy Press stated, use in corn (in pounds of active ingredient per acre) has steadily declined since 1997 as the adoption of Bt corn has (National Press Academy). This research clearly shows the direct positive impact that this planting method has on the planet, as pesticides and insecticides entering the soil and water streams will be lowered. In addition to the improved environmental benefits on the planet, the World Health Organization states that scientists are aiming to improve human health using genetic modification technology. Currently, a Vitamin-A enhanced rice is being tested with the hopes of improving the overall health of the impoverished all around the world. As noted in a WHO report, grams of transgenic rice could make a significant contribution to the daily human requirement for vitamin (World Health Organization). This revolutionary invention, along with other GMO crops could be the solution to a demanding malnourishment problem around the globe. Genetic modification technology has the power to make a positive impact on the lives of people in impoverished countries. In the United States, various organizations are concerned with the possible rise of allergies with the use of GMO products, while in other parts of the world, millions of people go to bed hungry on a daily basis. According to the The Journal of the Royal Society of Medicine, the developing world, 840 million people are chronically undernourished, surviving on fewer than 8000 kJ/day (2000 (Key, Ma and Drake). As Student 4 the world population continues to rise, the problems in these countries will only continue to rise. During the World Food Prize International Symposium, world renown entrepreneur Bill Gates discussed the numerous problems of third world farming. He stated, of the poorest people get their food and income by farming small plots of land. So if we can make those smallholder farmers more productive and have more profit, we can have a dramatic impact on hunger and nutrition and (Gates). If genetically modified seeds can produce a higher vegetation yield using less water and fertilizers, then poverty in third world countries can be significantly lowered. Genetically modified organisms have shown positive health, environmental and social benefits in research over the past few decades. As the genetic modification food trend continues to grow, there are many ways that supporting customers can get involved. Before all else, customers should remain educated on the topic. FactsAboutGMOs.org is a credible website that clearly states current research on the topic and provides readers with numerous articles. Once readers are fully aware of the facts on GMOs, they must share this information with friends and family; that is the way to break the stigma. Additionally, interested participants can visit the Monsanto website in order to request a partnership in further research on the subject. The company has created a program that is willing to pay for additional research in the areas of Biotechnology, Agronomics, Chemistry and others. The only way that genetic modification technology will continue to improve is through further research. With the help of invested scientists and politicians one day GMOs can help end poverty all around the world. Word Count: 1279 Student 5 Works Cited 11 Facts About World  DoSomething.org Volunteer for Social Change. N.p., n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. <https://www.dosomething.org/facts/11-facts-about-world-hunger>. Babcock, Bruce. Charting Growth in Food  CARD: Center for Agricultural and Rural Development. Iowa State University, 2008. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Gates, Bill. Support for the Poorest  The World Food Prize 2009 Norman E. Borlaug International Symposium. Des Moines, Iowa. 2 Apr. 2017. Speech. Health  Institute for Responsible Technology. N.p., n.d. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. Key, Suzie, Julian K-C Ma, and Pascal MW Drake. Modified Plants and Human Journal of the Royal Society of Medicine 101.6 (2008): PMC. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. Modern food biotechnology, human health and development: an evidence-based study. Rep. World Health Organization, 1 June 2015. Web. 1 Apr. 2017. Omobowale, Emmanuel B., Peter A. Singer, and Abdallah S. Daar. The three main monotheistic religions and gm food technology: an overview of  BMC International Health and Human Rights. BioMed Central, 2009. Web. 13 Apr. 2017. Rangel, Gabriel. From Corgis to Corn: A Brief Look at the Long History of GMO  Science in the News. Harvard University, 23 Oct. 2016. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. The Impact of Genetically Engineered Crops on Farm Sustainability in the United States. Washington, D.C.: National Academies Press, 2010. Print. Who We  Monsanto Company. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. <http://www.monsanto.com/whoweare/pages/commitment-to-partnerships.aspx>.