Ishaat Musrur Hussain Dr. Oana Cimpean ENC 1102 SEC 51 16 th April 2017 Right to physician assisted suicide In the face of incurable suffering and inevitable death what options does one have? Should that person continue to suffer, or should that person be allowed to rest in peace? To make a choice of such weight should be the right of the suffering victim. Physician assisted suicide provides terminally ill patients with a similar right. Physician assisted suicide allows patients who are terminally ill to utilize a lethal prescription of drugs to hasten their passing. However, moral, cultural, and religious condemnation of suicide has galvanized controversy regarding physician assisted suicide. In addition, this topic is of no relevance to most Americans even though 68 percent of Americans support the idea of physician assisted suicide (Stabile & Grant 70). This can be due to the taboo nature of conversations relating to death and suicide (Stabile & Grant 70). Since 1997, physician assisted suicide has been a part of end of life choices for terminally ill Oregonians in the form of the Oregon Death with Dignity Act (Wineberg and Werth Jr. 501). At present, this act is operational in only six states among the total fifty states in the United States. Physician assisted suicide should be considered as an end of life option, as any American may one day face dire circumstances that might lead to a situation where they would need a similar end of life option. Although physician assisted suicide is a very provocative topic, fruition is dependent on the people as they are the main benefactors. As a result, people should come forth and support the Death with Dignity Act through donations and by contacting their state legislatures. The Oregon Death with Dignity act legalizes physician assisted suicide. However, it has certain safeguards in place for proper regulation. The primary safeguards are: proof of residency, being 18 years of age or older, mentally component, and diagnosed with terminal illness with a life expectancy of six months (Death with Dignity). Accessibility to physician assisted suicide is also strictly regulated through the Death with Dignity Act. The primary regulations state that only terminally ill Oregonians with a life expectancy of less than six months can request lethal medication; two oral requests and one written request must be made; there is a mandatory 15 day waiting period between request and reception of medication; an attending physician must consult another physician and both must reach a decision about the physical and mental diagnosis of the patient. The laws also attempt to give full power of decision making to the patient. In order to make the patients the decision makers, the laws make a clear distinction between physician assisted suicide and euthanasia (Westfield et al 160). In the case of physician assisted suicide, the patient decides whether to take the lethal drugs, and upon becoming eligible, the doctor can prescribe a lethal medication. However, it is the decision whether or not to take the medication. However, in euthanasia, the doctor administers the medication directly. Statistical data of the first four years of physician assisted suicide prove that only 91 people (0.08 %of all Oregon deaths) died due to assisted suicide. This demonstrates that the process of assisted suicide goes through much deliberation and is not done carelessly or on a whim (Wineberg and Werth Jr 504). Additionally, it should also be considered that these 91 people were amongst 140 people who obtained lethal prescriptions. 38 of these individuals did not use the medication and died of their own illnesses and 11 people were still alive until January 2002 (Wineberg and Werth Jr 502). This further shows how physician assisted suicide is in no way forced upon patients. The patients themselves obtain the autonomy to make their own end of life choice. End of life choices, are not at all an easy decision to make. Bonnie Stabile and Aubrey Grant suggest that by removing the taboo against death and end of life choices, more engaged conversations among physicians and the public can take place which can possibly remove the emotional and financial burden faced by the patients and their families (70). The contentious nature of physician assisted suicide, not only affects the patient but also leads to misconceptions and even faulty reasoning for wishing a hastened death. A reported primary reasoning for wishing a hastened death is loss of autonomy. The psyche makes them a burden to others and as a result the patients want an out. Divorce, lack of knowledge about end of life choices, and financial situations have also been reported as reasons for patients wishing for a hastened death (Wineberg and Werth 507). This demonstrates that a key factor in physician assisted suicide is the mental status of the patients. This is an important factor to consider, as the whole basis of physician assisted suicide is granting autonomy of decision making to the patients. Although, the Death with Dignity laws consider the mental status of the patients to determine eligibility, mental illnesses taken as seriously as a probable cause for physician assisted suicide. Upon interviewing patients who sought physician assisted suicide in Oregon, it was seen that one in four had clinical depression (Gopal 183). Additionally, it was also seen that 59 percent of terminally ill cancer patients in Oregon with an ironclad desire to die possessed symptoms of depression (Gopal 184). It is obvious that depression goes hand in hand with the desire to die when a person has a short timer on his/her life. Such symptoms of mental illnesses may cloud a judgement. Very few medical students receive end of life education, as a result very few physicians know how to prepare the patient and their families for an end of life decision (Stabile and Grant 71). To consider the patient and their mental status, physicians and psychiatrists must think deeply about their decisions and also educate the public about the correct way to approach an end of life choice. Proper education about physician assisted suicide and the death with dignity laws can help materialize the law everywhere in the United States. Data has shown that the financially solvent are more likely to choose physician assisted suicide as an end of life choice as they have the means to be educated about it (Wineberg and Werth 505). All demographics of people should come forth in educating themselves about physician assisted suicide and other end of life choices, as everyone will one day have to face the taste of death. The Death with Dignity non- profit organization attempts to educate the public about the significance of physician assisted suicide through stories of people suffering from a terminal illness. They not only promote physician assisted suicide, but also educate, support, and provide information for people seeking physician assisted suicide (Death with Dignity). However, their most noteworthy contribution is that they provide legal defense for the legalization of the Death with Dignity laws. At present, physician assisted suicide is operational in only Oregon, Montana, California, Washington, Maine, and Colorado. As the motto of Death with Dignity reads, greatest human freedom is to live and die according to our own (Death with Dignity). Religious, moral, and societal barriers should not hold back a person from his or her freedom of choice. By raising awareness and support, the unengaged public can become part of the movement that will help to give terminally ill patients their deserved right to choose. Through donations and outreach to respective state legislators, people can take action to legalize Death with Dignity laws in other states. In turn, these efforts will provide physician assisted suicide as an end of life option for patients who need it. Physician assisted suicide is not meant to be the only end of life option for terminal patients. Its objective is to be a last resort option when no other option prevails. Although the term suicide might lead to misconception that it is immoral health care, patients who opt for physician assisted suicide believe that their decision is their best option. Denying them this option, is considered immoral health care, as it is going against the best interest. To uphold the rights and desires of terminal patients, advocacy of physician assisted suicide is essential. At present, people can advocate for this by contacting their state legislatures and through donations to the Death with Dignity organization for legalization of Death with Dignity laws. (1396) Work cited About  Death With Dignity. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Gopal, Abilash A. Physician-Assisted Suicide: Considering the Evidence, Existential Distress, and an Emerging Role for  Journal of the American Academy of Psychiatry and the Law, vol.43, no. 2, 01 June 2015, pp. 183-190. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=p yh& N=2015-27715-009&site=eds-live. Stabile, Bonnie and Aubrey Grant. How Do We  Politics & the Life Sciences, vol. 35, no. 2,Fall2016, pp. 69-74. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1017/pls.2016.12. Westefeld, John S.1, john-westefeld@uiowa.edu, et al. The Oregon Death with Dignity Act: The Right to Live or the Right to  Journal of Loss & Trauma, vol. 14, no. 3, May/Jun2009, pp. 161-169. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1080/15325020802173868. Wineberg, Howard, and James L., Jr. Werth. Physician-Assisted Suicide In Oregon: What Are The Key  Death Studies 27.6 (2003): 501-518. AgeLine. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.