Jameson Karnes Dr. Oana Cimpaen ENC 1102 April 12, 2017 Project 3 Written Intermediate Draft In modern America, citizens have taken three separate sides on gun control. The first side are those people who own or support gun rights, the second side are those who oppose guns and believe they need to be regulated. The final stance one can take is one of apathy, those people who do not generally care about guns. The people who do not have a particular stance on guns should consider getting involved because the right to own firearms is one of the first rights written in the Bill of Rights, it should be protected at all costs. The Second Amendment protects citizens and allows them to have the means to defend themselves against those who would want to do them harm. The Founding Fathers knew that firearms would always be a controversial subject so they wrote explicit statuettes regarding the rights citizens had concerning firearms. There are few organizations that fight for gun rights, even fewer fight as hard as the National Rifle Association. The National Rifle Association (NRA) is a powerful stakeholder that fights to protect those rights. The NRA strives to increase the awareness of the citizens in the United States, increase the education of firearms, and prevent the infringement of the Second Amendment. Gun control has become one of the most controversial topics in American society. The country is nearly split in half with the majority of people supporting gun control or fighting against it. This split has become more prominent in modern day America because of the increase in the number of shootings across the country. People believe that the increase of shooting can be related to the easy access citizens have to guns. These people believe that by increasing gun control laws, they will reduce the number of shootings as well as the number of deaths by guns. The increase in shootings has brought an outrage to the citizens in America and everybody believes that something needs to change. The NRA wants there to be a change, not a change in the laws but a change in the citizens. They want to increase the safety of everyone with a firearm and those around firearms as well. The NRA can achieve these goals without a drastic change in the laws. They can achieve this because the NRA has become the most powerful stakeholder that is fighting for the protection of the Second Amendment. The NRA was originally founded to and encourage the shooting of rifles on a scientific Since their founding, they have developed into an educational organization as well. The NRA helps certify and train over 1,000,000 citizens a year in firearm safety. Additionally, the NRA has helped train over 13,000 service men and women in firearm education. They are widely involved in ensuring the safety of the average citizen. The NRA does not see guns as a danger, rather they are a tool, a hobby, or a means of protecting yourself. With the proper education, the NRA believes that anyone should be able to own a gun. The Second Amendment is very clear in that a citizen of the United States has the right to own firearms. If gun control laws are developed and enforced, then the average citizen will become more endangered than before. Criminals that break the law will also break the laws enforcing gun control. The average citizen will not have access to firearms to protect themselves from criminals or home invaders. Criminals will have access to illegal firearms leaving the citizens with nothing. People who are intent on committing crimes are not going to allow gun control laws to stop them. The gun control law is just another law they will break in the process of committing whatever crime they are going to commit. Without firearms the safety of the public will vastly decrease. Criminals will run amok in the streets without fear that there could be upstanding citizens to stop them. They can break into houses without fear of being stopped by gun-owning home owner. Taking guns away from upstanding citizens would not reduce the number of shootings, it would only prevent them from stopping crimes and protecting themselves. If you have not yet taken a side on the issue of gun control because you do not believe that it will affect you, I urge you to consider the possible effects. When walking the streets of your town, you would constantly have to look behind your shoulders to make sure there an overconfident criminal behind you, ready to attack, waiting for the right moment to strike. Police officers would be the only ones able to stop crimes and you would be stuck waiting for them to be able to respond in time. By the time they arrive it may be too late for you, for your friends, or for your families. You should not rely on someone else for your own safety or for your loved safety. If you do not want a gun for yourself, then consider owning for those around you and consider their safety. If someone you loved was hurt or killed by a criminal and you could have had a gun to prevent that from happening, you would never forgive yourself. You can get involved in the fight for the protection of the Second Amendment. The NRA hosts many events all across the country allowing you to get involved. You can volunteer at events taking calls or communicating with potential donors. To get involved with the fight for the Second Amendment you can write to your lawmakers, go door-to- door, or become a social media ambassador. You can also contact the NRA and get an ambassador to visit your campus and speak to your peers. This helps spread the idea of firearm safety and education. The NRA is always looking for new volunteers or donors. You can make your voice heard, the more people that write to the lawmakers, the more likely that change will be made. If you join the fight, then you can get your friends, family, neighbors involved as well. You can help increase the number of people fighting for the Second Amendment and prevent your rights from being infringed. Spreading the message about firearm safety and education is the most effective way that you can get involved. The more people that are involved, the more people that will fight against laws that try to get enacted or enforced. If over half the country fights against gun control, then lawmakers would be unable to write gun laws into effect without risking a national uproar. As long as there is gun crime in the United States there will be calls for gun control. Citizens will have to resist and demonstrate that gun control is not the answer to the problem. The NRA will always fight for the rights of the citizens and for the Second Amendment. You can get engaged with the NRA and help resist the creation of laws that could potentially harm the public and bring more people into danger than ever before. As long as ordinary citizens fight for the Second Amendment, then the government cannot infringe upon the rights established over 240 years ago. Works Cited: NRA-ILA. Get  NRA-ILA. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. NRA-ILA.  NRA-ILA. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.