Simonetti 1 Gianna Simonetti Smith ENC 1101 26 March 2017 CTE in the NHL Recent controversy has brought much attention to the dangers of head injuries in professional sports. In the earlier stages of researching the topic, the focus stood primarily on the NFL. Recently, however, the attention has shifted to other contact sports, like hockey and sports. When researchers began to realize that football may be extremely dangerous and creates a big risk of its players contracting CTE later in their lives, people panicked and the attention was put on the disputes occurring in the NFL (Stern 460). Contact sports, like football and hockey, actually pose the same risk of serious brain injuries on their players. Although studies on CTE have remained fairly consistent over the past decade, earlier work focuses on the NFL while the NHL has only recently begun to receive attention. Prior to 2010, researchers main focus was on football players; retired NFL players in particular. The cause of the chaos in the sports industry is known as Chronic Traumatic Encephalopathy. CTE is a disease where a tau protein tangles itself in other vital cells and destroys the cells, leading to degeneration in the brain. The growth of this protein is caused or expedited by repeated brain trauma (Stern 461). This is of course extremely common in any contact sport. The tricky part about the protein is that there is no definite way to detect and diagnose it in a living person; it is found during autopsies of bodies. CTE was first discovered by Dr. Omalu in the body of Mike Webster, who was retired after dedicating his life to the NFL Simonetti 2 (461). This disease and its detrimental effects are notorious for ruining families and lives of its victims. Recently, the attention of the research on CTE has begun to shift to other contact sports like hockey. While the bulk of the research done has been on football players, scientists and doctors are beginning to recognize the possibility that hockey is just as bad as football. Scientists have more information on the disease in football players because when players began to suspect symptoms, they would donate their bodies to the scientists. However, because this was of concern in the NFL, only passed NFL players were being researched (Edwards 128). The only way to collect information on how CTE effects NHL players is for the athletes to donate their bodies to research as well. Scientists and doctors are trying to raise general awareness of the issue so that more people choose to donate their bodies (130). Players have experienced a major moral dilemma since the beginning of sports all together. There is pressure placed on athletes to make their team succeed no matter what (Guay 878). With competitive mindsets, most athletes are willing to put themselves at ris k in order for their team to succeed. It is extremely common that an individual will undergo a brain injury and return to the sport without proper healing time. This places a huge risk factor on the player because if they are hit in the head again without properly healing, the injury could be much worse and possibly fatal the next time hit (881). Hopefully by properly educating athletic trainers, coaches and the athletes, the continuation of this behavior can be substantially reduced. Presently, there is much discussion over the measures being taken to protect players. Players are being educated and warned of the major risks of head injuries. Hopefully by Simonetti 3 educating the athletes, they realize that their health should come before a game (Hudson 3). While the urge to make their team succeed is still an issue, players need to realize how important the healing process is. Children and high school teams are taking protocols very seriously and checking that their equipment is safe in order to prevent injuries from occurring. Many teams require that its players get checked and cleared by a doctor before returning to a sport in order to protect the players (7). The researchers findings unfortunately have created a major dilemma between safety and the way people have played sports for decades. Simonetti 4 Edwards, J. C., & Bodle, J. D. (June 2014). Causes and Consequences of Sports Concussion. Journal of Law, Medicine and Ethics, 42(2), 128-132 Guay, J. L. (June 2010). The Era of Sport Concussion: Evolution of Knowledge, Practice, and the Role of Psychology. American Psychologist, 71(9), 875-887. Hudson, R., & Spradley, B. (March 2016). Concussions: A Sport Ethics Commentary. Sport Journal Stern, R. A. (2011). Long-term Consequences of Repetitive Brain Trauma: Chronic Traumatic Encephalopathy. Concussion Supplement, 3(10), 2nd ser., 460-467