Dakota Broughton ENC 1102 Project three The Art of Childhood Recently there has been talk about whether or not arts should be included in the curriculum of schools. There was even a recent cut in the arts budget, this decision was made by the president. This is the first time in history that any president has proposed such measures. Before it was decided to just make a cut they were discussing cutting the program completely. The arts are important to the growing minds because they allow them to express themselves, it helps them to communicate and they create an escape from the outside world. Each of these things are equally important in a young growing mind, even the mind of high schoolers that are already completely grown. Expressing yourself is one thing that not everyone can do easily. Small children tend to be bolder and are able to just go up and talk to any other child or adult with no shame. However, once these children get older they start to develop a sense of shame, for lack of better term. The children then can no longer just go up and talk to people about how they feel, with art there is a chance for them to be able to express these feelings without words. For example, as a dancer I was able to express how certain music make me felt by the movements that I did or the expression on my face while I moved. Going to an arts school I had the privilege of meeting many people who were artistically talented, most of whom had a problem telling people how they felt but each one was able to express those feelings with a song or artwork or some other form of art. If the school board decided to cut all of the funding for arts all the coming children think about that possibility of expressing themselves in ways other than words. Other than expressing your feelings you can also communicate through art. You can tell on entire story with just one piece of paper, or a thirty second dance. Just like expressing feeling some people find it hard to talk to people. I am one of those people. Ever since I was little I was not about to talk to people with ease like all the other kids at my school. Before I went to the arts school I was at a normal middle school, I was considered the because I talk to many people and I tried to stay away from as many people as possible. Once I started at the art school people understood, I was able to tell my story through my dancing just as others were with their own arts. Without our arts in the school we would have been outcasts, we would have never fit in any where we go. Fitting in was one of the main priorities in life at that age, but what would you do when you want to get away? Hide in a corner? Even if you could run away from all your problems however sever they are they would still run through your head in an endless cycle of torture. When you have an art that you love it becomes an escape from the realities of life, much like a good book. One of my teachers lost their sister when they were younger, everywhere she looked she was reminded of her loss. The only escape she has was when she danced, she was even given an extra key to the dance studio by the owner so that she could come in whenever she felt needed. Dance may have saved her from depression. As a student, there are a few things you can do to preserve the rest of the fund we have for our arts. We could start a petition to increase the funds. We could have a fundraiser to raise money for arts. We could go to elementary schools and teach arts classes. As a student, there are many things we can do to help prevent the diminishing of arts throughout the school system, but unless we try this belittling is inevitable. Arts are something everyone should have in their life whether at home for fun or in schools where they can be taught and find out what they like. Without the chance to practice arts in school one people may not have the chance at all therefore denying them the possibility to tell stories, express feelings and get away from the cruel world that is reality. The arts must be saved. Work cited The Importance of Art in Child  PBS. Public Broadcasting Service, 25 May 2012. Web. 17 Apr. 2017 Smith, Fran. Why Arts Education Is Crucial, and Doing It  Edutopia. N.p., 28 Jan. 2009. Web. 17 Apr. 2017 Naylor, Brian. Budget Plan Cuts Funding For Arts, Humanities And Public  NPR. NPR, 16 Mar. 2017. Web. 17 Apr. 2017 Main  Art in Action. N.p., n.d. Web. 17 Apr. 2017