Al-Suleimani 1 Basel Al-Suleimani Cat Modlin-Jackson ENC 1101 4/2/2017 Climate Change and Extinction Climate change is a very effective issue that threatens earth nowadays. Climate change is a change in the weather condition of a specific place. It impacts the lives of all the organisms on earth in different ways. A change on precipitation, and temperature rise of the sea or wind is called climate change. Climate change can change the condition of an environment, which could be a habitat for many types of creatures. Every creature has its own suitable environment to live a natural life. There are two main factors of climate change, which are natural factors and human factors, which influence the existence of some animals. The first cause of climate change is the natural cause. Natural factor is the natural disasters that happen on earth without any involvement by humans. rotation around the earth, the volcano, flood and heat waves are the main natural causes of climate change. Bravo 2443). The main factor of climate that can make a big difference is the temperature of earth. The temperature of earth is considered a balance between the entering energy and the leaving energy. According to Beckrich, in the energy reaching Earth, Changes in the reflectivity of atmosphere and surface and Changes in the greenhouse effect, which affects the amount of heat retained by atmosphere can affect the temperature of Variation in solar power can change the balance of the system which keep our planet balanced. The rising of the sea also is a natural cause that could lead to extinction. Al-Suleimani 2 Climate change can also be caused by human activities. The industrial revolution has changed too many things in our life as it changed the climate and specially the temperature of our planet. The transportation, the factories, deforestation and oil spill in the sea are some of the human activities that put our planet endanger. Human activities is a real cause of extinction since human activities impact the climate. According to Urban, dominant product of fossil fuel combustion is carbon dioxide, a greenhouse (572). People burn fossil fuel as an energy for the cars and the machines at the factories. Burning the fossil fuel produce the main gas of the global warming which lead us to climate change. Urban stated, and clearing land for agriculture or livestock release huge amounts of carbon dioxide and other harmful greenhouse gases into the (573). Forests help protect the earth by absorbing a huge amount of carbon dioxide, and people are committing crimes toward the environment by deforestation. There are many species that have been effected by climate change. Global warming melts snowy environment, makes the oceans warmer. Deforestation forces some animals to find an alternative habitat or leaves some animals to die. One of the animals that was hit by climate change and became extinct is Golden toad. Golden toad is a frog that was threatened by climate change and leaded it to extinction. In Climate change happening for plant and animal species to  England said, seen in 1989, the golden frog lived in mountaintop cloud forests that have disappeared due to drought and other climatic (2). Another animal that considered extinct due to climate change is the Bramble Cay melomys. In Climate Change Causes Beckrich stated, first modern mammal driven extinct by climate change is a small Australian rodent called the Bramble Cay melomys (1). Bramble Cay is one of the islands that effected by climate change and exactly the rising of the sea level. Bramble Cay houses were destroyed by the seas since the level of the seas has risen. According Al-Suleimani 3 to Yulsman, the world, sea level has risen by almost 8 inches (20 centimeters) between 1901 and 2010, a rate unparalleled in the last 6,000 years. And around the Torres Strait, sea level has risen at almost twice the global average rate between 1993 and (2). In addition, many animals are endangered because of climate change. Koala is one of the species that are endangered due to climate change. Koala relies completely on eucalyptus to survive. Eucalyptus is a tree that considered as house and food. Eucalyptus grows on the isolated mountaintops that started to disappear due to climate change and human activities. Polar bear and penguin are Antarctic animals that their habitat is melting and disappearing. Penguin eats Krill which lives in ice sheets and since Antarctic Ocean is melting, Penguin need to migrate. According to Yulsman, have to migrate farther to find food. Spending a lot more energy to find food makes penguins less successful at breeding and raising young, the scientists (3). On the other hand, people think that transportation and factories that use fossil fuel are essential things in their lives and there are no other alternatives for them. Also, people think that industrial revolution made our life better. However, they see the harms that the industrial revolution can do for our planet. Burning the fossil fuel can increase the temperature of earth. According to Urban, overall effect of human activities since the Industrial Revolution has been is a warming (573). Moreover, England stated, power generation is responsible for about 23 billion tonnes of CO2 emissions per year in excess of 700 tonnes every second. Coal is especially damaging to our atmosphere, releasing 70% more carbon dioxide than natural gas for every unit of energy (4). People have to replace fossil fuel with renewable energies like solar power, wind power or wave power. Using the renewable sources will make our planet clean and balanced. Al-Suleimani 4 Climate change is a threat for life. Researches indicate that Climate change is caused more by humans nowadays. In addition, a lot of animals and plants are endangered due to climate change. Humans cannot eliminate the natural causes, but they can reduce the human causes to reduce the issue of climate change. Scientists found the renewable energies that people can use instead of the fossil fuel, but the execution is missing. Al-Suleimani 5 Works Cited: David, et al. Climate Predictors Of Late Quaternary  Evolution. Vol. 64, no. 8, Aug. 2010, pp. 2442-2449, doi: 10.1111/j.1558- 5646.2010.01009X. Sekercioglu, Cagan H., et al. Climate Change, Elevational Range Shifts, and Bird  Conservation Biology 22.1. Vol. 22, Issue 1, Feb. 2008, pp. 140-150, doi: 10.1111/j.1523-1739.2007.00852.x Beckrich, Amanda. When Climate Change Causes  Science Teacher, Vol. 83, Issue. 6, Sep. 2008, Academic OneFile Urban, Mark C. Accelerating Extinction Risk From Climate  Science, Vol. 348, Issue.6234, pp. 571-573, May. 2015, Environment Index, doi: 10.1126/science.aaa4984 Yulsman, Tom. Climate change in 2016 - and continuing into 2017 - has brought the planet into Truly uncharted ImaGeo. N.P., 22 Mar. 2017. Web. 02 Apr. 2017. England, Charlotte. Climate change happening for plant and animal species to  The Independent. Independent Digital News and Media, 23 Nov. 2016. Web. 02 Apr 2017.