ALSHAMSI 1 Hamdan Alshamsi Modlin-Jackson ENC 1101 04-09-2017 Global Warming Global warming is a global issue. Humans, animals, and plants everything is affected from it. Reptiles especially lizards are affected by the phenomenon of global warming. Global warming is considered as a threat to the future of the world because not only humans are affected by it but also the animals and plants. This article will discuss different conditions of the world because of global warming majorly the changes in the hydro cycle because temperature change leads to the fast evaporation of ocean water in the air, and finally, the extinction of reptiles specifically lizards. First and major evidence in regard of lizard extinction is the change in temperature of the earth. Some species are cold-blooded, and some are warm blooded. This difference like species matters a lot. Lizards cannot survive in extreme temperature. Although researchers have not been able to give a global scale of animal extinction, there exist evidence, which shows that climate change is directly related to reptile extinction. Moreover, the rate of extinction was low, but scientist predicted that the number is likely to rise in the coming years (Sinervo, et al. 894). Sinervo clarified in his article that the extinction of lizards might be not a major issue before 2010 but in future, if not controlled, it may cause this species to cease from existence. Collins, et al. in his article, explains further evidence of a rise in temperature and the cycle. A phenomenon of an increase in temperature results in overheating of oceanic water surface. Tropical Eastern Trade winds carrying enough heat to cause the overheating in ocean surface continues to go ALSHAMSI 2 along the equatorial regions that cause more rise in temperature because of massive evaporation from an ocean. Southward become less severe in all this process. Similarly, other oceans also face such situations because this climate change is separating overall the world. Collins further anticipated that in near future weather conditions would be affected more negatively if the same process continues. This will further rise the risks (Collins 393). Some writers explained this change in temperature and evaporation of water that causes different temperature in the various regions by experiments. In 2006 article Responses of the Hydrological Cycle to Global Held and Brian further explained these changes in weather conditions by oceanic vapors by using moisture models and the atmospheric conditions on different levels. According to their research. very important consequence of the increase in lower- tropospheric water is the increase in horizontal vapor transport within the Precipitation continues to increase in the lower troposphere, heat decrease. So, the change in temperature is relevant to the change in lowest 2 KM of troposphere because there is where the massive amount of water vapors stays that is why even a slight change of heat in atmosphere and ocean will lead to the change of weather conditions (Held, Brian 5691-5692). Boyle stresses on the same situation with another perspective. He provides evidence that, even if the temperature continues to rise with 3% per year, this will be a slight change, but with the same rate in next 100 years the temperature will rise to such extent that the dependent on temperature will not be able to reproduce, their reproduction system will be affected severely and without the system of reproduction they will cease from the existence. This means that the slow production rate of reptiles in current years can lead to the zero percentage of the reproduction process in next 100 years (Boyle 35). ALSHAMSI 3 So, there are two possibilities here, about the extinction of lizards. First is the natural death of lizards by the change of temperature, in this case, lizards will simply not be able to adopt the changing environment conditions, this will cause their extinction. Second is the difficulty in reproduction. We must cautiously evaluate the predictions underlying this meta- analysis. The majority of studies extrapolate relationships between current climate and species populations to novel conditions and ignore important biological mechanisms, including species communications, evolution, landscape dispersal barriers, habitat degradation, and intraspecific trait variation. Depending on the mechanism, its consideration can either increase or decrease predicted risks. For instance, evolution can minimize extinction risks by allowing populations to adapt to changing climates, whereas anthropogenic landscape barriers can increase risks by limiting dispersal into newly suitable habitats. Next-generation models for estimating extinction risks should include these factors to increase biological realism and therefore the accuracy of future predictions (Urban C. Mark 573). Another problem that is causing the extinction of lizards due to global warming and climate change is the stop in a reproduction of lizards due to change in their size of their bodies. Warm climatic conditions were mostly beneficial at formative stages as young survival during the summer was only slightly decreased in our experimentally warmer climates, with overall 30% of juveniles from all populations surviving their first year, as in natural populations (Bestion 7). Now if we observe the process, we can clearly see a guide. Industrial Revolution and modernization were the cause of global warming in the start of 20th century. This global warming extended to a whole new level with each development in the industrial area. Humans developed such technologies for their facilitation that enhance global warming. This global warming leads to the climate change. The climate change focuses on the rise of temperature. ALSHAMSI 4 This increase in temperature is not adoptable by reptiles especially lizards. They are dying from metabolic changes, reproduction problems, etc. Evidence from different researchers of well- known writers proves this dangerous situation. Concluding the topic, by all the logical writings and experiments, global warming is a dangerous phenomenon. Many species including lizards are endangered. This specie is living on the planet from thousands of years. Humans need to understand the situation. This rise in temperature can harm them too in future. But now, as a living being lizards need saving. So, humans should not only consider the current situation but they also have to watch for the future. Otherwise this specie will extinct from the face of earth. ALSHAMSI 5 Works Cited Urban, Mark C. Accelerating extinction risk from climate  Science 348.6234 (2015): 571-573. Held, Isaac M., and Brian J. Soden. Robust responses of the hydrological cycle to global  Journal of Climate 19.21 (2006): 5686-5699. Collins, Mat, et al. The impact of global warming on the tropical Pacific Ocean and El  Nature Geoscience 3.6 (2010): 391-397. Boyle, Maria, et al. Dispersal and climate warming determine range shift in model reptile  Ecological Modelling 328 (2016): 34-43. Sinervo, Barry, et al. Erosion of lizard diversity by climate change and altered thermal  Science 328.5980 (2010): 894-899. Bestion, Elvire, et al. Live fast, die young: experimental evidence of population extinction risk due to climate  PLoS Biol 13.10 (2015): e1002281.