Kirsten Hawkins Emil Smith Composition 1 4/9/17 Joining the Conversation aggression is a major public health problem that affects millions of people (Polo Abstract) Every topic around the world today allows followers to take sides upon the subject that is being talked about. This type of legislation can be a very debatable topic when deciding whether or not it should be in-tact. Breed-Specific Legislation is based upon stereotypes/presumptions and should not be put into place. Many types of breeds fall under this legislation and for that they should not be euthanized just because of the kind of dog they are, or there should not be banning rules and regulations placed by certain places around society, and also an owner of a dog that is under the legislation should not be fined based upon the breed of the dog. Dogs should never be killed from injection, unless they are sick or injured and can no longer live on their own. However, pit bulls, Rottweilers, and some terriers are being killed just because of the stereotypes society places upon them. These stereotypes are a huge reason as to why Breed-Specific Legislation is even around in the first place. categorized as fighting dogs, the pit bulls were assumed inherently dangerous, too aggressive to matter the evidence of their friendliness and vigor and regardless of the absence of any proof of actual (Dayan 26) This quote does a great job at explaining how harsh this legislation is to the point where they kill innocent animals based upon their breeds. Dogs deserve a chance to live, just because their owner treated them poorly and could have a mild temper does Kirsten Hawkins Emil Smith Composition 1 4/9/17 not mean that poor innocent animal should be murdered. A dog could be mixed with every breed that is stereotyped dangerous and could be the nicest, loving animal around, so why not give them a fair chance to live instead of going off of presumptions. Rules and regulations under Breed-Specific Legislation have been set in order to maintain order within the canine community. There are many different bans and rules that prohibit owners to allow their dog to live in a certain area. may begin to ban pit bulls or all pets from their leased (Biggins 83) This statement here goes to show you that landlords could choose to not allow pit bulls or any pet onto their premises if allowed by Breed-Specific Legislation. It is absolutely ridiculous to hear that someone can ban an innocent animal just because of the presumptions society makes about a specific breed. Why is it that society stereotypes of specific breeds can have such a huge effect on what is right to ban and what is not? pit bulls are inherently (Biggins 84) These little remarks is why Breed-Specific Legislation has become so much stricter than it used to be. Not only were rules and regulations put into place, but if one did not follow those rules and regulations owners could be charged a fine, or have their insurance increased. When one goes to purchase a lifelong friend, they think about having an extra expense or being fined something for owning a specific breed. There should never be an extra expense over owning an animal that will eventually become your best friend for years to come. who allow pit bulls may see increased insurance Tenants who have pit bulls may face Kirsten Hawkins Emil Smith Composition 1 4/9/17 eviction or increased insurance costs if they do not get rid of their Homeowners may also see increased insurance premiums and be forced to purchase liability insurance if they keep a pit bull on their (Biggins 83) There are millions of reasons why this is very wrong to do to people who only want to own a specific breed of dog. Why do those who like that kind of dog have to be punished again because of the harsh assumptions put forth by the community? On the other hand, people will believe that Breed-Specific Legislation should be put into place based upon the situations one has seen or been a part of. If a parent had a kid attacked by a dog of any breed that person would believe that specific dog to be unwelcomed in society. There have been times where freak accidents such as attacks happen in a community, and that is why BSL has been set into place. They hope to better the community one lives in with these strict rules, fines and killing of a dog. attack caused inju- ries that resulted in more than five hours of surgery and a seven-day hospital stay for Dominic. parents, Anthony and Irene Solesky, sued on behalf of (Biggins 83) If every dog was a killer, there would be a reason to put forth Breed-Specific Legislation. However, dogs are people too, for that they should not be killed because of the way they look, there should be no fines or increase in price to own a specific breed, and there should not be someone telling you that you have your dog somewhere because of a type of dog. Kirsten Hawkins Emil Smith Composition 1 4/9/17 Biggins, Caitlin. Strictly Liable Landlords Could Mean the Pound for Pit Bulls. University Baltimore Journal of Land & Development, Fall 2012, Vol. 2 Issue 1, p83-89, 7p, Database: Index to Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text (H.W. Wilson) Dayan, Colin. Dead Dogs: Breed bans, euthanasia, and preemptive justice. Boston Review, Mar/Apr2010, Vol. 35 Issue 3, p26-28, 3p, Database: Humanities Full Text (H.W. Wilson) Cohen, Judy; Richardson, John. Pit Bull Panic. Journal of Popular Culture, Fall2002, Vol. 36 Issue 2, p285-317, 33p, 2 Diagrams, 6 Charts; DOI: 10.1111/1540-5931.00007, Database: Humanities Source Polo, Gina; Clothier, Suzanne; Garcia, Rita de Casssia Maria. Journal of Veterinary Behavior: Clinical Applications and Research. November-December 2015 10(6):525-534 Language: English. DOI: 10.1016/j.jveb.2015.09.003, Database: ScienceDirect Kirsten Hawkins Emil Smith Composition 1 4/9/17