Eberline 1 Landen Eberline Professor Emil Smith ENC 1101 015 7 April 2017 The Compared Impacts of Deforestation and Fossil Fuel Emissions on Climate People often ignore the impacts of deforestation on the climate as they narrowly focus on fossil fuel emissions. Through research we have discovered that carbon dioxide is a greenhouse gas and it traps solar heat inside the atmosphere. This discovery led many to point towards fossil fuels for the changing climate. The media, including social media, has presented this one part of the climate change story without acknowledging all the factors including deforestation. It is important to recognize the adverse effects fossil fuel emissions have on the climate. However, it is also important, perhaps more so, to study effects on the climate and to inform people of its true impact. Deforestation releases carbon dioxide, alters land cover, changes albedo, and other nonradiative forces, all of which contribute to the changing climate. This paper will assert that the impact of deforestation on the climate is larger than the impact of fossil fuel emissions. The objective of this paper is to bring attention to deforestation and the effects it has on the climate. This does not constitute a defense for the use of fossil fuels, just to reevaluate the impact it has when compared to a multitude of factors. Deforestation adversely affects the climate in numerous ways. Deforestation releases carbon dioxide into the atmosphere by removing the trees that would absorb and convert the carbon dioxide. This is done at a rate of approximately one billion tons every year (Bala 1623). This process can do two things in relation to carbon dioxide emission and sequestration. It can Eberline 2 weaken the strength of the existing carbon sinks, of which absorb more carbon than they release. Thus, reducing their potential to soak up excess carbon dioxide in the atmosphere. But it can also create carbon pools, of which are areas that release more carbon dioxide than they absorb, in the deforested area. A study found that forests absorb about 18% of all carbon dioxide added by fossil fuels, annually processing about six times as much carbon via photosynthesis and respiration as humans emit from fossil fuel (McAlpine 336). This displays the potential forests have in absorbing excess carbon dioxide produced from fossil fuel emissions. However, deforestation only affect carbon dioxide levels. Additionally, deforestation also affects nonradiative forcing, of which is the imbalance of energy that does not involve radiation directly. Examples of nonradiative forces are evapotranspiration efficiency, the expediency of water transfer through evaporation and transpiration, and surface roughness. A study found that a decrease in evapotranspiration efficiency, due to deforestation, leads to a global surface warming of 0.24 degrees Celsius. This same deforestation factor lead to an additional 0.29 Celsius warming from the decrease in surface roughness (Davin and Noblet-Ducoudre 97). However, the changing effect is also dependent on the location of deforestation. Furthermore, deforestation in low latitudes, of which are zero to thirty degrees north or south of the equator lead to higher global surface air temperatures (Longobardi, et al. 1). And the locations that have the highest deforestation rates are in low latitudes. Brazil and Indonesia have the two highest rates of deforestation in the world with roughly 4600 square kilometers and 8400 square kilometers respectively in 2012. These are alarmingly large rates especially at the low latitudes that Brazil and Indonesia are. These are only two countries, but there are many more low latitude countries that chop a significant number of trees down annually. Eberline 3 However, one could interject and posture that fossil fuel emissions produce nine billion tons of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere annually. And they would be correct. While deforestation produces only one-ninth of the carbon dioxide as fossil fuels do, there are many more factors that affect the climate. These other factors would be, as previously mentioned, latitude for the changing land-cover and the nonradiative forces. Additionally, the net removal of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere is nearly zero (Bala 1623). If one is to believe that carbon dioxide is the main factor driving climate change then one would have to reconsider that carbon dioxide being produced in through fossil fuel emissions is being counteracted by the carbon cycle to produce a net of zero. If this is the case, as these research studies suggest, then carbon dioxide play as big of a role as one previously thought. This does not suggest that carbon dioxide play a part in climate change, it does, just not as much of a climate change catalyst as originally considered. One would then point to the global temperature graphs from 1820 to present day showing a clear rate of warming starting from the industrial revolution. They would then conclude that the new-found applications for fossil fuels have caused the increased temperatures. They would be correct to assert this claim as well. However, there are a multitude of factors involved in the increased temperatures seen from 1820. For example, humans have had many land-changing wars during this time. The solar temperatures fluctuate at a natural rate as well with the last warming period taking place in the 400s. Additionally, the human population has been growing exponentially since the mid-19 th century. To accommodate this increasing population, humans have chopped and harvested forests for lumber and clearing of space for cities and other settlements. Since the middle of the 20 th century, deforestation has taken a toll of over three million square miles of forests globally. Most of which, as previously mentioned, took place in Eberline 4 the low latitude regions. This leads one to believe that it would be hard to conclude and point to just fossil fuel emissions for the increase in temperatures seen in these graphs. Finally, one could similarly assert that deforestation increases the surface albedo which increases the amount of radiation reflected into space, which would cause a cooling effect. This is also a correct claim. Surface albedo is responsible, as found in one study, to cool global surface air temperatures by 1.36 degrees Celsius (Davin and Noblet-Ducoudre 97). However, this study did not consider the effects of deforestation at the varying latitudes. Another study has found that high latitude deforestation of fractions 45% and above would create a net removal of atmospheric carbon dioxide (Longobardi, et al. 1). It is important to consider the albedo in climate change factors and more research is needed in a conjoined latitude deforestation for variable albedo, evapotranspiration, and surface roughness fractions. Deforestation plays a significant role in climate change and it is important to acknowledge and alert people to its effects. It plays a larger role than fossil fuel emissions due to the multitude of factors that are involved in climate change. Under these studies, it can be deduced that carbon dioxide may not play as large of a role in climate change as initially thought because of the nearly zero net carbon dioxide removal. This study intends to bring deforestation and its effects on climate change to the attention of the people and is not a defense for the use of fossil fuels. Eberline 5 Works Cited Bala, G. Planting New Trees Help to Reduce Global Editorial. Current Science, 25 June 2014: vol. 106, no. 12; 1623-1624. Web. 24 January 2017. Davin, E.; Noblet-Ducoudre, N. Impact of Global-Scale Deforestation: Radiative versus Nonradiative American Meteorological Society. N.P., 1 Jan. 2010. Web. 18 Feb. 2017. McAlpine, CA, et al. More Than CO2: A Broader Paradigm for Managing Climate Change And Variability to Avoid Ecosystem  Current Opinion in Environmental Sustainability 2. (2010): 334-346. ScienceDirect. Web. 18 Feb. 2017.