Hadeel Ali Professor TJ Murray ENC 1102 April 16, 2017 Ali 1 Should Zoos Be Banned? When you look outside what do you see? You see nature and the creatures that inhabit it that humans are very valuable and useful, even to us. One of the most important functions of animals is to help disperse seeds and pollinate plants. This provides vital support to a variety of fruit and vegetable crops, many of which would not survive without the help of animals Why Are Animals ). Some may not even have to look outside but look beside them and see their pets. Animals have been on this earth way before humans and their place in this world is vital. But, we need to leave them in their natural habitat and not use them for our entertainment. Animals are important to this earth and we benefit from them. People should oppose and try to ban zoos that harm animals. Animals hold a large role in our environment and not only for them to thrive and reproduce for us, humans, as well. Primates, for example, help to disperse seeds through the fruits they eat. Bats also help spread seeds and pollinate a variety of plants. As reported by CNN (May 5, 2000), One third of all our and not exist without pollinators visiting flowers. But honeybees, the primary species that fertilizes food- producing plants, have suffered dramatic declines in recent years, mostly from afflictions introduced by humans. Birds perform a broad variety of ecological roles, including forest decomposition, insect pest control, nutrient recycling, bio-indication of ecosystem health, plant pollination, and seed dispersal. Some ground-dwelling birds even help aerate and turn up soil with their claws. (One Green Planet, Humans Would Not Exist Without These 5 ) Ali 2 Other than animals fertilizing the Earth for us we should still care for them for other, less selfish reasons. If we teach children to be insensitive to pain and suffering when they see it in animals, we might find they are not so sensitive to human pain either. (FOCA, We Should Care about Ground-level humanity needs to be implemented at a young age so good hearted, moral people can rule the world. Humans and animals are able to coexist and we know this by the thousands and thousands of years of evidence. After humans evolved, the world began to be shared by such different species and there was a unspoken arrangement between humans and animals that could still be implemented today. Hunters hunted and gatherers gathered and the reproduction of animals and humans still was leveled for all that time and animals were still in their natural habitat. Not only are zoos unnecessary for captivating animals, they also mentally and physically damage them too. large, well-known, and popular zoos engage in unscrupulous practices, such as dumping unwanted animals or taking animals from the wild. In 2003, the San Diego Zoo and Lowry Park Zoo imported 11 African elephants from Swaziland. In 2006, accredited zoos in Denver; Houston; Litchfield Park, Arizona; San Antonio; San Diego; and Tampa, Florida, imported 33 monkeys who had been illegally trafficked by poachers in Africa, rather than working with wildlife rehabilitators to return the primates to their natural habitat. Yes, We Should Ban the Keeping of Animals in Zoos claim that they rehabilitate endangered animals and take care of them but here have been many instances where Most animals in zoos are not endangered, and while confining animals to zoos keeps them alive, it does nothing to protect wild populations and their habitats. The Pros and Cons of Zoos ) Several years ago, the Woburn Safari Park in Bedfordshire, England admitted to killing excess monkeys. The park Ali 3 said that it cost too much to continue to feed the monkeys, so the animals were shot and left to die. Animal Rights Uncompromised:  PETA) Zoos should be illegal is because they can give visitors the wrong idea about animals. Animals will behave differently in the wild then they will in a closed area. People can visit wildlife parks if they want to see animals in a natural habitat. Wildlife parks allow animals to roam freely and live almost as they would in nature. There are a few things you can do to boycott them. go to zoos and try to convince people not to do that. Donate to organizations like PETA that work against zoos. Ali 4 Works Cited Humans Would Not Exist Without These 5  One Green Planet. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Why We Should Care about Animals @ FOCA - Friends of Captive Animals. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Why Are Animals  Reference. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Apr. 2017. Why Is Biodiversity Important? Who  Global Issues. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Harborlights, Janesville WI. Yes, We Should Ban the Keeping Of Animals In  Tenn Ink. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Apr. 2017. The Pros and Cons of Zoos  Animal Support - Putting A Stop To Animal Cruelty. N.p., 12 Mar. 2015. Web. 01 Apr. 2017. Animal Rights Uncompromised:  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Apr. 2017. .