Syed Maisam Jafri April 9, 2017 Multimodal Project Intermediate Draft Odds are all heard this statement made in exasperation. Writing essays is an important skill to learn, but are assigned too often. There are a multitude of other forms of communication that can be used to depict information in different ways. Discussions, videos, images, music, and art are all alternative methods to disseminate ideas. It is incredibly unlikely that an essay will be shared on social media while music, videos, and pictures are shared thousands of times everyday. Essays are an ineffective method of communication that universities all over the world need to dial back and replace with alternative assignments. Not only will this increase commitment to the assignment, it will also promote creativity. Essays are not effective forms of communication for a variety of reasons. Not only are essays, in general, not the most engrossing, interesting piece of literature to read, they also have a negative connotation among students. A study conducted in Canada surveyed 2,000 subjects and studied their brain activity. They concluded that the average attention span has dipped from 12 seconds in 2000 to 8 seconds in 2016 (McSpadden). Kevin McSpadden had an interesting quote that encapsulates current college students; he said that multi-screeners find it difficult to filter out irrelevant stimuli more easily distracted by multiple streams of People have the time, nor the motivation to actually read through an entire essay. The world today is incredibly fast paced and essays fit into the model very well. Essays are, usually, only comprised of words. This leaves an entire host of media that essays cannot incorporate. If a picture is worth a thousand words, how many words is a video worth? Images are not incorporated in all essays and can explain ideas much better than just words. Diagrams, examples, photographs, and drawings can contribute so much knowledge. A video can also supply the audience with a lot of information than an essay ever could. The difference between the description of a piece of art does not do any justice to the actual piece. Figures, tables, and graphs are essential parts of textbooks that are almost never included in essays. Cristina Nehring is a well known writes who publishes her work in the Atlantic, and London Review of Books. She is the author of multiple books and also writes in a progressive blog whose main purpose is to go deeper than headlines. A quote from her summarizes the issues with essayists. She is very blunt when she says that the with essayists today: not that they speak of themselves, but that they do so with no effort to make their experience relevant or useful to anyone else, with no effort to extract from it any generalizable insight into the human condition She is trying to convey that the modern essayist does not write essays that have purpose or use to the average individual. Students are taught the 5 paragraph essay form with an introductory paragraph, 3 body paragraphs, and a conclusion from a young age. This form of essay leaves a lot to be desired in terms of bringing about interest, conveying information, and introducing significance to a topic. Essays are also a difficult form of writing to execute well. Not only must ideas be presented clearly with proper grammar, a myriad of questions must be answered: What is the main point? What is the purpose? What arguments does the author use to support the main point? What evidence is presented? Is the argument logical? These questions are 5 out of a list of 20 which should be addressed in an essay according to the Center for Communication Practices (Rosen). Not only is it difficult to answer all these questions in an essay, it should also be interesting and keep the audience engaged throughout. Essays are not successful in engaging readers or contributing information and universities need to replace essay assignments with assignments utilizing other media. The way that people get excited to watch a video or listen to a song is miles ahead the way individuals feel about reading as essay. Essays often do not include images and never include music or video. The lack of these forms of media reduces the amount and type of information an essay can convey to its audience. The modern essay does not have much purpose or value in this day and age. Students are not taught how to write essays very well. Due to this, essays become even more ineffective than they were before. Not only are essays hard to read, they are also very hard to execute very well. There are countless factors to take into account, to address, and questions to answer. There are multiple solutions to this problem. Essays can be transformed into a form of mixed media. Also, alternative assignments can be used in place of essays which include the utilization of art, music, or videos. Works Cited McSpadden, Kevin. Science: You Now Have a Shorter Attention Span Than a  Time. Time, n.d. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Nehring, Cristina. Why Essays Are So Damned  Utne. UTNE Reader, 03 June 2008. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Rosen, Leonard J. Center for Communication  Critiques Center for Communication Practices. RPI, n.d. Web. 15 Apr. 2017.