Jessica 1 Jessica Beckford TJ Murray English Composition II ENC1102 14 April 2017 A Country Falling Apart What comes to your mind when you read the word Many people associate this eight letter word with: rules, rights, controversy, elections, and so on. According to the dictionary of Cambridge, politics are activities of the government, politicians, or political Now, you have to be a genius or know the exact definition to know the government is involved in political issues, but does that insinuate political crisis means the government turning against their people? And if so, is that even possible nowadays? Sadly, it is, and it the stereotypical rebellious anarchy where people go crazy and turn against each other suddenly. A political crisis starts with promises and confrontation from different parties, with the separation of a nation, the separation of people, sound familiar huh? Fortunately, and hopefully, it the case in the United States now, at least not in an extreme way. But it is the case of a country that was once rich in oil, of Latin economic powerhouses and regional diplomatic (The New York Times), with a beautiful culture destroyed by a socialist/communist power, my country, Venezuela. USF Students from international are taking measures of the situation by providing donations, we can aid the Venezuelan community by providing something as simple as a pack of spaghetti. As of today, the corrupt and incompetent government currently in power of Venezuela has led the country to its own misery. Although crisis has recently turned violent, causing awareness from international countries, the rise of the depraved socialist party started Jessica 2 back in 1998 after ex-president Hugo Chavez won the presidential election. After the death of President Chavez in 2013, his successor Nicolas Maduro has followed his socialist ideologies, presidency has been fueled by Bolivarian, stringent nationalism, a centralized and independent economy and a strong military engaged in the (a leftist social (Stevens). Since presidency, Venezuela has experienced a scarcity of resources and basic material needs due to the devaluation of the currency and high prices of exportations that be afforded. With the devaluation of the Bolivar currency) the cost of many products even affordable for the average Venezuela citizen, bottle of saline solution costs around US$200 on the black market. These costs have imposed tremendous financial burdens on citizens, whose monthly minimum age is only US$33.30, half of which is spent on food (Stevens). As of today, Venezuela has an inflation rate of 800%. As a consequence, to uphold to Chavez socialist legacy, actively distanced himself from the US and other European powers while trying to form a tight South American coalition. The combination of his authoritarian rule took control over all three branches of government and worsening conditions in Venezuela has created a polarized (Stevens). The crisis only affect people financially, but in their overall way of life too, has been on the rise as people fight for access to food rations. Death rates have soared due to increased violence and a shortage of care and (Stevens), people just dying from hunger, but also dying from the scarcity of things. The way of life in Venezuela is atrocious, from military killing protestors to people fighting at a supermarket for the last gallon of milk. If you live in Venezuela you will know at least one person that has been robbed at gunpoint in the middle of the day (it happened to my mom, I was beside her the whole time). Jessica 3 Something as simple as going outside with an iPhone can risk your life. People decide between buying food or buying hygiene products because it enough with their salaries to afford both. Although Venezuela is thousands of kilometers away many students from USF international communities are aware of the crisis in Venezuela, and like many other groups, are starting to spread awareness of the situation. Anyone can help these students and collaborate with donations to the cause by providing aid kits with hygiene products such as pads, tampons, toilet paper, tooth paste, shampoo, among other, just basic needs that are currently scarce in the country, or money. Venezuelan USF students outside the USF Library, taken on April 13 th, 2017 Jessica 4 From some cans of food to a tooth brush, anything to help those in needs. Anyone can do it and so do you! Spread the word. Jessica 5 Works cited Stevens, Sarah. When a Crisis Emerges, Look the Other Way: Handling of the Health Care  Harvard International Review., 05 Feb. 2017. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. Crisis Upon Crisis in  The New York Times. The New York Times, 29 Mar. 2017. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. Buxton, Julia. NACLA Report on the  Taylor and Francis Online. Volume 49. 14 Mar. 2017. Web. 14 Apr. 2017.