Dietl, 1 Katrina Dietl Professor Robert Ryan ENC 1102 19 April 2017 Stand Up for Mental Illness Mental illness is not a common topic for many people to have conversations about. However, mental illness should not be a topic that is frowned upon or dodged. The National Alliance on Mental Illness (NAMI) has created an environment where a person who have or know someone who has a mental illness can go to receive information that he/she may need. Even with this organization, and many like it, there is still stigma and a misrepresentation about mental illnesses and in turns creates an environment where mentally ill people may feel misunderstood. There should be less stigma towards mentally ill people and it should be socially acceptable to talk about different mental illnesses someone may encounter. Many people may know someone in their life who suffers from a type of mental illness, whether it has been diagnosed or not. According to NAMI, 1 in 5 adult Americans (about 43.8 million or 18.5%) experiences mental illness in a given year. NAMI also states that serious mental illnesses affect approximately 1 in 25 adult Americans (about 9.8 million or 4.0%) in a given year. These more serious mental illnesses would substantially interfere with or limit one or more major life activity for that person. Substance use disorder is the most common disorder in America, with it effecting 20.2 million adults (about 50.5%) and about 10.2 million adults have had a co-occurring mental illness. (https://www.nami.org/) Some of the most important people in your life could have suffered from a type of mental illness; the illness could have been as common as depression or as severe as schizophrenia. Dietl, 2 There are many ways to make a change towards creating a stigma-free world. Some organizations that you can get involved with to make this change are National Alliance on Mental Illness, National Institute of Mental Health, and American Psychiatric Association. If you would rather work on a local scale, some organizations in the Tampa area include the Federation of Families for Mental Health, Hillsborough County Chapter and United Cerebral Palsy of Tampa Bay (http://familyorgdirectory.fmhi.usf.edu/stateOrgList.cfm?getstate=FL). All of these organizations would accept donations or volunteers to support their work. Mental Illness is not a common topic and people who may suffer from a mental illness would be looked down on. These people need someone to stand up for them, even when they do not feel like they can do it themselves. It is the job to develop social environments where anyone is accepted and no one is set aside because they might be different, even if the difference is not as noticeable as other differences. Dietl, 3 Works Cited https://www.nami.org/ http://familyorgdirectory.fmhi.usf.edu/stateOrgList.cfm?getstate=FL