Chris Holliday English Composition II Robert Ryan 19 April 2017 Project Three Guns and other firearms are some of the deadliest weapons in existence and have caused much bloodshed and death for the past few centuries, and yet, they are still able to be purchased domestically for relatively cheap. The fact that no new legislation has been put in place in order to stop and cut back on much of the violent crime in America is simply ridiculous. Many people agree that guns are not a problem but the reality is that many mentally unstable people can easily obtain a gun and with it they can do unspeakable acts. The hypocrisy that many pro-gun enthusiasts stand by is concerning. They praise guns for saving lives of soldiers and police officers as well as people who use them in their house for protection, but blame the person when a gun is used to massacre children in schools and movie theaters. People need to take a stand and fight for a change in legislation that can help be the change for future generations and curb gun violence once and for all. In America, an individual is 25 times more likely to be shot with a gun than in any other developed nation. That statistic alone should open the eyes of many conservative government officials in the fight against gun violence but many in the government feel that the arms industry is too profitable to lose and that the value of money is far more important. America makes billion in annual revenue from selling firearms and $1.5 billion in profit (Popken). In the domestic scale, America churns out billion in revenue from guns and ammunition shops with a net profit of $478.4 (Popken). These numbers are incredible and considering that the weapons industry accounts for an estimated $42.9 billion impact on the U.S. economy, the government leans on the sales of firearms for a great deal of their money. As a nation, we profit so greatly from firearms that it is highly unlikely that the government would ever consider banning guns. Aside from the government, the outright ban of guns and other firearms would bring great backlash from many pro-gun enthusiasts. They would cite their second amendment right to well-regulated Militia, being necessary to the security of a free State, the right of the people to keep and bear Arms, shall not be But, the first part of the second amendment gets clouded because many people only wish to accept the fact that it is their right to own a gun for protection and to form a militia, but there has not been a need for one. The original reasoning to include the second amendment was a check to the American government because they did not want a repeat of what happened with Great Britain in that they did not want the government to tyrannize the people. Their effort was to allow citizens to own weapons so that they could, in essence, revolt and overthrow a tyrannical government and hold their own against the better trained American government. The idea of owning guns was a way to protect the citizens of the United states from their government but in this generation, that need is no longer feasible as the American population has not had a reason to fight against the government. This flaws the logic of many pro-gun enthusiasts who cite the second amendment and say that they need the guns for protection but the truth is that the protection they seek is protection from other citizens, many of whom also have guns. Their logic is extremely flawed though. According to the Gun Violence archive, who takes gun violence statistics from the FBI and Justice Department found that in 2014, there were nearly report shootings but only about 1,600 were as a result of (The Week). Even seeing this statistics, Americans believe that they will be safer if they have a gun and 56% believe that the United States would be safer if everyone had a even though research published in The American Journal of Epidemiology found that Americans who own guns are more likely to die by homicide than people who do not own because, to the assailant, someone with a gun possess an immediate threat to them (The Week). Many gun owners will use their gun on themselves because two-thirds of all gun related deaths are suicides. In 2016, there were 58,488 gun related incidents that ranged from mass shootings to, accidental shootings. Of these incidents people were killed and 30,630 were and among these numbers were children between the ages of 0-11 and 3,119 were teenagers between the ages of (Gun Violence Archive). These numbers do not account for the 22,000 annual suicides that occur either. The central point is that many pro-gun enthusiasts do not take concrete facts into consideration and they let their emotions cloud the judgement that guns really do not protect people as much as they increase the danger to American lives. This sentiment is useless because guns do more bad than good aside from law enforcement officials, but even in that case, unwarranted police shootings have been running rampant in the United States. I believe that there should be a universal ban on semi-automatic weapons because there is no reason for anyone to need an assault rifle in their house because even those who claim they need a gun for protection do not need that much protection. In Florida, anyone can get a gun license as long as 18, have never been convicted of a felony, and pass a quick background check, they can walk out with an assault rifle that same day. That can allow horrible people to obtain a weapon and do unspeakable things such as shoot up a school as seen with the Sandy Hook massacre, or the Columbine massacre, or they can even complete their racist agenda and shoot innocent people in a church. Omar Mateen, the man who committed the Pulse nightclub shooting, was a security guard who easily obtained his gun license and Florida does not require people to obtain a permit for any guns so he was easily able to obtain his firearm from a local arms dealer Weapons like the one he purchased are easily accessible to anyone and gun laws in the United States are very lackadaisical. There needs to be better screening for people who wish to purchase a gun and they should be forced to go through a thorough psychological examination like those that happen in Germany and Sweden as well as give a clear, documented reason for why they should be allowed to own a gun because simply needing for protection is bogus because they are more likely to either use the gun on themselves or accidentally shoot someone in their family rather than actually protect themselves from an intruder. The idea that guns do not kill people, but rather, people kill people is a feasible statement, except for the fact that essentially anyone can obtain a firearm and do unspeakable acts to innocent people. It is the duty of American citizens to speak with their local legislation and pressure them to make a national change in order to protect future generations from the dangers of guns. Works cited Criss, Doug. Easier to Get a Gun than to Get a  CNN. Cable News Network, 16 June 2016. Web. 19 Apr. 2017. Gunmakers Have Sold AR-15s to Civilians for More Than 50 Motherboard. N.p., n.d. Web. 19 Apr. 2017. Guns in the US: The Statistics behind the  BBC News. BBC, 05 Jan. 2016. Web. 19 Apr. 2017. Florida Gun  LAWS. N.p., n.d. Web. 19 Apr. 2017. John Donohue C Wendell and Edith M Carlsmith Professor of Law, Stanford University. How US Gun Control Compares to the Rest of the  The Conversation. N.p., 10 Apr. 2017. Web. 19 Apr. 2017. Past Summary  Gun Violence Archive. N.p., 2014. Web. 19 Apr. 2017. Popken, Ben. Gun Business, by the  CNBC. CNBC, 02 Oct. 2015. Web. 19 Apr. 2017. Schultz, Daniel J. From the Law StacksThe Second Amendment: The  The Second Amendment: The Intentions. N.p., n.d. Web. 19 Apr. 2017. Staff, Crimesider. Few Restrictions on Assault Rifle Purchases in  CBS News. CBS Interactive, 14 June 2016. Web. 19 Apr. 2017. The Truth about Guns and  The Week. N.p., 01 Nov. 2015. Web. 19 Apr. 2017.