Jewell 1 Jacob Jewell Emil Smith ENC 1101 9 April 2017 The Conversation on The Cost of Renewable Energy On August 28, 1859, George Bissell and Edwin L. Drake successfully drilled oil from Oil Creek near Titusville, Pennsylvania. At first, it had several uses, including lighting and as grease for tools. It was soon developed into kerosene, a cleaner burning, cheaper, and more efficient variant used for lamps. When the ignition engine was created, gasoline, another substance derived from oil, was more easily ignitable and its powers were soon harnessed. Diesel fuel followed suit. For over 150 years, oil has played a crucial role in energy production. In contrast, sustainable forms of energy, though existed for far longer, have not been as widely utilized and developed, until recently. Water mills have been used since ancient times to grind flour and perform other tasks, the earliest windmill is over 3000 years old, the Romans used aqueducts for waste removal and water distribution, and the Greeks built facilities so that sunlight would warm the room as long as the sun was out. However, it was not until the recent green initiative that humanity dove further into expanding on forms of sustainable energy, and even with the costs diminishing and the ease of use increasing, there is no significant switch happening. This is because the greed present in oil-based energy production is slowing the shift to renewable energy systems. Oil-based energy is an enormous source of revenue for companies across the globe. From oil production, refining, and transportation to its transformation and consumption of all forms, it Jewell 2 is a multi-billion dollar-a-year industry with a high profit margin and little competition. Its biggest threat is the recent green initiative, in which the race to become self-sufficient and overcoming the dependence on oil is one pursued by a persistent few. Though these few pose little threat in the present, their dedication and hard work is making the greed of the oil industry apparent. The money to be made from oil has also turned many to violence and destruction. Africa and much of the middle east is plagued with the in which countries rich in non-renewable resources have more violence and less prosperity, as pillaged for their resources. region is no exception, and is victim of an as Africa has largely been associated with high levels of violence and corruption based on the political economy of oil curse (Cyril Obi). This greed extends into the infrastructure of energy distribution. To switch to renewable energy production on a large scale would require massive overhauls of every way that energy is produced, transported, and delivered, even including self-sustainment methods such as solar panels and windmills. These changes include different vehicle configurations so that batteries and equipment could be transported rather than fuel, methods for power delivery that differ from conventional methods, and the installation of those systems globally. These obstacles that need to be overcome present new reasons for the stalled switch to renewable energy. These costs would reflect onto the citizens trying to make use of the new power systems, thus giving the false idea that the costs for switching to renewable energy are much higher than that of oil. However, when considering the inevitability that oil prices will increase exponentially until there is none available, compared to the low operating costs of renewable energy, the total cost of renewable energy systems is lower. Jewell 3 Even with the evidence present, there is still the opinion that the high life cycle costs of renewable energy systems are the primary hindrance to the switch to sustainable energy. However, as Andra Blumberga et al. have researched, the costs of all but one form of renewable energy have been and are continuously decreasing, becoming more competitive with that of oil based production, and by 2025 will be more cost effective than oil based energy systems. Efforts to lower the cost of renewable energy to compete with oil are being made in the form of efficient resource planning. Although material and labor costs influenced by efficient planning, the overall life-cycle costs can be greatly reduced if the proper steps are taken to ensure that the best system is implemented in the right environment so that cost-efficiency is maximized. Although the costs for constructing, operating, and maintaining sustainable energy systems are decreasing, there is an enormous amount of wealth and greed present in oil corporations, which is undercutting the ability of mankind to develop and implement low cost, high efficiency forms of sustainable energy. The revenue produced by oil companies far exceeds what they could make supporting green energy, and their continued support of profit over the health and longevity of the Earth. Coupled with the issues of power supply and demand that would be present with any sort of high volume switch to renewable energy because of the dependency on oil-based energy, the switch to green energy is not being made as fast as it should be. Jewell 4 Works Cited Bolinger, Mark. Balancing Cost And Risk: The Treatment Of Renewable Energy In western Utility Resource  The Electricity Journal 1 (2005): SciTech Connect. Web. 3 Mar. 2017. Siddiqui, Afzal S., Chris Marnay, and Ryan H. Wiser. Real Options Valuation Of US Federal Renewable Energy Research, Development, Demonstration, And  Energy Policy 35.(2007): 265-279. ScienceDirect. Web. 3 Mar. 2017. Castro-Santos, Laura, Elson Martins, and C. Guedes Soares. Cost Assessment Methodology For Combined Wind And Wave Floating Offshore Renewable Energy  Renewable Energy 97.(2016): 866-880. ScienceDirect. Web. 3 Mar. 2017. Shanshan, Hu, et al. Capacity Investment In Renewable Energy Technology With Supply Intermittency: Data Granularity  Manufacturing & Service Operations Management 17.4 (2015): 480-494. Business Source Alumni Edition. Web. 3 Mar. 2017. Blumberga, Andra, et al. Modelling the Baltic Power System Till  Energy Conversion and Management, vol. 107, no. Special Issue on Efficiency, Cost, Optimisation, Simulation and Environmental Impact of Energy Systems (ECOS)-2014, 01 Jan. 2016, pp. 67-75. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.enconman.2015.09.005. Jewell 5 Obi, Cyril. Original Article: Oil and Conflict in Niger Delta Region: Between the Barrel and the  The Extractive Industries and Society, vol. 1, 01 Nov. 2014, pp. 147-153. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.exis.2014.03.001.