The Dangers of Pit Bull Abuse Pit Bulls are as a breed seen as aggressive and macho. This kind of labeling has led to a systematic abuse of the breed. Part of this abuse is putting the poor dogs against each other in grotesque fights. These fights breed violent behavior in the dogs and this violent behavior can sometimes cause harm to people too. A study has found that thirteen thousand people a year are attacked by dogs every year and some of these attacks are even lethal (Langley). These attacks are a clear indicator of a very grave issue this nation is facing. These problems getting enough attention but there are some potential solutions, dog laws across the country are too relaxed, both for people and dogs. If dog bite laws were stricter and preemptive actions were taken after the first time a dog bites a human then dog bite victims would decrease. In addition to this if we had stronger laws against those who abuse dogs then it would be a stronger deterrent against dog abuse. Pit bulls are being systematically abused and this is leading to violent dogs, if we could pressure our lawmakers to face this issue and implement stronger laws on both sides of this issue then we could help address this issue and provide a safer country for both pit bulls and people. The term pit bull originally began as a term for many breeds that were used as fighting dogs in the nineteenth century, as times progressed the term stuck for many different dogs; these dogs are often blamed for the violent behavior instead of the villains who abuse them (sands). This is the root of the problem, the media perpetuates pit bulls as a violent breed when they are the true victims. Taught violent behaviors from a young age these dogs are often seen as the cause of dog attacks when they are really just an effect of the abuse they face. Since the there has been breeds that face prejudice and simply a case of fear mongering by the media, the breed today that faces this is the pit bull. Today there are even pit bulls banned in certain areas. According to Sands prejudice that led to the bans came, as Dickey shows, from media sensationalism, class prejudice, panic over crime and drugs, bad science, political brinkmanship, and racial (sands 2). This is the current state of the pit bull, a dog that is taught nothing but violence from birth by animal abusers and then is blamed for the violent tendencies that people taught it. The problem of pit bulls being violent is a human one not a dog one and why laws must be enacted to stop these atrocities. The problem of pit bull abuse and the subsequent attacks because of the taught behaviors is a human caused problem, however, there are laws that can be enacted that target both dogs and people to help alleviate this problem. On the dogs side of legislation there is the idea of preventive measures against attacks, currently violent dogs can bite multiple people before any action is taken to remediate the issue, one law proposed in the Fordham law review would target dogs who bite a person even once and allow for legal action to be taken (Hussein, 40). Now it the dogs fault that it was taught violent behavior but it cannot be allowed to continue this behavior if it starts to show signs of it, if the dog was a rescue then it can start to be given remedial therapy to hopefully change its behavior before too late. The other way this would help is if a dog is caught being violent it could potentially help bring abuses this dog faces to light. For example if dog gets out and bites someone even once it would be possible to be lead back to dog fighting ring after some sort of investigation of the dogs owner if said owner was known. This of course is a long shot but other abusers could also be caught if their pit bull started showing violent tendencies and an investigation was held. For the human side of this legal solution there needs to be stricter laws for people caught abusing dogs. Dogs are living creatures not objects to own and the law needs to reflect this. In addition to this state funds need to be allocated to the protection of the pit bulls, such as funds being given so violent dogs and their owners can be investigated. There is no time to wait for these actions to be taken because of the countless pit bulls abused every day. The average person can help these laws be enacted if we all work together. Some of the most effective ways we can work towards this goal will require teamwork and coordination. The first side of this would be organized protests against the areas that are prejudice against certain breeds of dog. This would start to bring awareness that the dogs cannot be blamed for a human caused problem. The next step in this would be to write your local representatives and tell them that you care about this issue. If the people making the laws know that enough of us care then they will be more keen to act on it. With this two pronged approach more people will be aware of the issue and the lawmakers themselves will also be more aware of it. With countless pit bulls being forced to fight and brutally beaten it is no surprise that the breed is labeled as violent and viscous. This of course is not the fact, they are a brutalized breed and we need to start allocating our resources to alleviate their plight. Together we can start a campaign that brings more awareness and hopefully more funds to help these poor animals. Works cited Sands, Jon M. Pit Bull: The Battle over an American Icon/Citizen Canine: Our Evolving Relationship with Cats and  Federal Lawyer, vol. 64, no. 3, Apr. 2017, p. 78. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx?direct= true&db=edb&AN=122444131&site=eds-live. Langley, Ricky L. Human Fatalities Resulting From Dog Attacks In The United States,  Wilderness & Environmental Medicine 1 (2009): 19. BioOne Online Journals. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Hussain, Safia Gray. Attacking The Dog-Bite Epidemic: Why Breed-Specific Legislation Solve The Dangerous-Dog  Fordham Law Review 74.(2006): 2847. LexisNexis Academic: Law Reviews. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.