Mercado 1 Alejandra Mercado Professor Robert Ryan ENC 1102.045 19 April 2017 Animal Rights: Free the Animals Going to the zoo or the aquarium has become a common pastime for families all around the globe. Kids love seeing animals that are exocit and that they would not be able to see in their natural habitats. Animals also attract an audience with their and ability to learn entertaining tricks. However, these families do not get to witness how the animals are mistreated throughout their lives in confinement. Also, the people attending the zoo do not realize how animals rights are being violated as they are taken from the wild and put into cages. It is important that kids from a young age are educated about animal rights and would therefore understand that going and supporting zoos is unethical. Zoos and aquariums have been the topic of many discussions for many years. Many argue on the ethical grounds that are involved in the captivity of wild animals in cages and small spaces. This ethical dilemma comes along with the issue of animal rights since animals cannot fight for them, it is up to people to protect them. The matter in question is not only that animals should not be kept in captivity, but it is also the way they are treated while in captivity. As best described by the non-profit organization PETA, and cramped enclosures at zoos deprive animals of the opportunity to satisfy their most basic Rights Uncompromised: Zoos). Many animals that are kept in zoos are used to having many acres of land to roam around and feed yet they now are cramped a spaces that only a few hundred feet at best. This type of change causes animals to have both physical and psychological effects. For many years scientists and specialists have studied the effects animals can have for being in captivity for long periods of time. Research indicates that animals adopt certain abnormal and stereotypic behavior that has since been labeled as Animals that are Mercado 2 in confinement have to face various obstacles that evolution has not prepared them for. Some things such as climate, food, size and features of enclosure may be completely unknown to species that live only in the wild. It is important to also note that when taken out of their natural habitat animals are no longer in an environment that cater to their specific necessities. This can in time change and worsen physical and mental health of the animals causing unusual behaviour, illness and can cause an early death. It has also been found that interventions such as the restriction of movement, training using negative reinforcement techniques, being trained to perform unnatural behaviours or making modifications to the normal physiology of animals to reduce risks when handling, can cause severe and lasting Keep Wildlife in the ). It can be said that all of these effect are long lasting and are caused by nothing but cruelty. As previously discussed animals taken from their habitat can easily develop behaviors that have been labeled as compulsive and caused by stress. This behaviour is called zoochosis and includes the following acts: pacing and circling, tongue playing and bar biting, neck twisting, head bobbing, weaving and swaying, rocking, over grooming and self-mutilating, vomiting and regurgitating (a form of bulimia), coprophilia and coprophagia (playing with and eating of feces). Some of this behaviours may be seen as normal yet it has been linked as caused by stress and anxiety. Many zoos have tried to support the claim the zoos are beneficial for wild animals as they are making huge contributions to conservation through participation in endangered species captive breeding initiatives. They also argue that they are educating the audience on these species and on conservation. However, estimated 10,000 organized zoos worldwide, representing tens of thousands of human workers and billions of dollars in operating budgets, only a tiny percentage allocate the resources necessary to participate in captive propagation initiatives, and fewer still provide any real support for the in situ protection of wildlife and their natural (Laidlaw). This means that even though zoos claim to be saving species from Mercado 3 extinction they are mostly breeding animals to keep their captive population. Although there are some zoos that have in fact released captive born animals into the wild the results are tragic as they are ill prepared for life in the wild. The fact that zoos claim to educate the public on important information on species and conservation is debatable as studies show that, reality, most people only spend a few seconds at each display, waiting for the animals to do something but they gain little, if any, true understanding of the (Carr). It may be that zoos think that they are educating the audience but the fact is that people are do not gain knowledge that will help the animals survive. The most basic solution for this issue is to stop going to zoos or any other establishment that uses animals for entertainment purposes. If the reason for going to the zoo is for education purposes then it would be a good idea to watch nature documentaries or watching the animals in their natural habitats. Supporting animal conservation can also be done by going to animal reserves where animals can be observed in the wild. An example of a conservation would be the Global White Lion Protection Trust which focuses on conserving the lion population in the wild. It is also important to know when you go to a sanctuary or preserve that, the environment looks dilapidated, or the animals look sick, take pictures and make a complaint to the management. You can also file a complaint with the (Estrada). There are many ways to become more involved in the conservation of animal species. Many preserves or sanctuaries offer volunteer or internship opportunities. The ethical battle over zoos has been going on for years now and it is something that will keep going on until zoos are closed for goods. It is important to understand that even though animals for themselves they still have rights and the job to protect them. Animals belong in their natural habitats and taking them out of them affect them in a negative way. Keeping animals in zoos is not the way of conserving endangered species or educating the audience. The idea of keeping animals in cages signifies that animals lives are not their own and are prevented to their natural behaviour. It is time to stop supporting abusive behaviours Mercado 4 towards animals and start protecting them, otherwise the world will soon have to deal with the consequences of living in world without certain species. Mercado 5 Works Cited Animal Rights Uncompromised:  PETA. PETA. Web. 19 Apr. 2017. Carr, Michellse. The Reality of  PETA. Web. 19 Apr. 2017. Estrada, Orietta. 10 Reasons to Skip Your Next Zoo  One Green Planet. 9 Dec. 2013. Web. 20 Apr. 2017. Keep Wildlife in the  Born Free Foundation. Web. 19 Apr. 2017. Laidlaw, Rob. Zoo Animals Are  Opposing Viewpoints in Context. GALE Cengage Learning, 2000. Web. 19 Apr. 2017.