Gruman 1 Taylor Gruman Andrew de Carion ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Time to Take Action What do you think of when you hear marijuana? Some people think about delinquent children, criminals and unmotivated individuals but time to change that image. Marijuana became illegal in the early 1900s for several different reasons but since, studies have proven that marijuana has extremely important effects. Medical marijuana has the ability to change many lives for many different reasons which is why it might be time to change image about this so called Cannabis has the opportunity to help people that are suffering from cancer, depression, glaucoma, insomnia, and many other life changing diseases. As a community that believes in helping one another, it is time to get informed about medical marijuana and help to make a change. Marijuana is more than just a substance that is used to get it has many medical benefits and it comes in many different strands. Before jumping to the conclusion that marijuana is a negative thing, it is important to understand that not all types of marijuana are the same. The two main types of marijuana are and Sativa strains are more commonly thought of when the common person thinks of due to the fact that this is what most prefer to its higher THC (Atakan). THC is essentially the chemical in marijuana that produces the that many people are aware of but due to advances in sciences, it is very possible to obtain marijuana that is low in THC (meaning little to no but still high in a chemical known as CBC. Not everyone reacts to marijuana in the same way but Gruman 2 a study done by Zerrin Atakan, proves that CBC has shown as well as effects and is considered a potential antipsychotic He also claims that marijuana has beneficial effects for patients dealing with diabetes, cancer and neurodegenerative (Atakan). Basically what he means by this is that marijuana has shown evidence of reducing anxiety, helping with psychotic disorders such as schizophrenia and bipolar disorder, as well as pain that accompanies cancer and other disease. Other studies have also shown that cannabis extract (OCE) is in regards to multiple sclerosis (MS) (Koppel, Brust, et al.). More than 2.3 million people suffer from MS worldwide, 2.3 million people that need your help (NationalMSSociety). These diseases are just some of the ones that can be helped through medical marijuana use, but the list continues and so do those who are suffering. People are suffering across the country, your friends, neighbors, and war heroes, and plenty of other people that you know and love. Fortunately, you have the ability to help them. We come from a society where most people believe in helping their neighbors, friends and even complete strangers and now you have the chance to help. If the idea of medical marijuana still seems completely absurd then you should know that veterans a day commit you should also know that states that have legalized marijuana have shown a five percent reduction rate in suicide (AmericansForSafeAccess). That means that legalizing marijuana has to ability to save lives, and that what the purpose of medicine is? If you could help to save just one life, you? In 2015, suicide was the second leading cause of death for United States citizens between the ages of fifteen and thirty-four (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention). over 12,000 people that could have possibly benefited from medical marijuana. Suicide is a huge problem and not even the only disease that can be helped from this substance. As Gruman 3 explained in the previous paragraph, marijuana has the potential to help cancer, MS, schizophrenia, bipolar patients, and many more. millions of people whose lives could change forever from just one form of medication. Imagine having to suffer every single day from pain, nausea, fatigue, little to no appetite, depression and more. That sounds awful it? Well unfortunately what cancer patients who are experiencing chemotherapy have to deal with. you help them if you had the ability to? Thankfully you can, you have the ability to take action, to fight for those who you can change the lives of so many people by supporting the cause to help legalize medical marijuana! The best way to help with the legalization process of medical marijuana is to take action and it is both easy and quick. If ready to help make a change then there are many things that you can do, and the Organization for the Reform of Marijuana (NORML) is the perfect opportunity. NORML is an organization that is working to help change public opinion and push for law changes regarding the substance. The easiest way to get help the cause is to donate to the organization but they also encourage you to take other means of action. They encourage citizens to write to letters expressing their opinions to local representatives. They also offer the opportunity to volunteer to help assist local chapters in taking action regarding government officials. If hoping to help inform others about the cause they also offer resources and information regarding medical marijuana. All of this can be done by simply visiting their website at NORML.org. time to action and save lives! Medical marijuana has to ability to change lives for citizens across the country and even help people worldwide. It has been proven to assist those that are suffering from cancer, MS, depression and so much more. As of right now there are several states that have already legalized medical marijuana but we stop until everyone across the country has access to this life Gruman 4 changing medication. The best way to help assist in the substances legalization process is to get involved with organizations, such as NORML by donating to the cause and getting involved. Together we can change lives and save lives. Gruman 5 Works Cited Atakan, Zarrin. a complex plant: different compounds and different effects on Ther Adv Psychopharmacol, vol. 2, no. 6, 2012, pp. 241-254. Comprehensive Cancer  National Cancer Institute. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. https://www.cancer.gov/ Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. https://webappa.cdc.gov Grant, Igor. Atkinson, Hampton. Gouaux, Ben. Wilsey, Barth. Marijuana: Clearing Away the The Open Neurology Journal, vol. 11, no. 6, 2012, pp. 18-25  National Multiple Sclerosis Society. N.p., n.d. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. http://www.nationalmssociety.org/ Koppel, Barbara. Brust, John. Fife, Terry. et al. review: Efficacy and safety of medical marijuana in selected neurologic American Academy of Neurology, vol. 82, no. 17, 2014, 1556-1563. Medical  Americans for Safe Access. N.p., n.d. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. http://www.safeaccessnow.org/ Working to Reform Marijuana  The National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Norml.org