James 1 Jivan James Professor Kristin Gocinski ENC 1102.012 21 April 2017 Solar Energy: One Simple Answer to One Huge Problem There is no question that society is predominantly reliant on non-renewable energy sources such as fossil fuels and oil. The combustion of such sources causes various effects such as resource depletion, climate change, ozone layer depletion, adverse effects on human and environment, and acid rain (Rinkesh 2). Due to the underlying effects, should humans continue to be dependent on such resources? Various scientist all over the world have been working vigorously to find solutions to such an epidemic. The conclusion that a multitude of scientists have reached is renewable energy sources, especially solar power. This energy source is natural and abundant. In fact, it is the most abundant, non-polluting energy source which benefits public health (Wiser 480). Numerous organizations and companies are now investing in solar power due to its potential and benefits. Even institutions such as hospitals and churches invest in it. Very few schools in Tampa have been involved in solar power installments. One school in particular which should become engaged in solar energy is Chamberlain High School. Chamberlain High School can benefit greatly by not only forming new relationships with research facilities or universities, saving money once installed, and introducing students to new career opportunities, but also helping the environment around them by raising awareness and participating in research. Solar Power has been on the rise for the past few decades, due to eco-friendly practices and economic practicability. U.S electric modeling sector resear show that James 2 power is projected to reduce GHG and air pollutants by from 2015 to (Wiser 482). Ten percent is a huge change, especially when dealing with global population numbers. This shows the potential that solar energy has. Also due to the fact that it is the most abundant energy source, it is unlimited and the market for such will last for centuries. This makes it appealing to companies to invest in and develop it further. There is little to no problem concerning solar energy, the only issue is that everyone cannot afford it. Costs however are declining every year and usage of solar power as an energy source is doubling 1). Non- renewable energy sources are depleting and carry various health effects. Solar energy is one of the only two natural energy sources in which could sustain the overpopulation problem. Very few institutions invest in solar power, especially schools. Chamberlain High school is a diverse and prestigious high school, located in Tampa, Florida. Its mission statement is to promote student academic excellence as our first and foremost objective, striving to create curriculum and instruction that is varied, creative, and intellectually challenging (Liccio 3). embodies this mission. This school does this by offering a variety of courses that prepare students for college or for a specific trade. Chamberlain High school has ties with prestigious colleges such as Johnson-Wales and University of South Florida. They are well known for their national culinary preparation classes and community driven activities. The Marines even have a joint development program with this school, to help develop leadership skills. Chamberlain High School should invest in solar power because it can benefit both themselves and the community around it. One way in which schools such as Chamberlain High school benefit is that it saves money. According to Solar Energy Industries Association, a study was conducted showing that 450 individual school districts could each save more than one million dollars over thirty years 2). One million dollars is not a small amount, James 3 especially when it comes to institutions such as schools. This money can be used for improving infrastructure, and buying new teaching materials. As utility costs are very placed within a very strict budget at most schools, solar power can offer a solution. Another reason why schools should is that it will create numerous educational opportunities. Solar Energy Associations predicts that by 2019, the surging demand for solar systems will generate hundreds of thousands of jobs in research, development and construction. By investing in solar energy and introducing it to the students, can help students get a jump start onto career paths involving this. Chamberlain Highschool can also use solar power installations to attract newcomers as being one of the few schools in the state that have reached this milestone in technology development and this unique hands on learning experience. This means that not only will the reputation improve, but the actual value of the school will increase greatly. One more reason in which Chamberlain High School should invest in solar energy is that it will help the community around them and the planet. Changing to solar power is one of the biggest changes we can make in the community to curb climate change (Helm 193). Investing in solar energy is also a wise investment for the generations to come as they will have less health problems to deal with, and will still have resources at their disposal. Chemical gas emission will also be lowered by switching to a eco- friendlier power source. There are numerous policies in which can be taken advantage of in order to make investing in solar power easier. The first step a school can do in getting involved is contacting the government to see if there are any taxes or incentives offered in the area. By law the federal government in some states deducts up to thirty percent of the costs of the solar system installations (Alexander 2). If so they can continue to step two, which is investing in something called third-party ownership. This is when the solar installation is provided as a service without James 4 the up-front cost of owning the installation. Then they can cut down on customer acquisition costs by pursuing reduced pricing on their solar installations through bulk solar purchasing with other schools and building-owners in their communities (Alexander 3). Furthermore, Chamberlain Highschool can just install solar panels on their rooftops. Many schools utilize their long rooftops to install solar panels, as it is spacious and has easiest access to sun light. To conclude, Solar energy must be utilized due to its economy environment friendly nature. It has become basically the poster-boy of energy production in the world. Who better to further solar energy research than some of the brightest young minds in the United States of America. Through investing in Solar energy Chamberlain High School can become one of the most modernized and eco-friendly schools, while offering their students more opportunities to explore and network. Through synergy, and investment, an community, involved, energy sustainability conscious student body can be developed. James 5 Works Citied SEIA, Solar Energy Industries Association, http://www.seia.org/about. Alexander Winn. Educational Benefits of Solar Outreach Partnership, 30 July 2013, solaroutreach.org/2013/08/02/the-educational-benefits-of-solar- schools/#.WPrBg3eZM6h. Accessed 21 Apr. 2017. Helm, Dieter. The Future of Fossil Fuels--Is It the  Oxford Review of Economic Policy, vol. 32, no. 2, Summer, pp. 191-205. EBSCOhost, doi:oxrep.oxfordjournals.org/content/by/year. Liccio, Celeste. www.advanc- ed.org/oasis2/u/par/accreditation/summary/pdf;jsessionid=9BCC95D02EB90F150D784D CB69A07D69?institutionId=7511. The Health Benefits of Solar  Buildings, no. 7, 2016, p. 10. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ed sgbe&AN=edsgcl.459349144&site=eds-live Rinkesh. Conserve Conserve Energy Future, http://www.conserve-energy- future.com/whyconserveenergy.php. James 6 Supari, Eemeli, Matti, and Janne Feasibility Of Solid Fuel CLC Plant Investment In The Future Energy Systems Including High Share Of Solar And  Energy Procedia, 63, GHGT-12, 2014, pp 7508-16. Wiser, Ryan, et al. The Environmental and Public Health Benefits of Achieving High Penetrations of Solar Energy in the United  Energy, vol. 113, 15 Oct. 2016, pp. 472-486. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.energy.2016.07.068.