Student 1 Student Comp II 13, April 2017 The Evolution of Electric Cars As most people may notice, electric cars are becoming more popular. Smart Car manufactures an electric car that is called the coupe. They are the top sellers for electric cars on market. The evolution of electric cars is on an uprise. People may begin to notice that next to a gas station they will see a charging station for electric cars. Electric cars are becoming more common nowadays because people are realizing the benefits they give to themselves and the environment. A lot of people do not realize how harmful gasoline powered cars are. They release toxic fumes into the air everyone breathes, putting health at risk. Consuming a lot of CO2 that gasoline cars produce can lead cancerous diseases. If people continue to switch over to the electric Coupe they can also save money because they are not spending money on gas. Instead they would just leave their car on the charger when their home and it will be fully charged to get them to their destinations. They could also leave it to charge at charging stations. There are beginning to be more stations throughout the cities. They could be in a restaurant or school parking lot so it is convenient for people to charge their cars while they are there. The rise of electric cars is slowly taking over gasoline ones and maybe soon enough they will be more common than gasoline powered cars. As most people realize the human population is steadily increasing every year. This causes the urban living to increase as well, following by the effects of it. This can start with Student 2 creating more air pollution. The exhaust on gasoline cars produce  air pollution, greenhouse gases, noise and local temperatures and dwindling green spaces have resulted in stressors on the . (Khreis1) People also do not realize that this can affect their health including mortality, decreased lung function in children, diabetes, infant mortality, lung cancer, obesity, and respiratory  Khreis states in his Journal of Transport and Health. (Khreis 1) He also continues to talk about how air pollution greatly effects pregnant woman, causing low birth weight, infant mortality, and preterm birth. All of these are examples of the effects that gasoline cars have on the environment. This is why this generation needs to create the stepping stones to the trend of electric cars for the sake of health. Electric cars will especially eliminate the pollution in highly populated areas since there are so many cars in the city. It can greatly benefit people who live in urban areas because they do not have to drive great distances as to those in rural areas. It is important to take in mind these risks that gasoline powered cars create before they get too extreme. Beijing, China is known for one of the most polluted areas in the world, but it is not even at the top of the lists. People will wake up to what they think are foggy mornings, but really it is just the air pollution very condensed. People walk through the city inhaling nitrogen oxides, which could be slowly causing lung cancer. If electric cars do not continue to take over gasoline ones there will be great environmental consequences. More and more people are switching to electric cars because they are understanding how useful they are. Before, when electric cars were just being manufactured, most people thought they were more for luxury living and not a lot of people could afford then. Nowadays Smart Car produces electric cars that are affordable and are almost the same price as gasoline cars would be. For the new model of the Smart coupe can be owned for about 6,500 dollars. Comparing this to a common bought car, Toyota Camry, which is sold for about 26,000. Now Student 3 that is a huge difference in price, that could save people a lot of money. The Smart Coupe is very affordable for a car on the market. They are becoming the smart new trend for society. Another main reason why more people are switching to electric cars is because they do not have to buy gasoline. Driving a gasoline power car is not cheap but driving an electric one is. An article by The Union of Concerned Scientists have researched that the average person spends more than 22,000 dollars every year on gasoline. That is almost as much as the car self. Also remembering the cost of oil changes are about 30-50 dollars and the average person gets them 5 time a year. Comparing that to electric cars that do not need oil changes because they do not function on oil. The article also continues to talk about how spending less money on gas and more for other companies can increase more job opportunities in the United States. The Department of Bureau of Labor Statistics has researched that extracting oil and gas produces less than one job per $1 million of . The oil industry does not employ a lot of people compared to the money their making. If consumers reduce spending on gasoline, they spend more money in areas of the economy such as retail, which employs about 12 people per $1 million of  The Department of Bureau of Labor Statistics also claims. If the rise of electric cars continues to increase, then less money will be spent on gasoline. Instead, this money can be spent on other things around the city, creating more jobs for people in America who desperately need it. Besides from all the other benefits electric cars provide, a lot of people prefer to buy the Smart Car Coupe because of how they drive. Electric cars are a quite drive compared to gasoline and diesel cars. Electric cars are quite because of they do not have internal combustion engines Student 4 like gasoline automotive do. When someone gets in an electric car and turns it on, it will be completely quite. They also have newer internal features in the car because of how new the models are. Most cities are already adjusting to the electric car lifestyle. There are becoming more charging stations at restaurants and other local places. It is also easier to manage electric cars because it is very simple to charge them. Most people just leave their car to charge over night in the garage so it will have a full battery the next day. This is causing electric cars to become more popular in society, encouraging more people to buy Smart Cars. There are many benefits from driving the Smart electric car. There are a lot of benefits from driving them including health benefits. They can prevent illnesses because they do not produce carbon monoxide into the environment. They help the human race conserve their fossil fuels by not wasting gas when cars could be run on electricity. Driving electric cars can help people save so much money every year because they do not have to buy gasoline to fill up their tank. People are wondering why electric cars were not around sooner because of how valuable they are. Their now evolution is great for humans and the environment. If the world converts their gasoline cars to electric, people will start to see their lives change for the better. (WC: 1250) Student 5 Resources All-Electric  Www.fueleconomy.gov - the official government source for fuel economy information. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. <http://www.fueleconomy.gov/feg/evtech.shtml>. Delang, Claudio O. and Wai-Tung Cheng. Attitudes Towards Electric Cars: A Case Study of Hong  Transportation Research Part D, vol. 17, 01 Aug. 2012, pp. 492- 494. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.trd.2012.04.004. Drivers Spend Almost as Much on Gas as They Paid for Their  Union of Concerned Scientists. N.p., 04 Feb. 2013. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. 0358.html#.WPPQjoWcE2y>. Britt A. and Karen M. Sentoff. Hybrid-Electric Passenger Car Carbon Dioxide and Fuel Consumption Benefits Based on Real-World  Environmental Science & Technology, vol. 49, no. 16, 18 Aug. 2015, pp. 10199-10208. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1021/acs.est.5b01203. Kerstetter, Jim. Tech Roundup: Why Regulation Benefits (Yes, Benefits) Electric  The New York Times, 2017. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ed sgao&AN=edsgcl.486837666&site=eds-live. Khreis, Haneen, et al. The Health Impacts of Traffic-Related Exposures in Urban Areas: Understanding Real Effects, Underlying Driving Forces and Co-Producing Future Student 6  Journal of Transport & Health, vol. 3, 01 Sept. 2016, pp. 249-267. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.jth.2016.07.002. The Benefits of Driving an Electric Car; Find out How the 100% Electric Nissan LEAF Takes  The Guardian (London, England), 2015. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ed sgao&AN=edsgcl.403028061&site=eds-live. Upton, John. Which City Has the Worst Air Pollution in the  Slate Magazine. N.p., 05 Mar. 2013. Web. 15 Apr. 2017.