Ashkon Chamani chamani 1 Kristin Gocinski ENC1102.012 21 April 2017 Medical comeback Marijuana is a very recognizable drug that many people know to be used to get a feeling of euphoria, but what many people forget are the medical properties the herb holds. Medical marijuana has been legalized many states, but it remains federally illegal and can be a reason for criminalization of the people that use it. Several current mental illness associations have not been exposed to the benefits of possible treatments with medical marijuana, one of these organizations being Young Minds Advocacy. The Young Minds Advocacy has been determined to help children to the access of the necessary medication needed to resolve any illnesses they may have. Medical marijuana may have hopes of becoming legalized if enough legitimate organizations push to support the medicine in future Medical marijuana research is currently funded by privatized corporations and pharmaceuticals limiting research and development of possible medical advances. The availability of medical marijuana to the ill, can be achieved if Young Minds Advocacy show their support of medical marijuana mental and medical treatments. The first historical data that records the use of medical marijuana dates to 1213 BC, in ancient Egypt, in the use of relieving inflammation and glaucoma. Many other cultures, like the Chinese and Greeks, have been known to take advantage of medical properties by extracting the herbs oils, consumption of the flower or seeds and even the smoking of the herb. In current times, many organizations and medical associations like the American Academy of HIV Medicine have openly supported the use of medical marijuana in use of medicine, and more associations are joining today (Fox,3). The criminalization of medical marijuana choked the Chamani 2 possible medical discoveries that could have been discovered with research. Since the late there have been states authorizing the treatment of certain ailments like epilepsy, anxiety disorder and schizophrenia by use of medical marijuana. Medical marijuana should be legalized and accessible to all individuals that have a legitimate illness that can be aided, treated or repressed with usage of the medication. The reason that the debate of medical marijuana is important is the recent implications and that have been recorded on the treatments of forms of cancer. Due to the long-time criminalization of marijuana, the medical aspect of the drug was never truly pursued. The ability to have access to specialized medication, for specific ailment is essential to quality healthcare. There have been recent research propositions for the investigation of possible treatments of low THC strain marijuana used to counter mental illnesses like anxiety. There have also been clinical trials that provide evidence that medical marijuana relieves pain of patients undergoing chemotherapy, both in children and adults. Researchers from the university of California have concluded that, research indicates that cannabis may also be effective in the treatment of painful peripheral neuropathy and muscle spasticity from conditions such as multiple (Grant, Atkinson, et.al, 58). This information provides hope to many research teams that further funding and attention may be given to the upcoming discoveries of medical potential as a medication. With the help of Young Minds Advocacy putting a small amount of their focus on the research of potential medical applications of marijuana, more exploration may provide them with possible new services for mental illnesses. Young Minds Advocacy is a well-known and trustworthy organization that is currently promoting the delivery of quality mental care to all youth and their families. As said in their Chamani 3 mission statement Minds Advocacy is a nonprofit organization founded to address the number one health issue facing young people and their mental health needs (Young Minds Young Minds Advocacy provides low income families that would ordinarily be unable to afford proper mental healthcare with efficient and helpful assistance. Many acknowledged doctors of the medical association on board with their cause, they have used their resources to reach many children and adolescents with mental illnesses. Their main goal, is to spread the word on mental illnesses of children and find the most feasible way to aid them with their It would be very beneficial to Young Minds Advocacy, if their research teams considered to engage in the prospective future of medical marijuana for mental illnesses, which would ultimately help to provide more evidence of marijuana being highly medicinal. Being an organization set to help the mentally ill youth of America, Youth Minds Advocacy would be looking for safer mediations replacements. By helping add to the research efforts of marijuana for medical reasons, they will also be helping children with other medical disorders. Marijuana being a recent addition to remedial medication for many ailments, further research may provide more health breakthroughs. The examination of new medicines that could treat a number of diseases like epilepsy and relief for chemotherapy, would come from the research done by Young Minds Advocacy. This would provide expose the organization to a much larger group of medical associations, in return giving them a larger crowd to voice their mission statement to. With the help of Young Minds Advocacy, marijuana would have a higher chance of being federally legalized, giving access of the new drug to the individuals whom would be better off. Chamani 4 Medical marijuana has seen legalization of any states already, but with the immediate help of Youth Minds Advocacy, the constituents of the remaining states may decide to federally legalize medical marijuana. Young Minds large number of legal policy makers can make efforts to contract government funding for further research of medical marijuana. This funding can provide substantial progression in the understanding of capabilities on human illnesses. Once research commences, Young Minds Advocacy should gather their medical professionals to better educate their supporters on the facts concerning medical marijuana and the possible mental illness applications they can have. By providing facts of how have conducted preclinical and clinical trials with marijuana and its extracts to treat symptoms of illness and other conditions, such as diseases that affect the immune system, including AIDS and multiple sclerosis (MS), which causes gradual loss of muscle control (national institute on drug Lastly by further examining the mental and medical applications of marijuana, they would be able to help their supports that have specific diseases that could be treated with medical marijuana. This is imperative for Young Minds Advocacy to be involved, by making marijuana a credible a trusted medication like any other prescription drug, they will help the American people that need these medications. With the direct intervention of Young Minds Advocacy, both mental illnesses commonly associated with youthful characters and medical conditions associated with all individuals may be better treatable with medical marijuana. Medical marijuana has seen a large increase in support over the past decade. With more and more associations helping to spread the word of the astounding medical properties that marijuana has, the hope for legalization is high. Young Minds Advocacy will help bring more research on the medical properties of marijuana, and help Chamani 5 educate the public on the known characteristics of marijuana. With the assistance of Young Minds Advocacy, medical marijuana will be legalized, assisting the organization to become more global and spread their message across the nation. Sources cited Avila, Joseph De. Push in Connecticut to Give Minors Access to Medical  Wall Street Journal - Online Edition, 11 Apr. 2016, p. 1. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx ?direct=true&db=bft&AN=114392161&site=eds-live. Pitt Looks to Conduct Research on Medical  Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pittsburgh, PA), 2016. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx ?direct=true&db=edsggo&AN=edsgcl.465199488&site=eds-live. About  Young Minds Advocacy. 2015. Web. 21 Apr. 2017, https://www.ymadvocacy.org/about-us/ Hudak, John. Marijuana: A Short History. La Vergne: Brookings Institution Press, 2016., 2016. The Short Histories. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx ?direct=true&db=cat00847a&AN=usflc.034907833&site=eds-live. Abuse, National Institute on Drug. Marijuana as  NIDA. N.p., n.d. Web. 21 Apr. 2017. https://www.drugabuse.gov/publications/drugfacts/marijuana-medicine