Keller 1 Justin Keller Smith ENC 1101 April 9, 2017 Violent Video Games Increase Adolescent Violence Over the past twenty years, video games have made their way into the mainstream media spotlight. With video games becoming more and more popular, a necessary rating system was put in place to assist consumers in buying games for themselves and others. In the world of gaming, this rating system is known as the Entertainment Safety Rating Board (ESRB) and it evaluates video games prior to their release to determine an appropriate rating for each game. The rating system starts at (EC) and progressively works its way towards (AO) with ratings ranging between the two. The range between these two extremes includes (E), (E 10+), (T), and (M) in that order. On this scale, the more violent games tend to fall under the Teen or Mature rating. As the amount of violent video games increased, many researchers sought out to test whether they had a significant connection to altered behaviors in adolescent players. Studies mainly focused on adolescent players because of the lack of full development in their brain physically and morally. Overall, researchers discovered that violent video games cause a temporary increase in aggressive behaviors as well as a short-term disregard for morals due to increased guilt. With this in mind, it is easy to see that violent video games promote aggressive behaviors among adolescent players. As video games rose in popularity throughout the beginning of the twenty-first century, studies set out to determine what side effects could potentially develop among players. To test this hypothesis, researchers conducted similar studies. One of these experiments involved Keller 2 participants playing two different video games one violent, one not and running tests to ensure the only difference between the two is the violent content. is no way for scientists to buy two copies of the same game, one with violence and one so the games used were near mirrors of each other with the only distinction between the two being the violent content brought forth throughout the game. If the games were too different say, the violent game were more frustrating while the nonviolent one is relaxing it becomes more difficult to tell whether the game is creating the violence or the continuous frustration is (Hilgard). While violent video games made their way into worldwide stardom, the countless side effects stemming from them took their toll on the vast number of players who had no idea what these games were truly doing to them. Studies continued to look into violent video games and what types of side effects stem from playing them as opposed to only researching if side effects do stem from them. For instance, an experiment was designed in which participants played a violent or nonviolent video game, viewed violent and nonviolent photos, and then gave a fictional opponent unpleasant noise blasts. The hypothesis predicted that there would be a connection between those exposed to violent content and more unpleasant, lengthy blasts of noise dispersed. The participants that were shown the violent content proved to give the virtual enemy worse noise blasts than those who were not shown violent media. The experiment proved that there is a link between violence desensitization and increased aggression, and exemplified the causal link between violent game exposure and increased aggression (Engelhardt, Bartholow, Kerr, and Bushman). Similarly, a study was conducted in which analysis found that across fifty- four independent tests of the relation between video game violence and aggression, involving 4,262 participants, there appear to be a set of five consistent effects that stem from playing violent video games. They are; increased aggressive behaviors, increased aggressive cognitions, Keller 3 increased aggressive emotions, increased physiological arousal, and a decrease in prosocial behaviors (Gentile, Linder, Lynch, and Walsh). In sum, the study points out the harms of adolescents playing violent video games and identifies the positive correlation between increased aggression and violent games. A study designed by Brian Bartholow and Marc Sestir intended to identify just how influential, positively or negatively, violent video games are and if playing them is a great risk to adolescents. The results determined that casually playing video games has no harm but excessive amounts of gameplay would eventually do more harm than good. While identifying that violent video games can lead to aggression, the study also establishes that effects tend to be short-term and will not influence the player forever. In general, the article suggests that if a player continuously plays violent video games, then the effects will continuously develop but if they cancel them out altogether or only play occasionally, then the effects will not have as severe of an impact or any major impact at all. Throughout the early stages of popularity among violent video games, backlash towards the production companies became relevant as many youth players began acting significantly unlike themselves and extremely out of their ordinary behavior. Cues for these behaviors included increases in aggressive outbursts at home, rises in instigating fights among peers, and escalations in and disrespecting teachers and staff at school. Many parents were quick to assume the source of these conflicts and restrict playing video games altogether. Whitney DeCamp and Christopher J. Ferguson would later do a study regarding video games and youth aggression and brought other factors into view regarding why aggression tends to skyrocket. Their study indicated that violence is already harbored in the player via other sources encountered daily and that violent video games are the agent in which they can channel the built-up aggression stored inside them. Said other sources include lack of parental Keller 4 attachment, violence within the household, parental enforcement, yelling and arguments between guardians, and parental abuse or abuse from peers (DeCamp & Ferguson). While it is true that dealing with one or more of these sources is a hardship and would surely lead to elevated levels of aggression, it does not take away from the proof that points to violent video games temporarily dealing large amounts of damage to the adolescent mind. Increases in aggression as well as short-term moral disregard due to spikes in guilt are the main constiuents of this everlasting damage to the adolescent mind (Hartmann, Toz, and Brandon). In conclusion, the evidence pointing towards a link between a temporary spike in aggression after playing violent video games is far too much to overlook. As video games became more and more popular since their eruption in the 1990s, researchers devoted their time and efforts to uncovering the connection between violent video games and how they impact not only its players, but also the surrounding environment of the players. Studies over the last twenty years have identified that there is a causal link between playing violent video games and an increase in aggressive behaviors as well as a disregard for common moral decision-making shortly playing them. Although many say that violent video games are not the primary source of adolescent aggression and violence, it is justifiable to ascertain violent video games as a promotional agent of violence amongst adolescent players. Keller 5 Works Cited Bartholow, B. D., & Sestir, M. A. (2010). Violent and nonviolent video games produce opposing effects on aggressive and prosocial outcomes. Journal of Experimental Social Psychology,46(6), 934-942. http://dx.doi.org.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/10.1016/j.jesp.2010.06.005 DeCamp, W. & Ferguson, C.J. The Impact of Degree of Exposure to Violent Video Games Family Background, and Other Factors on Youth Violence. J Youth Adolescence (2017) 46: 388. doi:10.1007/s10964- 016-0561-8 Engelhardt, C. R., Bartholow, B. D., Kerr, G. T., & Bushman, B. J. (2011). This is your brain on violent video games: Neural desensitization to violence predicts increased aggression following violent video game exposure. Journal of Experimental Social Psychology,47(5), 1033-1036. http://dx.doi.org.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/10.1016/j.jesp.2011.03.027 Gentile, D. A., Lynch, P. J., Linder, J. R., & Walsh, D. A. (2004). The effects of violent video game habits on adolescent hostility, aggressive behaviors, and school performance. Journal of Adolescence ,27(1), 5-22. http://dx.doi.org.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/10.1016/j.adolescence.2003.10.002 Hartmann, T., Toz, E., & Brandon, M. (2010). Just a Game? Unjustified Virtual Violence Produces Guilt in Empathetic Players. Media Psychology,13(4), 339-363. doi:10.1080/15213269.2010.524912 http://dx.doi.org.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/10.1080/15213269.2010.524912 Hilgard, J. (2016). Video game violence and aggression: A proven connection? Significance ,13(5), 6-7. doi:10.1111/j.1740-9713.2016.00955.x Keller 6