Miranda Mygrant Emil Smith ENC1102.015 April 9 th 2017 Gun Control Laws Do Not Increase Safety The topic of gun control is one that is very controversial for many and not only do some feel their rights are being put at risk, but their safety as well. Gary Kleck reported in Gun Control Reduce Violent that the United States has a much higher percentage of people who privately own guns than any other industrialized nation and this has led many people to believe that guns are responsible for the increased homicide rates. The crimes that are being committed with firearms usually tend to be murders, robberies and theft. Also, guns sometimes accidentally end up in the hands of a child or minor which may result in shootings that were not intentional but have a deadly cost. In an attempt to eliminate these crimes and accidents, the U.S throughout the past few decades has added and revised laws regarding these weapons in order to make the nation safer as a whole. However, there has not been a significant difference in the amount of crime rates since these laws have been in place. Creating gun control laws that prevent all people from buying, carrying and using their own firearms will not only take away the freedom and safety of law-abiding citizens, but will not increase the safety in society overall. Criminals are associated with danger, disobedience and breaking the rules regardless of how big or small they may be. Therefore, no matter what laws are put into place that restrict people from purchasing a firearm, an individual with the intent to shoot and kill will get their hands on a gun one way or another. Guns or any type of weapon could easily be obtained by a felon illegally through third party vendors, stealing, or even borrowing from any person they associate with. So, the laws truly only make it harder for law-abiding citizens to own a gun and exercise their right to bear arms. Gun vendors instead should maintain screening individuals when purchasing guns instead of restricting all purchases in general. For example, in an article titled Gun Control Reduce Violent Gary Kleck studied the correlation between gun control and crime rates including various outside factors such as a mental state of mind. Kleck included factors that were not previously thought about by others when studying gun control and crime rates. After gathering and analyzing data on the amount people that owned firearms, crime rates and laws in particular areas, Kleck found no direct correlation between stricter gun control and lower offenses. In result, he concluded that evidence fails to support the hypothesis that gun control laws reduce violent (Kleck et. al. 507) In relation to article and the belief that restricting purchases of firearms for all people does not increase safety, article titled Violence and Firearms: A Deadly Combination The Juxtaposition of Federal and Florida by Judge Amy Karen and Helen Stampalia, offers an alternative solution to stricter gun control. They also included a discussion about the law system and how it effects who is able to purchase a firearm. A method that is said to be beneficial by Karen and Stampalia, is gun vendors being required to put each potential buyer through a background screening such as the Florida Department of Law Enforcement (FDLE). The law requires each information to be processed through the system and see if they meet the eligibility requirements. Eligibility is based off things such as criminal history, felony records and misdemeanors. If a person fails to meet any of the standards, they will not be granted purchase. Their results concluded that every lawful citizen should have their right to bear arms, however those rights should be taken away from people who have committed such acts of violence. (Karen and Stampalia 82) Since higher gun purchase rates does not appear to correlate with lower crime rates, restricting purchases to all people would not prove to be beneficial. Instead, maintaining the background checks will help not directly give a felon a weapon but still grant law abiding citizens access. Permitting people to carry concealed weapons with an appropriate license can actually increase the safety in society by deterring criminals from harming innocent people. Society is commonly misled by the portrayal of guns in television, movies and the entertainment industry overall. Stephanie Hunter in her article Guns, Less Crime: Understanding Crime and Gun Control quoted John Lott stating that the media publicize tragic, yet rare, gun related incidents that are guaranteed to rouse sympathy and (Hunter 294) Due to this misleading representation, many people forget the fact the guns do not kill people, people kill people. Instead of taking the defense away from the innocent, society should be focusing on helping or containing all the felons and mentally unstable people who are behind the trigger. In a situation for example, where concealed weapons are not permitted and a criminal is holding civilians at gun-point, nobody would have the ability to sufficiently protect themselves. This is due to the simple fact that the other innocent people obey the rules so nobody other than the attacker themselves would have control. Lott also mentioned that are motivated by self-preservation and can be deterred from committing violent crimes if they fear that their potential victims have a concealed (Hunter 295) He refers to this as the and in result, areas where concealed weapons are allowed, safety would potentially be increased because more people would have the ability to bear arms in a dangerous situation. Concealed weapons are not an increased danger to society and can actually increase safety once people overlook the fears and misconceptions of guns. Along with allowing concealed weapons, people should also have the right to use their firearms in justified reasons when needed. Every citizen should have the right to feel protected and prepared in case of a life or death emergency. For some, feeling safe is having police nearby and others, feeling safe is having a concealed gun ready to use in self-defense if needed. In the article Controversial Gun Policy: Liberally Permitting Citizens to Arm Themselves and Broadly Recognizing the Right to Act in Self by Lydia Zbrzeznj, it states that self- defense is use of force, including a deadly force, in (Zbrzeznj 231) In situations that put victims in a tough situation with only a split second to make a decision, they should feel comfortable enough with the law to use their firearm in self-defense if they feel it is appropriate. Zbrzeznj also discussed an important law called Your created in Florida to empower individuals in case of emergencies. The law was a drastic change in three ways because it took away the duty to retreat, eliminated the defendants burden to prove they were in danger and provided criminal and civil immunity for cases justified with self- defense. Your is an example of a law that permits people the ability to defend themselves and use a gun when they feel their last resort, which gives power to innocent citizens overall. By creating stricter gun control laws that prevent all people from purchasing and carrying them, it would make it nearly impossible for someone to have the option to use a gun in self-defense to potentially save their life or others. On the contrary, many people believe that by restricting guns from society, decrease the death and crime rates by decreasing the risk of guns being present during an altercation and eliminating the risk of accidental shootings. A primary example of a gun being wrongly used in a claim of self-defense, was the Treyvon Martin case that occurred in 2012. Call For Change: A Contextual-Configurative Analysis of Your by Elizabeth Megale discussed the night that innocent teenager Treyvon Martin was shot and killed by a man named George Zimmerman. Martin was walking on his way home in the middle of the night when Zimmerman was out for his neighborhood watch duty. It was believed that Zimmerman confronted the boy and felt threatened because of not only the hoodie, but by the color of his skin as well. In result, an altercation occurred and when Zimmerman claimed that he felt it was appropriate to shoot and kill the innocent young man. Zimmerman used Your to protect himself by claiming self-defense and that killing Martin was the final option. Megale stated that she wishes expose the imbalance of power and conflict in values represented by Your (Megale 1054) This sparked huge backlash against the law and permitting guns because many believed that it was going to help murders walk away freely as long as they say that they felt they were in danger. Another reason that supports the belief that restricting guns will help increase the safety in society, is by eliminating the risk of accidental shootings. An example of this is found in Children Safe Around Guns: Pitfalls and by Majorie Hardy. She explains that children are most commonly involved in unintentional deaths of themselves or others due to the easy access of weapons in their households. The article supports that restricting guns and making high regulation laws for parents with children of all ages is very important. research showed that out of the twenty states that have enacted the Child Access Prevention (CAP) laws, twelve of them have shown reduction in accidental shootings by 23%. The CAP laws require all parents to keep their firearms locked and unloaded in their house and if caught in violation of these laws, it is a felony. While the Treyvon Martin case and accidental shootings are both very strong arguments for restricting gun access to all people, it is not enough to say that restricting them would increase safety in society overall. As mentioned before, by taking away law-abiding rights to bear arms, it will not prevent the criminals with the intent to shoot and kill from carrying out what they are going to do. Instead, the effort and focus could be shifted to helping monitor and screen precisely each person who attempts to purchase a firearm. In addition, efforts could be placed on reaching out to more people with mental instability and locking up criminals longer to keep them out of society. To prevent accidental shootings, wide awareness could be spread to adults on the dangers of owning a gun with children and free classes should be offered to children in schools to help teach them the importance of staying away from firearms. In addition, there is no way to 100% check every individuals home to see if their firearms are stored properly and the CAP law account for the children that visit other family members or friends houses who have children but own guns. Gun control can be an extremely controversial topic among a society that is influenced by the media instead of becoming educated on the actual benefits allowing guns could present. By permitting law-abiding citizens their right to purchase, carry and use their firearms for last resort in emergencies and self-defense, society can be more confident that they are protected. While some may argue that there will be more accidental shootings and an increase in murders, statistics have not shown a direct causation and correlation between an increased number of firearms and crimes overall. Safety of everyone should come first and everyone deserves to take the precautionary measures they feel needed today in this world of the unknown. Bibliography Hardy, Marjorie S. Keeping Children Safe Around Guns: Pitfalls And  Aggression And Violent Behavior 11.(2006): 352-366. ScienceDirect. Web. 18 Feb. 2017. Hunter, Stephanie. More Guns, Less Crime: Understanding Crime And Gun-Control  Harvard Journal On Legislation 37.2 (2000): 293. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 2 Feb. 2017. Karan, Judge Amy, and Helen Stampalia. Domestic Violence And Firearms: A Deadly Combination The Juxtaposition Of Federal And Florida  Florida Bar Journal 79.9 (2005): 79. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Kleck, Gary, Tomislav Kovandzic, and Jon Bellos. Gun Control Reduce Violent Criminal Justice Review, vol.41, no. 4, 2016, pp. 488-513, Accessed 23 Jan. 2017. Megale, Elizabeth. A Call For Change: A Contextual-Configurative Analysis Of Stand Your   University Of Miami Law Review 68.4 (2014): 1051. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 18 Feb. 2017. Zbrzeznj, Lydia. Controversial Gun Policy: Liberally Permitting Citizens To Arm Themselves And Broadly Recognizing The Right To Act In  Florida Coastal Law Review 2 (2012): 231. InfoTrac LegalTrac. Web. 25 Jan. 2017.