Siambanes 1 Jack Siambanes Angelica Aranda ENC 1102 11 April 2017 The Truth About Childhood Vaccinations Good news: more children worldwide are living into adulthood than ever before. According to the World Bank, cases of child mortality have dropped from nearly 121,900 to 31,700 since 1960 due to better healthcare and modern medicine. One factor of this which has helped prevent diseases among young children has been vaccines. A vaccine or vaccination is a medicine, usually given as a shot, that contains a dead or weakened form of a disease. Vaccines are given to children to build up their immunity- their resistance to the disease- for the rest of their life. The results of administering vaccines for diseases like smallpox and polio have been overwhelmingly positive but lately vaccinating has become somewhat controversial. Skeptics of vaccinations claim vaccines can trigger severe reactions in children but that argument is often incorrect or highly exaggerated. It is important to remind parents that vaccines are beneficial to their health. That is why St. Hospital is proudly hosting the Over vaccine safety course as of June 10 th . Parents will be able to attend this free bi-weekly course to learn more about vaccines as well as why they are so essential. Vaccines are used for preventing diseases such as measles, mumps, tetanus, and chickenpox. Most of these vaccines are given to young children so they can be protected as early as possible. Vaccination works by introducing a weak form of a virus or bacteria to the child (CDC.gov). This basically means infecting the child with the disease similar to how some parents do at Why would anyone want to purposefully infect their children with a Siambanes 2 harmful illness? Well, the vaccine does not actually get the user sick. On the contrary, it strengthens the immune system by helping to create antibodies. When the disease from the vaccine enters the body, the immune system works to create new defenses capable of destroying it. The next time the child comes in contact with the disease, the body is already able to recognize and kill the virus before it causes sickness. The difference between vaccinations and pox parties is that a pox party will actually get the child sick. Vaccines do not because the disease is so weak it cannot spread quickly enough to cause illness, making it safer than actually the virus firsthand. In the Over course, general information about how vaccines work and their effective is made readily available to parents. As with almost every medication though, vaccines are not entirely safe. They do prevent illness and raise immunity, but there are some risks of side effects. Luckily, these risks are considerably rare and harmless. Of those who received their MMR shot (for measles, mumps, and rubella), only one out of six get a fever the following week (Neporent 1). Members of the same group who reported getting a rash or swelling made up less than ten percent of the whole. More severe reactions, such as those that would require hospitalization, are even less common. These numbers dwarf the mortality rate for children prior to the release of the measles vaccine; over five hundred died annually from the disease. While there still may be a risk in vaccinating your child, those odds are very unlikely and still safer than to not do so. Rest assured, however, that will a vaccinated child may experience a rash or fever, they will not get autism. Many anti-vaccine advocates have argued falsely that vaccines are capable of hindering a neurological abilities, hence rendering them autistic. Not only do vaccines not cause autism but there is not certifiable proof that vaccines effect intelligence at all (CDC.gov). The concern stems from a belief that an ingredient in vaccines called thimerosal could harm a Siambanes 3 brain development because it contains mercury which in some forms is toxic. The Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) claims based on studies that is no link between receiving vaccines and developing ASD with rare exceptions, these vaccines [containing are very In addition, thimerosal is no longer used in most major vaccines and has not been used in these vaccines for years. Therefore, it would be virtually impossible to get autism from a vaccination, especially when the autism-causing agent in them has been removed. Myths can be very dangerous when so many people fall for them; the Over course works to counter these fallacies with the truth. One might argue that it would be safer to just find an alternative rather than resorting to vaccines but alternatives can be just as risky. Some have speculated that modern medications are a better way to go about fighting an illness such as measles. This is an even worse idea since measles, as well many of the diseases we now vaccinate for, have no specific treatment (NYTimes.com). For some children, measles can be a deadly so by not vaccinating it could very well mean putting the life at risk. Adults can also be at tremendous risk if they have not been vaccinated and were not infected as children. For example, chickenpox is not that harmful to most children but it can be very harmful to adults, sometimes lethal, if they never had the disease. Other alternatives as extreme as surgery or as simple as pills can be just as risky and maybe not as effective. Vaccines are more likely to work and less likely to cause side effects than many of the alternatives out there. Another common misconception about vaccinations is that some are unnecessary and that it is not important if a child ever gets them. It is actually because vaccines have helped minimize disease so strongly that some people feel this way. The majority of people do not see the effects of measles or polio because they are not common in first world countries. Thus, they forget that Siambanes 4 these threats still linger and will return if given the opportunity and decide not to vaccinate. So much was this proven true in 2015 when a measles outbreak that started at Disneyland, California spread to over a dozen states (Loria 1). This incident resulted in over a hundred cases of measles nationwide and Disney temporarily shutting down its park. Outbreaks like these should remind everyone to not give up on the fight against disease. Healthy living is something that should concern everyone, especially when it comes to children. The people at Over understand this and wish to provide everyone with important and essential medical information. Attendants of this hour-long course will learn things about disease they never knew before. The information given at this seminar will be only pure, unadulterated facts, taught by real medical professionals from St. Hospital. Parents are encouraged to ask questions and participate in learning activities during and after the lecture. A team of well-informed faculty will be made available to answer any concerns as well as present an enriching learning experience. The decisions you make can yield great results for your children and the generations to come. By taking the first steps towards vaccinating, you are helping combat disease. New science is constantly changing the way we look at medicine and treatments. For much of human history, little was known about preventing disease or how it spreads. The concept of vaccination came along and mankind made strides in creating a healthier world. In what took years of public health efforts, we gained a foothold over deadly viruses and eradicated smallpox (WHO.int). It is because of the knowledge about this revolutionary medicine that people finally began to take control over what once made them sick. You can continue this wondrous achievement by discovering more about vaccination yourself. Attend the Over course and become proactive in the battle against childhood disease. Siambanes 5 Works Cited Rate, Infant (Per 1,000 Live The World Bank, N.d, Web. 12 Apr. 2017 http://data.worldbank.org/indicator/SP.DYN.IMRT.IN How Vaccines CDC, N.d, Web. 12 Apr. 2017 https://www.cdc.gov/vaccines/hcp/conversations/downloads/vacsafe-understand-color- office.pdf Neporent, Liz. Measles Vaccine Side Effects Extremely Rare, Doctors ABC News, 3 Feb. 2015. Web. 12 Apr. 2017. http://abcnews.go.com/Health/measles-vaccine-side-effects-extremely-rare- doctors/story?id=28674555 The New York Times, N.p, n.d, Web. 12 Apr. 2017. http://www.nytimes.com/health/guides/disease/measles/overview.html Do Not Cause CDC, N.p, n.d, Web. 12 Apr. 2017. https://www.cdc.gov/vaccinesafety/concerns/autism.html Loria, Kevin. Facts About Vaccines That Show Why One of The Most Important Inventions in Human Business Insider, 3 Feb. 2015. Web. 12 Apr. 2017. http://www.businessinsider.com/why-vaccines-are-so-important-2015-2 World Health Organization, N.p, n.d, web. 12 Apr. 2017. http://www.who.int/csr/disease/smallpox/en/