Ben Jachimek Kristin Gockinski ENC 1102.012 21 April 2017 Project 3 Intermediate Everyone who was alive at the time remembers where they were when Chernobyl melted down. This nuclear accident alone has created the hugely negative image of nuclear energy that still exists today, and has even created groups more opposed to nuclear power than coal plants which pump nearly three billion tons of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere annually (Sims 1317). The fact of the matter is that carbon pollution is a very pressing issue that be solved by developing technologies such as renewable energy. The only developed technology that could effectively replace coal and natural gas is nuclear energy, which produces zero carbon emissions and is far safer than the average American perceives it to be. Companies which rely solely on coal and natural gas such as Consol Energy should take action to help be part of the solution to air pollution, not part of the problem. Carbon emissions are more of a menace than most think, as emissions from coal plants not only contribute to global warming, but also pose a health problem to humans. Douglas Dockery, an author for the New England Journal of Medicine, has found that coal plant byproducts are linked to decreased life expectancy and emphysema in populates areas surrounding the plant (Dockery 1754-5). These health complications are only projected to get worse, as annual coal plant emissions measure around 2.3 billion tons (Sims 1317). In order to prevent further damage or even start reversing this impending environmental disaster, converting to nuclear energy would reduce annual carbon emissions and not put the lives of the people surrounding these plants at risk. It has been estimated that a single nuclear reactor could prevent up to 500 tons of carbon pollution a year, and if the largest American energy companies switch to dominantly nuclear production, this could put a serious dent in annual emissions. One of the larger American energy production companies is Consol Energy. They are a Pittsburgh based energy company that was established over 150 years ago, and is on the forefront of natural gas harvesting and exploration. This company does not rely at all on nuclear energy, and invests heavily in natural gas and a bit in coal. The company boasts their motto strong record on safety and environmental stewardship, as well as our commitment to the communities where we have lived and worked for generations, has helped enable us to become the dynamic and accomplished energy company we are (Consol 1). They provide relatively cheap, reliable energy to the Pittsburgh area and across the state of Pennsylvania. Consol engagement in this topic could be the big push needed to start transitioning to nuclear energy. If a large corporation such as Consol makes a large transition to nuclear energy it could signify two things. One being that nuclear energy is a very profitable and economic choice for both the company and clients. Two being that this company is taking the next step to be environmentally conscious and Consol is setting the trend for all other companies in the sector. As mentioned in the report conducted by Norman Rasmussen, with other technologies, such as automobiles and aircraft for example, generally shows that, as more units are built and more experience is gained, the overall safety record improves in terms of fewer accidents occurring per (Rasmussen 11). Companies cannot stop building reactors and still expect the technology to advance. By taking the initiative to switch to nuclear, the reactors built by Consol will be safer than any other, and will continue to help progress safety measures for future reactors. This could also be an opportunity to start solving the issue of nuclear waste. As more reactors are constructed, significant amounts of volatile fuel rods are stored in cooling pools near the reactor housing. If this issue comes to light because of Consol transition to nuclear energy, it could help put pressure on congress to pass plans for the Yucca Mountain national waste repository. This is a site where nuclear waste would be put in high-tech containment cells and stored miles underground in Nevada (Rechard 53-4). The site would be designed to function for centuries and safely contain waste until it is safe to process; this repository would drastically reduce the risk of accident as these volatile rods would not be kept on site where they could cause massive damage as in the case of the Fukushima reactor meltdown, which was caused by the depleted rod pool overheating (Rechard 57). The switch to nuclear would also provide an opportunity for Consol to expand its sphere of influence. As cities will exponentially grow once certain population marks are hit, nuclear reactors will help Consol accommodate this urban expansion before it even happens (Henderson 290). A lot of good will come from Consol transitioning to nuclear energy, some of it benefiting Consol, some benefiting the population, and the rest benefiting the world. Consol energy would be passing on a major opportunity for their company if they refuse to begin using nuclear energy. The company has existed for nearly two centuries, and is one of the largest energy companies in the nation. They surely could afford to build a pair of reactors and begin the process of transitioning to nuclear. The first step in doing this is taking the plunge and adding a single reactor to their power complex to help expand their area of operation. Next, as they invest in another reactor or two, the older coal facilities would be replaced and shut down. After this, Consol should be benefiting from the reactors as they should be beginning to pay for themselves, and this would allow them to transition further. Consol energy has an opportunity to significantly increase their profits, energy output, and area it provides energy to. They have an opportunity to accommodate more customers in the near future, and become part of the solution to carbon pollution. All of these benefits to their corporation should at least merit some contemplation among its executives, and in reality should merit the construction of at least one reactor to further determine the possible benefits of nuclear conversion. Consol energy is a very respectable company which has been operating for over 150 years, and has an opportunity to convert from coal energy to nuclear. The company has a very lucrative option which would be rather ill-advised to not seize. Nuclear energy is a technology that can help change the world and help begin reversing the damage done to it, and it has many other benefits such as increased safety and more technology is working its way to modern reactors increasing efficiency, reducing construction costs, and reducing risk. Consol needs to seize this opportunity to help benefit themselves and the world. Passing it up would be a great loss for the nuclear industry, the energy industry as a whole, and for the human population. Works Cited Rechard, Rob of repository and waste package designs for Yucca Mountain disposal system for spent nuclear fuel and high-level radioactive Reliability Engineering and System Safety 122 (2014):53-73 10.1016/j.ress.2013.06.018 Web. 03 October 2016 Dockery, Douglas W et. all. An Association between Air Pollution and Mortality in Six U.S.  New England Journal of Medicine 329 (1993): 1753-59. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Sims, Ralph E. Carbon Emission and Mitigation Cost Comparisons between Fossil Fuel, Nuclear and Renewable Energy Resources for Electricity  Energy Policy 31.13 (2003): 1315-326. Web. 6 Nov. 2016 Rasmussen, Norman C. safety study. An assessment of accident risks in U.S. commercial nuclear power plants. Executive International Nuclear Information System, vol. 35, no. 26, Oct. 1975, pp. Henderson, J. V. et. all. Urbanization and City Growth: the Role of  Regional Science and Urban Economics 37.3 (2007): 283-313. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Consol Energy, 2017, www.consolenergy.com/about-us. Accessed 21 Apr. 2017.