Octavius 1 Brunard Octavius Kristen Gocinski ENC1102.012 21 April 2017 The Cure for Underage Underage drinking continues to plague the U.S., establishing the problem as a leading issue, causing great debate on the minimum legal drinking age. Underage drinking continues to mask itself behind the false beliefs of the average citizen. The Center for Behavioral Health Statistic and Quality reported that about one in seven teens binge drinks, yet only 1 in 100 parents believe his or her teen binge drinks. The common misconceptions individuals may have regarding underage drinking makes the reversal of staggering statistics a strenuous task. The impact of underage drinking and driving have no boundaries, in other words, anyone can be effected by the consequences. Due to the impact, underage drinking and driving can have on anyone, Walmart should step into a proactive role regarding underage drinking and driving. The current Minimum Drinking Age (MDA) of 21 should remain in effect to combat underage drinking and driving. Walmart should support the current minimum drink age and fund post DUI programs, to save lives from alcohol consumption, hence continuing to bring revenue into the company. Giving more access of alcohol to the public, specifically individuals under the age of 21 is absurd and ineffective. The lack of laws regulating alcohol consumption caused major issues such as binge drinking, and elevated rates of alcohol related crashes in the early 1980s (Wechsler). Alcohol related issues led to the establishment of the minimum drinking age of 21 in 1984. Since, drinking by high school seniors has decreased from 66% to 42% Octavius 2 (consumer.ftc.gov). The Amethyst Initiative, a group of 135 college president/chancellors called for the lowering of the MDA, believing that an increase in alcohol availability will lower irresponsible drinking in unsupervised settings. Research concluded that an increase in alcohol availability will have a greater negative impact than the positive impact the lowering of drinking in unsupervised settings would have (Fitzpatrick). In 241 studies published between 1960 and 2000 that dissected the effect of lowering the MDA, found fewer crashes associated with a higher minimum legal drinking age, whereas no study found fewer crashes associated with a lower minimum legal drinking (Wechsler). Source after source debunks the Amethyst reasoning to lower the legal minimum drinking age. In three Austrian nations, the minimum legal drinking age was decreased to 18 years of age. The results, a 20-25% in male violence (Smith). Walmart employees consist of various social, political, and economic backgrounds, leading to a thriving company. The mission of Walmart is to provide customers with wide assortment of good-quality merchandise; the lowest possible prices; guaranteed satisfaction with what you buy; friendly, knowledgeable service; convenient hours; free parking; a pleasant shopping (Walmart). mission statement comes solely from the founder of the store chain, successful entrepreneur Sam Walton. Walmart was founded in January 2000, a subsidiary of Wal-Mart Stores Inc. The engagement of a super-chain such as Walmart on the issue of underage drinking and driving could assist in the curing of the national problem. If motivated, Walmart has the means to fund such programs, hauling in revenue of $485.9 billion during the 2017 fiscal year (Walmart.com). The advertising power that Walmart has can play a role in underage drinking. As referenced earlier, the negative consequences of underage drinking and driving can affect any Octavius 3 individual. Imagine if an underage drunk driver struck and killed the founder of Walmart. One of the most dominant restaurant chains would not exist. You see, the scenario given in the previous sentence is 100% possible, which is why the individuals at Walmart should engage in the fight to uphold the current minimum drinking age. As illustrated in mission statement, their goal is to provide affordable food, hence leading to the company making money. But what if the food was not considered What if less people shopped at Walmart? According to the studies led by scholar William C. Kerr, risks for suicide deaths are known to include both economic factors and substance misuse, particularly alcohol If the minimum drinking age is lowered, alcohol becomes more accessible, hence increasing alcohol related suicides. There is no definite conclusion to the affects said scenario could have on the revenue of Walmart, but for certain the affects would be negative. If Walmart used some funds to begin programs that follow up with individuals that were previously convicted of driving under the influence (DUI), the programs could aid in ensuring those individuals do not revisit their past mistakes. Scholar Mark B. Johnson, with the aid of the Pacific Institute for Research and Evaluation concluded that the following up with drunk drivers post being caught in the act does not take place often enough, allowing many individuals to spiral back into their previous ways, not learning their lesson. The funding of follow up programs will aid in saving lives from drivers that are under the influence of drugs or alcohol. In order to begin the route to making the roadways safer, a few steps must be put in place. First, society as a whole has recognized underage drinking and driving as an issue, but individual everyday people must recognize underage drinking as a problem. As stated earlier, there is a misconception amongst parents on the amount of alcohol consumed by underage individuals, allowing the issue to go undetected. The realization of the problem can make all the difference. Octavius 4 Step two to safer roadways and the cure to underage drinking is utilizing accountability. I have witnessed far too often a lack of effort to prevent an underage individual from consuming alcohol as well as operating an automobile. Often times friend and family members stand idle while their loved one endangers multiple lives. If friends and family members become more accountable, lives can potentially be saved. The final but most broad step is investment in programs. Underage drinking is a multi-layered issue, so there must be multiple programs to combat the problem. For instance, a program that taught how to spot fake ids could be useful. As technology advances and fake ids seem more real, programs must be in place to keep alcohol sellers ahead of false id companies. To conclude, the minimum legal drinking age of 21 years of age should remain as is and not lowered. Underage drinking is tough problem to resolve to say the least, but through cumulative efforts of everyday individuals and corporations such as Walmart, the problem can be reduced. Steps such as recognizing the problem of underage drinking, being accountable, and the investments in programs can help lead to a safe and healthy future for the youth of the world. References Wechsler, Henry. Increasing Alcohol Availability By Lowering the Minimum Legal Drinking Age Decrease Drinking and Related Consequences Among American Journal of Public Health, vol. 100, Issue 6, 2010, Business Source Premier http://eds.a.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?sid=ec1495a2- 1145-4b12-b52f-d098a08602a9%40sessionmgr4006&vid=2&hid=4205. 11 April 2017 Octavius 5 Kerr, Williams. Recession, Alcohol, and Suicide Rates: Comparative Effects of Poverty, Foreclosure, and Job American Journal of Preventive Medicine, 2017, ScienceDirect, 10.1016/j.amepre.2016.09.021. 11 April 2017. Johnson, Mark. successful enforcement intervention targeting underage drinking United Kingdom : Wiley-Blackwell Publishing Ltd. 2016, pp. 1196- 1202 PsycInfo, http://dx.doi.org.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/10.1111/add.13346 11 April 2017 Smith, Ian. on Juvenile Crime of Lowering the Drinking Age in Three Australian Blackwell Publishing, vol. 82, 1987, 10.1111/j.1360-0443.1987.tb01458.x Fitzpatrick, B. G., (2012), the Effect of the Amethyst Initiative on College Alcoholism: Clinical and Experimental Research. 10.1111/j.1530- 0277.2012.01765.x Consumer Information. 21 Is the Legal Drinking Age Consumer Information. N.p., n.d. Web. 21 Apr. 2017. >.  Help. N.p., n.d. Web. 21 Apr. 2017. History and