Garcia 1 Haley Garcia Professor Kristin Gocinski ENC1102.012 21 April 2017 Cloning In a world that thrives on biodiversity why would we create something that diminishes just that? Cloning has been a highly controversial topic for the past hundred years or so, starting back in 1885 when Hans Adolf Edward Dreisch took two cells from a sea urchin and created two different urchins out of them. This process developed the foundations of human cloning, which is the extraction of the nucleus of an unfertilized egg and replacing it with the nucleus from the creature that is supposed to be cloned. This led to a variety of animal species being cloned and eventually used for humans. Although this idea of cloning is revolutionary, the risks attached are far too high for people to continue developing this. Friends of the Earth, an organization that focuses on maintaining biodiversity and health of all people, should get involved in the fight against cloning. Cloning is not only extremely risky, but also deteriorates health of the individuals who are cloned, decreases the biodiversity of the population, and has mainly caused a variety of genetic defects that has made cloning unsafe for the public. In order to maintain a healthy environment, the Friends of the Earth need to help prevent the continuation of cloning before it globalizes. Spreading the word that cloning destroys diversity and disregards the health or quality of life of people worldwide will make people get involved in stopping cloning. Cloning in general has a variety of negatives especially in regards to reproductive cloning. Although the idea that parents who are not capable of developing children through sexual Garcia 2 intercourse can with the manipulation and combination of cells through a lab may seem promising, it has actually led a decrease in diversity within humans. Another issue with this kind of cloning is that 95% of the testing done on animals led to severe genetic defects or mutations that in turn led to death. According to The Case Against Cloning-To-Produce-Children, available scientific evidence indicates that many or most children created through cloning would suffer from medical problems as a result of the procedure used to create (The Case Against Cloning-to-Produce-Children 28). Risking lives by cloning people is not worth the health risks brought with it. Malpractice is also a concern that is associated with cloning. People are given the ability to choose exactly what they want that cloned individual to look like. This may seem like a beneficial thing but it could easily be seen as a negative because if someone has the ability to positively affect something, they can also negatively affect something. They could also clone the undesired traits as well. This ability to choose also significantly decreases the biodiversity of the population. Copying the DNA of one human and replicating it into another repeatedly leads to little to no differentiation between one person to the next. This lack of diversity ultimately leads to a decrease in overall health of people and could lead to extreme health issues over time. After going through many of the affects cloning will have on the population, it is easy to see that cloning needs to be stopped before it destroys the genetic diversity and general health of the population. According to Laurentiu, objections against human cloning can be divided into three main categories: empirical or scientific objections, ethical and legal obligations, Philosophical and religious (Laurentiu 152). Cloning is seen negatively in a variety of different ways and through several groups of people. It has scientifically been proven to have a negative impact on health, disrupts the ethical balance by allowing people to manipulate the clone and religiously goes against many views worldwide. Garcia 3 The Friends of the Earth is an organization who firmly believes that people have to come together and fight for the health of the world. They focus on three main principles that help stimulate their organization and what it offers the world. The first is sustainability which discusses the idea that we need to maintain a healthy world so that the generations to come will live healthy, fulfilling lives as long as there is life on this earth. The next principle they use is connectivity. This refers to the fact that the health of our environment and world is directly correlated to the global, social and economic justices. The last of the three principles if the systemic change. The idea that the issues of the world are too large for simple fixes and that we need to think of long term profiting over short term. All of these principles form the base of this organization and their ability to create a healthy world for all of us. They try to change the world and perceptions of the public, media, and the policy makers with well-reasoned policies and advocacy campaigns. Friends of the Earth works to ensure that the health of our world will be established through their words and actions in order to uphold the dignity of all people. Friends of the Earth should get involved with the diminishing of cloning because not only would it benefit the health of the world, but it will also help maintain biodiversity. By engaging with the stop to cloning, Friends of the Earth will be able to positively impact the health of people and the environment. Their drive to increase biodiversity directly correlates to decreasing the genetic modifications that are associated with cloning. The modification of people in order for others to benefit is not only unethical but has been proven to have more flaws then benefits. As an organization, Friends of the Earth should not only see that cloning not only disrupts the sustainability of earth through the manipulation of DNA for the selfishness of people, but also in regards to connectivity. The disruption in the health of the environment will directly correlate to the destruction of our global, social and economic structures. Systematic change correlates to Garcia 4 cloning because if cloning became a normal thing in our society it would lead to huge issues years from now that will be extremely hard to diminish. All of these reasons alone should make Friends of the Earth see why they should be involved with the diminish of cloning. This will only reap negative consequences and if not topped soon could lead to complete obliteration of our world as we know it. When Friends of the earth gets involved with stopping cloning, they need to start informing the public of the negative impacts cloning will have on the world. The fastest way to put an end to this is by using the public and media to diminish the concept that cloning will benefit people I the long run. According to Garland, Public dialogue is an important tool in considering and weighing public Scientific advancements can result in strong, negative public reactions as with nuclear power in the United States, genetically modified food crops in the European Union, and human research cloning in a variety of (Garland et al. 101). Seeing how the public reacts to the genetic defects of clones and the decrease in biodiversity will be a determining factor on what will happen to cloning in the future. If people had such strong feelings about cloning as they do on nuclear power, GMOs and other highly talked about topics like these, then it would be easier to change how people feel about cloning. The lack of knowledge that is spread through media has created this idea that cloning is a cool scientific advancement that could be useful, however if the public was aware of all the negative aspects that are associated with this, then people would be more against it. Beyond going through media to spread the word about cloning, it should be incorporated into the curriculum at school. Intertwining cloning with biodiversity in schools would force people to develop an opinion on it. Incorporating the idea that cloning could lead to disease from a decrease in biodiversity will change the opinions of people worldwide. Sonia stated, overlooked, but of equal concern, Garcia 5 is the potential for the extremely rapid evolution of pathogens, and the role of genetic change in the host shifts and emerging By informing people that the continuation of cloning could lead to a large spread disease that could kill off most of the population from a decrease in genetic diversity would create a fear that would lead to a change in opinion of opinion of people everywhere. Also by holding conferences or interventions that associate cloning with a negative context will form a worldwide consensus that cloning should not be incorporated into our society. In conclusion, cloning in theory may seem like it would change the world for the better, however in reality the risks are just too high to take. Friends of the Earth, as an organization that focuses on the health of all people and the biodiversity of the world, getting involved in the fight against cloning is the most logical choice. Beyond the decrease in diversity several genetic defects that have been associated with cloning has made it ultimately unsafe for the public. In order to continue having a healthy environment, the Friends of the Earth need to prevent the continuation of cloning before it globalizes. Spreading the idea that cloning disrupts the diversity of our planet and disregards the health of people worldwide will make people get involved in putting a stop to cloning once and for all. Garcia 6 Works Cited Friends of the Earth, http://www.foe.org/about-us. Accessed 21 April 2017 Agnieszka, Rzenca. as an Ecological Safety Condition. The European Comparative Economic Research, vol. 18, no. 1, p 97-117, 2015. https://www.degruyter.com/view/j/cer.2015.18.issue-1/cer-2015-0006/cer-2015- 0006.xml. Accessed 21 April 2017. Brent, Garland. Frankel, Mark S. (The Impact of Behavioal Genetics on the Criminal Law: Considering convergence: A Policy Dialogue About Behavioral Genetics, Neuroscience, +and and Contemporary Problems, vol. 69, p 101, 1 January 2006. http://eds.b.ebscohost.com/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?sid=2730e2d0-ce8f-4b19- 9845-d45e73db8e7d%40sessionmgr120&vid=13&hid=113. Accessed 21 April 2017. Case Against New Atlantis: A Journal of Technology & Society, vol. 46, p 27-50, Summer 2015. http://eds.a.ebscohost.com/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?sid=e7fdb4fa-e709-45f2-b85c- 3b82115f05ae%40sessionmgr4006&vid=17&hid=4202. Accessed 20 April 2017. The Pros and Cons of Cloning: Is It Worth the  Udemy Blog. 22 Apr. 2017. <https://blog.udemy.com/pros-and-cons-of-cloning/>. Accessed 21 April 2017. Staicu, Cloning and the Myth of Journal for the Study of Religions & Ideologies, vol. 11, no. 31, p 148-169, April 2012. http://eds.a.ebscohost.com/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?sid=748bf166-7d58-4bd7- 90d1-4faf9f43561e%40sessionmgr4006&vid=1&hid=4202. Accessed 21 April 2017. Unknown Author. History of Web. 22 Apr. 2017. http://learn.genetics.utah.edu/content/cloning/clonezone. Accessed 20 April 2017.