Gonzalez 1 Leidy Gonzalez Professor Ryan [Course 16 th April 2017 Sex education in our society Sex education, I know, not a topic anyone wants to talk about but it is something very important we need to discuss as a society. Sex education helps our youth become more aware of their own sexuality and highlights the importance of being aware of their own reproductive health. This is exactly the mission of Planned Parenthood. The effects of an operational sex education program is very obvious to point out in societies because we see a dramatic fall in unwanted pregnancies, and a drop in abortions as well. Sex education programs like the ones that Planned Parenthood offers helps the community overcome very common sex myths that even some adults into their believe. Planned Parenthood helps disprove sex myths like get pregnant the first Silly misunderstandings like these about sex hurt our youth. The fictional ideas about sex are one of the main causes of sexually transmitted diseases and unplanned pregnancies that can lead to abortions. Planned sex education is also very proud of being inclusive to the LGBTQ community. Classes that cater to reproductive health for gay, lesbian, and trans youth is very important and it often gets over looked because a minority. Inclusion also helps dispel myths of what homosexual sex is and the common misconceptions about regarding gay sex. While many of you are thinking so You might think that this does not concern you but our society benefits from sex education classes. Awareness could be the Gonzalez 2 difference between the growing numbers of abortions, and unwanted pregnancies. The absence of reproductive health is adversely affecting our communities. Every day we see another teenage pregnancy. This is because of the lack of information our youth has about safe sex. We must get together as a society and move towards normalizing the idea of being able to gather sex information in a timely manner. Even if you see how this issue personally affects you it affects the society you live in. Better health care information makes for a smarter safer community. Safe sex is something that our youth should have access to. Safe sex can range from using contraception, condoms or birth control, or just plain abstinence. It is just important to share the options that our youth has instead of trying to force them to fit into one solid box of what we think sex should be. Thanks to Planned Parenthood its clients know about the range of reproductive options they have. Just a simple place that our community can find sexual inclusion is enough to help keep the negative consequences of unsafe sex farther away. One easy way to get on board is to simply go on Planned Parenthoods website and sign the petition to support and stand behind their mission to bring sex education to everyone. You can let your state representative know that you care about our future and that you back up Planned Parenthoods idea of inclusive sex education. Works Cited Youniversitytv.com. N.p., n.d. Web. 19 Apr. 2017. https://www.youniversitytv.com/college- tips/sex-education-schools-pros-cons/ Gonzalez 3