West 1 Jillian West Prof. Gocinski ENC 1102-012 21 April 2017 Human Rights Watch and Sexual Objectification It is problematic to know that women cannot walk down the street without being picked a part and judged. woman in the United States participates in a daily beauty pageant, whether she likes it or (YWCA). Sexual objectification discredits the integrity of a woman. Human Rights Watch will support the rights of all women who go unacknowledged while expressing the detrimental impact women suffer from sexual objectification. Sexual objectification is the act of treating a person as an instrument of sexual pleasure and happens when a body, body parts, or sexual functions are isolated from her whole and complex being and treated as objects simply to be looked at, coveted, or touched (Fredrickson and Roberts 1997). This act is unacceptable and should not be tolerated. Sexual objectification of women has become normalized through our society. Advertisements and entertainment alike are objectifying women. Avatars Lead to Self- Objectification and Acceptance of Rape provides information about videogames and their hypersexual representations of women. Men are mostly covered in armor for adventure/fighting videogames while women have barely any protection and even less clothing. The researchers developed a study in which they predicted that this would lead to rape myth acceptance. How women are represented and treated in the video games shows that the violent acts are acceptable in real life. Sexual objectification not only affects how others treat women, but how they treat themselves. College women who were more exposed to sexualized avatars West 2 experienced more self-objectification than others (Fox, Jesse, et al 2015). Videogames break records in sales due to their hypersexualized women avatars portrayed as strippers and prostitutes. The impact video games have amongst society shows that the media accepts women being valued only by their appearance and sexuality. Women are perceived as walking sexual objects, instead of their intelligence and competence. Human Rights Watch defends the rights of people worldwide. They investigate abuses, expose the facts widely, and pressure those with power to respect rights and secure justice Human Rights Watch is an independent, international organization that works to uphold human dignity and advance the cause of human rights for all. Human Rights Watch values their commitment to their mission of defending human rights worldwide. They are actively focused on impact and are committed remaining accurate and fair while being guided by international human rights and humanitarian law to ensure respect for each human being Human Rights Watch is a nonprofit organization and does not accept any private funder that could compromise their objectivity and independence. Sexual objectification disrupts the security of women but, with Human Rights engagement, women will restore their respect, love, and dignity. Since sexual objectification of women occurs in everyday media, the engagement the Human Rights Watch provides will maximize their impact across the nation. They will reach others who are unacknowledged but are effected by sexual objectification; like women in sex trafficking who are stolen from their freedom and sold because of the they have. Sexual objectification is normalized throughout the society so the acts that follows often go unnoticed until it is too late. One in four women are raped on college campuses and more than 90% of sexual assaults go unreported about Sexual This is because the perception of women is tainted with West 3 sex, incompetence, and inhumane. So if a woman is raped or sexually assault, she is always at fault. She will always be questioned on what she wore, what she said, her sex history, all because of how women are projected on television screens and billboards. With Human Rights recognition of this problem, they will benefit by defending voices of women who feel they cannot speak out. Human Rights Watch will discontinue the disgusting perception of what a woman is. They should engage by protesting against cat calls and provide encouragement to women individuality. They should acknowledge that women do not serve as sex symbols. That women have a complex whole and are not described in parts. Society will benefit from this engagement because more women will feel secure within themselves and live according to their own expectations and not ones depicted by strangers. Sexual objectification degrades the importance of women all across the world, but Human Rights Watch will end the problematic perception that women endure. Human Rights Watch have to be involved to encourage the development of media literacy. Media literacy is the ability to access, analyze, evaluate and create media in a variety of forms (McKay 2013). It is proven that social norms have dictated gender roles for men and women, with the incorporation of media literacy there will be a variety of roles for each gender (McKay 2013). Women and men will not be put in boxes that determine what they have to be or look like through Human Rights engagement. Next, Human Rights Watch needs to develop comprehensive sexuality education programs in schools (McKay 2013). This type of curriculum addresses age-appropriate physical, mental, emotional and social dimensions of human sexuality. Little girls will no longer be signaled out for the body parts they will develop. The understanding of how a complex body works will force those who objectify to reevaluate their thoughts and to consider all that woman encounted. This curriculum also acknowledges the mental and emotional effects West 4 girls would endure if they were struck with sexual objectification, like body consciousness, body shame, anxiety, etc. (Mckay 2013). Human Rights Watch will promote girl-positive media. Media that endorses the beauty of a young lady and not the sexuality that is perceived. A beauty should not be compromised because her breasts have not developed yet. Nor should those who have developed be encouraged or forced into sexual activity. In conclusion, sexual objectification discredits the integrity of a woman. Human Rights Watch will support the rights of all women who go unacknowledged while expressing the detrimental impact women suffer from sexual objectification. Through this engagement Human Rights Watch will benefit by diversifying their brand and disputing the harsh depiction of women, defending the voice of the unheard and protecting little girls from experiencing objectification themselves. There is no disgusting reality of a man who is sexualized, nor do they endure the consequences of objectification so this should not be tolerated for a woman. West 5 Works Cited Human Rights Watch, 2017. Accessed 22 Apr. 2017. Department of Applied  The Effects of Sexual Objectification on Mental. Accessed 20 Apr. 2017 Fox, Jesse, et al. Sexualized Avatars Lead To Self-Objectification And Acceptance Of Rape  Psychology Of Women Quarterly, vol. 39, no. 3, 2015, pp. 349-362. PsycINFO. Accessed 10 April. 2017. Greenleaf, Christy and Rosemary McGreer. Disordered Eating Attitudes and Self- Objectification among Physically Active and Sedentary Female College  The Journal of Psychology: Interdisciplinary and Applied, vol. 140, no. 3, May 2006, pp. 187-198. EBSCOhost. Accessed 10 April. 2017. Applied Psychology OPUS. NYU Steinhardt. Accessed 21 Apr. 2017. Loughnan, Steve, et al. Objectification Increases Rape Victim Blame and Decreases Perceived Sexual Objectification Increases Rape Victim Blame and Decreases Perceived Suffering, 2013. Accessed 18 Apr. 2017. McKay, Female Self-Objectification: Causes, Consequences and  McNair Scholars Research Journal, vol.6, no. 1, article 7, 2013. DOAJ Directory of Open Access Journals. Accessed 10 April. 2017. about Sexual National Sexual Resource Center, 2015. Accessed 20 Apr. 2017. YWCA Eliminating Racism, Empowering Women. YWCA USA. Accessed 20 Apr. 2017.