Kang a 1 Michael Kang Professor Gocinski Composition 1102 19 April 2017 Say No to XeNophobia All throughout history, the United States has been viewed as the safe country for immigrants from countries all around the world that escape their country from poverty, armed conflict, political turmoil, and economic hardships. Many would call this voyage to the United States as the In the past few dozen of years, the increasing presence of illegal immigrants, to some, has been troubling economically and politically (Abram 167). According to Tim Kane, than 10 million undocumented aliens currently reside in the U.S., and that the population is growing by 700,000 per (Kane 133). Because America is currently the country where immigrants from around the world go to, racism and discrimination is an issue that has been conflagrating. Xenophobia is one of many issues that is currently plaguing America, an issue that has been prevalent throughout the United States since World War 2 when Hitler took control of the Jewish Population in Europe, and when Japan provoked the attack on Pearl Harbor. Xenophobia comes in many forms, shapes and sizes, due to the fact that the term closely relates to many words such as racism, bias, bigotry, and discrimination. Many events in history can be called Xenophobic such as the rise of the KKK, or the Klu Klux Klan. This organization believed that white Christians have absolute control and overpower all other races. Another event in history that included Xenophobia includes the rise of Hitler in Germany (Blunt). This strong dictator caused a whole new of sick during the times in Kang a 2 World War 2, when Jewish families where killed during this period of genocide. Xenophobia seems to be a problem that happened in the past, but this issue is still present in modern day America. Many United States citizens feared Muslims entering the country due to the recent acts of domestic terrorism. Now, with Donald Trump taking the seat for the President of the United States, many fear the growth of ISIS, and display their fear towards any country from the Middle East. This pressing issue of fearing certain races or religions needs to come to a halt, due to the fact that just because a person with a certain background and religion does some act of terrorism, does not mean justify xenophobia. Xenophobia is an issue that has been seen quite often in history. It has been seen all throughout most of the wars America has been through. For example, World War 2 is a popular example of how rampant racism, discrimination, and fear towards a certain group of people seemed to be prevalent. *During this time in history, while America was being a bystander, Hitler rose to power in Germany, a country that is located in central Europe, and caused massive genocide towards people with Jewish backgrounds and homosexuals (Blunt). During this time in history, xenophobia was present due to this. Many of the citizens that lived in Europe at the time blamed the Jews for their misfortunes and listened to the powerful figure in history, Hitler. Those with Jewish backgrounds were killed by Nazis, a member of the National Socialist German party that went after Jewish people of Europe at the time during World War II. Around three millions Jews were killed at this time, killing more than one third of the Jewish population in the world (Blunt). Another event in history that closely relates strictly to Xenophobia is the rise of the KKK, or the Klu Klux Klan. An organization that Kang a 3 is about white supremacy, The Klu Klux objective was to lynch colored men who are a negative influence to society and harm anyone who was different from them. Rampant fear towards colored individuals and anyone who follow their rules is definitely an example of Xenophobia during history. Xenophobia is still an issue that is seen throughout America in many way shape and forms. Donald power as president promoted many acts of Xenophobia, especially after putting the temporary ban on the citizens from the Middle East (Teddeo). Terrorism is an issue that is taking place in America, other countries, and in the Middle East itself. According to Teddeo, 9/11, the growth of ISIS, and Donald Trumps temporary executive decision ban on the Middle East only catalyzed the fear of terrorists within (Teddeo). This issue is still a problem that affects us to this day due to the fact that many families with Arabic backgrounds are being cornered and called only because of the fact that Donald Trump promotes xenophobia and many non-educated citizens of the United States categorize citizens of the Middle East as Calling a certain group of people a derogatory term and claiming that every single one of people with that background has the intent to do an act of terrorism is called discrimination and racist. This problem is still a pressing issue due to the fact that many innocent families are being persecuted and harassed and these acts of racial bullying can cause horrible events from World War II to start. It is obvious that many people in some ways even without realizing it, can be racist. Racism, discrimination, and bias are all issues that cannot be completely eliminated. They are issues that will in some form be prevalent all throughout America no matter what happens. However, there are many ways to fix this issue and make a Kang a 4 difference. One way to get involved with fixing this issue at hand is to speak up when you witness any form of xenophobia in public, or even with your friends (A Solution to Racism). When you observe any form of xenophobia, it hard to say, what you said Or you said can offend Saying simple things like this can make the person who said the xenophobic comment think, maybe making them take back what they said. Another way to fix this issue is to join organizations that are against any form of xenophobia. These conglomerates can in many ways make a difference in the xenophobic behaviors by creating fundraisers, promote protests, and create seminars (A Solution to Racism). Xenophobia is an issue that everyone at some point goes through, either going through it personally or witnessing it in public. Getting involved in changing this negative energy is beneficial to decreasing the acts of racism, discrimination, and racial bias that is going on in the United States currently. Xenophobia is for sure an issue that is being circulated in the United States. This issue has been seen all throughout history; first dating back to the rise of the KKK or the Klu Klux Klan, to the rise of Hitler and the Nazi Party, then finally to Donald Trump being elected as president, then preceding by coming to the executive decision to ban any Middle Eastern citizens from coming into the United States. These events in history have catalyzed this issue at hand, and there are many ways to get involved with this problematic issue. Although this issue seem to go away and vanish, there are many ways to cope with the individuals that are currently going through the issue themselves, and to fix the issue ourselves. Kang a 5 Works Cited A Solution To  All Together Now. N.p., n.d. Web. 21 Apr. 2017. Abram, Susan. Legal pact to speed path to citizenship IMMIGRATION: U.S. has six months to process applications in  GaleGroup. N.p., 2009. Web. 13 Feb. 2017. American Immigration  American Immigration Council. N.p., n.d. Web. 15 Feb. 2017. Goodman, H. A. Illegal immigrants benefit the U.S.  TheHill. N.p., 04 Feb. 2016. Web. 13 Feb. 2017. Blunt, Katherine. Unrecognized Potential: Media Framing of Rise to Power,  Elon Journal of Undergraduate Research in Communications 6.2 (2015). http://www.inquiriesjournal.com/a?id=1363 Donald  Biography.com. A&E Networks Television, 10 Apr. 2017. Web. 21 Apr. 2017. Kane, Tim. The Real Problem with Immigration... and the Real  The Heritage Foundation. N.p., 1 Mar. 2006. Web. 15 Feb. 2017. Nadadur, Ramanujan. Illegal Immigration: A Positive Economic Contribution to the United  Journal of Ethnic and Migration Studies 35.6 (2009): 1037-052. Taylor & Francis Online. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Orennius, Pia. The Economic Consequences of Amnesty for Unauthorized  ResearchGate. N.p., Dec. 2012. Web. 15 Feb. 2017. Teddeo, Valentina. Journal of Strategic  Extra Image Link. N.p., n.d. Web. 21 Apr. 2017.