Mark Nauert Composition 1 E. Smith 9 April 2017 Lowering Concussion Rates Without Altering the Sport The National Football League is where the highest level of professional football is played in the United States, and has become one of the most popular sports league in world. Since the League was first established, there have been obvious changes surrounding the NFL as a whole. For instance, there have been new teams to enter the league, upgrades in equipment, and rule changes as well. Throughout the years, the sport has remained the same regarding its fundamentals and basics of the game. Recently, many doctors started to do studies on how the constant hits on players effected their health. Medical centers began to find the retired NFL players often tested positive for CTE, a disease that can cause mental impairment, memory loss, and confusion (Karaim). Reports also came out that found a correlation between depression and players who had been concussed while playing in the NFL (Awtrey). With these reports coming out, the pubic took notice and many pushed for a change to help reduce the number of head injuries. In 2006, Roger Goodell became the new commissioner of the National Football League, and since then his focus has been working to make game safer for players. With that being said, at the start of his time for commissioner the public was upset with how nothing had changed. The continued backlash finally resulted in a policy change in 2016. The change in protocol stated that teams would now fined or even lose draft picks if they properly follow concussion protocol during a game. This was a good start to the issue, but once again that is only a start. Concussion rates are still ridiculously high, and Goodell must push more change in policy. The NFL must continue to search for ways to make the sport a safer environment for the players, while being careful not to alter the sport as a whole. When discussing change in the NFL it is difficult to pinpoint exactly how to move forward without altering the sport itself. It is easy for the public to criticize Goodell and the other NFL officials, but people forget that he has the task of listening to the players as well. Many players understand the issue of concussions, but also believe that players understand the dangers that are in the sport of football. Marc Bulger, who played quarterback in the league for 11 years had an interesting take on the issue. Bulger believes that money should go towards studies on concussions, but that he think the fundamentals should be changed. He states that he is bothered by the fact that some retired players say they know about the long term effects of football (Thomas). This make sense as football is known as being a tough and brutal sport. Players often love to make a big hit on an opposing player, and fans love these plays just as much. Now if a flag is thrown on a play will fans of football be upset or do they understand that illegal hits must be stopped? Questions like these will always be there, but the leagues job to do what is best for every player that steps on the field. After the discussion of trying to make changes, the next question is what changes need to be made? Changes made to the sport must not affect the basics of the game. However, that does not mean that something be put in place that will help with lowering concussion rates. One interesting idea is too look at developing a new helmet that helps to reduce the impact of two players colliding. This would be an enormous help, but at the moment these helmets are only ideas. For now, the league must focus on enforcing penalties to players when they commit an illegal hit on a player. The NFL did change their protocol in 2016 when they enforced the rule that if a team follow correct concussion protocol then they will face penalties. These penalties were team fines, and loss of draft picks (Belson). This was a step in the right direction for the league, but players as individuals should also be penalized. This has been seen recently in the league as certain players were fined for hits or even suspended, but coming down even harder on players will ensure that a player understands not to go head hunting. It is important that league has enough control over players to where they know that they will be fined or even suspended. Making a player sit out of games will get the attention of the entire league. The main issue with the current protocol is that many players that are hit in the head during game often times even get taken out immediately. This past year, quarterback Cam Newton was hit multiple times in a game even at one point falling to his knees, and he was never taken out. League officials later said that there were no indications of him needed to leave the game. Now some say that the player should be responsible to take themselves out of the game, but with how competitive these players are it is difficult for that to be true. The league needs to take responsibility for those mistakes, and make sure they happen again (Lauing). Another issue with a situation like this is that no flags were thrown on those hits. Once again there was no punishment, and this is just one example. That is the main issue with the current protocol, and that must be changed. Enforcing more penalties and suspensions will help with safety issues while not altering the fundamentals of the game. After reviewing the current status of the league, it is evident there are issues regarding player safety, but it is easy to see why the league is struggling with answering these problems. There are different opinions coming from many people, and not everyone is going to be happy with what the league enforces. That being said, the NFL must make the game a safer place by enforcing more penalties to teams and individual players. However, the league must make sure not to alter the game as a whole. There is a reason the league owes close to a billion dollars in concussion lawsuits. Works Cited Karaim, Reed . NFL  CQ Researcher by CQ Press. 4 Sept. 2015. Web. 09 April. 2017. Belson, Ken. N.F.L. Introduces New Rules to Back Its Concussion  The New York Times. The New York Times, 25 July 2016. Web. 09 April. 2017. Awtrey, Stan. Report Disputes NFL on  Business Insights. 31 May 2007. Web. 09 April. 2017. Post-Dispatch, Jim Thomas St. Louis. Bulger hopes concussion issue change core of NFL  Stltoday.com. 28 July 2016. Web. 09 April. 2017. Lauing, Jacob. Even with new concussion protocol, the NFL still has a player safety  Mashable. Mashable, 23 Oct. 2016. Web. 09 Apr. 2017.