Frank 1 Emma Frank Kristin Gocinski Composition Two 21 April, 2017 Intermediate Draft Equity in the education ensures the concept of fairness for students, teachers, and administrators universally. According to The Glossary of Education Reform, equity is coined as the process of creating a balanced system while equality is the final outcome It is quite evident that within the school systems worldwide, there is an imbalance of resources, thus, this often limits the success of students everywhere. There needs to be a change in the education system in order to help better serve students whose academic careers has been suffering immensely. While access to a proper education is a necessity, access to clean water and food is also a basic human right. Food and Water Watch is a non-governmental organization located in Washington DC that works hard to ensure that individuals receive proper amounts of food and water. This organization holds the government accountable for ensuring that programs are put in to help those who are suffering from a lack of resources. Food and Water Watch is founded on four core values: Independence, Democracy, Sustainability, and Human Rights Though this organization has not been active in fighting for equity in the education system, there is still a connection that can be made: access to resources such as food, water, and education all fall under the category of basic human rights, a value this organization is founded on. Thus, this organization can benefit from participating in this national fight for a fair education system because it further defines and exemplifies one of their core values: Human Rights. Frank 2 Over the course of history, students worldwide have been suffering from obtaining a proper education. Highlighting issues within the United States, government proposed acts such as the No Child Left Behind Act passed in 2002, caused an increase in benchmark tests given to students nationally. This act passed is often associated with contributing immensely to the foundation of the achievement gap- an imbalance in tests performances based on their ethnicity/race and or socioeconomic status This gap in education continues to persist, and according to the National Center for Education Statistics in 2011, it is said that on average, black students scored 31 points lower than white students on a math achievement score (qtd. Bohrnstedt, et al., 2015). In addition to the achievement gap dependent on race, socioeconomic status has also caused such an imbalance in test scores. It is mentioned in Stop High-Stakes Testing Now: An Appeal to Conscience, written by author Dale Johnson, students who suffer from a lack of resources and financial support tend to score lower than students who have an abundance of materials. Johnson further exemplifies his claim by referencing a fact by Thomas Shapiro which states that percent of family comes from rather than employment alone. (Johnson et al. 56 qtd. Shapiro 2004). Sean F. Reardon also mentions that the achievement gap from low to high income children born in 2001 is about 30 percent higher than it was 25 years earlier Widening Academic Achievement Gap Between the Rich and the Poor: New Evidence and Possible 2011). Thus, lacking the necessary amount of resources vs having an abundance of supplies may dictate how low or high a student will perform. These statistics that these scholarly articles obtain reveal that even in recent periods of time, there is still an imbalance in test scores which further hinders the academic success of students. Thus, something Frank 3 needs to be done in order to equal out the performance of students and ensure that they are able to receive a proper education. Food and Water Watch was originally founded in 2005 by only 12 members. This organization has been involved in dozens of projects such as campaigning against fracking, working with other groups to ensure that GMO foods are labeled, working at the United Nations to ensure that water was labeled as a and protecting many publicly owned water systems from being overtaken by large corporations History & Impacts). Their goal is merely to ensure that anyone and everyone receive the right amount food and water resources, and it is mentioned that they will continue to take on large corporations had history of limiting those very resources Becoming involved in a topic that revolves around basic human rights is essential for the continuation of a working society. It is actually noted in a study that the levels of education one obtains has been positively correlated to his or her overall life happiness. This goes to show how important it is to assure that students receive a proper education because in the long run, it may affect how they view their entire life Relationship Between Education and If Food and Water Watch becomes involved in working towards a fair and equal education system, then they will further define their core beliefs on ensuring that basic human rights are met. In addition, it is noted that this organization has had a history of teaming up with other activist groups. By collaborating with other organizations, more issues can be touched upon, and a wider audience can be appealed to. Food and water is an essential resource for human survival, a resource that can indirectly contribute to how students perform in school. It is mentioned earlier that a lack of proper resources often contributes to this persistent gap in student achievement. If Food and Water Watch addresses society with their core issue: an Frank 4 improper amount of food and water products, then they can also connect to how it would affect students who are seeking to receive a proper education. Thus, the appeal will be wider, more issues will be addressed, and ultimately a stronger fight will continue in order to ensure that these basic human rights are fulfilled. Getting involved may not be easy but the result will help many. To start, the Food and Watch organization has mentioned that they have collaborated with other groups in the past such as Americans Against Fracking and Sierra Club History and This goes to show that cooperation is possible and by doing so, a larger and wider audience can be appealed to. Regarding equity within the education system, the first thing that must be done is to try and relate how this specific problem can be related and fit in to nearly every issue that this organization has been currently fighting against: GMOs, Fracking, Climate Change & Environment, Global Trade, Broken Democracy, Factory Farming & Food Safety, and Pollution Safety Education can be related to all these issues because without a proper education, none of these issues could even be addressed properly, let alone exist. A campaign is needed, one that involves several other allies and active voices. This organization has already done dozens of campaigns, all surrounding the concept of basic human rights. Second, if a campaign is launched, a major targeted audience should be those who appear to be suffering the most from this unequal education system, schools who appear to be striving with a balanced education, and those who are actively involved online. Going out and visiting schools who appear to be suffering the most is essential; this will appeal to students, teachers, and administrators by showing them that their calls are finally being heard and help is on the way. Motivating students that appear to be suffering from this gap in education performance has been documented as effective. According to a scholarly article written by Geoffrey Cohen and others, Frank 5 closing the achievement gap between African American Students and European American Students was done up to 40% by simply giving words of encouragement to students before an exam. Both the African American and the European American students were initially tested months prior to the experiment. However, their test scores would be compared to the following cohort of students- the students who were to be involved in the experiment. In short, both European American and African American students were randomized to either the treatment group (words of encouragement before test) or the control group (words that called for students to reveal their flaws). It was revealed that the African American students increased their final test score vs their first test much higher than the European American children. However, the average gap between pre-and post test scores had been filled by almost forty percent. Thus, by simply motivating children, an imbalance between school performance can be slightly equalized the Racial Achievement Gap: A Social-Psychological Intervention, 2006). While visiting the schools regarding the campaign, a connection can be made: a lack of resources such as food and water (socioeconomic issues) have indirectly contributed to an imbalance in equity within the school system. It is also important to visit areas of schools that appear to be flourishing. Going into those districts and showing audience members the harsh conditions other schools have endured may set a reality check to those who could have taken their abundance of resources for granted. Thus, this could motivate students, parents, or teachers to giving back to the community themselves because at the end of the day, it could be anyone in that very position. Lastly, it is vital that this campaign targets those who utilize the internet often; social media sites enable fast communication and quick change, especially by those who appear passionate to the situation. After the campaign starts, it is vital to maintain the relevance of the issues being Frank 6 addressed. Keeping websites updated and following new trends is vital for ensuring that these campaigns can have a strong and successful impact. Food and Water Watch is a relatively new and modern organization that works to ensure healthy food clean water can be supplied to all. These resources fall under the category of basic human rights as does access to a proper education. If Food and Water Watch becomes involved with promoting for equity within the education system, not only will it further define one of their core values, Human Rights, but it will also help to exemplify how a lack of food resources affects individuals everywhere; not having an adequate supply of food and water can prohibit from students academically succeeding. Becoming involved can include forming a campaign, one that works with other groups of organizations and connects the correlational relationship between the amount food & water available and the presence of equity within the education system. If there is involvement regarding this issue, then these basic human rights can continue to be guaranteed, ultimately bettering the lives of many. Frank 7 Citation Page The Glossary of Education Reform. 21 April 17. http://edglossary.org/equity/ Our Food and Water Watch. Accessed 21 April 17. https://www.foodandwaterwatch.org Accessed 21 April 17. https://nces.ed.gov/nationsreportcard/studies/gaps/ Johnson, Dale D. Stop High-Stakes Testing.: An Appeal To Conscience. Lanham, Md. : Rowman & Littlefield Publishers, 2008. Accessed 21 April 17. Geoffrey L. Cohen, Julio Garcia,, Nancy Apfel, Allison Master the Racial Achievement Gap: A Social-Psychological Science, vol. 313, issue 5791, 2006, pp. 1307-1310. https://cepa.stanford.edu/content/widening-academic-achievement- gap-between-rich-and-poor Accessed 21 April 17. Sean Reardon. widening academic achievement gap between the rich and the Community Investments. vol. 24(2), 2012. pp 19. http://science.sciencemag.org/content/313/5791/1307/tab-figures-data Accessed 21 April 17 Our History & Food and Water Watch. Accessed 21 April 17. https://www.foodandwaterwatch.org/about Frank 8 George Bohrnstedt,. Composition and the Achievement 2015. pp. 3. http://files.eric.ed.gov/fulltext/ED560723.pdf Accessed 21 April 17. Us- Our Mission. Food and Water Watch. Accessed 21 April 17. https://www.foodandwaterwatch.org/about What Are We Up Food and Water Watch. Accessed 21 April 17. Borja Noval, Marta Guijarro Garvi Relationship Between Education and p. 13. http://congresoreedes.unican.es/actas/PDFs/196.pdf Accessed 19 April, 17