Trisha ! 1 Trisha Trisha Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Protection of Abused Animals Animals have been abused by humans for various purposes be it testing chemicals or food, clothes etc. Many people think that this is completely normal as it happens on a regular and large scale (Cavalieri). What people tend to forget is the pain and suffering that animals go through when they are taken to the slaughterhouses to get slaughtered for needs. Since these animals cannot speak, people never realise what pain they go through (Scully). PETA, an American Animal Rights Organisation which is established in Virginia and is headed by Ingrid Newkirk, takes care of all the animals that have suffered or abused by humans and have been through a lot of pain. PETA has a motto to stop the use of animals for all the purposes because they believe are not ours to eat, wear, experiment on, use for entertainment, or abuse in (PETA). PETA is trying to draw attention of the non-engaged stakeholders like men in order to take their help and spread awareness among people. PETA wants to stop the use of animals, for any purposes and works towards raising awareness to end this problem with the help of campaigns and advertisements. Due to the way animals are mistreated in slaughterhouses, men should support organizations and help them spread awareness amongst so that, women who use products or clothes made from animals and help the organizations like PETA to improve the condition of these abused animals. Trisha ! 2 PETA is an animal rights organisation which works towards the protection of animals. This organisation takes care of all types of animals that have been abused in any way. This organisation has a motto and suggests that everyone should go vegan which is that people should completely stop using animals and animal products. They have taken many initiatives by putting up information, posters, and banners and have held campaigns in order for people to understand that pain that the animals go through. PETA also does a lot of undercover work, for example, they send their staff undercover into factories or farms to see how animals are being treated and how they would save these animals. PETA opposes the no-kill movement and according to its most recent filing with The Virginia Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services (VDACS), PETA euthanized 81 percent of the animals that ended up at its shelter. According to VDACS, PETA took 3,017 animals into its shelters in 2014, of which 2,455 were euthanised, 162 were adopted, 353 were released to other shelters, and 6 were reclaimed by their original owners (Wikipedia, PETA). PETA is trying best to take care of these abused animals and do good for them. Women who use products like clothes, bags etc. made by animal skins and cosmetics that are tested on animals do not realise the pain and suffering that these animals go through. The problem starts with when they are brought in the slaughter houses. These animals are not kept in proper conditions, in the slaughter houses. These are put in small cages and small spaces, all squashed up one upon the other. Some of these animals even suffer from permanent disfiguration as they are not kept in proper spaces. After this, these animals are taken in the slaughter houses and are killed in the most inhumane way possible (Nandini). They are mistreated and are forced in machines where they are killed and skinned alive. That pain is indescribable. People who use Trisha ! 3 products made of animals often do not realise all this. It could be probably because these people are not made aware of animal abuse that well or are lied to by the producers (Abigail). The non-engaging stakeholders should care, as the products like clothes, cosmetics are used by women who are in some way or the other related to them as mothers, sisters, wives or girlfriends etc. and if men take the initiative and try to stop women or at least make them aware of the fact that the products they use harm and give pain to animals, will help organizations like PETA a lot in saving these animals. These animals are connected to the non-engaged stakeholders as these animals are used in labs to test chemical for medicines and cosmetics apart from being used as food which are used by women and children unknowingly. If men get enlightened on these issues they will make others (women and children) aware of these issues and help PETA and other organizations stop or at least reduce the use of animals for these purposes. Men should care as animal cruelty is not right. Ill-treating anything is wrong and it should stop. There are many ways that the new non-engaging stakeholders (men) can do to show their support for the position that they have in my paper. These men can help organizations spread awareness amongst women to reduce the use of cosmetics which use animals and try to use more animal friendly cosmetics, this way they would not even hurt animals and also they would be able to use cosmetics. Men can donate to these organizations and help them fund raise as well. These men can protest with these organizations and help the organizations. Some of these men could also form organizations against animal cruelty and help all the abused animals. Trisha ! 4 To change the conditions of these animals and to make sure that these animals get their rights, not only organizations but commoners like us will also have to step in and help organizations make the change. These help would include protests, donations and also formation of new organizations. Most of the people are unaware of all this and hence cannot provide much help, but organizations like PETA can help spread awareness and then people can do their work more efficiently in order to help these animals. These animals surely do need help because their conditions are indescribable and the way in which these animals are treated is inhumane. Everyone needs to first reduce and then eventually stop the use of products like clothes, bags or cosmetics made of animal skin or that are tested upon animals, because ill-treatment of any living being is not right on our part. Word count: 1030 words. Trisha ! 5 Works Cited Cavalieri, Paola, and Peter Singer. The Death of the Animal: A Dialogue. New York: Columbia University Press, 2009. Discovery eBooks. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Scully, Matthew. A case of compassion: one act of mercy invites us to reflect on the suffering of  National Review 2016: 22. Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Mitra, Nandini. Animals Are Persons,  Earth Island Journal, vol. 29, no. 4, Winter2015, pp. 17-26. Perdue, Abigail and Randall Lockwood. Animal Cruelty and Freedom of Speech: When Worlds Collide. Purdue University Press, 2014. New Directions in the Human-animal Bond.