Shapiro 1 Matthew Shapiro Prof. Ryan 18 April 2017 ENC 1102.045 Importance of joining student collegiate organizations/clubs When becoming apart of a new university the feeling of anxiety and unpreparedness is common among many. Prior to stepping foot on campus students may feel as if they will not fit in with others and will stray away from the herd. When in school there can be two broad descriptions of the overall student population. There are the athletes who consist of any team, even cheerleading and band. The other portion of students would be considered general population. They are composed of Greek life, students in clubs/organizations, those who do not participate in anything, and even commuters. No matter which one of these two you categorize yourself in; the possibilities for your success can go either way. It might be easier for some to make friends and it might be a difficult thing for others. The idea of not feeling welcomed is frightening, but by joining a club or organization the burden some might face of trying to connect will not seem so difficult anymore. When students join a club they become apart of a unit, they all share some common interests and beliefs. Joining a club allows you to work on your communication skills, build connections, and even improve performances in and out of the classroom. Many skills are acquired throughout the process and some are even brought to light when joining an organization. Already being on campus, the resources Shapiro 2 are available and easily obtainable. All it takes is one try to see if the club is favorable or not. With over 600 available clubs and organizations, the possibilities are endless. The students who do not participate in any extra curricular activities state are not affiliated because of working a separate job, schoolwork occupying most of their time, they are abiding by family obligations, and feeling like it will not benefit towards their (Hegedus 4). The belief that extracurricular activities will cause a negative impact on their grades and overall performance is false. Abiding by family obligation and working long hours is understandable, but the idea that a club will not benefit a student for the future is wrong to say. Being apart of a club can allow you to sharpen your skills and prepare yourself professionally for the future. show that students who have better grade point averages tend to be the most participative in student clubs versus those with a lower (Hegedus 7). One will be able to flourish in and out of the classroom after becoming involved in extracurricular activities because it helps develop time management and communication skills. A grade point average would improve because of the good study habits forming. By being involved in a club, your peers are more than just classmates. Working on assignments is much easier with the inclusion of other members. It was noted that who have a grade point average 2.5 or lower should be recruited to a club or feel inclined to want to join one as it will lead to improved (Hegedus 9). Not a lot of people can make friends as easy as some do. A student who does not have many friends will feel comfortable and motivated to connect to other peers after joining a club that they are interested in. It will sharpen their communication skills and their ability to adjust to new environments. Not only will it lead to success in the classroom, but will lead to greater future success in the Shapiro 3 workforce. This applies to attracting the employer during the hiring process and then showing them you are capable and prepared to work. A student who is able to juggle school, clubs, work, and any other activities is a preferred choice for employers versus those students who showed no participation in their university. A study conducted by Jim Wang (Director) and Jonathan Shiveley (Research Analyst) at California State University was done to examine the impact of extracurricular activities on student academic performance. Studies show freshman that became involved in extracurricular activities improved their and performance. From the experiment, a graph was made up of participative and non-participative students. Their success rates in first year and the three years that come after were documented and the results showed a positive correlation with students who are apart of activities. Percentages went from 60.8% to 68.6% when looking at all students, whether they were transfers, commuters, etc. (Wang and Shiveley 13). even though the good standing rates for non-participants showed large increases between the second and third terms, the good standing rates for participants were still held much higher, and continued to remain stable from the first term through the (Wang and Shiveley) Good standing rate is just a term that describes where a student stands in the classroom among peers. The results showed a significant difference in participative and non- participative students. The difference is that students were more successful participating than those that did not. With this being said, at the University of South Florida there are over 600 available student organizations, ranging from sport clubs, fraternities/sororities, Shapiro 4 community service, and student life clubs. There are two ways to be able to look further into joining an organization. In order to get involved one must attend a meeting depending on the specific organization on campus or a portal can be accessed through the USF website to view every club and its upcoming events scheduled. Either way, the resources are available to a student and as each day goes by the opportunity to become apart of something beneficial towards oneself and its community slips away. The possibilities are endless on a college campus; an individual has an opportunity to experiment and explore new things. Everyone wants to succeed and the reason why they attend school. Not everybody can transition and meet people like others do. With extracurricular activities available students are able to become more involved in campus life and form connections with fellow peers. By connecting with other peers, this will be beneficial later on down the road towards entering the work force. A classmate can turn into a coworker or even a boss. So, by joining a club not only will friendships and connections be made for classroom success, but also it can lead to the aid of getting a job either through recommendation or having a good resume showing participation in school and other activities. Everyone wants to get good grades and be successful when they are grown up, but not everybody wants to devote their time to getting there. By being in a club, you are motivated to want to perform well which leads to good habits in and out of the classroom. Those who participate show more success than those who do not. With studies and research to prove this, the numbers of students who choose are still increasing at a very slow rate. Why have you not checked it out for yourself? Shapiro 5 Works Cited Hegedus, Christine M., and James Knight. Student Participation in Collegiate Organizations Expanding the  Www.leadershipeducators.org. University of Arizona, n.d. Web. 9 Apr. 2017. Wang, Jing , and Jonathan Shiveley. The Impact of Extracurricular Activity on Student Academic  Www.csus.edu. California State University, n.d. Web. 11 Apr. 2017.