Washington 1 Karon Washington Karen Hanson Enc1102.013S17 4/14/17 Frack Off! While grabbing a drink of water from your faucet, you notice that your cup contains a repulsive brown liquid. This is one of the direct effects of fracking in communities. Hydraulic fracturing or is a process of extracting natural gas from underground rock. The extraction process uses a pressurized liquid full of chemicals that pose major health risks to living organisms that are exposed to the chemicals. In gas: Should fracking  it states that additives are toxic, carcinogenic or (Howarth). The toxins can affect local communities for decades and cause illnesses from rare cancers to miscarriages (Rahm 2011). Even though fracking has damaged communities across the world, oil and gas companies continue to disregard the outcalls for a green alternative. In order to combat fracking, grass-root organizations such as the Food & Water Watch (F&WW) have established local chapters across the globe whose mission is to completely ban fracking. The Drilling process involves drilling vertically, followed by horizontal drilling to increase the contact between the shale gas and the wellbore. The fracking process consists of pumping fracturing liquids through the vertical and horizontal well, to increase the fracture pressure of the rock. The tension from the pressurized liquids causes the cracks in the rocks to expand and Washington 2 release gas into the well. After the process is complete the fracking fluid returns to the surface through the well along with the gas. The fluid used in fracturing shale gas is commonly a combination of water, fracturing chemicals, small particles of sand or other materials like ceramic, that flow with the aqueous solution to ensure the well-pores remain permeable for proper gas absorption (Holloway Fracking has severe effects on communities drinking water and ground water. The drilling components of a well require large volumes of water to maintain pressure, cool the drill, and remove drill cuttings (Gregory, Vidic, & Dzombak 2011). These large quantities of water are usually obtained from surface water and municipal places. This is a huge concern for rural areas with limited water sources because it strains the accessibility to useful water. The other concern with fracking is the management of flow back water. Flow back water is the fracking fluid mixture that has been used in the fracturing process. The composition of flow back water varies with site location, typically they contain salts, metal, grease, oil, and other toxic/nontoxic organic compounds. The fluid is usually collected at the surface for disposal, or reuse. The contaminated water can be injected back underground, or it may be released into a body of water after treatment. However, due to the large amount of water and soil composition of the sites, the fluid manages to contaminate underground water reservoirs and poses a potential health risk to humans (Gregory, Vidic, & Dzombak 2011). Fracking poses serious health risks to humans and animals exposed to the chemicals. In 2009 the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) notified the residents of Pavillion, Wyoming that their drinking water wells had been contaminated by toxins used in fracking fluids. The community had complained for nearly ten years about rare cancers, miscarriages, nervous Washington 3 system disorders and seizures that was plaguing their area. The EPA confirmed that three of the drinking water wells were contaminated with 2-butoxyethanol, a substance contained in fracking fluid. Another instance of fracking damaging a community occurred in Caddo Parish, Louisiana during the same year as the EPA notification to Pavillion, Wyoming. Seventeen cattle were found dead near a fracking site, regulators concluded that the well leaked fluid and it flowed into a neighboring field and the companies involved were fined $22,000 (Rahm 2011). The risk that fracking poses on human and animal health does not equate to the profit earned. Fracking has a history of damaging communities and ruining the environment surrounding the sites. Stricter regulations and expensive fines does not reduce the expansion of fracking sites across the nation nor do they assist the people affected by fracking. Fracking is an expanding industry therefore, it behooves everyone to be aware and informed of this practice. Once fracking sites are established, the voices of communities are often silenced or ignored by oil and gas companies seeking to frack in that area. It is disheartening for a community to be silenced by corporations who do not care about their wellbeing. Which is the reason for organizations such as the Food & Water Watch (F&WW) that relentlessly advocate for people who are suppressed by corrupt corporations. The mission is to ensure that everyone has accessible drinking water and to protect the environment. According to The Environmental Costs and Benefits of Fracking, can release toxic chemicals into water and (Jackson). So the F&WW is dedicated to ensure that this process does not continue to pollute the world. In order to combat fracking, the organizations require dedicated community activists who are willing to fight for Washington 4 environmentally friendly energy production and most importantly practices that do not endanger living organisms. Help ban fracking across the globe by joining a local F&WW chapter near you! The fracking industry needs to be stopped before it wreaks cataclysmic damage to our environment and water. Joining a local chapter can help the movement gain such a strong following that will allow for the voice never be silenced again. Mattie Stepanek stated that is there is teamwork and collaboration, wonderful things can be Stepanek is accurate, everyone must unite in order to protect the world from fracking and improve the world for future generations. Washington 5 Works Cited Gregory, K. B., R. D. Vidic, and D. A. Dzombak. Water Management Challenges Associated with the Production of Shale Gas by Hydraulic  Elements 7.3 (2011): 181-86. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Holloway, Michael D., and Oliver Rudd. Fracking. [Electronic : The Operations And Environmental Consequences Of Hydraulic Fracturing. n.p.: Hoboken, NJ : John Wiley & Sons, Inc., ; Salem, Mass. : Scrivener Publishing, 2013., 2013. University of South Florida Libraries Catalog. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Howarth, R W. Natural gas: Should fracking  Nature 477.7364 (2011):271. Web. 4 Apr. 2017 Jackson, R B. The environmental costs and benefits of  Annual Review of Environment and Resources 39(2014):327. Web. Rahm, Dianne. Regulating Hydraulic Fracturing in Shale Gas Plays: The Case of  Energy Policy 39.5 (2011): 2974-981. Web. 28 Jan. 2017.