Kyu Yeon Han TJ Murcury Enc 1102 4/16/2017 Intermediate draft Alcohol age In 1984 U.S Congress changed the age limitation of alcohol consumption. U.S Congress decided to increase the age 21 for all 50 states of United States. This legislation has been continuing 2017. The purpose of the high age limitation of alcohol was decreasing the drunk driving epidemic of the 1970s (Victor 20). Many people strongly agreed about this legal action. However, this legal action has not been working well a few years later. The drunk driving epidemic was still occurring in many states, and the portion of drunk driving did not decrease. Furthermore, when the researcher sees the other countries examples, the age limitation of alcohol did not work to decrease the drunk driving epidemic. In addition to, many other drinking crime is not related to the age limitation. In this paper, researcher shows the many other countries examples which indicate that the age limitation of alcohol is not necessary to decrease the drunk driving epidemic and how they controlled the drunk driving epidemic in their policy. In South Korea, the age limitation of alcohol is 18years old. However, the drunk drive epidemic portion was lower than U.S drunk drive epidemic portion. These results show that the drunk drive epidemic portion is not related to the age limitation. So how the South Korea control the drunk drive? The answer can be found by the Korean government action. Korean government played the random breathalyzer in a random street in random timetable. This means that if the driver who drunk before starting the drive, he will be caught by police in a random spot in random timetable (Adam 29). So in the South Korea, the drivers never take their car to the bar. Even if, the people drive their car to the bar, they call to the representative driving agency to drive the car for them. The representative driving agency is the agency that helps the other drive if the clients requested to the agency (Adam 33). So when the people drink in the bar, they call to the representative driving agency. This specific assistant company drops the drunk drive epidemic portion. In Singapore, the age limitation of alcohol is 18years old. However, the drunk drive epidemic portion was lower than U.S drunk drive epidemic portion. Singapore also has specific systems to lower the drunk drive epidemic portion. Almost most of the bar have not allowed the customers to park in the bar (Muno 12). So when people wanted to drink they need to use taxi or Uber. When the policy first settled by Congress, many people disagree because of uncomfortable. However, when the policy started the portion of drunk drive epidemic cut down almost 50percentage. Finally, this specific policy drops the drunk drive epidemic portion. The United States need to variate the drunk control policy. This process need lots of time and money, but it will need for the future of U.S. First, U.S need to enforcement of drunk control systems. For instance, if every state border they need to settle the drunk control tower to control the drunk drivers. This system will decrease the drunk driver dramatically because most of the drivers need to cross the borders if they want to move the other states. Second, U.S need to enforce the street blood test formula for every state. So when the drivers drive on the street, they can be stopped by police randomly. This policy makes drivers drink the alcohol when they keep their cars. Third, U.S need to make lots of representative drive agency for drunk people. This new policy can make people more comfortable because if drivers drunk in out of control of their minds, they can figure out to utilize this representative drive agency. These three ways will decrease the drunk control for the U.S. References Luz M. Original article: Alcohol drinking patterns and risk of functional limitations in two cohorts of older  Clinical nutrition (2016). Web. Flores, Adam. State v. Etsitty: The Past, Present, and Future Prosecution of Drunks Who Drive with Children  New Mexico law review 44.1 (2014):233. Web. Chris, Victors. Original Article: Association Between and Gene Polymorphism and Metabolic Syndrome Risk: A Case-Control Study of a Chinese Han  Archives of medical research 43.3 (2012):233-242. Web