Stefanie Theodoropoulos Professor Rouisse ENC 1102.060 17 April 2017 The Non-GMO Challenge In society, people are often concerned if what they are consuming is truly organic. The problem is, food is now being genetically modified to improve the yield of products. GMOs (genetically modified organisms) have taken over the food industry like a global epidemic. As per the Institute for Responsible Technology, a GMO is the result of a laboratory process in which genes from the DNA of one species are extracted and artificially forced into the genes of an unrelated plant or animal (GMO Education). An influential organization who is against the use of GMOs is the Non-GMO Project. The Non-GMO project is a nonprofit organization whose goal is to preserve, build, and provide sources of non-GMO products, and to educate consumers about GMOs (Most Trusted Seal). They believe that everyone has the right to know what is in their food and that GMO foods should be labeled. The Non-GMO project has many resources to help educate people on genetically modified products, including the Non-GMO challenge. New and coming college students should take action by pledging to do the Non-GMO challenge and using the resources that the Non-GMO project has provided them. Genetic modification is involved in many of the foods that we ingest every single day, knowingly or not. In order for a product to be Non-GMO verified, it has to pass a standards test to see if it is at high risk, low risk, or no risk of being genetically modified. Foods that we eat daily are usually genetically modified, Non-GMO Project Standard considers animal- derived products such as meat, dairy, eggs and honey to be high risk due to the prevalence of GMOs in animal feed. Cloned animals and their progeny are considered to be GMOs under the standard, as are the products of synthetic (What is GMO?). Because of this, it is really hard to find natural foods these days and the Non-GMO project is working its way to making sure that these foods are labeled clearly. Their goal is to make it so that if an unexperienced shopper comes into the grocery story, their eye is automatically caught by the label on the foods that states that it is Non-GMO. The only problem is that new, unexperienced shoppers do not really care and know about what a food being genetically modified really means. This includes new college students who are on their own for the first time and do not have their parents to help them with food and diet choices. This is why the Non-GMO project has come up with a lifestyle site designated for people who want to learn more about a life non-GMO. Their goal is to help drive public awareness and to teach people to for the that is, the Non-GMO label (Community). They have come up with The Non-GMO Challenge. This challenge is a long celebration that gives shoppers, brands, and retailers the opportunity to make meaningful non-GMO (Challenge). New coming college students should participate in this challenge for a month to help train them on making healthy choices that are also non-GMO. These college students should also look into the Non-GMO blog that helps to provide recipes and help with food choices. They also give new updates and important information about the non-GMO world. Overall, there are many resources that can be found about being non-GMO. They just need to be looked for. New coming college students should put themselves in a forward direction by taking the pledge to be non-GMO and using the resources available on the Non-GMO website in order to educate themselves more on things that are genetically modified. These resources including the Challenge and Blog can help better shape the lives of these fresh new shoppers and help them transition into adulthood more smoothly. They should take the pledge of non-GMO to make a difference in their lives now, so that they wont have to deal with the consequences in the future. Every time they shop, they should for the and promote their own healthy lifestyle. Works Cited  Living Non-GMO : The Non-GMO Project. N.p., n.d. Web. 17 Apr. 2017.  Living Non-GMO : The Non-GMO Project. N.p., n.d. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. GMO  Institute for Responsible Technology. N.p., n.d. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. MOST TRUSTED  Non-GMO Project. N.p., n.d. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. What Is  Non-GMO Project. N.p., n.d. Web. 17 Apr. 2017.