Staggers 1 Alexandria Staggers Emil Smith ENC 1101 8 April 2017 Save the Trees In educational society it is most common to cut out paper. Save the trees! Go green! Is all you see on the walls of the halls. More and more focus is being put on STEM subjects which go hand and hand with technology. But what about Music? When schools evaluate their budgets to add in these courses something has to go. Why not save the trees in the literal sense, save some for the music. Teachers and businesses are starting to recognize the value of the arts everywhere. With the vast amount of research being done, findings suggest that music offers a unique way for students to grow intellectually, socially, and emotionally. Research also notices that high quality programs promote better test scores. Some studies even argue that even without those benefits, music helps children grow into creative problem solving adults with much needed 21st century skills. Music Education should remain a staple program in schools because of significance in improvement of academic success. Recent research shows that music actually does improve test scores.When given a sample size of 3,630 middle school students, 1,119 elementary students evidence showed that in the elementary group of students data showed higher english and mathematics scores than the kids who were in lower quality music programs. This data showed 22% increase in english scores and 20% increase in math (Johnson & Memmott 2006). Numbers lie and with an overall improvement rate of 32% got to give. To confirm this another study was done just Staggers 2 last year with similar results. They used four groups of 144 6-yr old children. Two music groups and two non music groups, and gave them all the WISC-III (Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children - Third Edition) and standardized tests before and after participation. The results showed that higher scores in both the WISC-III and standardized tests with the music groups than the non music groups (Winter 2016). Another way to look at the benefits of music education is the perspective and behaviors. One example of this comes from John Vitale. He found that all the groups except music teachers thought music had a positive effect on performance in math and science. All of the groups were in favor of funding music education for its benefits in math and science. Only music teachers had an extensive knowledge of music. All groups believed music has a positive effect on cognitive skills and all groups except students saw value in music to society and education (Vitale 2011). Also this scholar, Denese Odegaard highlight a theory in saying and the other arts foster in our students the characteristics employers want to see in the people they This statement goes even further in supporting that music improves not only scores nor grades, but life as a whole. Her article discusses the factors and specific skills directly related to participation in school music education programs. She lists these under four main 21st century skills. These are Creativity, Communication, Collaboration, and Critical Thinking. Just a few examples from each category in order are variations and improvisation, interacting using nonverbal communication, each person being responsible for their own part and putting it together, and using previously learned tools in later projects (Odegaard 2016). Not only does music students in a positive way physically, but mentally. Staggers 3 Some might argue that music education need to remain in schools for a number of different reasons. There enough benefits or too costly. A lot may say there are too many factors that can curve data related to participation in music and test scores a of (Winter 2016). But studies have started to take a new approach with multiple methods to decrease confounding variables. In relations to cost Mary Edwards makes a good point in that world music is just as good as classical music. This includes african drums and caribbean steel pans. At as low as 200 euros for 300 pupils you can fund music education for a whole year (Edwards 2016). In conclusion, Music education has been around and finally being recognized for good use. It should remain prominent in schools for the fact that it has positive outcomes on test scores and in life. Also It is inexpensive to do and the research is well founded. After all, there is no harm done in keeping this extracurricular, but getting rid of it would cut off a vast amount of opportunities for the next generation. Staggers 4 Work Cited Edwards, Mary1. The Benefits of a Classical Music  no. 85, Spring2016, pp. 53-55. ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx ?direct=true&db=eue&AN=113439574&site=eds-live. Johnson, Christopher M., and Jenny E. Memmott. of Relationships between Participation in School Music Programs of Differing Quality and Standardized Test of Research in Music vol. 54, no. 4, 2006, pp. Odegaard, Denese. Music Education Is Key To Success In School And  Educators 103.2 (2016): 6-7. Search Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Richerme, Lauren Kapalka. We Educators vol. 98, no. 1, 2011, pp. Shin, Jihae. Investigation of Participation in Weekly Music Workshops and Its Relationship to Academic Self-Concept and Self-Esteem of Middle School Students in Low-Income to Music vol. 38, no. 2, 2011, pp. Vitale, John L. Makes You Smarter: A New Paradigm for Music Education? Perceptions and Perspectives from Four Groups of Elementary Education Journal of Education / Revue Canadienne De vol. 34, no. 3, 2011, pp. Winter, Heather Nicole. The Link Between Music Lesson And Iq In  Music 66.2 (2016): 14-18. Search Web. 24 Jan. 2017.