Damon 1 William Damon Sarah Roth ENC 1101 April 9, 2017 Security Concerns Caused by Technology Growth Technology growth has led to more security gaps that make our personal information and privacy vulnerable to compromise. Technology has expanded rapidly in our lives making day to day activities easier, but the security the protects these different technologies has not expanded as quickly. Verizon experts have estimated by the year 2020; there will be 5 billion devices connected to the internet (Britton 3). Hewlett Packard conducted a study in 2014 that estimated 70% of internet connected devices were insecure because of outdated software (Britton 4). Some may argue that the internet is as secure as ever because security is continuing to evolve, but with so many connected devices that are vulnerable to compromise, we can see this is not true. Technology growth has been exponential since the early 2000s and has begun to impact us in almost every aspect of our lives. The sheer number of devices connected to the internet, along with the size of the industry that creates and refines these technologies is staggering. Hakima Chaouchi predicts in his book, The Internet of Things: Connecting Objects to the Web, that the areas that will be impacted by the internet of things the most will be medicine, retail, logistics, agriculture, tourism, and libraries (Chaouchi 10). The McKinsey Global Institute predicts that the internet of things will have a potential economic impact of between 4 and 11 trillion dollars per year by 2025 (Tankard 11). The internet of things, or IoT, is the infrastructure created when we put small computers into many everyday devices and connect them to the internet. Many new technologies require more frequent updates and maintenance that many people do not realize and therefore do not take proper care of their technology. The IoT includes refrigerators, cars, lights, home security, fitness watches and countless other technologies. By expanding our connection to the internet and connecting so many aspects of our lives, compromising personal information or financial stability becomes much easier. If you can gain access to toaster, which is connected to the home network, you then have access to that network and any communication that is relayed over that network. So many different types of technologies and devices result in more data being collected and analyzed, making security breaches even more devastating. Expanding on the previously mentioned comprehensive analysis by Hewlett-Packard, the devices analyzed included sensors and other connected infrastructure that we rely on for travel, utilities and the transfer of information. The growth of RFID (Radio Frequency Identification) remains at the forefront of most IoT predictions, even though this is one of the least secure types of communication that exist and is very vulnerable to intrusion (Atzori 2790). RFID is the most widely used method of tracking and identification. The internet of things relies on being able to sense where someone is, and who they are, in order to perform a given task. These tasks range from turning on a light when someone gets home or unlocking a door for an authorized person. Yan Lu explains that RFID security is inherently flawed because RFID tags will always identify themselves when asked by a RFID scanner. This makes it very easy for someone to use a scanner, find the identification frequency of a tag, then create another Damon 2 tag with the exact same parameters of the first in order to fool a system. This risk is compounded when we take into account that RFID can transmit between walls making it possible for a potential attacker not even to see what they are targeting (Yu 20). When used as a tracking technology, RFID is used for everything from key cards that track hospital employees in order to improve efficiency to toll roads that need to know how much to charge someone. NFC (Near Field Communication) has now become a popular way for devices to communicate and is now built into upwards of 20% of phones. NFC is often used to verify credit card data when checking out of a store but has been compromised many times by hacker apps that can copy and then reuse credit card data (Britton 3-5). Fei Hu explains that one of the biggest problems with interfaces used in the internet of things is that the devices, sensors, and switches have no way to discriminate between humans and machines. This inability to differentiate humans and machines includes data centers, smartphones, processing units, RFID and NFC (Hu 5). Knowing this, we can see how it would be easy to trick a machine or server into giving you the information you are not privy to because it has no way to know that you are not legitimate. Although an uncommon belief among experts, some people argue that advancing technology is making us safer and in fact is increasing our privacy. The argument is grounded in the belief that having information compartmentalized digitally is actually safer than having hard copies of everything. Some people would argue that it is much easier to safeguard a small room full of servers instead of a couple of floors of papers that require outsiders to organize, retrieve, and safeguard information. Unfortunately, due to how accessible networks are this belief is flawed because although physically secure, data can be compromised without the host even knowing it. For example, Facebook operates off of over 50 million different lines of code and just one mistake anywhere in this will lead to a vulnerability (Chaouchi 165). With the staggering size of these different servers, it is no wonder mistakes are rampant because even a 99.99% success rate results in hundreds of different flaws. In conclusion, the growth of technology has resulted in countless different security gaps that threaten to compromise our personal information and privacy. With the incredible rate that technology is growing, combined with the rampant errors in coding that lead to networks being used in ways other than intended our privacy is more vulnerable than ever. Although most people do not possess the required skills to steal this data, and even less the motivation, do not be misguided into believing that our personal privacy and data is safe. Damon 3 Works Cited Britton, Katherine. Handling Privacy And Security In The Internet Of  Journal Of Internet Law 19.10 (2016): 3-7. Business Source Alumni Edition. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Tankard, Colin. Feature: The Security Issues Of The Internet Of  Computer Fraud & Security 2015.(2015): 11-14. ScienceDirect. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Lu, Yan. The Internet of Things: From Rfid to the Next-Generation Pervasive Networked Systems. New York: Auerbach Publications, 2008. Internet resource. Atzori, Luigi, Antonio Iera, and Giacomo Morabito. The Internet Of Things: A  Computer Networks 54.(2010): 2787-2805. ScienceDirect. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Hu, Fei. Security and Privacy in Internet of Things (iots): Models, Algorithms, and Implementations. 2016. Internet resource. Chaouchi, Hakima. The Internet Of Things. [Electronic : Connecting Objects To The Web. n.p.: London : ISTE ; Hoboken, NJ : John Wiley & Sons, 2010., 2010. University of South Florida Libraries Catalog. Web. 19 Feb. 2017.