Thomas Popescu Emil Smith ENC 1101 4/07/17 Art Therapy: The Good and the Ugly We as humans act different in everything we do. Everyone does, even the little things differ like going to the bathroom, eating food, as well as communication. For children with autism everything is different. The big thing that makes them is their communication and how they act with people. When communicating many people do not think a struggle but for children on the spectrum they have a different way of expressing themselves and may have a more complex way of communication. With this art therapy is important in autistic children. It allows these children on the spectrum to express themselves and because many autistic children can be mute, art therapy allows them to communicate with the physical world without having to be verbal with the help of art a peaceful medium to do this through. In anything containing research and experimentation there is going to be good things and bad things. The same goes towards art therapy for children on the spectrum. Because children on the spectrum are different and may not communicate with people like the person, the outcome of bad to good is going to fluctuate between children, since each is individualistic. Positives come with the idea of communication. The big misconception that people many have would be that to communicate that would be verbal which for some autistic children can be impossible. Although with art therapy the type of communication that should be shown can be on a ray of possibilities. The biggest form of communication that is shown has to be physical communication. The process of communication with physical items to show a type of reaction. With art therapy children are more attentive of their surroundings, art therapeutic elements such as sensory experiences with sight and touch may improve social behavior, flexibility and attention-abilities of autistic (Schweizer, 2014) This shows clearly the way art therapy can be good but may not bring out only verbal properties in communication but others such as attention in the present, and social behavior. Going into actual art therapy for the first point of conversation, the topic will be focused on two children Hugh, and Louise. The participants of the case studies are not similar in communication. For Hugh he is very verbal and very theatrical as stated by the case study while Louise is nonverbal and stays with herself in her own mind space (Bragge, 2009). With both participants there are different ways they progressed in their case studies. For Hugh there seems to be the characteristic of theatricality. With his personality came his specific way of painting. He would create a narration of the painting and he would soon after copy the researchers painting including the things he wanted to include to make it more of his own (Bragge, 2009). In the beginning of the study Hugh was very aggressive and assertive. Even though he was verbal and outgoing, his behavior was abnormal. From the first session to the last session his behavior changed enormously. Hugh was calmer as well as less intensive with the art. He waited until the researcher was done painting to paint and he could communicate what he wanted to narrate on the page much better with the therapy over time. For Louise it was a different story. Louise is non-verbal, and she is out of the ordinary. Her behavior, was common to see Louise in the classroom or playground corners turning in circles, making repeated hand gestures or crouching away, picking up tiny fragments from the (Bragge, 2009). This statement shows that she is completely different than Hugh. She is reserved, and it is shown throughout her sessions. Louise shows complete progression during her sessions. She evolves from a non-verbal 12-year- old girl who is usually to herself to a non-verbal girl still but actually takes time to stay with the researcher and pay attention to what she is saying. She is following with more precision and is calmer at the idea of painting. Showing that even with different perspectives art therapy can range to different experiences for each. Art therapy is also more than just painting and drawing. It can expand into even physical things that people can observe like a dance or a film. For this the medium is going to be through a puppet. The idea an external figure (i.e. not the parent), someone from outside the situation, who intervened and managed to engage his notice, (Trimingham, 2010) For others though the puppet may work differently. The way a puppet can work in the presence of behavior and communication in autistic children is just like a cartoon. It can give the child another thing to put its trust in or to communicate with. The child will form a special bond with the external item. From the perspective of Trimingham in varying degrees of severity, is distinguished by the triad of impairments in imagination, communication and social interaction; children may also show behavioural difficulties to some degree, and sometimes So with the use of the puppets, children on the spectrum will learn how to get compassion, understanding, and attention. So the use of puppets allows the children to speak with the researchers. a really intro use of art therapy just to see if it would work for a good amount of children. Equally important is the negative effects of art therapy for children on the spectrum. With art therapy there still can result in negative outcomes. The biggest reason why art therapy may not work is based with the child and the parent. The biggest reasoning on why children on the spectrum may not pair well with art therapy is possibly because their symptoms of autism are severe and drastic. Art therapy may not work completely even though it does effect the children and how their behavior is effected. Showing randomized controlled trial at hand investigated the effects of a 10-week manualized dance and movement therapy intervention on negative symptoms in participants with autism spectrum (Hildebrandt, 2016). Depending on child will show the real outcome of every experiment towards art therapy. Coming from both sides the good and the bad there seems to be shown that the good is weighed greater. For art therapy there seems to be more successes than failures. Again its how the child reacts to the therapy. Art therapy has allowed advancements into other types of therapies like gaming and music therapy. All of these therapies are letting children on the spectrum to express themselves. Its giving them social cues that are difficult for them to express and is improving their relationship with their parents as well. Their ages run from all sizes as well from early infants to well equip teenagers, all equally increased in their behavior and their communication skills. There are multiple causations in the field of art therapy, present study shows that an antecedent art intervention can be an effective procedure to reduce off-task behavior of a child with autism during a subsequent large group instructional session, particularly off-task motor and verbal (Nai-Cheng Kuo, 2015). All of these outcomes can easily show that art therapy is one of the best types of therapy needed for children on the spectrum. So to conclude, art therapy can elude abnormal behavior and miscommunication for children on the spectrum. Even though there can be many different view points to art therapy it is still considered one of the most effective ways of therapy or children on the spectrum. So for many people art therapy allows them to expand their behavior and communication skills while for others it may not work as best. With the evidence provided though we can see some reasons why it may not be sometimes the most effective but it still comes to the fact that there is more positivity than negativity in results for minimizing the symptoms of autism. Work Cited Bragge, Anita. (2009). International Journal of Art Therapy: Inscape; Vol. 14 Issue1, p17-28, Retrieved from: http://eds.a.ebscohost.com/eds/detail/detail?vid=2&sid=157d1999-4e11-4a73- 826e4902bbf26706%40sessionmgr4010&hid=4210&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWRzLWxpdmU%3d# AN=42315955&db=eue Celine Schweizer, Erik J. Knorth, Marinus Spreen. (2014, October 23). The Arts in Psychotherapy. Retrieved from http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.aip.2014.10.009 Hildebrandt, Malin K. (2016). Behavioral Sciences (2076-328X). Vol. 6 Issue 3, p1-17. 17p. Retrieved from: http://eds.a.ebscohost.com/eds/detail/detail?vid=4&sid=157d1999-4e11-4a73- 826e- 4902bbf26706%40sessionmgr4010&hid=4210&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWRzLWxpdmU%3d#AN=1 20419956&db=a2h Nai-Cheng Kuo, Joshua B. Plavnick. (2015). Journal of the American Art Therapy Association; Vol. 32 Issue 2, p54-59, 6p. Retrieved from http://eds.a.ebscohost.com/eds/detail/detail?vid=10&sid=b3e102a0-842d-4f5a-82ce- 0e1d09074b72%40sessionmgr4006&hid=4210&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWRzLWxpdmU%3d#db=as u&AN=103364490 Trimingham, Melissa. (2010). Journal of Applied Arts and Health; Vol, 1Issue 3, p251-265, 15p Retrieved from http://eds.b.ebscohost.com/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?sid=d8860959-1cec- 45ec-a716-8d679bfefd79%40sessionmgr103&vid=9&hid=103