Zhao 1 Ming Zhao Angelica Aranda ENC 1102 11/4/2017 Video game and its impact on the world Video game becomes to the most entertainment among young people not only because its universality, but also because its special way relating to the world. It is very common to see people are playing games no matter computer games or phone games, especially occurring in kids and students. However, video games are not something only for kids anymore. It achieves to an industry referring to software and hardware of computers, and even some unique devices deriving under the video game industry such as VR technology, which is a device that can be worn on head and a kind of box is fixed in front of eyes in order to perform dynamic visual effects. Although the video games are familiar with people for several years, they are still in the initial stages of development. A variety of power and abilities are contained in this industry, such as commercial opportunities, platform of education, and also diversity perspectives of support and opposition. One of the famous opposition sound points out that video game is a waste of time because of contrasting with other industries such as education, construction, and commerce that video game cannot be compared with. However, with the development of technology and the passage of time, the video games have changed a lot, and people should inspect it afresh especially with a different view in this time, because if people still use the past view to see it, it may develop through a wrong way and may be used negatively. Zhao 2 Early in 1960s, the video games were invented, and after 10 years, video games became some popular. However, with the high technologies and sciences development in the real industries, video games disappeared in eyes in 1980s. Nevertheless, games were never leave lives, and after decades, games reintegrate into side but with some negative viewpoints. In early 2000s, some psychologists analyzed that the video games were the main culprit which leads kids and teenagers to commit crimes. One professor of psychology named Yang pointed out that video games were the electronic heroin, then he suggested to treat teenagers who were addicted to this kind of heroin with using electrotherapy (Tencent network). It may be the most extreme and rare one among opposite sounds, but the majority of people still thought the video games were the waste of time in that age even for now. According to statistics, more than 59% of American adults think the video games are a waste of time (Reisinger). The reason may because they think the video games are less than other industries, and also the games are all virtual which people are not living in a virtual world. Although the way video games working is different, there is a special way connecting the virtual games and the real world. Some people think that regardless of whether the video game is good or bad, have nothing to do with them. It is true that no one want to spend their time on something they do not related to, but video game is close to lives in contemporary. There are more than 1.2 billion people are playing video games, and almost 44% of the online population are playing online games (Dean). This means there always are some players among people, and it is important to use the right views to see these people instead of thinking they are wasting their time for no meaning. On top of that, video games are not a waste of time Zhao 3 anymore, there are a lot of things like knowledges can be set up in the games for encouraging players to explore. Moreover, players have higher engagement of understanding these knowledges because they learn it through playing. According to James in 2014, he states that he learnt a lot of history events and background information during travelling the games, and it was more useful than he sat in many classrooms (James). From this point, it shows the video games is a kind of platform that allows people to design a variety of games. For example, game creators can rebuild some history periods in one country, and present it in front of people. Then, people can see and learn what happened during that time. This is one of the most important reason why people should take care of the video games. If some educators join in the process of creating games or make the game based on good materials, the games will show how its impact relates or leads players. However, if some people put the negative stuff on the games such as indiscriminate killing, this violent element may lead players accumulate violent tendencies in the real world. So, understanding the video game and setting up the awareness of it by supporting healthy games and opposing the sociopathic games are not only benefits for video games industry, but also for the world and especially for children grow. It is inappropriate to suggest people to go play video games, but it is crucial to change the view about video games after understanding this new kind of industry. For people who hold the viewpoint against video games, it is time to know more about video games and how it positively relates the world. For instance, there is a game company named Blizzard Entertainment which launches many public benefit activities such as raising money for non- profit organizations like Make-A-Wish. Blizzard Entertainment designs an adorable virtual Zhao 4 pet and people can adopt it by spending $10, and all of the money earned from this pet will be donated to Make-A-Wish for helping protect and cure health (Adopt Mischief Today and Support Make-A-Wish). Another example shows that one professor uses games to teach his students to practice the skills of cooperation and critical thinking. There are many of these kinds of instances show the special connection between the video games and the world, and some of them truly encourage people to face the world bravely. In addition, some fair games turn into the world-class competition just like the sports which attracts people around world to participate in and win the champion. Video games industry is in the initial stages of development, and people can guide its development to make it becomes combustion agent of the development. Before this, people should have a totally new perspective about the video game. For people who play video game for a long time, they also should have a deeper understanding about games that they should learn how the game impacts them, and take its essence and discard its dregs. Reading books can give people endless and unrestrained fantasy, and watching movies can give people visual effects; however, playing a video game can give players the sense of cooperation which is more effective than reading and watching, why do not have a try? Zhao 5 Works Cited Adopt Mischief Today and Support -  World of Warcraft. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Dean, Takahashi. More than 1.2 billion people are playing  VentureBeat. N.p., 25 Nov. 2013. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. James, Wolman. Why video games are NOT a waste of  VentureBeat. N.p., 11 Mar. 2014. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Reisinger, Don. A Lot of Americans Think Gaming Is a Waste of  PCMAG. PCMAG.COM, 16 Dec. 2015. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Tencent  Professor  use electric shock treatment addiction. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.