Suarez 1 Jouline Suarez Mr. Phillips ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Censorship and Freedom of Speech in Colleges and the World Having freedom of speech in college is an essential part of the college experience and will affect both students and people not in school. However, students are impacted by censorship on a regular basis. They are pressured to censor material in which teachers say is unacceptable or inappropriate on campus. There are constant debates on campus over what should and should not be censored. However, even though those debates happen regularly, the problem of censorship is not treated on most campuses. Daily, students are pressured to censor themselves and their actions. Because of this, students feel scared to express themselves and stand up for one another. Some students, for example, bisexual students, tend to feel uncomfortable showing their true identity in public, because they feel that they will be treated differently from other people. Going to school in a censorship-free environment will motivate students and future adults to express themselves freely without feeling self-conscious or afraid. It will impact the world in a positive way, because students being able to speak their mind without a lot of censorship will make them feel comfortable expressing themselves in the future. Students need to feel more comfortable expressing themselves and having freedom of speech. College campuses need to address the problem of censorship to a larger extent and promote freedom of speech. The National Coalition Against Censorship (NCAC) helps fight censorship in schools and around the world. This organization is great with fighting for freedom of speech on college campuses to lead to a better Suarez 2 global environment. Freedom of speech is important in schools, and censorship should be controlled to a larger extent in order for it not to negatively affect students and lead to harmful effects around the world. So what is censorship? Censorship is removal, suppression, or restricted circulation of literary, artistic, or educational images, ideas, and the grounds that these are morally or otherwise objectionable in light of standards applied by the censor (Reichman 2). Censorship involves censoring things based on what the censor believes is necessary to censor. Because of this, censorship is a delicate topic on college campuses. There are different forms of censorship that are mostly seen on college campuses. One form is the subtle censorship of  This form involves students being taught only one side of a perspective causing them to lack knowledge on a subject (NCTE Committee 232). Another form of censorship is direct edit. This form involves someone with authority to censor things without justification (NCTE Committee 232). The other form of censorship largely seen on campuses is the deliberate omission. This form involves teachers excluding material and making students have one or two points of view on the subject (NCTE Committee 232). All of these forms of censorship are seen in colleges in many different ways. Students are affected by it because it leads to them having to censor themselves with their ideas and thoughts. It leads to censorship affecting their freedom of speech in school. Censorship negatively affects college students in many ways. Colleges have problems with enforcing rules and policies making students censor too much material and not have freedom of speech. Some teachers tend to think some things need to be censored more than others, which may lead to students having to censor important ideas and words. An example of censorship affecting the way students express themselves is in 2010, where the Boobies Suarez 3 (KEEP A bracelets were a trend and were used to spread awareness of breast cancer prevention. Many students began wearing these bracelets, and this triggered the school authorities to make decisions on whether those bracelets were appropriate or not. Even though they were meant to spread awareness of breast cancer, many schools banned the bracelets. Therefore, students began fighting against this ban, and in the end, the district court agreed with them. This was because Fraser, lewd, vulgar, indecent, and plainly offensive student speech any First Amendment protections, the court concluded that the bracelets did not fall within any of prescribed (Harvard Law Review 1050). Just like the controversial censorship situation of the bracelets, there are many other situations that cause students to limit their freedom of speech. Situations in which organizations fight against a group of students on campus cause students to feel targeted. This causes the targeted students to feel uncomfortable expressing themselves and standing up for one another. This often occurs in religious situations on campus where certain off campus organizations go into public schools promoting their religion and fighting against others. This can impose a threat to students causing unconstitutional censorship. should defend freedom of expression and teach students to oppose political groups that advocate for unconstitutional censorship and school administrators who implement policies that violate the first (Moore 120). Groups that go on college campuses promoting unconstitutional censorship threaten the college atmosphere and cause targeted students to not feel comfortable standing up for themselves. Students not feeling comfortable expressing themselves because of censorship will threaten the world to be largely affected by censorship in the future. students are adults and workers. Therefore, if students are raised constantly having to censor themselves and their ideas, it will imply for future adults to continue the trend of censoring their Suarez 4 thoughts. This causes a problem in the work force because someone may have a valuable idea to solve an issue, and they may feel censored to express it because of their past habit of censoring themselves. As stated by James R. Moore on page 120 in You Cannot Say That in American Schools: Attacks on the First Amendment, thrive when open and honest discussions of all ideas, laws, and policies are allowed and dissent and criticism are Having a wide range of ideas and discussions leads to a better way of living in the country. Therefore, people need to start fighting censorship in the world by starting with fighting censorship in colleges. Students need to start informing the population not in school about the problems censorship has caused in their school. This will spread awareness of the topic and cause the community to want to have a call to action. Students can protest and have colleges a weekly or monthly letter about school work and (NCTE Committee 236). This will cause parents and adults to be informed about what kinds of things students are being taught, and it will promote discussion about the controversial topics that are not being taught. After having students discuss these topics with their parents and other adults, parents and the community will be involved with the problem of censorship in college. Students and the parents should meet to review materials selection policies and (NCTE Committee 237). Parents need to help students with fighting censorship on campus because they will help get the rest of the community involved. Students also need to individually promote the campaign against censorship and work with the National Coalition Against Censorship. Students all over the country should start an online petition with the National Coalition Against Censorship, and send it to the government when it has millions of signatures. This will cause the Suarez 5 government to take action on the issue and promote schools to have a better system of censorship and freedom of speech. Censorship is an important issue in colleges. However many colleges do not have a set policy with strict rules on what needs and does not need to be censored. Therefore, censorship is negatively affecting education. It is also affecting the way they feel towards standing up for themselves and having freedom of speech. The problem of censorship in college will lead to a larger issue around the community and the world. Therefore, the problem needs to be addressed starting with college campuses for it not to become a larger problem in the future. Freedom of speech is important in schools, and censorship should be controlled to a larger extent in order for it not to negatively affect students and lead to harmful effects around the world. Suarez 6 Works Cited Barth, Jennifer. Censorship and Selection: Issues and Answers for  Teacher Librarian, no. 5, 1999. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ed sgao&AN=edsgcl.54805891&site=eds-live. First Amendment Student Speech Third Circuit Limits Censorship of Ambiguously  Speech -- B.H. Ex Rel. Hawk V. Easton Area School District, 725 F.3D 293 (3D Cir. 2013) (En  Harvard Law Review, vol. 127, no. 3, Jan. 2014, pp. 1049-1058. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=bu h&AN=93685385&site=eds-live. FORUM: Censorship: Let It Become an Issue in Your  Language Arts, no. 2, 1978, p. 230. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ed sjsr&AN=edsjsr.41404612&site=eds-live. Moore, James R.1, j.moore2@csuohio.edu. You Cannot Say That in American Schools: Attacks on the First  Social Studies Research & Practice, vol. 11, no. 1, Spring2016, pp. 112-122. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=eu e&AN=114822657&site=eds-live. Suarez 7