Turaniczo 1 Elisha Turaniczo ENC 1102 Kristen Rouisse April 11, 2017 Intermediate Draft: The issue that comes with young women seeing a lot of advertisements for their favorite companies showing models that have been photoshopped to look like what society labels as and and, also selling product that has derogatory things on them. Men that have a young woman in their lives that they care for yes, that means fathers and older brothers take a stand against the use of such things and raise awareness with protests. Something needs to be done to save the young women of America from the jaws of the advertisement companies breaking down their self-esteem and leading them to have eating disorders. Action needs to be taken on such matters to bring a change to the world that can help not only the girls of this world, but make the lives of the ones they love easier as well. Think about it some of the photoshopping has been so botched that it is noticeable to even the non-detail oriented people. It is quite simple when you think about it not only would getting rid of photoshopping keep companies from getting negative attention from poor photoshop editing, but they could also save the lives and self-esteems of thousands of girls nationwide. As a young girl growing up today there are so many different things that have an impact on how we look at ourselves. There is an image of what or is meant to be. Seeing all of the beautiful Secret models looking so tall, skinny, and having perfect tans and completely flawless skin makes a girl think that that is what they need to look like to be perfect. There have been many studies done that result in statistics of young girls that Turaniczo 2 are affected by eating disorders. For example, there was multiple studies done for the same situation and the results came out that to fifty-seven percent of adolescent girls engage in crash dieting, fasting, self-induced vomiting, diet pills, or use of to lose weight. (Boutelle, Neumark-Sztainer, Story, and Resnick, 2002; Neumark-Sztainer and Hannan, 2001; Wertheim et al., 2009). Another study found that American elementary school girls who read magazines, sixty-nine percent say that pictures influence their concept of ideal body shape. Forty-seven percent say that the pictures make them want to lose (Martin, 2010). So, as fathers, older brothers, and boyfriends of girls growing up today with different things that have an impact on your life like social media, advertisements and simply a visit to the mall, are you really going to just sit back and watch them destroy themselves to become what they think is perfect and beautiful? Stand up for that special girl that is in your life, whether it be daughter, sister, or girlfriend. You can petition to rid the advertising world of photoshop permanently to show young girls all over America that even models have flaws and they as perfect as all the photoshopping had made them seem. Raise awareness for girls around the world that they are beautiful and perfect in their own ways, join the alliance of #aerieREAL, they have partnered up with the National Eating Disorder Association (NEDA) to promote body positivity and bring an end to eating disorders. There are many ways to become involved in different campaigns to work to raise body positivity there is a simple way to get involved. There are hundreds of campaigns that have been created to help raise awareness of body positivity. Every girl all around the world deserves to feel beautiful and perfect in their own skin. Fathers, brothers, and boyfriends, stand up for your girls. It does not have to start big, it simply starts right at home and make that special girl in your life feel good about herself, if she is suffering from self-confidence issues, or are suffering from Turaniczo 3 an eating disorder help her in any way you can. The start to a new era begins with you, you could protest the idea of photoshopping to make the models look good, such as not supporting the companies that use photo shop to edit their models. The use of companies such as Aerie that do not photo shop their models helps not only the major companies realize that something needs to change, but also helps the young girls realize that they can be beautiful in the way that they are. http://www.berealcampaign.co.uk/get-involved/individuals.html https://www.nationaleatingdisorders.org/ https://www.nationaleatingdisorders.org/get-facts-eating-disorders http://www.refinery29.com/2016/08/119260/victoria-secret-alleged-photoshop-image