Muhsen 1 Tameem Muhsen Professor Roth ENC1101.020S17 9 April 2017 A War the Whole World has been Fighting Wrong The war on drugs is a war fought by law enforcers worldwide to see a utopian society in which drug dealers and users do not exist. The method in which nations enforce laws to reduce the distribution and use of drugs is very crucial as the well-being and freedom of lives are on the line. Looking back at the history of this war, and examining the present status of it, the world remains to see no change. Governments worldwide such as the US, UK, Philippines, and remaining Latin American nations continue to enforce laws that have sustained outcomes of incarnations, deaths, political disputes, and even environmental disasters. Therefore, the strategies, diplomacies, and executive decisions made by nations must be taken carefully and analytically. Due to the notorious reputation countries collectively have built themselves regarding this war throughout the years, it is clear that this war can be deemed a failure. The war on series of actions taken by governments worldwide striving towards a prohibition of illegal drug a subject that has been proven ineffective, and shown no positive advance throughout history. The and the initial steps taken towards the war on drugs are what set the stage for their future failures. The United States has enforced international policies in regards to drug control within its borders. Implemented in 1986, this law requires the president to assess the performance of Latin American nations in the war on drugs. If the efforts of the drug-producing countries are judged to be insufficient, the US government  that nation and cuts off Muhsen 2 aid towards the country. Two cases in which this policy was in use is the Peruvian Case and the Mexican case of 4). Aside from the first attempts to initiate the drug war, two leading organizations in the UK: The Royal Society for Public Health (RSPH) and the Faculty of Public Health (FPH) claim that drug use should be decriminalized due to the war on drugs failing in regards to public health. However, the organizations are in support of drug dealers receiving criminal offence, but believe that users should receive medical care. a New Line on a recent UK-wide report (supported by law enforcement officials and several charities) released a poll where 56% of 2,000 interviewed adults believe that drug users should receive medical treatment instead of legal charges Law-change call after of war on  1). The FPH also discusses that and incarceration for minor, non- violent offences worsen problems linked to illicit drug use, such as social inequality, violence and Law-change call after of war on  2). Exhibiting the and the drug war, it is evident that both nations are on the path of failure. The United States has heightened the drug control issue worldwide by imposing prohibitionist ideology onto foreign failed tactic we have witnessed in the past. Enforcements of such laws have proven that the past forty years [the spent over $2.5 trillion dollars fighting the war, with little empirical data to support meaningful (Wild 2). Such statistics call for a reform and the urgent need of a more rational drug control policy instead of the policies imposed by President Nixon nearly forty years ago. Furthermore, there are numerous economic and social costs of the strategy, in which too many people are placed in jails and prisons. Of the two million prisoners in the US, approximately 500,000 are imprisoned for violations of drug laws... Which is greater than all of Western prisoners combined (the US has a 100 million less in population) (London 2). Many may argue that the Muhsen 3 incarceration of felons due to drug use is an ethical act; however, such prisoners are incarcerated when they are really in necessity of support. Marijuana, as the most common illegal drug abused, is useful to consider when discussing decriminalization. If decriminalized, less people would go to jail for consuming it, and instead receive help at rehab centers. Nonetheless, the issue of substance abuse should be regarded as a public health problem instead of a criminal justice problem. air fumigation policy and the infamous killings are impeccable examples of instances where foreign nations are failing in their drug war. endeavor in the war on drugs can be seen specifically regarding the air fumigation of the prime agricultural business on earth: coca plantations. Starting in 1994, and supported by the US, there have been numerous environmental and social effects due to this policy. Although the Colombian government states that the range of coca plantations has be condensed, there remains to be coca activity but now alongside overwhelming social and environmental consequences. Indigenous populations have been displaced from their grounds and biodiverse regions have been deforested due to this policy 3). Such analysis proves the failure of the fumigation policy and the ineffectiveness as a strategy in reducing coca farming. Furthermore, what is essentially being eliminated by war on drugs is not coca, but humans and nature.Another international example in which the drug war can be undoubtedly deemed a failure is the evaluations of the current Philippines drug. Ever since President Rodrigo Duterte has been sworn into office on June 30, 2016, an all-out war has been waged on drug users. Approximately 1,800 people have been killed by police and vigilantes in the seven weeks of Mr. presidency (Villamor 1). These staggering numbers are shocking the whole world, especially human rights advocates; raising questions regarding the methods used. Mr. Duterte ordered the police to Muhsen 4 to when encountering criminals or suspects linked to drug offenses. The article continues to discuss the bashing Mr. Duterte has been receiving from the international community, mentioning Mr. threat of withdrawing from the United Nations after human rights specialists advised the nation to put an end to the murdering. Due to the threat of the police, almost 600,000 suspects of drug using or dealing turned themselves in to avoid being killed since the war on drugs began (Villamor 1). The war on series of actions taken by governments worldwide striving towards a prohibition of illegal drug a subject that has been proven ineffective, and shown no positive advance throughout history. From the initial steps taken such as President declaration of the drug war in the late eighties, to Mr. infamous current Pilipino drug war, it seems like little to no consideration of the outcomes of such laws have been taken. Due to law enforcers not making changes in response to past the international war on drugs has been deemed a failure. Muhsen 5 Works Cited Limits Of Pressure: US Policy Failures In The International War On  Harvard International Review 2 (1998): 38. Academic OneFile. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Law-change call after of war on  Western Mail [Cardiff, 16 June 2016: 8. Business Insights: Essentials. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Wild, Joshua D. Epic Failure: The Uncomfortable Truth About The United Role In The Failure Of The Global War On Drugs And How It Is Going To Fix  Suffolk Transnational Law Review 2 (2013): 423. Academic OneFile. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. London, Robb. Is the War on Drugs  Harvard Law Today. The President and Fellows of Harvard College, 1 July 2005. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. Alexander, and Giorgos Kallis. Caught In The Middle, War On Drugs And Its Effects On Forest And  Geoforum 46.(2013): 60-78. ScienceDirect. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Villamor, Felipe, and Richard C. Paddock. 1,800 Killed in 7 Weeks in Philippine Drug  The New York Times 2016: 6. Academic OneFile. Web. 5 Feb. 2017.