Stewart 1 Nicholas Stewart ENC1102 Instructor: TJ Murray 4/16/17 Pro-Choice: The Decision Should Be Hers The laws that governs the land of The United States of America champions the idea of inclusion, equality and liberty in all forms. This liberty or freedom however has its limits when it comes to what a woman can and cannot do with her body in regards to the termination of a pregnancy. The act of abortion is one of the most controversial topic of all time and is believed to be an act of murder, immoral and a sin. A woman has the right to privacy and have the right to decide what she pleases to do with her body. There is a reason behind every action, in the case of rape, incest, the pregnancy is life threaten and an unwanted pregnancy a woman should be given the opportunity to abort the pregnancy without judgement or restrictions. So, The President of the United States of America should pass a law legalizing abortion since all rights are human rights not matter what gender and will promote safe practice of abort rather than back door surgeries which can result in both the death of the mother and child. Some women are just not ready for a child and it may even happen by accident. The legalization of pro-choice supports not only adult females but an underage girl who loses their virginity for the first time and becomes pregnant because she was not fully aware of the consequences of her actions. The decision of her to bare the child could result in her being kicked out of her home also given the fact that she is not financially stable to take care of herself yet alone another human being. With pro-choice she would not have to be worried about the Stewart 2 outcomes of the scenario above, however she would have overcome the emotional aspects of the termination of the pregnancy. The results of the experience for this girl would be social maturity and evolution, rather than a state of repression (Lucker, 24). Pro-Choice fosters a lesson where people learn from their mistakes. A woman being rape and incest are grounds for an abortion. These are not only unwanted pregnancies but fosters a great deal of emotional and mental scars for the victim. About 14,000 females get abortions fallowing rape or incest. It is estimated that 43% of women worldwide will have an abortion by the time they are 45 years old (Jackson, 301). A woman should not have to raise a child that was developed through rape or incest it would be a punishment rather than a joy. The idea of keeping this child perpetuates the idea of violence and incest. This allows the aggressor to think that what he did was ok since there was no action taken to get rid of the child. This may give him grounds to attack again in the future to the same victim of a different one. The voice of the victim is silence when she is forced to keep this unwanted pregnancy. Having a child through rape or incest should not be allowed and the president should legalize Pro-Choice. Pregnancy takes a toll on the female body and in some cases, can be life threaten. The health of the female should be priority. An abortion is sometimes needed to save the life or health of a pregnant woman. There are certain cases where terminating a pregnancy is the only option, cases where it would be putting the life at risk if she were to continue the pregnancy (Staggenberg, 967). Life is a fragile thing and ensuring the safety of a woman who may have more than one children should be taken into consideration. The health of an able body human being in a country is what validates the productivity of that country. If a woman is in pain, experiencing severe sickness and her body starting to shut down because of a pregnancy she should be allowed to terminate the pregnancy. Stewart 3 Life is a gift and some people believe that this gift no matter how it is given should be accepted. Individuals who believe in Pro-Life have this notion that one should put the baby up for adoption rather than abort it. Also, it is their religious belief that drives them to believe that all life is sacred and should be treated as such which causes them to view the act of abortion as morally not right and even at the early stages of a pregnancy that the fetus is a human being capable of feeling pain (Granberg,414). They also believe that it violates human rights and is a dangerous to the woman health due to the knowledge that there are health risks that come with an abortion. However, the laws that limit woman from having an abortion are made primarily by men so how can one who does not understand the burden of having a period yet alone prohibit and control what a female can and cannot do during a pregnancy. How can a man dictate on paper on something that they do not know from experience but mere observance? Not having an adequate place to abort the child can lead to back door surgeries where 13% of pregnancy-related deaths worldwide are related to complications of unsafe abortions (Jackson, 301). Putting the child up for adoption puts a strain on the foster system considering that there are more children in foster care that the government can take care of. To prevent the strains on the government and safety and wellbeing of females who are pregnant The President of the United States should legalize Pro-Choice. Given the unfortunate events that can lead to an unwanted pregnancy like rape, incest and the unfortunate events that happen during a pregnancy like health risks the president of The United States should pass a law to legalize Pro-choice because at the end of the day the decision should solely be hers. Stewart 4 Work Cited Granberg, Donald. Pro-life or reflection of conservative ideology? An analysis of opposition to legalized  Sociology and Social Research 62.3 (1978): 414. Jackson, M. Rape and  New Zealand medical journal 86.596 (1977): 301-302. Luker, Kristin. Abortion and the Politics of Motherhood. Vol. 3. Berkeley: University of California Press, 1984. Staggenborg, Suzanne. The pro-choice movement: Organization and activism in the abortion conflict. Oxford University Press, 1991.