Leriche 1 Nancy Leriche ENC 1102 Theodore Murray April 14, 2017 Research Anxiety Palms sweating, heart racing, vision blurring, and body trembling are the few characteristics that occur when an individual is suffering from anxiety. Anxiety is considered an adaptive process that every person encounters in various levels. When anxiety constantly reaches an extreme level that hinders a life it becomes a disorder. According to and Depression Association of anxiety disorder effects over 40 million people in America which impacts society tremendously (adaa). It is alarming how often anxiety appears as a symptomatic trait in most mental disorders. If research on anxiety was performed, more knowledge of what causes anxiety will be gained along with the best way to treat it. The greatest investment is one that will build society and push it to a greater future. Research is a costly action, therefore voicing the importance of learning more about anxiety is just as effective as donating to the cause. Some people are oblivious to how anxiety disorder affects a person physically and culturally, and the lack of knowledge underlines the importance of the disorder. If people were to understand how it feels to undergo an anxious filled experience that can hinder joyous moments for a person then learning more about anxiety would become top priority. Scott Stossel is the author of My Age of Anxiety and breaks down his life facing anxiety along with various other disorders and phobias. During his wedding, he describes all of the physiological symptoms he suffered, such as trembling, sweating, and nearly fainting, while his guest observed him Leriche 2 partaking in what should be the best day of his life (1-5). Nearly every person has had an anxious moment before performing a task in front of others but not every person has had a moment where they halt a tremendous opportunity to avoid such anxious moments. If more research was performed to figure out the factors that causes anxiety to reach extreme levels, then, less people would have troubling lives that misses out on tremendous opportunities. Stossel explains the cultural, environmental, and genetic factors that may play a role in the make-up of anxiety (62-70). Although there are various opinions as to which factor plays a leading role, research would be the best route to confirm any hypothesis. In My Age of Anxiety theories of increased levels of norepinephrine and epinephrine hormones are indicators of who will suffer anxiety disorder. Also, the shift of what allows a person to achieve a successful and prosperous life such as job interviews are cultural factors that may account for anxiety (60-85). To treat a patient who is suffering from anxiety in the best way possible, a professional must first know what is the root of the problem. Testing and treating people for anxiety is becoming more critical as more Americans suffer from the symptom or disorder. More people need to realize the intensity of anxiety to fully understand why it is becoming a critical issue for Americans. David H. Barlow shares opinions on anxiety in Anxiety and Its Disorders, kills relatively few people, but many would welcome death as an alternative to the paralysis and suffering results from anxiety in its severe (23). Fear of being subjected to the physiological aspects of anxiety creates an avoidance reaction. If a person will go as far as to thinking death is a better alternative, then, society should start taking this situation more serious. Barry Glassner demonstrates how tragedies has changed the American culture completely to a of in his book The Culture of Fear: why Americans Are Afraid of the Wrong Things (76). The moments in life that should be normal for everyone are intense mental and physical Leriche 3 tragedies for others. Glassner mentions the fearful moments are scares we can deal with sensibly as long as we have the (181). To push society to a greater future, more reliable facts about anxiety must be establish to treat people more efficiently. Anxiety is effecting the lives of too many Americans, therefore turning a blind eye to the cause will only harm society. Helping bring awareness to how important psychological research for anxiety is the best job a person who cannot financially support the costly program. After more people become less oblivious to how crimpling the symptom or disorder of anxiety is, then more effort to gain knowledge of the leading factors that causes anxiety will be made. Only after knowing the leading factors can a professional be able to link cultural fears and help a patient avoid or decrease the intensity of his or her anxiety level. Like or share a post about the matter, make flyers, and go the extra mile to make research on anxiety important to the people who can financially support a research program that benifits millions of people who suffer from anxiety. Research cost billions of dollars but if the right people hear how important it is then finance will no longer be an issue. Leriche 4 Works Cited Facts &  Anxiety and Depression Association of America, ADAA. N.p., Aug. 2016. Web. 12 Apr. 2017. Glassner, Barry. The culture of fear: Why Americans are afraid of the wrong things: Crime, drugs, minorities, teen moms, killer kids, mutant microbes, plane crashes, road rage, & so much more. Basic books, 2010. Stossel, Scott. My age of anxiety. Random House, 2014.