Freed 1 Jordan Freed Professor Roth Composition 1 9 April 2017 Why is childhood obesity considered abuse? Many individuals have a narrow-minded opinion when it comes to the idea of child abuse, often times only accepting the idea of However, when it comes to childhood obesity, it should fall under the same category as child abuse for the following reason: most first idea about food comes from the home. When introducing the concept of child abuse, the first instinct an individual has is to make a direct correlation to physical and sexual abuse. Though these are the most common forms of child abuse, it would be ignorant to deny that there are no other forms of abuse. That being said, now affects one in five children in the United and has become a major concern (Dietz 1998). Many characteristics of what is classified as adult-onset obesity are now being seen in a early years. Some of these characteristics include hyperlipidemia, hypertension, abnormal glucose tolerance, and sleep apnea. In order to get ahead of this statistic, it is important to understand what a parent can do to lower their risk of being categorized as obese. Eating behaviors evolve during the first years of the vast majority of human history, food scarcity has constituted a major threat to survival, and human eating behavior and child feeding practices have evolved in response to this Freed 2 infants are born into a wide variety of cultures and cuisines, they become equipped as young omnivores with a set of behavioral predispositions that allow them to learn to accept the foods made available to (Savage 2007). Because of this, it is important to introduce young children to a proper, and healthier, alternative when approaching food. By introducing a more practical approach to eating, rather than eating until happy, this will create a healthy foundation for future eating patterns to develop. However, all individuals do not agree that childhood obesity is a form of abuse. This particular idea of making a direct link between childhood obesity and child abuse has become a controversial one. Many individuals say this correlation is unfair due to the cost of healthy food as well as the easy accessibility and affordability to unhealthy foods (Tam 2013). It can be argued that is indeed cheaper and more available for poverty stricken homes. A family of seven can easily eat at McDonalds for less than a wealthier family going out to dinner. However, eating out is not the only option. Individuals automatically associate eating a home cooked meal with that of a wealthy family. This is misrepresented. Often times, it is cheaper to make a home cooked meal rather than eating out, even if this is at a fast food restaurant. It can also be argued that families do not have the time to be In a patriarchal setting, the mother would have a home cooked meal prepared when the children and father came home from school and work. However, this is not as realistic as it once was. Generally, for a single parent, the hours they spend at work would have to increase in order to take care of their Freed 3 family, therefore making their time spent at home decrease. Because of this, the reality of coming home and making a healthy meal for their family is very slim. Though all of these for childhood obesity are understood, it is not appropriate to condone childhood obesity and therefore not list it as a form of child abuse. Not only will the child struggle while they are young, they are being set up for a life filled with numerous difficulties not only physically, but psychologically as well. Obesity is a stigmatized condition, and obese individuals face social exclusion and discrimination in many areas of their lives. Children as well as adults stereotype the obese as lazy, ugly, and stupid, and weight-related teasing is common place. As a result, it has been assumed that obese people, especially children and adolescents, will experience poor psychological as well as physical health. Therefore, by introducing children to healthier eating habits at a younger age, or parents providing their children with healthy options, children are less likely to be teased due to their weight and, according to research, will be happier. However, if they continue unhealthy eating habits at a young age, they will continue this into their adult life, perhaps causing them to be socially awkward which can inevitably go as far as having a negative impact on their lives romantically. Overall, it is important to understand why and how childhood obesity is considered a form of abuse. This abuse can negatively impact an life short term, as well as long term, but can potentially be avoided by the way food is introduced in the home. If health is Freed 4 seen as more of a priority in the home, the child will not only benefit physically, but mentally as well. Works Cited: Consequences of Obesity in Youth: Childhood Predictors of Adult Health Consequences of Obesity in Youth: childhood predictors of Adult Disease SUPPLEMENT pediatrics. N.p., n.d web. 19 Feb. 2017 Klijn, J. Ongoing 2b/3a inhibition In Myocardial infarction  Http://isrctn.org/> (n.d.): n. pag. Web. Savage, Jennifer S., Jenniger Orlet Fisher, and Leann L. Birch. influence on Eating Behavior: Conception to The Journal of Law, Medicine & Ethics 35.1 (2007): 22-34. Web Yam, Philip. Morbid Childhood obesity be considered child abuse? American Blog Network. N.P., 06 Aug. 2013. Web. 05 Feb. 2017