Spasoje Stefanovic Composition II TJ Murray April 12, 2017 Are you confortable without your phone? You are waiting in line, you are ridding the BullRunner, you are in the hallway waiting for your meeting with professor about you paper, you are in the classroom and nothing is going on around Now imagine if you have your phone with you, would you feel confortable? Would you be anxious? Would you know what to do to make time go faster? Phone addiction has become very common especially among students and they feel anxious, stressed and uncomfortable when they have that little device with them when nothing interesting is going on around them. Baylor University conducted a research that showed that college students spend on average 8-10 hours a day on their phones doing different cell-phone activities (CPA) and interesting fact is that female students spend on average 10 hour a day on CPA and male students 8 hours. That amount of time spent on cell-phones is closely related to addiction. Also research showed that evolution of phones to smart phones had to do a lot with addiction because students are not addicted just to the phones as a device they are addicted to what their upgraded smart phones have to offer and that is internet connection, social media, games, Before evolution of smart phones, CPA was mostly just calling and texting and that enough to become addicted to phones for most of the students. In the full report about in of Behavioral there is a very well conducted research involving grate number of college students that did survey that took between 10 and 15 min to complete and showed that average time spent on social media was 95 minutes, average time spent on texting was 94 minutes, average time spent on games and internet surfing was 54 minutes and average time spent on phone calls and emails was 81 minutes. In total that is 5.4 hours, which means that 3.6 hours are spent on other apps like music, clock, Interesting fact is also that 81% of the students answered positive when they were asked if they get agitated when their phone is not sight, 74% answered when they were asked if they get nervous when their phone battery is about to die, 80% said that they spend more time then they should on their phones and 80% said that they find themselves spending more and more time on their phones. When students were asked in what situation they were using phones more often, 94% said that they use it when there is nothing interesting going on around them like for example waiting in line, sitting in the classroom, walking to their classes... The biggest problem is that if you repeat those actions enough you will train your brain to make you reach out for the phone every time when there is nothing that interest you going on around you, which would lead to addiction. Scientists say that this type of addiction is not as hard to fix as are addiction to drugs, gambling and sex. Students get addicted to their phones because most of them still accepted the fact that reality is not always interesting and fun as virtual reality that their phone can bring to them. Study shows that less and less students know how to connect and build personal relationship in person and those are very important skills to have. So accepting the reality would be the first step and finding the way to make that reality interesting will be the step after that and its important not to have expectations bigger then you should. Phone addiction has become very common especially among students and they feel anxious, stressed and uncomfortable when they have that little device with them when nothing interesting is going on around them but there are a lot of interesting things going on around you, it just takes a little effort to see them so drop your phone and look around. Work Cited page Roberts, James A., and Chris Monolis. The Invisible Addiction: Cell- phone Activities and Addiction among Male and Female College  Journal of Behavioral Addictions. Budapest, 26 Aug. 2014. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Goodrich, Terry. Cellphone Addiction Is Increasingly Realistic Baylor Study of College Students  Media Communications Baylor University. N.p., 27 Aug. 2014. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Kuehn, Bridget M. Texting Teens to  Jama 307.4 (2012): n. pag. Pew Internet Project. Pew Research Center, 19 Mar. 2012. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.