Phillip Watkis Eng. Comp Emil Smith 9 April 2017 Danger in Rugby Over the sports analysts and regular sport fans themselves have had debates and arguments on whether American Football is more intense than Rugby and we have come to see that it is hard to point out the differences and tell which out the two is really more intense. Both sport on a whole is very physical and extremely fierce but players continue to join the league because their passion and no matter what facts or stats you put in front of them they are still going to be dedicated to the sport no matter what. Any serious hit or injury in either of these sports can cause a player their entire career. Playing a sport like Football or Rugby as a professional I would say that is best if you have a backup plan just in case you are forced to retire early due to an injury. Take Bo Jackson for example. He was tackled by Cincinnati linebacker Kevin Walker which put an end to his NFL (National Football League) career. He then pursued his career in major league baseball. Not every professional athlete is lucky enough to just swap sports after a career ending injury. Based on the facts that seen in different articles I would say that rugby is way more dangerous than American football. Another reason why Rugby is way more dangerous than American football is because there is way more body injuries in Rugby than it is in American football and not only the type injures but also how frequent these injuries occur. According to the article, of Injuries in American Collegiate Football and Club published by Nienke W. Willengburg showed that the injury rate for rugby is 15.9/1000 compared to American football which is 4.9/1000. Not only that but also when it comes on to injury like sprains, fractures and contusions on body parts like the shoulder, hand, wrist and lower body parts in Rugby is 4 times as high compared to the results in American football, also most of these injuries happened in Rugby because direct contact. These results not only show that Rugby is more dangerous as a spot overall but it also shows that the little injuries go up in numbers because the players do not wear protection during the game, as compared to American Football where the players where all sorts of pads to protect them from getting injuries. The only thing I would say in defense of American football is that at the end of each season their injury results are close to but is never more than outcome (Willengburg 2016). Not only that but in Rugby there are more injures at the end of every game than there is in American Football (Willengburg 2016). With these results it shows that American Football could be dangerous as well but not as dangerous as Rugby. Rugby is not only dangerous, but can be life threatening as well because of the spinal injuries which have occured. As discussed in the article, medical management of suspected acute spinal cord injuries in rugby that was published by Robert N. Dunn explained that spinal injury in rugby does not occur that often but remains an emotionally charged issue. There have 10.9 spinal injuries per 1000 game in rugby compared to American Football there is barely any spinal injuries a season (Dunn 2009). Spinal injury is one of those injuries that can seldom be avoided in Rugby in contrast to American football because there are far more rules and regulations in the sport that prevent it from happening. Also it is becoming more apparent that players are starting to retire at a younger age in Rugby. An example is presented in an article with an 18-year-old that collapsed during a Rugby scrum (restarting a play after a minor infringement) his x-ray results showed that it was a listhesis which is a forward translation of his C5 and C6 vertical body which caused his career to end at the age of 18. This is to show that Rugby is way more dangerous than Football because a player career in ending at 18 while in American Football players career start until they are in their 20s When it comes to concussion, American football is far more dangerous than Rugby. This is a proven fact because in the article, Characteristics of Concussions in National Football League Games, 2010-2011 to by Michael D Clark he was able to complete a research which showed that during the last 5 years in American Football a total of 1,324 games were played and there was a total concussion rate of 0.658 per game. This might not seem like it is a lot but when you compare it to concussions results in the article, and Head Injuries in English Community Rugby Union Match it showed that the concussions result is 0.33 per 1000 games. The first article about concussion in American Football pointed out that concussion in football occurs through a diverse variety of mechanism (Clark 2014) as to Rugby in the second article a lot of head injuries are reported but concussion is not the most to occur. With all this being said it possible to say that one of the main reason that American Football is less than Rugby is with every aspect beyond concussion. Whether you look at the fact that rugby averages 10 more injuries per thousand players a year or you converse with both a rugby player and a football player: it is undeniable that the sport with the same amount, if not more contact with not even a fraction of the padding and protection is more dangerous. As American football science progresses with new pads and rules & regulations each year, along with the injury-prevention training football players get, rugby is staying more traditional and not taking the necessary steps to ensure that its athletes are safe. With all the data I have shared, I hope that it is apparent to you as it is me that football is far less dangerous than rugby. (Word Count) 1,033 Work cited Willigenburg, Nienke W., et al. Comparison of Injuries in American Collegiate Football and Club Rugby: A Prospective Cohort  The American Journal of Sports Medicine, no. 3, 2016, p. 753. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db= edsgao&AN=edsgcl.446283191&site=eds-live. Clark, Michael D., et al. Descriptive Characteristics of Concussions in National Football League Games, 2010-2011 to  American Journal of Sports Medicine, vol. 45, no. 4, 15 Mar. 2017, p. 929. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true &db=edb&AN=121966547&site=eds-live Roberts, Simon P.1, et al. Concussions and Head Injuries in English Community Rugby Union Match  American Journal of Sports Medicine, vol. 45, no. 2, Feb. 2017, pp. 480-487. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1177/0363546516668296. Dunn, Robert N. Boksmart: Medical Management of Suspected Serious Acute Spinal Cord Injuries in Rugby  South African Journal of Sports Medicine, no. 3, 2009, p. 91. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true &db=edsgao&AN=edsgcl.210521297&site=eds-live.