Terrell 1 Rebekah Terrell April 4 th , 2017 Emil Smith ENC 1101 Project 3: Joining the Conversation Today there are 12 marine amusement parks around the world that are home to as many as nine killer whales each, for a total of 49 killer whales in marine amusement parks worldwide (Lu ck 127). In the wild killer whales live in all the oceans around the world, however they prefer to live in waters with depths between 65 and 125 feet deep. They also are more likely to be found in higher altitudes and bodies of water that are somewhat shutoff and hard to access. Even though they can be found in temperate waters they prefer the colder waters. They also have a free range of where they want to go and if they want to hide they have plenty of places to do so. In the wild the whale can eat whenever it feels hungry. In captivity, however, the habitats that are given to the killer whales are most of the time empty with just water and the whale does not have as much space as it would in the wild to move around travel and swim to wherever it wants to, it also have anywhere to hide if it gets scared, also it is on schedule for food. By using different factors such as sex, place of birth and current location, it was found that survival to age milestones was significantly lower in captive whales then those in the wild. In the wild approximately 73% of the whales lived to the age of 15 and about 59% reached the age of 40, while in captivity only about 27% lived to 15 and only about 2% lived to 40 (Robeck 786). I believe because of all these factors that killer whales in captivity live shorter, less happy, and less healthy lives than those who live in the wild. Terrell 2 There are many factors that cause killer whales in captivity to live lesser lives than those in the wild. Some factors include that there is lots of stress on the whales in captivity also they have been found to have a different personality after being trained to work in the amusement parks. Some of the different stress factors that the whales have to deal with while living in captivity include lighting, sound, the inability to hide, and the constant interaction with humans (Morgan 262). According to Morgan the lighting in some of the parks and habitats are artificial and not exactly what the whales would experience if they were in the wild, as well as the constant sounds that are heard all over the parks. Sometimes the habitats are smaller and there really places for the whales to go to hide if they get scared or just want to hide, and being an amusement park there are constantly humans around and the whales are constantly having to interact with their trainers or even the audience sometimes. All these stress factors make it harder for the whales to live happy and healthy lives. In the wild killer whales were found to have emotional self-control, and empathetic behaviors, but after being trained to work in amusement parks the personalities became more aggressive and less friendly (Robert 1). These factors all lead to the whales to live shorter, less happy, and less healthy lives compared to those living in the wild. Even though it seems like an easy answer that living in captivity is not good for the killer whales, there have been many researchers who have said the opposite to be true, which in certain cases may be true. One argument is that the whales living in captivity are a good source of education for younger children and really for anyone to learn more about them (Lu ck 127). It has been said that the education that the whales bring to the public could actually in the long run save more of the whales in the wild against humans, because humans would have a better understanding of the whales. Another argument is that in certain cases it is better for the whales Terrell 3 to be in captivity. For example if they were born in captivity or if they were harmed in the wild it is hard for them to survive in the wild so it is better to keep these whales to live in captivity. An example of this would be if a killer whale was born in the wild but for some reason its mom had died when the baby was born or the baby had gotten lost and is now alone, there is no way this baby killer whale would be able to survive on its own in the wild so rescuers would take this whale and bring him into captivity so he has a better chance of survival. However it will be extremely difficult to put this whale back into the wild because he has basically lived in captivity all his life and would not know how to survive on his own in the wild. For these reasons I would say that it is better for the killer whales to live in captivity. In conclusion, I would argue that killer whales in captivity live shorter, less happy, and less healthy lives than those who live in the wild. This is true for many reasons including lots of stress on the whales in captivity like lighting, sound, the inability to hide, and the constant interaction with humans, also they have been found to have a different personality after being trained to work in the amusement parks. While in the wild the whales are surviving longer and have a better habitat to live in. On the other hand some argue that it is better in certain cases for the killer whales to live in captivity. Some of these reasons are that the education they bring to humans in amusement parks could actually help the whales in the wild live longer. Another reason is that if the killer whale was born in captivity or harmed in the wild they would have a better chance of survival in captivity then they would living in the wild. Both these sides have valid points but I still do believe that living in the wild is better for the killer whales to have longer, happier, and healthier lives.