Rodriguez 1 Rachel Rodriguez Dr. Theodosiou ENC 1102.050 Spring April 13, 2017 Project 3 Intermediate Draft The Death Penalty; three words I can almost guarantee mean very little to you, if anything at all. The death penalty is a life or death decision, yet it is a topic that does not get much attention. The majority of people who do care, are those that are faced with the life threatening choice, or who have known someone who was. Mistakes happen, daily. We are all guilty of getting into circumstances at some point in our lives, that put us at risk with the law. All it takes is one mistake, one mistake and it could be you, lying on the table, strapped down, awaiting an injection that will end your life, forever. We even think twice about many aspects of society, until we are faced with them. What will it take for you to care? let it get to the point where you or your loved one is facing execution. The death penalty is extremely unjust and unfair, and a change needs to be made, before it is too late. Through the first ever Drive to Save  event, in addition to many other ways of getting involved, we will gain the support needed to bring an end to the death penalty, all across the world. The first established death penalty laws date as far back as the Eighteenth Century B.C. in the Code of King Hammurabi of Babylon. The United abolition movement, in regards to the death penalty, began in the early where many individuals began questioning the ethics of this form of punishment (Death Penalty Information Center). From this point on, the death penalty experienced centuries of highs and lows. It until the when Rodriguez 2 concern was on the rise over whether or not the death penalty was just. It was when Furman V. Georgia was brought to the Supreme Court, that they ruled against the death penalty since it was believed to be a violation of the eighth amendment, the cruel and unusual punishment clause (Acker 171). This argument still follows the death penalty. Imagine, standing, strapped down to a wall, completely alone, watching as numerous men line up across from you, guns in their hand, aiming right at you. What would you be thinking in what will be known as the last seconds of your life? Regardless, the firing squad, lethal injection, hanging, the gas chamber, and electrocution are all inhumane in every way possible. No person, no matter how bad the crime, should ever have to experience such cruelty. Suppose, your little brother gets into a fight over something minor, he gets so upset that he decides to punch the other kid square in the face, knocking him unconscious. Your brother has clearly made a mistake, whether he regrets it or not. As an older sibling, would you then proceed to punch your brother square in the face to knock him out as well? Or would you let him know he was in the wrong and punish him, in a way so that he will learn from his wrong doings? The death penalty is no different. By allowing the death penalty to continue, we are displaying a great amount of hypocrisy in that, we are sending a message to the public, saying that it is perfectly okay to punish someone for murder, by murdering them. Through the death penalty, there is no lesson being learned. We are prohibiting the individual from any chances of rehabilitating and becoming an active member of society. There are other ways to punish someone, ways that allow for self-improvement and change. Another crucial problem facing death penalty, involves wrongful convictions. On August 24, 1993, Ruben Cantu, 26 years old at the time, was executed via lethal injection. Ruben was convicted of robbing and shooting tqo construction workers, leaving one dead, all at the age Rodriguez 3 of 17. physical evidence-not even a fingerprint or bullet-tied Cantu to the He was convicted and sentenced to death solely on the eyewitness testimony of the surviving  (Williams 242). A decade after execution, two key witnesses including shooting victim, David Moreno, completely changed their story. Moreno admits that he felt pressured by the police to identify  Similarly, another key witness, co-defendant, admits ...under oath that Cantu was not with him on the night of the shooting and was not otherwise involved in the  (Williams 243). Stop for just one second, and think. What if this was you? Your loved one? He was only 17 when he was convicted of murder and spent, what later became, the last years of his life in jail for a crime he even commit. We cannot allow this horrifying act to continue! Ruben Cantu is just one, of many individuals who have been wrongfully convicted in the court of law, and wrongful convictions are just one of the faults in death penalty. According to Jon B. Gould and Richard A. Leo, writers of One Hundred Years Later: Wrongful Convictions After Over a Century of  in order for a change to take place, we must make it a holistic process in which supporters and experts are all involved at every step in the  (864). With that, we can bring an end to capital punishment just by getting involved in our communities. The University of South Florida will be hosting the first ever, Drive to Save Lives event on May 6, 2017. USF streets will be closed to regular traffic, as well as parts of Bruce B. Downs, Fletcher, Fowler and other major roads. You will be provided a detailed map of the area, which will instruct you to drive to different locations on the map where information will be provided about specific aspects of the death penalty. The event will last from 8 am to 8 pm, where you can come and go as you please. You will pay at the event entrance, off of Bruce B. Downs, it will cost $5 for adults, and children 5 and younger will be free. Additionally, you will be able to fill Rodriguez 4 up your gas tank one time at specific gas stations along the route, for a discounted price, where all the proceeds will then go towards Amnesty International, to help abolish the death penalty. It is a family friendly event for all ages. This is a great opportunity for you to be able to interact with the public and others who stand for the same cause. Say, May 6 is not a good day for you? you have a car? you have other plans? Whatever the case may be, there are other ways you can get involved! USF will also be hosting an event on June 1, 2017 at 8pm, in the Sundome. This event is completely free, and open to the public. The parents of a young man, whom was murdered by an older individual who ended up receiving the death penalty, will speak out about their feelings toward the execution of their killer. This will be an extremely emotional, eye-opening event, that will allow the public to see the death penalty through a completely different perspective. In addition to these two events, you can join the movement to abolish the death penalty by visiting www.99millionstrong,org, sign up and make a donation. Also, the Innocence Project, an internationally known organization, aimed at ending wrongful convictions, sells t-shirts to the public, visit their site, www.shop.innocenceproject.org, buy a t-shirt today in order to help inform others around you. Another quick and easy way of getting involved includes contacting your state representative and expressing your feelings toward the death penalty. If enough people get involved in at least one of the many possible ways, we will be able to ultimately end capital punishment. A reform in our judicial system is extremely necessary. The death penalty is in no way, just. It is a violation of our eighth amendment, cruel and unusual punishment, and allows for the lives of innocent men and women to be taken, for good. Just take a second to think, what if it was your loved one? Your best friend? Neighbor? Classmate? Regardless, would you still Rodriguez 5 support ending their life and ending all possible chances of them becoming rehabilitated and an active member of our society? If the answer is no, then please, take a minute to make a donation, do some research, get involved in some way so that this horrific form of punishment can come to an end, at last. (Word Count 1448) Rodriguez 6 Works Cited Acker, James. The Death Penalty: An American  Contemporary Justice Review, vol. 6, no. 2, June 2003, pp. 169-187. Amnesty International: Death Penalty. Amnesty International, https://www.amnesty.org/en/what- we-do/death-penalty/. Accessed 15 February 2017. Death Penalty Information Center: Facts About the Death  The Death Penalty Information Center, http://www.deathpenaltyinfo.org/. Accessed 20 Jan. 2017. Gould, Jon B. and Leo, Richard A. One Hundred Years Later: Wrongful Convictions After a Century of Research (2010). Journal of Criminal Law and Criminology, Vol. 100, No. 3, 2010; Univ. of San Francisco Law Research Paper No. 2010-28. SHOP for the Innocence Project. The Innocence Project, http://www.shop.innocenceproject.org/. Accessed 15 Apr. 2017. Williams, Kenneth. Why It Is so Difficult to Prove Innocence in Capital , 42 Tulsa L. Rev. 241, 2006, pp. 240-243.