Drinking in the United States Alcohol is a very controversial topic here in the United States. The legal age for consuming alcohol and for purchase of alcohol is 21 years old in United States though the minimum age to serve alcohol in most establishments is only 18 years old. Some people think the age for drinking should be lowered to eighteen while others think it should be illegal all the way around. Alcohol, although legal, is one of the highest causes of death in the United States. Alcohol is responsible for around 100,000 deaths per year in the United States. About 90,000 of those deaths are from alcoholic diseases which makes alcohol the fourth leading preventable cause of death. Around 10,000 deaths occur from alcoholic related driving fatalities, which is thirty one percent of overall driving fatalities combined (Mokdad, A.H.; Marks, J.S.; Stroup, D.F.; and Gerberding, J.L.) The Minimum Legal Drinking Age (MLDA) laws state the legal drinking age for individuals to be able to go and purchase alcohol is 21 years old. Prior to the law changing in 1984, the legal age for purchasing and drinking alcohol was different depending on what state you were in or lived in that time (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention). There are several reasons that drinking should be lowered at the age of 18. The very first reason is an obvious one, once you hit that age of 18, your are legally considered an adult. Lowering the drinking age will possibly help control underage drinking and help make eighteen year olds more responsible. The law that sets the drinking at age 21 only causes additional problems and is very ineffective. Having the legal age set at the age of 21, only encourages unhealthy drinking habits for young adults. It does not eliminate them drinking. It causes them to sneak around to drink and also causes binge drinking in young adults. At least if the drinking age was lowered, it would make it easier for to control drinking amongst younger adults and encourage them to learn better drinking habits and healthier drinking habits. If young adults between the ages of 18-20 is lowered, they would be able to drink in more controlled environments. They would be allowed to drink in public places such as bars and restaurants. If allowed to drink in controlled situations, binge drinking would become less of a problem and things such as drunk driving and alcohol poisoning could be better prevented and controlled. It is believed that if you allow young adults between the ages of 18-20 to drink in public places, it would cause more accidents, but according to the Huffington Post, three out of five alcohol accidents and related deaths actually occur off the roads and in private areas (Aguirre). By allowing people from the ages of 18-21 drink, colleges would be able to monitor alcohol consumption better. For college students, when they are in college and under 21 but that are allowed to attend parties with those above 21, they are more willing to drink, especially since something they know they be doing and they take full advantage of the situation since they may not know when they will be allowed to drink again. That situation leads to binge drinking. Officials would able to monitor the situations better while also cutting down on alcohol related deaths. A lot of alcohol related deaths happen due to not getting the proper help in time. Students are scared to report incidents and scared to get help since they know they would also get in trouble which could also lead to serious repercussions, possibly even face expulsion from college which is a heavy consequence to face just from having a few alcoholic beverages. If they were allowed to drink, they would be more willing to step up and get the proper help from authorities (Cognac). At the age of 18 years old in the United States, you are allowed to move out of your house, rent an apartment, buy a car, vote for your next president and other elected officials, and serve in the military. You are allowed to go and serve your country, protect our freedom, and risk your life every day and you should be able to sit back, relax, and drink after a long hard work. You can get married at the age of 18 so you should be allowed to enjoy a glass of wine or a beer or two on your wedding day. Countries such as Italy, China, and Greece all allow drinking under the age of 21, and they also have less alcohol related deaths and problems that the United States (Cognac) Eighteen to twenty year olds should not be denied the pleasure of drinking. They are legally consenting adults who are able to make their own decisions. Lowering the age would help everyone. It would free up valuable resources that spend so much time, money, and effort trying to regulate the underage drinking. It would also decrease the number of alcohol related deaths due to fearing the consequences of seeking help for themselves or others if they are in need of medical attention. Lowering the drinking age would also be good for the economy. Young people like to go out, party, and spend money so by allowing them to frequent clubs, bars, and restaurants and buy alcohol, it would help small and private businesses and boost the economy which in turn helps the government collect more tax revenue every year. Most people want what they have, so if you lower the drinking age, maybe it would help teach young adults to drink more responsibly but allowing them to live and learn instead of sneak and binge. Works Cited 15 Reasons Why Drinking Age Should Be  Cognac.com. N.p., 28 Jan. 2013. Web. 06 Apr. 2017. Aguirre, Alexis. National Drinking Age Should Be Lowered to  National Drinking Age Should Be Lowered to 18 The University Star. N.p., 2013. Web. 06 Apr. 2017. Alcohol and Public  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 31 Mar. 2017. Web. 06 Apr. 2017. Mokdad, A. H., J. S. Marks, J. L. Gerberding, and D. F. Stroup. Alcohol Facts and  National Institutes of Health. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, 2000. Web. 06 Apr. 2017. .