Clark 1 Gabrielle Clark T.J. Murray ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Shelter Dogs Should Always be the First Choice In a society that is primarily dependent on technology for social interaction it is no wonder that people turn to animals for a source of companionship. Unfortunately not everyone is up to this task of taking care of a pet and subsequently surrender them to animal shelters across the country. Countless amounts of well deserving dogs are euthanized every day due to limited amounts of space in the shelters or are stuck in a cage for hours without human interaction. Shelter dogs are loving and smart and deserve to be the first choice every time. While walking through the kennels of an animal shelter various types of personalities can be seen within the dogs. Most often a fearful or aggressive personality. In an article written by Charlotte Duranton for the Journal of Veterinary Behavior stated that dogs may have learned not to respond to human cues that are not useful to them or have lost some previously acquired skills due to a lack of exposure to It is becoming clear that due to a lack of human interaction dogs may become standoffish towards humans. Studies also show that overtime dogs may lose previously gained knowledge of how they are expected to act (Duranton, 22). Clark 2 Original Image Although shelter dogs may take some time to become accustomed to being in a foreign environment they are nothing but loving animals that want attention. Unlike puppies in pet stores, these dogs have potentially been switched around animal shelters several times. Just like the countless animal rescue videos floating around the internet, once give the proper amount of time and attention, rescue dogs tend to open right up and acclimate to their surroundings rather quickly. The joy of watching a skinny scared dog transform into a fat and happy go-lucky goof ball right before you is nothing other than incredible and heartwarming. Homeless animals outnumber homeless people five to one (DoSomething.org). A great cause of this number is abandonment by owners and failure to spay and neuter. Another excellent reason to adopt shelter dogs is to make an impact on both of these leading causes. Not only is it beneficial to give a deserving dog a home but it is also good because when entering most shelters Clark 3 such as the SPCA, dogs are immediately spay and neutered upon arrival in order to keep this growing ration from growing that much more one snip at a time. Credit is due where credit is earned can definitely hold true to the fact that shelter dogs are not given the credit earned. Many people do not realize just how intelligent these sweet animals are. More often than not it is generally presumed that a dog in the shelter is because they came from another home. This is not the case at all anymore. In fact, Seaworld Parks and Entertainment has made it their pledge to help get animals of all kinds out of shelters and instead train many to become performance animals for a few years before they retire and retire to good homes. Even police agencies have made the effort to stray away from they typical German Shepherd and lean more towards the unpredictable Pitt Bull for K-9 protection. So before going out to a pet store and paying hundreds, even thousands of dollars on a dog, try the local pound or animal shelter and give these well deserving animals a chance. Each year 2.7 million dogs and cats are euthanized each year due to a lack of space and adoptive homes (DoSomething.org). Just imagine, one of those poor dogs could have been yours. All they want is love and attention. Besides, who said you teach an old dog new tricks? Adopt today. Clark 4 Works Cited 11 Facts About Animal  DoSomething.org Volunteer for Social Change. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Duranton, Charlotte and Florence Gaunet. Canine Research: Effects of Shelter Housing on Sensitivity to Human Social  Journal of Veterinary Behavior: Clinical Applications and Research, vol. 14, 01 July 2016, pp. 20-27. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.jveb.2016.06.011.