Society makes it acceptable to deem personal issues as immoral or as a Issues like Pro- Choice or Pro- Life should not be such a heavily debated discussion, whether it be discussions at home or throughout the branches of government. Every woman is different, each woman believes in different things, so how would it be constitutional to govern such a personal matter by the realms of the law. 49% of pregnancies in the United States are unforeseen, and it is said that 50% of those pregnancies end in abortion (Health research Funding). The meaning and design of the Pro- Choice movement is simple, to allow women to make the choice on whether or not they are willing to dwell in the responsibilities of bringing life into this world. College students around the country are pertinent to this issue thus, I urge each student to visit https://sydneysmith853.wixsite.com/prochoice to further educate themselves about the types, reasons, and history of the Pro- Choice movement. The NARAL is a Pro-Choice organization that campaigns to allow women to have free reproductive freedom (NARAL). Currently in the United States, unlike many other international countries, abortion and birth control is legal. However, as government changes and each political party has different beliefs, these laws are at risk. Commonly, people that have conservative values oppose abortion for religious or morality reasons. Conflict arises because that belief conflicts with the constitution of the United States of America, specifically Amendments 1 st and 28 th (Capital Research). Thus, stating that Congress shall make no law that opposes freedom of religion, freedom of speech, or freedom of the press and every American shall have the right to make medical decisions regarding their own bodies. In 1973 Roe vs Wade, was a law that fought against a Texas state law that banned abortions except so save a life (McBride). argued that the law violated the constitutional rights of woman. Being a matter of the United States Constitution, The U.S Supreme Court got involved. They reviewed the case and determined that the law indeed violated the constitution and a right to privacy. The lawyer that represented was indeed a law student at the University of Texas (McBride). It is important to be aware of the constitution that has been made to protect the rights of every American. It matter what it is or how many people disagree with the movements. Most recently, in 2015 The U.S Supreme Court prohibited same sex marriage. Thus, even today constitutional amendments are still being tried and laws are changing. Where most politicians lose sight on their role as law makers and bodies of government, is making decisions based on their personal beliefs and not what aligns with the constitution. Although one does not agree with the pro-choice movement, they entire idea of the movement is to allow women with the choice on what happens with their body and health. According to research done in 2006 by Lawrence Finer and his team, Reasons why women have abortions are: a baby would dramatically change my life in terms of career and Cannot afford a basic needs of life because of being unemployed, unmarried or a Do not want to be a single of or partner wants me to have an issues arise from a (FIner). Although there are many more reasons that women have abortions, listed are the most popular. Bringing a child into the world when the mother knows that she is ill prepared and cannot find the resources to care for a baby, can be one of the most irresponsible decisions made. Due to the fact, that the child did not ask to be born in those conditions. In addition, many pregnancies end because the mother is a victim of rape or abuse. Imagine having to live the rest of your life with the constant reminder of such a tragedy. Even more so, imagine having to either keep that information from that child or telling him the truth. The complexities and personal issues of abortion is not one that should be judged by the supreme court because every situation is different. Under the realms of the Pro- Choice movement comes more than just abortion. There is Birth Control, Emergency Contraception, Family planning, medication or surgical abortion, paid family leave, and pregnancy discrimination (Pro Choice America ). Women use birth control to prevent pregnancy or control to control unintended pregnancies. Birth control pills may be obtained from pharmacies with prescriptions from health care providers. The NARAL works to ensure that every woman can obtain affordable birth control. Many anti emergency contraception campaigns seek to convince women that Emergency Contraception is a form of abortion and should not be taken, while the NARAL seeks to give the facts that it prevents pregnancy when taken within 3 days of unprotected sex. Family planning services or X in the U.S are result of political campaigns. They are underfunded and prevent healthy pregnancies and general health care due to the lack or screening and time taken for each patient. In many cases, only women can take time off from work with paid leave, this however is unrealistic for many women who have no help with their new born babies when their own body is trying to heal. Next, the NARAL works to improve pregnancy discrimination from women in the work force, who are either looking for a job or at risk of losing their job because of pregnancy. Last but not lease, the NARAL seeks to maintain healthy and safe abortion clinic. When abortion clinics are not available in confidential and safe settings, the risk of women and young girls putting their life at risk by going to unlicensed abortion clinics. College students are the future lawyers, doctors, campaigners, law makers, and even supporters of the Pro-choice campaign. The decisions made today will be those that govern the future generation. It is vital that every college student researches and learns more about the pro- choice campaign and issues that the NARAL are fighting for every day. Not only so students can be better informed about the major controversial issues in government, but to be able to fulfil their civic responsibilities for the betterment of everyone. Especially women and children.