Harb ! 1 Karem Harb ENC 1102 Prof. Aranda 16 April 2017 Affirmative Action Project 3 Intermediate Draft Affirmative action is one of the most widely discussed topics among civil rights organizations, universities, and politicians since the American Civil Rights Movement of 1960. In general, affirmative action can be roughly defined as a way of compensation for groups that have been formerly oppressed or excluded. It is imperious to understand that there are various affirmative action organizations in existence and that in many instances have often opposed or gone head to head. It is through the organizations that hold power and influence on this topic that can be used to explain the history of affirmative action. These two organizations include the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) which is a is a pro- affirmative action organization that was established in 1909. According to Fletcher (1), the former President Kweisi Mfume of the NAACP believes that affirmative action sparked the growth of the black middle class and that an attack on affirmative action is an attack on black progress. The other organization is the ACRI. The position of ACRI is that racial preference is counter-productive towards achieving the objective of social equality. This thus leads to their position in that affirmative action is counter-productive to social equality. Although there are many organizations that oppose each other on how to approach affirmative action, there is need Harb ! 2 to challenge the status quo and advocate for the prevention of racial preference in university admission. It is imperative to comprehend that the NAACP is a strong supporter of affirmative action. In the bid to ensure that their further their position on social equality, they have come up with strategies to lobby for their position in the future. Such strategies include helping advocates to register so that they can vote, funding civil rights groups, lobbying government institutions and at the same time meet with political candidates. The key goal to both the ACRI and the NAACP is to ensure that there is an end to racial preference. However, there is a variance in the manner that they view affirmative action. One of the key positions held by ACRI is that race preferences do not promote equality. On further analysis, one may conclude that statement is true since the process of preferring one race over another is the opposite of racial equality. One should note that there are people who are part of minority races that are still in disadvantaged positions. To some individuals, it is unreasonable to give benefits such as employment and scholarships to some people due to some diversity quotas since some of their past relatives were at some point in time oppressed. Although oppression and exclusion that some people suffered be it due to the color of their skin or during the slave or segregation in the 19 th century are wrong, there is no justification for their grandsons or relatives to receive preferential treatment if they are alive since they themselves did not suffer such actions. There should be a compromise between the opposing organizations to ensure that they make efforts to end the current oppressions being faced by some people instead of compensating Harb ! 3 the individuals who were never oppressed. A good instance is where the ACRI and the NAACP join forces to ensure that some women who are working the same jobs as their counterparts receive the same wage. These organizations could lobby for equal pay or come up with strategies to influence the nation or legislators to create bills that make equal pay for equal work. Such proposals are the key strategies that can be implemented to deal with the problem of unequal pay. One should, however, note that the manner in which the two organizations are using these strategies is different. NAACP tends to use such strategies to promote affirmative action while the ACRI uses such strategies to end affirmative action. In the university admission process, there is an organization that fights for the racial preference named Students for Fair Admissions. The organization is a non-profit organization. In the united states, there are certain universities that have quotas that ensure that they admit students from diverse backgrounds. The problem normally arises when dealing with Black and Asian students who both have the same merits. Due to the affirmative policies, it is the Black student who will receive admission to the university due to their racial quotas 554). This is where the Students for Fair Admissions (SFFA) comes in in that it offers legal support for students that face this issue. It is also the responsibility of the SFFA to ensure that they battle organizations such as the NAACP that support such policies of affirmative action. The Students For Fair Admission believe that such affirmative policies by the NAACP give advantages to certain students. The SFFA has experience in dealing with issues where there is a racial preference in the university admission process. Harb ! 4 The images presented below of SFFA only partially represents the unfair admission of Asian-American students. It is the key goal of SFFA to ensure that all racial preference in university admission is terminated by giving legal support to the victims of racial preference while they are being admitted to the universities. With careful examination, the effectiveness of the images is apparent. In the images, Asian-American students are addressed as being the victims of racial preference. According to SFFA.org, the ethnicity or race of a student should not be a factor that can assist or harm the chances of a student to gain admission to a competitive university (Blum, n.d.). Although the images presented may only act as a cover of goals, its effectiveness in covering the overall goals of the organization cannot be understated. In fact, the individuals who get the appeal of the images are those students who at one point in their education were denied admission to particular college due to the preference of another student from another race. The population that is immensely impacted in this instance are the Asian-American students. One of the images about Harvard University depicts a young Asian female clutching onto a book with a troubled look on her face. It is through the appeal of pathos or an appeal to the emotions of the audience to have concern for the student. The facial expression of the student makes one feel that the student has been wronged in some way such as the denial of entry due to racial preference. Moreover, the image pertaining to Harvard University is strikingly similar to the Harvard University website. The color scheme used is similar. This makes the image used to be satirical in reference to the actual Harvard Website. This message further reinforces the message being passed across. This image has forced some legal action towards SFFA. Harb ! 5 From the position taken by the SFFA, there is need to challenge the status quo and ensure that action is taken to prevent racial preference in university admissions. By taking the position of the SFFA, one should be able to come up with strategies that allow for fair university admission without overlooking the merit of the student. Harb ! 6 Works Cited Atila. College admissions with affirmative  International Journal of Game Theory 33.4 (2005): 535-549. Blum, Edward. Annual Report for  (n.d.): n. pag. http://samv91khoyt2i553a2t1s05i- wpengine.netdna-ssl.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/08/2016-08-16-2016-Year-End- Review.pdf. Web. 4 Mar. 2017. Schwartz, Steven. Fair admissions to higher education: recommendations for good  (2004). Students for Fair  Students for Fair Admissions. N.p., n.d. Web. 04 Mar. 2017. https://studentsforfairadmissions.org/about/ http://myreviewers.usf.edu/etext/rhetoricreallymatters#page=20&zoom=auto,-203,654 Kang, Jerry, and Mahzarin R. Banaji. Fair measures: A behavioral realist revision  affirmative  California Law Review 94.4 (2006): 1063-1118.