Oswald 1 Chelsi Oswald Karen Hanson ENC 1102 April 16 2017 Sexual Education Sex education is one of the most vital topics that a student should learn while attending school. Not only should students be taught about sexual education but they should have access to the comprehensive sex education model. This meaning an all-inclusive program that teaches just teach abstinence before marriage. A comprehensive sex education model should also teach students about how their bodies work, how to stay safe and protected when they feel like they are ready to have sex while still promoting abstinence before marriage. The abstinence before marriage sex education model is the most common one that is taught in schools across the country, which is least effective when teaching students what they need to know. The reason this is important is mainly because of the rate of teenage pregnancy and sexually transmitted diseases or infections (STD or STI). According to the Center for Disease Control states that U.S. teen pregnancy rate is substantially higher than in other western industrialized If the comprehensive sexual education model is implicated that necessarily mean that there will be no more teen pregnancy, but if the young adults are more informed of how to stay there could be a major drop in numbers across the United States. Currently, the main model of sex education in the United States consists of abstinence only practices. This, combined with a host of other problems, creates a community of ill-informed teenagers and young adults that are groomed into unsafe and risky sexual behaviors. It is time to counteract this decline in sexual activity by reinforcing a comprehensive sexual education model. The comprehensive sexual education model should cover many different topics according to the CDC. Some of these topics include to create and sustain healthy and respectful relationships, Oswald 2 importance of using condoms consistently and correctly, and preventive care that is necessary to maintain reproductive and sexual along with many other important topics (CDC). This model could be the most beneficial when it comes to educating the youth of the world. Even though the CDC recommends teaching all of the 16 topics when using this model than half of the U.S. high schools and only a fifth of middle schools are teaching all 16 topics to their students in sex meaning that only a select number of schools are actually getting the proper education that the school is saying that their students are getting (Zimlich). This is leading many students to be ill-informed pertaining to not only sexual activities but also their bodies. Students are often not taught properly about their bodies meaning that when something could be wrong they are too afraid to ask because they were never taught about their bodies and when something may be wrong so they just keep quiet because they fear being made fun of. This program also offers the all-inclusive part that teaches every student about every topic no matter if they are straight, gay, handicapped, or even a foster child. It never leaves anyone out so it becomes normal for these young adults to see this in everyday life and not judge someone based on their gender identity and also their sexual identity. Bertrand-Shelton says that are the ones with the responsibility to promote the wellbeing of pupils, and LGBT-inclusive that will allow everyone to accept everyone else without It also starts them at a very young age of 5 or 6 so they would be in kindergarten all the way up until 12 th grade. It starts off in kindergarten with basic human anatomy with correct terminology and builds up until 12 th grade with talking in about consent and sexual relations. This gives them all the information they would need or want to know and allows them to ask questions if they are unsure of something but also allows them to feel that they are in a safe space. Sexual education is meant to aid in staying safe and protected when you feel you are ready to have sex not to pressure you into it. It is estimated by the end of high school that nearly two thirds [of are sexually active and one in five has had four or more sexual (Starkman et al., 2002). With this statistic given here it shows that if there is not a good sex education program for these Oswald 3 students to learn from that if they are starting to have sex without any knowledge that there are risks when it comes to sex that they could possibly get an STD the first time they have sex. The reason this program is so important is because imagine what would happen the number of statistics that show the rate of people who reportedly have an STD. These teens or young adults would have no idea of any of the risks that they could encounter when they start to have sex. One thought to keep in mind is that if these young adults know of the risks of contracting an STD and they do end up getting one and then decide to have another sexual encounter with a different person they are increasing the likelihood of giving said STD to another person. There are many websites and organizations out there that are great for getting started with a program that is very accepting of whatever your situation is at the time. One that is a good website that appears to just be very accepting of whether or not had sex is named the Sexuality Information and Education Council of the United States or SIECUS for short. They believe that sexuality is a normal thing for a teenager or a young adult to experience, this is an organization that makes everyone feel very comfortable with their sexuality and also helps for young adults not to feel judged for whatever your situation may be. They state very clearly that it is a very natural thing and their goal to stop it but to help keep you safe while you are doing what you want to do (SIECUS). Also, another major thing that you can do is just to speak up or talk to your friends or a trusted adult about anything that you could be worried about or questioning. There was a study done called Comparing school based teen pregnancy prevention programming: Mixed outcomes in an At-risk state it showed that even though it is only a slight improvement that a comprehensive sex education is a better choice when deciding what to teach their students in school. It also shows that it helped to improve the attitudes of the students toward this education than in abstinence only programs (Oman et al., 2015). If this model can continue to be implemented by studies and by looking at how it helps the students in the long run then we can start to see a change in the way that things are. Oswald 4 The comprehensive sexual education model is the only one that should be implemented in schools all over the U.S. because it helps young adults learn about all the risks and preventative techniques that could be beneficial when it comes to any kind of sexual relations. They should have access to all of the information and supplies that is necessary when it comes to learning about sex education. The comprehensive sex education model is one that in all-inclusive and gives all of the information that you would need to know when it comes to making decisions about either your body or your sexual choices. Based on the facts that have been presented thus far it is apparent that a switch to comprehensive sex education is vital when shaping the youth of today. Oswald 5 Works Cited About Teen  Center for Disease Control www.cdc.gov/teenpregnancy/about/ April 9 2017 Bertrand-Shelton, Sidonie. LGBT-Inclusive Sex Education Would Benefit All  Times Educational Supplement, no. 5231, 2017, p. 51. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=edsgao& AN=edsgcl.479791523&site=eds-live. Oman, Roy F., et al. Comparing School-Based Teen Pregnancy Prevention Programming: Mixed Outcomes in an At-Risk  Journal of School Health, no. 12, 2015, p. 886. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=edsgao& AN=edsgcl.442106247&site=eds-live. Sexuality Information and Education Council of the United States www.siecus.org/index.cfm?fuseaction=Page.ViewPage&pageId=494. April 8 2017 Starkman, Naomi and Nicole Rajani. The Case for Comprehensive Sex  AIDS Patient Care and Stds, no. 7, 2002, p. 313. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=edsgao& AN=edsgcl.100911488&site=eds-live. STDs Reported in the United States,  Center for Disease Control www.cdc.gov/nchhstp/newsroom/2015/std-surveillance-report.html#Multimedia April 9 2017 Zimlich, Rachael. How to Fill Gaps in Sexual Health Education: Education for Tweens and Teens Should Cover 16 Topics Ranging from Relationships to Stds, Says the  Contemporary OB/GYN, no. 5, 2016, p. 35. EBSCOhost, Oswald 6 ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=edsgao& AN=edsgcl.459229976&site=eds-live.