Guimaraes 1 Henrique Bevilacqua Guimaraes ENC 1101 Friday 8-10:45 04/10/2017 Persuasive Essay Outline I. Introduction: A. Obesity has become a big issue in the United States over the years, now found to be the daily struggle of more than one third of American adults(CDC) B. The main concern around this topic is the health implications associated with the condition, such as hypertension, diabetes, heart disease, stroke and some types of cancers. C. Expenses with medical cost regarding to Obesity is bigger than alcohol and cigarettes (Fletcher 2). D. One of the main causes of obesity is the large and excessive consumption of calories in the American daily diet. The daily consumption of sugary drinks contributes to the increase of extra calories in a diet. E. Thesis: Due to associated health risks, interventions must be taken in order to reduce the consumption of sugar drinks. II. Opposing Viewpoint: A. People have the power to make a choice on how much they want to consume, with limitations it would decrease the freedom Guimaraes 2 B. People think that creating a limitation will not have any effects on the consumption, because if someone wants a big sugary drink, they will buy two if the government cap the size of the drink. III. First argument or reason to support your position: A. Soft drinks are a big influence of obesity in the life of adults and kids and cause a series of diseases. 1. In children, the chances of being obese increases for each serving that is additionally intake, also the body mass index(BMI) is increased. (Ludwig 3) 2. In Adults, A reduction of 100 calories in liquid calories is associated with a 0.3 kg weigh loss at 6 months. (Chen 6) 3. Those beverages that contain HFCS are contributing to the obesity epidemic. Consuming it can lead to metabolic syndrome and the appearance of a non- alcoholic fatty liver disease (Bray 2) IV. Second argument or reason to support your position: A. A reduction in liquid calories is more important than in solid calories 1. feeding studies show that individuals who consume caloric beverages shortly before or with a meal eat the same amount of calories as individuals who have a calorie-free drink, thus increasing total energy (Pan 387). 2. When consuming a sugary drink, for instance, the lack of a feeling of satiation causes people to continue to eat, even though the body has already absorbed enough calories. 3. The liquid carbohydrates, especially sugary drinks, are known for producing less satiety than solid carbohydrates. Guimaraes 3 4. When drinking, there mastication, therefore, less pancreatic exocrine and endocrine responses (Chen 4) V. Third argument or reason to support your position. A. Interventions of sugar drinks can give good results 1. With the objective of reducing the consumption of soft drinks, taxes can be added to the total price of the product. For each percentage point increase in the state soft drink tax rate, the average BMI of the population would decrease 0.003 points (Fletcher 1) 2. If a policy to restrict all sugary beverages sold in restaurants to a size of 16 oz (473ml) or less get accepted, teenager would consume 57.6 less calories, while the adult would consume 62.6 less (Wang 1). VI. Conclusion: A. Limitation of sugar drinks reduce the overall consumption of sugar drinks, therefore would reduce the obesity. B. Obesity is a serious issue that influences the life of a lot of people in the world. Something must be done to minimize this problem. Guimaraes 4 Sugar drinks and obesity Obesity has become a big issue in the United States over the years, now found to be the daily struggle of more than one third of American adults, according to the Center of Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). The main concern around this topic is the health implications associated with the condition, such as hypertension, diabetes, heart disease, stroke and some types of cancers. Additionally, a lot of capital is spent annually in medical care due to obesity problem, 147 billion US dollars was the medical cost in 2008 (CDC). Expenses with medical cost regarding to Obesity is bigger than alcohol and cigarettes (Fletcher 2). One of the main causes of obesity is the large and excessive consumption of calories in the American daily diet. The daily consumption of sugary drinks contributes to the increase of extra calories in a diet. The average amount of calories in a sugary drink (which includes sodas, energy drinks, sports drinks, fruit punch, lemonades, among others) is 150 calories, according to Harvard School of Public Health. Due to associated health risks, interventions must be taken in order to reduce the consumption of sugar drinks. Many years have passed and the obesity increased together with the sugar consumption. Even knowing that one is the cause of the other, the population continue to have a higher consumption of sugar drinks. In debate.org, where the question Do you believe sugary drinks should be limited by the federal  was asked, 52% of the people who answer this question answered The main opposite argument was that people have the power to make a choice on how much they want to consume, with limitations it would decrease the freedom. Another argument was that people think that creating a limitation will not have any effects on the consumption, because if someone wants a big sugary drink, they will buy two if the government cap the size of the drink. Guimaraes 5 First, Soft drinks are a big influence of obesity in the life of adults and kids and cause a series of diseases. Relation Between Consumption Of Sugar-Sweetened Drinks And Childhood Obesity by Ludwig, written in 2001, discusses a study complete from 1994 to 1997, that was made with the objective to see the relationship between consumption of sugar drinks and obesity in kids. A total of 548 students were analyzed for the period of one year and seven months to see if those drinks were having a significant effect on changing the body of the kids. The results were positive according to what was expected, was increased for each serving per day at baseline, and further increased for every additional (Ludwig 3). The chances of being obese increases for each serving that was intake. Also, the body mass index (BMI) of the children increased per each serving consumed. Additionally, Liwei Chen published a study written in 2009. In this study, they observed 810 adults (25-79 years) in a period of 18 months, with the objective to determine what are the effects by changing the number of liquid calories. The study founded that, reduction in liquid calorie intake of 100 kcal/d was associated with a 0.3-kg weight loss at 6 months and a 0.2-kg weight loss at 18 months. A reduction in sugar sweet beverage (SSB) intake of 1 serving/d was associated with a 0.5-kg weight loss at 6 months and a 0.7-kg weight loss at 18 (Chen 6). Those authors showed that sugar drinks are a big contributor to the obesity and they support policies that would reduce the overall consumption of liquid calories. Secondly, A reduction in liquid calories is more important than in solid calories. Written in 2011, The article by Frank Hu and An Pan explains how liquid carbohydrates differs from solid carbohydrates, analyzing a series of studies. Appetite is a major factor when it comes to food intake regulation. It is clear and simple: the more you feel hungry, the more you eat. The liquid carbohydrates, especially sugary drinks, are known for producing less satiety than solid Guimaraes 6 carbohydrates. Even though the body receiving great intake of calories, the feeling of hunger go away and the individual proceeds to consume more calories, which eventually leads to an unbalanced nutrition. For example, feeding studies show that individuals who consume caloric beverages shortly before or with a meal eat the same amount of calories as individuals who have a calorie-free drink, thus increasing total energy (Pan 387). In simpler words, the article argues that, when consuming a sugary drink, for instance, the lack of a feeling of satiation causes people to continue to eat, even though the body has already absorbed enough calories. Thirdly, Interventions of sugar drinks can give satisfactory results. Can Soft Drink Taxes Reduce Population Weight, written by Fletcher showed that with the objective of reducing the consumption of soft drinks, taxes are added to the total price of the product. This article does an empirical examination of the effectives of the taxation of sugar drinks. The findings in the research showed that for each percentage point increase in the state soft drink tax rate, the BMI of the consumers would decrease 0.003 points (Fletcher 1). It points a solution to the obesity epidemic, increasing the price of the soft drink, less of it would be bought, therefore the weight of the population would reduce. Additionally, another intervention is to cap the size of the soft drinks. Caloric Effect Of A 16-Ounce (473-Ml) Portion-Size Cap On Sugar-Sweetened Beverages Served In Restaurants, written by Wang, analyzes the results of a policy that was proposed in June 2012, in New York City. This policy would restrict all sugary beverages sold in restaurants to a size of 16 oz (473ml) or less. Normally, the large size is 32 oz (946 ml, 316 kcal). An average teen consumes 301 calories per day in Sugar drinks and adult consume 203 calories. Results of this study shows that if the policy got accepted, teenager would consume Guimaraes 7 57.6 less calories, while the adult would consume 62.6 less (Wang 1). Limitation of sugar drinks reduce the overall consumption of sugar drinks, therefore would reduce the obesity To conclude, Obesity is a grave issue that influences the life of a lot of people in the world. Something must be done to minimize this problem. If interventions are taken, people would consume less soft drinks as showed in the researches. With less consumption of soft drinks, the weight of the people is reduced and the risks of having serious is reduced. And It is more import to focus on reducing liquid carbohydrates than solid carbohydrates. Guimaraes 8 Works Cited Bray, G. A., and B. M. Popkin. Calorie-Sweetened Beverages And Fructose: What Have We Learned 10 Years  Pediatric Obesity 4 (2013): 242. Academic OneFile. Web. 6 Feb. 2017. Chen, Liwei, et al. Reduction In Consumption Of Sugar-Sweetened Beverages Is Associated With Weight Loss: The PREMIER  American Journal Of Clinical Nutrition AJN 5 (2009): AGRIS. Web. 20 Feb. 2017 Do you believe sugary drinks should be limited by the federal  Debate.org. N.p., n.d. Web. 10 Apr. 2017. Fletcher, Jason M., David Frisvold, and Nathan Tefft. Can Soft Drink Taxes Reduce Population  Contemporary Economic Policy 28.1 (2010): 23-35. Business Source Alumni Edition. Web. 20 Feb. 2017. Ludwig, David S, Karen E Peterson, and Steven L Gortmaker. Relation Between Consumption Of Sugar-Sweetened Drinks And Childhood Obesity: A Prospective, Observational  Lancet 357.9255 (2001): 505. Academic Search Premier. Web. 1 Feb. 2017. Pan, An, and Frank B. Hu. Effects of Carbohydrates on Satiety: Differences between Liquid and Solid  Current Opinion in Clinical Nutrition and Metabolic Care 14.4 (2011): 385- 90. Web. 30 Jan 2017 Wang, Y Claire, and Seanna M Vine. Caloric Effect Of A 16-Ounce (473-Ml) Portion-Size Cap On Sugar-Sweetened Beverages Served In  American Journal Of Clinical Nutrition 2 (2013): AGRIS. Web. 6 Feb. 2017.