Anel Orynbayeva Karen Hanson ENC 1102 4/17/17 Smoking as a problem for society Smoking has always been and remains to be a problem in society. The problem is not only that people smoke harming their own health and health of people that surround them, but also that it harms our environment impacting all kinds of different spheres like wildlife, crops and air. According to TobaccoFreeCA products negatively impact and damage our environment. Cigarette butts are not just a nuisance, they are toxic waste. They contain chemicals that contaminate our waterways and ground soil and harm our wildlife. Discarded lit cigarettes can cause fires, which can damage homes and land. It is also very costly to clean up cigarette waste-a problem that continues to grow every Smoking causes problems health wise, economic wise, and environment wise. A problem that affects the world in so many important spheres deserves to be addressed. According to Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) smoking is the leading cause of preventable disease and death in the United States, according for more than 480,000 deaths every year, or 1 of every 5 The numbers are impressive, 1 of every 5 deaths every year are caused by smoking, which is a habit that can be removed easier that other reasons of death, like, for instance, cancer. Hospitals are being packed by people that have health problems because of this habit (smoking) that they chose for themselves. Instead of taking care of people that have serious diseases that really demand professional help, doctors are being occupied by people with health problems caused by smoking. Because of the arising problem of smoking, government is forced to spend money on items like anti-smoking patches, gums, lozenges and inhalers. Economic wise, smoking is a really serious, damaging problem. According to TobaccoFreeCA lose money due to smokers missing work more frequently for illness than other workers; they may also pay more for employee health care insurance to cover smokers. In one year, productivity losses in California for early death or illness due to smoking were estimated to be $8.5 Firstly, smoking damages health, which is being a reason of them skipping work. Secondly, smokers spend enormous amount of money yearly on cigarettes that they buy almost every day. According to TobaccoFreeCA $5 pack-a-day habit costs a smoker nearly $2,000 a This amount of money can be easily enough for a few months of rent or a purchase of a car. Instead of spending money on cigarettes market, it could have been spent on any other market that would help economy to grow. Every time a person spends money on cigarettes he/she supports and helps developing the cigarettes market, which is being damaging to a economy. In other words, the money is the resource that should be spent on developing of an economy, and the money that is being spent on cigarettes could have been spent on spheres of economy that could have been developed by this money invested in them. Environment wise, smoking is also playing a role of a damaging factor for society for multiple reasons. One of the reasons, and probably the most important one, is that smoking pollutes air which harms health and the environment that surround us. As I mentioned earlier, cigarette butts are being very damaging for soil, it is being poisoned by chemicals that butts contain. Because of the poisoned soil, everything that grows in it is being poisoned too, animals that eat these plants are also being poisoned, which creates sort of a chain of poisoned living organisms. Smoking also harms health and people that surround them. Second hand smoking has become well known in recent years. The fact that not smoking secure a person for 100 % from being harmed by chemicals that cigarettes contain is significant. Smokers become responsible not only for their own health, but also for health of other people that surround them, including children. Second hand smoking can cause such diseases as heart disease, lung cancer and stroke. According to Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) nonsmokers, breathing secondhand smoke has immediate harmful effects on the heart and blood vessels. It is estimated that secondhand smoke caused nearly 34,000 heart disease deaths each year during 2005-2009 among adult nonsmokers in the United States. Secondhand smoke exposure caused more than 7,300 lung cancer deaths each year during 2005-2009 among adult nonsmokers in the United The statistics above prove that smoking is a serious problem for society in multiple ways. The problem of smoking should be resolved. All the spheres: economic, social, health, environment are being damaged day by day by the growing market-cigarettes market. The solutions should be proposed that can start changing a situation for the better one immediately and also be a solution for the long run. According to CDC smoke harms children and adults, and the only way to fully protect nonsmokers is to eliminate smoking in all homes, worksites, and public In my opinion, it sound like a solution. Smoking still should remain being a personal choice for each and every person, but secondhand smoking is an unfair phenomena that should be reduced for people that choose to be a smoker, especially children. This solution should really come into real action. There should be designated places, which be public, where smokers can smoke, and nonsmokers can avoid. As many people as possible should be informed of the harmful effects that smoking and second smoking cause. Being harmed by chemicals that cigarettes contain should also become a choice as well as smoking itself, people should be able to avoid being harmed by them if they choose to not smoke. In conclusion, smoking is being a really significant problem. It damages health, economy, and surrounding environment. All these unfortunate consequences come from one habit (smoking). The most effective solution, which can fix problems in the long run is to prohibit smoking at all. It sounds a little unrealistic, but some countries are already trying to apply this solution. For example, according to BBC health ministry is considering a permanent ban on selling cigarettes to people born in 2014 or So far, comments on this event have been negative, people think that it is too harsh to just stop selling cigarettes at all disregarding an age, but, in my opinion, it is the only option to fix all the problems that have been caused by smoking. Everything else that has been tried before in different countries regarding smoking problem help, so probably it is the only option. In my opinion, it is not harsh, if it becomes illegal for all ages, children will not know about an existence of such thing as smoking, which will make it easier for them to not smoke at all and build a nonsmoking, healthy generation that spends its money wisely and helps its economy grow. Works Cited Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 13 Apr. 2017. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.  Tobacco Free CA. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. McCabe, Sean Esteban, et al. Original Article: E-Cigarette Use, Cigarette Smoking, Dual Use, and Problem Behaviors among U.S. Adolescents: Results from a National  Journal of Adolescent Health, 02 Feb. 2017. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.jadohealth.2017.02.004. Schleicher, Nina C., et al. Tobacco Outlet Density near Home and School: Associations with Smoking and Norms among US  Preventive Medicine, 2016, p. 287. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.ypmed.2016.08.027.