Colton Evans ENC 1101 Friday 8-10:45 April 4th, 2017 More Violent Video games More crime In recent years, there has been a great deal of discussion of what is causing violent crimes to rise in the national media, despite the crime rate consistently going down since the early This conversation has been escalated in recent years with recent tragic events occurring, such as the columbine shooting. As a result of these events many politicians and members of the media used guns and violent video games as scapegoats for these tragic events. These claims are made emotionally without much data to support their claims. Although many video games depict gratuitous violence and/or criminal acts, the reality is there is no causal link between video games and criminal behavior. II. Opposing Viewpoint: Violent video games have cause a major outbreak in youth violence, and something should be done about the content of these violent video games. A. Opposing point to your argument: Violent Video games teach children how to kill other people, and encourages this behavior. Video games have taught the teenagers who did recent mass shootings how to kill people. B. Your rebuttal to the opposing point: Youth violence has collapsed since 2008, and has been on a downward trend since 1993. During this time, violent video games have exploded (no pun intended) in popularity. There is no epidemic in youth violence, let alone being caused by violent video games. Video games like movies are unrealistic, therefore cannot teach someone to realistically use a weapon. III. Video games do not encourage or teach people to commit violent acts. A. Video games can often be realistic, but not enough to replicate the real physical world B. some of the mass shooters after committing there act cited video games as the reason they did it C. The people who commit mass shootings are almost always either sociopaths and or psychopaths. This means that they are often pathological liars, so their claim may not even be the truth. D. serial killers or other mass murderers often try to make their actions seem necessary or unavoidable to rid themselves of responsibility of their actions. IV. Studies that show that video games are linked to violent behavior are inherently flawed. A. Despite some studies saying that there is a link between violent video games and increase in aggressive behavior, these same studies often have bias or try to establish correlation arguments, which is an argument fallacy. B. There is cause for concern as how violent video games desensitizes violence anyone who plays it, however this mean it increases violent behavior. C. Studies without publication, or confirmation bias show that there is little to no evidence that violent video games cause violent behavior. D. often those who show violent behavior in their studies have other attributes that are known to cause violent behavior. V. There are key psychological, sociological, and genetic factors that would cause someone to participate in violent or criminal activity. A. Blaming violent video games for the increase in crime would only ignore real proven factors that contribute to crime. B. It is true that video games can trigger violent behavior for someone with a personality disorder, but there are a multitude of things that can also trigger this behavior. C. Those who commit crimes or violent acts will most likely do those things regardless of whether or not they are exposed to video games. D. sociological factors such as being severely bullied in school can lead to criminal behavior VI. Conclusion: A. Violent video games do not and cannot teach a person to commit violent, or criminal acts. Studies that show that video games are linked to violent behavior are inherently flawed. There are key psychological, sociological, and genetic factors that would cause someone to participate in violent or criminal activity that have nothing to do with video games. B. Although many video games depict gratuitous violence and/or criminal acts, the reality is there is no causal link between video games and criminal behavior. C. We should focus on proven reasons why crime happens instead of blaming the media to further lower the crime rate. More Violent Video games More crime In recent years, there has been a great deal of discussion of what is causing violent crimes to rise in the national media, despite the crime rate consistently going down since the early This conversation has been escalated in recent years with recent tragic events occurring, such as the columbine shooting. As a result of these events many politicians and members of the media used guns and violent video games as scapegoats for these tragic events. These claims are made emotionally without much data to support their claims. Although many video games depict gratuitous violence and/or criminal acts, there is no causal link between video games and criminal behavior. Unfortunately, in recent years despite crime in general decreasing, there seems to be a new horrible trend in regards to bringing firearms to school and shooting the students. For instance, the columbine massacre had two members of the high school come to school with automatic weapons and murdered 12 students. The perpetrators at the time before the act played the a violent video game where the player kills as many demons as possible. Many believe that this is one of the key factors in why they committed the atrocity. Their reasoning is that the video game taught them how to commit the mass shooting by teaching them how to shoot firearms by using weapons in the game they played. Although their intention in finding a cause in something horribly random is noble, there logic is flawed and not supported by logic or fact. First person shooter games (the category of gaming doom is under) do not teach players how to use firearms in real life, because many of the weapons in videogames only exist in the video game not the real world. Even if a weapon in the game is based on one in real life, the detail in regards it is often greatly exaggerated. Even if video games did have realistic enough weapons to teach players how to use the real ones, that does not mean they would use the skill to kill people. There are tens of millions of gun owners in the united states and an overwhelming majority of them do not use them to kill other people. Almost all people have a built in moral compass that prevents them from killing other human beings unless their life depends on defending themselves. The reason why the columbine shooters committed the horrendous act is because they were sociopaths who lacked empathy for other human beings. No video game can cause their sociopathy or prevent it. Logically if First person shooters or other violent video games caused these types of tragedies, why these tragedies increased in occurrence with the rising popularity of video games? The same people who claim that video games caused the columbine massacre will often that studies suggest violent video games cause an increase in violent or criminal behavior. However, these same research studies are more often than not have confirmation and publication bias. Many of these studies set out to confirm that video games are harmful to the psyche and cause violence or criminal behavior, and overlook factors that have been proven to cause criminality. Other studies would be conducted by organizations that are already against violent video games, of course they are going to find that video games are damaging to morality. indicate that propensity score matching decreases the already modest effect from gaming, often to nonsignificance. In comparison with other risk factors in the models, the effects are also relatively (Decamp, 2015). According to Decamp many studies do not compare their results to known risk factors of violence such as being born into an abusive family. When he factored his results with the known risk factors, the likability of becoming more violent due to playing violent video games went from moderate to nonexistent. Also, the rising sales in video games have a negative correlation with violent crime in America. crime is at an all-time low in America. Meanwhile, games sales are on the rise in the US (in billions (Kain, 2012). Work cited DeCamp, Whitney. Impersonal Agencies of Communication: Comparing the Effects of Video Games and Other Risk Factors on  Psychology of Popular Media Culture, vol. 4, no. 4, Oct. 2015, pp. 296-304. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1037/ppm0000037. Ferguson, Christopher. The Good, the Bad and the Ugly: A Meta-Analytic Review of Positive and Negative Effects of Violent Video  Psychiatric Quarterly, vol. 78, no. 4, Dec. 2007, pp. 309-316. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1007/s11126-007-9056-9. Fournis, and Nidal Nabhan2 Abou. Violence, Crime, and Violent Video Games: Is There a  Psychiatric Times, vol. 31, no. 9, Sept. 2014, pp. 1-4. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ssf &AN=99271884&site=eds-live. Frithjof, et al. Hostile and Hardened? An Experimental Study on (De-)Sensitization to Violence and Suffering through Playing Video  Swiss Journal of Psychology / Schweizerische Zeitschrift Psychologie / Revue Suisse De Psychologie, vol. 67, no. 1, Mar. 2008, pp. 41-50. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1024/1421- 0185.67.1.41. Kain, Erik. As Video Game Sales Climb Year Over Year, Violent Crime Continues To  Forbes. Forbes Magazine, 24 Apr. 2012. Web. 10 Apr. 2017. Cooke, Charles C. W. Careful with the Panic: Violent Crime and Gun Crime Are Both  National Review. N.p., 30 Nov. 2015. Web. 10 Apr. 2017.