Jenkins 1 Jarek Jenkins Mark Nusspickel ENC 1101 April 3, 2017 OUTLINE I. Introduction: Pollution levels throughout the globe have been steadily increasing with the rise of fossil fuels over the decades. The topic of climate change has thrust the idea of using renewable energy in order to combat this issue. Renewable energy could be used to reduce air pollutants, lower the rate of global warming, and is much more efficient/cheaper compared to fossil fuels. Clean energy systems, such as wind power, will be better for the Earth and economies. Therefore, more countries should look for alternative energy sources for these reasons. II. Opposing Viewpoint: A. Opposition: Currently everything we use (cars, heating, electricity) centrally involves using fossil fuels so it would be too difficult and expensive to completely replace it all. Fossil fuel reserves are also expected to last another 30+ years. B. Rebuttal: Renewable energy pollute the Earth with deadly toxins in the air and we have to replace clean energy. It would also get much cheaper over time. Jenkins 2 III. First Argument: A. Renewable energy technologies bring more jobs, reduce pollution, and requires less water which is extremely important to developing countries. B. It is likely that developing countries would not be able to completely integrate to renewable energy until decades after more developed countries. C. Over time renewable energy will get cheaper so it would be beneficial to integrate as soon as possible to keep pollution down. D. A huge hurdle in the effort will be crossed by decreasing the amount of greenhouse gases in the air and decreasing the rate of the poles melting which will preserve many habitats for animals that live there. IV. Second Argument: A. Clean Energy is available almost anywhere so it would be more practical to use in the future over fossil fuels. B. Smaller countries may find it difficult to find alternative energy sources since the size of the country limits them. C. If a country has access to wind and water, then it is possible to provide electricity to a large amount of people for relatively cheap. D. Geothermal power could eliminate problems small countries all together since it can be stored easily and is readily available regardless of size. V. Conclusion: A. Today fossil fuels are the mainstay for energy needs, but in the future, we should look to renewable energy to replace it. It will be necessary to drive down pollution and will be become significantly cheaper than fossil fuels. Jenkins 3 B. Clean Energy will be better for the Earth and economies C. Countries need to work together to reduce air pollutants so the Earth is protected from toxins. If we continue to neglect the planet, then we are setting our future generations up for failure in a world that sustain itself. Jenkins 4 Renewable Energy is the Future Pollution levels throughout the globe have been steadily increasing with the rise of fossil fuels over the decades. The topic of climate change has thrust the idea of using renewable energy in order to combat this issue. Renewable energy could be used to reduce air pollutants, lower the rate of global warming, and is much more efficient/cheaper compared to fossil fuels. Clean energy systems, such as wind power, will be better for the Earth and economies. Therefore, more countries should look for alternative energy sources for these reasons. Although renewable energy is steadily increasing, some in the energy field feel that fossil fuel energy is more sustainable for the use of electricity. Currently, fossil fuels actually provide more power than any type of renewable energy platform. This is because combustion creates more energy than absorption in solar technologies for example. Furthermore, fossil fuels are not expected to be depleted for another 30 or more years, so many believe there is no pressing need to find alternative energy sources. Robert Lyman, Principal at ENTRANS Policy Research Group, Inc., stated the following in his May 2016 report titled Why Renewable Energy Cannot Replace Fossil Fuels by  provides 95% of the fuel demands of the transportation sector... Every transport mode cars, trucks, trains, buses, marine vessels, and aircraft relies almost entirely on petroleum Further, on the basis of the projections by all major agencies that analyze energy supply and demand trends to 2035 and 2040, this will continue to be the case for the foreseeable (Lyman 1). Since it necessary to them, they ignore the problems fossil fuels create. Even though fossil fuels sustain our electricity habits, they create unnecessary pollution and emit dangerous greenhouse gases into our atmosphere. Problems such as global warming have direct correlation from fossil fuels. As fossil Jenkins 5 fuels prices are going up, renewable energy prices will be going down over time, which should be more incentive for world governments to start the process of integration. Renewable energy at the moment is more expensive than fossil fuels however, they will become substantially cheaper than fossil fuels and bring permanent jobs to the industry. To begin with renewable energy is already starting to add more value because the value of fossil fuels is lowering. For example, Chemical Engineer, Mark Atkins wrote in his report that, [Energy return on energy values tend to decrease over time as more generation is added due to the best sites being utilised first (i.e. highest average wind speed) but can also increase (at least in the short term) as the technology to harvest and exploit these resources improves, as in the case of photovoltaics. It must also be noted there is consensus that EROI values for fossil fuels are declining globally because they are generally becoming more difficult to extract and their EROIs have fallen and will continue to (Atkins 28). This explains that counties that are drilling in the areas they have been using for decades will cause their value to decrease because it hold the same energy it used to. Eventually oil will not be able to sustain our previous electricity consumption unless we begin rapidly depleting the oil reserves which would drive up cost and that certainly is not ideal. In addition, renewable energy will come with lower maintenance cost because you have the logistical problems drilling for oil comes with. Off-shore oil drilling is one of the most expensive practices since it requires the building of rigs deep in the ocean and drills far below the crust. That alone can cost millions of dollars just for one rig. Robert Schiffman describes in his article that, does cost more to build wind farms and install solar arrays. But once these plants are set up and running, they have lower operation and maintenance costs than conventional power on a yearly basis. No more regular fuel bills and only minimal expenses for upkeep of solar, for example, which has no movable Jenkins 6 parts that wear out and need to be (Schiffman 5). This comment quotes backs my statement that although renewable energy is more expensive right now, output will far outweigh the initial price for the system. It will be much more beneficial for countries to try to integrate their power to clean energy now rather than later to at least maximize the profits it holds and decrease pollution. Today there are some forms of renewable energy ready to compete right now directly with fossil fuels. Adnan Amin echoes these claims in his UN chronicle, wind is now one of the most competitive sources of electricity available. Technology improvements, occurring at the same time as installed costs have continued to decline, mean that the cost of onshore wind is now within the same cost range, or even lower, than for fossil fuels. Wind projects around the world are consistently delivering electricity for US $0.05 to US $0.09/ kWh without financial support, with the best projects costing even (Amin 10). All of the evidence today is pointing towards a rapid growth of renewable energy so its important countries soon understand this. If they then we may be stuck in a limbo period where we have to figure out what to do after fossil fuels are depleted. Equally important to lowering the cost of power is reducing pollution and the effects it has on us as a society. Renewable energy today possesses the power to wipe away decades worth of pollution and greenhouse gases given the chance. Julie Casper highlights this issue by explaining why fossil fuels create so many problems. fossil fuels are made from carbon, when they burn it takes the gaseous state of carbon dioxide and is released into the atmosphere. Countries like China use them willingly while trying to manufacture which creates problems for global (Casper 2). This shows that countries are putting profits over the Earth itself just to make more money. China is one of the most, if not the most, polluted countries in the world and studies has shown that smog from China has reached as far as San Francisco on the Jenkins 7 United west coast. If China has smog covering the whole Pacific Ocean then change is needed in the form of renewable energy. Allison Bridges believes health impacts thought of when making energy plans because governments bank on the cost of something they think they are associated with. of external effects such as health impacts of energy production are not reflected in market prices and as a result are often not taken into account during strategic energy planning. Computationally efficient, reduced-form models that estimate the health impact of air pollution from fossil fuel fired electricity generation can reduce the time and resources needed to analyze policy One challenge faced by energy planners concerned with lowering emissions, particularly those using integrated multi-model frameworks for analysis, lies in the trade-off between the uncertainty associated with reduced-form air quality models and the need for sophisticated photochemical modeling that can be prohibitively time and resource (Bridges 74). Bridges shows that the negligence by world governments does calculate health so in this makes a large case for those arguing the reason renewable energy needs to be implemented. If it then entirely possible you could one day end with health problems because planners plan on the outcomes of carbon dioxide emissions. Today fossil fuels are the mainstay for energy needs, but in the future, we should look to renewable energy to replace it. It will be necessary to drive down pollution and will be become significantly cheaper than fossil fuels. Clean Energy will be better for the Earth and economies. Countries will need to work together to reduce air pollutants so the Earth is protected from toxins. If we continue to neglect the planet, then we are setting our future generations up for failure in a world that sustain itself. Jenkins 8 Works Cited Amin, Adnan Z. How Renewable Energy Can Be  UN Chronicle 52.3 (2015): 8-11. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 10 April. 2017. Atkins, Martin. Choice  TCE: The Chemical Engineer 899 (2016): 24-29. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 10 April. 2017. Bridges, Allison, et al. Uncertainty in Energy Planning: Estimating the Health Impacts of Air Pollution from Fossil Fuel Electricity  Energy Research & Social Science, 2015, p. 74. Web. 10 April 2017. Casper, Julie Kerr. Fossil Fuels and Pollution. [Electronic : The Future of Air Quality. New York: Facts on File, c2010., 2010. EBSCOhost. Web. 10 April. 2017 Robert Lyman. Renewable Energy Cannot Replace Fossil Fuels by  (2015) 1-10. Principal at ENTRANS Policy Research Group, Inc. Friends of Science. Web. 9 April. 2017. Richard Schiffman. Why the Shift to Alternate Energies Continues, Despite Shale  (2014) 4-7. Reuters.com. Web. 10 April. 2017.