Derik Ware Karren Hanson ENC 1102 14 April 2017 Nuclear Energy All the waste in a year from a nuclear power plant can be stored under a desk (Regan). With so much power generated and such a small amount of byproduct how can nuclear energy not be the obvious choice for the future of the energy sector. Over the years two types of reactors have been developed there is a boiling water reactor (BWR) and pressurized water reactor (PWR). Both use steam to spin a turbine and generate electricity. The only difference is how many layers there are to the system BWR uses the steam from the core to spin the turbine where the PWR uses the thermal energy of the water from the core to heat a secondary water source which boils and spins the turbine. PWR and BWR use a nearby natural water source to cool the steam or a cooling tower (Nuclear Power). Nuclear energy is the best option for the environment and you can help by participating with pro-nuclear organizations. Many people fear nuclear power because of events such as Chernobyl and Fukashima disasters. Both catastrophes have solid reasoning behind them. First the Chernobyl disaster, it occurred in 1986 on April 28 th . This disaster was caused by a designed when Russian engineers were testing the reactors limits (Nuclear disaster). The engineers removed countless safe guards and removed parts of the core lowering the power making the reaction unstable. In the end, these mistakes cost an estimated 5,000 dead and contaminated land for decades not allowing anyone to go near without a chance of radiation poisoning. This nuclear disaster was awful, but through the mistakes scientists learned how potential disasters Ware 2 could happen and implemented more safety measures. As for the Fukashima disaster it could have been a lot worse that it was. When a 9.0 earthquake happened at 2:49 pm on Friday March 11 th the facility started to shut down (Fukashima Accident). While the reactors were in the process of shutting down a tsunami landed disabling the backup generators because the earthquake had cracked the casing where the generators were housed. Inevitably causing the cores to overheat leading to a melting down. These are two events that happened 25 years apart from one another the latter of the two had a significantly smaller impact on the environment and humans living nearby. There have been no deaths caused by radiation from the disaster because of the safety measures put in place over the years along with the evacuation of the area done in Japan. Although these events were terrible, Chernobyl was caused by misunderstanding and ignoring protocol of the nuclear power plant. Fukashima was caused by two natural disasters that happened to coincide, an earthquake to crack the structure housing the backup generators that assist in the plants shutdown sequence and a tsunami that short circuited the system preventing the reactors to fully cool. On the other hand, if other sources of power are put under the same conditions they would also have failed. For instance, if a wind farm was built where the Fukashima plant was the entire wind farm would no longer be there, this would also apply for a solar farm as well. Nuclear energy is the best way to immediately impact the environment in a positive manor. It takes up the smallest amount of space compared to a solar farm or dam. Three Mile Island is one fourth of a square mile and produces 837 megawatts (MW) of electricity (Three Mile Island). Compared to Topaz Solar farm that is nine and half square miles and produces 550 MW (Wesoff). When scaled to one square mile Three Mile Island would produce 3348 MW of Ware 3 power and Topaz solar farm would generate 57.89 MW. If you were to look at hydroelectric or wind power, they constantly produce energy. Although it is not as much as nuclear but more reliable that solar. One problem with wind farms is that people report that considerable noise is (Solar Vs. Wind Vs. Hydro power). Hydroelectric power is the best option of the renewable energy sources, but it affects the ecosystems up and down stream. Creating two entirely different ecosystems along with removing land up stream with the creation of a lake. Nuclear energy is essential to the power grid because it produces significantly more power than other energy producers and has a very small amount of waste. There are a couple ways you can support nuclear energy. You could write a letter or email the congressmen of your state voicing your opinion in the energy sector or join an organization such as Nuclear Energy Institute, Environmentalists for Nuclear Energy. With either organization, you can sign petitions, participate in rallies, and donate if you feel that is the best way for you to help the cause. Remember that it costs nothing to support nuclear energy and will save space, reduce the changes in ecosystems, and reduce CO2 emissions. Ware 4 Work Cited World Nuclear Association Web. January 2017. 15 April 2017. disaster at History.com Web. 15 April 2017. How It Vattenfall Web. 10 Jan. 2013, 15 April 2017. BrainyQuote.com. Web. Xplore Inc, 15 April 2017. Mile Exelon Web. 15 April 2017. Nuclear Power Nuclear Energy Institute Web. 15 April 2017. Wesoff, Eric the Largest Solar Plant in the World, Is Now Fully Greentech Media Web. Vs. Wind Vs. Hydro Solar Alaska Web.