Mical 1 Miroslaw Mical Professor Mark Nusspickel ENC 1011 April 10, 2017 Make Europe Great Again I. Introduction A. Thesis; European immigration needs to be limited to help stabilize the current civil unrest. II. The current migration lets in much needed labor for the stagnant European economies, and let in refuges from the Middle East crisis. A. It is not humanitarian, economically the native European country and the immigrant both gain benefits from an economic standpoint. (Add statistics) B. While beneficial, the rising resentment of immigrants in Europe does not help the current clash of cultures that is exponentially growing violent. Since Europe stagnant economies going anywhere soon, it would be beneficial to quell constant conflict of the immigrants and natives first. III. Constant threat from terrorism A. Due to the real threat of terrorism i.e. Parris, Bruxsells, limiting the borders of closing them in order to find a more permanent solution. (Should they star source) B. The cost of lives far outweigh the benefits of open borders without regulation. Mical 2 C. What is the point in having a growing and powerful economy, when the population fears for its life. (Add in quotes from the ECU European survey analysis source. 2 IV. Benefits from closing borders A. The benefits of closing a border and establishing a clear and concise parameters for immigration would benefit Europe in the long run, knowing who and how many people is Europe accepting. B. Knowing with extensive background checks and not letting turkey be an inlet for undocumented EU citizens would far greater benefit Europe knowing who they are bringing into their countries. C. Instead of letting in known terrorist soldiers seen from previous years, and not knowing they are the ones coming into your country is detrimental so the security of Europe. VI. Conclusion: A. For the security and wellbeing of Europe, it would help Europe to close down borders for a short time in order to establish a strict immigration policy that extensively checks who is coming into a country. B. Restate thesis statement. C. refer to A Mical 3 In modern and civilized society, terrorist attacks in Europe are now becoming common occurrence, each month has its own separate attack. Yet, no significant action has been taken by the European Union (EU) to safeguard the future of Europe. Their negligence is causing some of the most influential members to take action in order to break away from the EU. The issue is that countries closest to the Middle East lack an appropriate system for vetting refugees or immigrants without any type of background checks in order to identify who they are inviting into Europe. Immigrants from North Africa and Middle Eastham have vast cultural differences from Europe, which is causing a lot of conflict in the form of riots and terrorist attacks. Therefore European countries need to take action to limit and control outside immigration in order to stabilize the current civil unrest between the immigrants and Europeans. The current mass immigrations coming into a European countries provides new, cheap and alternative labor. Cheap labor largely benefits the industrious nations such as Germany, Russia, United Kingdom, and many others. The problem is that the tend not to from contribution to long term due to the Guest Worker program (Zanfrini 27). The Guest Worker program allows foreign workers to temporarily reside and work in a host country, but limits the citizenship of the migrants leaving a political, economic and societal split between the contributions of migrants and the natives. The current civil unrest is located within western and central Europe and in many forms such as riots in Sweden, littered streets of Paris and sexual harassments in Germany. The tensions are flaring on both sides because each society has different goals. parties have tripled since (Trioanovsky 2017) leading to many European groups pushing for immigrants to start returning to their birth place. Many citizens have started to vilify their political leaders as in Chancellor Angela from Germany, David Cameron from United Kingdom Mical 4 and Frederick Reinfeldt from Sweden whom all were booed off stage after their speeches. The extreme cases of these terrorist attacks have happened recently in Paris, Sweden, Germany, Brussels, and more smaller incursions, which ended in senselessly (Batchelor 2016). Another issue, are the housing problems which are one of the dominant reasons of resentment in Europe. Shelters are rapidly filling up with immigrants which forces governments to take drastic action against their citizens. Governments have been forcing citizens to leave their homes in order to house the immigrants. Extreme cases such as a 51-year old German nurse receiving an eviction letter notifying her that her house was a into a refugee (Huggler 2015). These types of cases have been appearing across countries who take in the most refugees primarily Sweden and Germany (Mohdin 2016). Situations like these have been worsening the relationship with the native citizens because of this injustice. Growing disputes can have potential consequences most likely violent and deadly. The restriction of borders and temporarily stopping all immigration in Europe from the Middle East and Africa could buy time for the EU to set in a proper vetting system for refugees. At the moment, the system allows most of the immigrants to travel to Turkey, a European Union country since 2003, and easily get EU citizenship. After receiving this passport any EU citizen can freely travel to any other EU country meaning that Turkey is an uncontrolled gateway to immigrants. The major public figures to this situation are; the EU and Angela Merkel. Angela Merkel, Chancellor of Germany, has pushed EU to enforce the resettlement of refugees sheltered in Greece and to other European countries (New York Times 2015). The other European countries have started to disregard the resettlement policies. Poland, Scandinavia, Macedonia, Croatia, and other Balkan countries have permanently closed their borders to Mical 5 refugees (Kingsley 2016). The complication is not in the European countries but in the character of the refugees coming in. Since, current terrorist organizations such as ISIS send sleeper cells into Europe via the refuge routes, allowing a general and of his most trusted disguised as refugees (Wood 2017). This leads to the discussion whether Europe should close its borders to protect its own citizens or choose to host the refugees with the risk of letting in terrorists. The EU and its members must take the initiation to help its own citizens by regulating their borders and instituting a program for helpful and useful refuges with an extensive background check. All the countries should put their citizens first and respect them by not giving away their property or well for the sake of immigrants. The citizens pay taxes, work hard and have a natural right to be safe in their own land while refugees offer short-term economic stabilization however terrorists will take this as an opportunity. The extensive background checks is just the beginning to help separate the immigrants from the extremists, other options include assimilation programs. However, with the current situation in the heart of the Europe will lead to the dissolving of the EU, as more countries other than United Kingdom are taking measures to leave the EU. France will most likely be the next country to vote for a referendum and start anew. There is a chance for European countries to become stable and prospering again but it includes tough decisions and prioritizing their own citizens, after all its the Mical 6 Works Cited Zanfrini, Laura. How Europe Can Benefit from Immigration-Related  Social Science Research 2009th ser. 23.3 (2009): 23-32. Web. 10 Apr. 2017. Trioanovsky, Anton. Anti-Immigration Parties See Opening to Weaken EU  Wall Street Journal (2017): n. pag. Web. 10 Apr. 2017. Huggler, Justin. German Woman Threatened with Eviction to Make Way for  The Telegraph. Telegraph Media Group, 25 Sept. 2015. Web. 10 Apr. 2017. Mohdin, Aamna. The Most Refugee-friendly Country in Europe Is Growing  Quartz. Quartz, 06 Sept. 2016. Web. 10 Apr. 2017 Batchelor, Tom. Terror in Europe MAPPED - Shocking Number of Deaths and Injuries from Attacks in  Express.co.uk. Express.co.uk, 27 July 2016. Web. 10 Apr. 2017. Times, New York. EU Plan Forcing Nations to Take in Immigrants  San Antonio Express-News. N.p., 14 Sept. 2015. Web. 10 Apr. 2017. Kingsley, Patrick. Balkan Countries Shut Borders as Attention Turns to New Refugee  The Guardian. Guardian News and Media, 09 Mar. 2016. Web. 10 Apr. 2017. Wood, L. Todd. ISIS General: 400 Soldiers Disguised as Refugees Return to  The Washington Times. The Washington Times, 03 Jan. 2017. Web. 10 Apr. 2017.