Santana 1 James Santana Professor Mark J Nusspickel ENC 1101 10 April, 2017 The Issue on GMOs are fairly new to the discussion board. Coming to rise in the recent 20 th century and taking the world by storm. Some critics believe that GM foods should be banned entirely due to certain health risks attributed to them. While other critics advocate for the continued use of them in our society. I believe more research is needed before a decision can be made to ban GMOs from our market shelves. Since came to rise, the debate whether or not to have them in our country has been an issue. Many critics believe that we should follow in the footsteps of Norway, as well as many other countries that are part of the European Union, and place a ban on from our country entirely. Critics believe in such because of many different recent studies that link GMO food consumption to the rise of disease in the United States, as well as birth defects, cancer, and abnormal bowel inflammation and bleeding. Though these groups are sincere in their opposition, studies on the side effects of have only been observed in lab animals, and Santana 2 they have overlooked other substantiating factors, including but not limited to, the ability to grow more nutrient rich and tasteful crops on smaller amounts of land for longer periods of time, decrease overall world hunger (especially famine in India), and supply for the growing world population that organic production cannot keep up with. Presumably, hit grocery stores in 1994, and research regarding the negative attributes of digesting hybrid DNA into the body did not readily occur until the Before this time, research was focused on how to make better (particularly more pest resistant). It was not until 2011, when Bt Toxins were found in a pregnant bloodstream with traces of the toxin being passed along to the fetus, when research started to take off on the possible side effects GM foods have on the consumer. Since then, it has only been approximately 5 year for research to be conducted on this side of Which is roughly considered a short period of time, keeping in mind, that were patented and known about in 1980 but did not boom on the shelves of super markets until 1999. Further leading me on to my next point as to why need more time before a decision is placed upon them. All things considered, WebMD posted an article titled, You Need to Know About that states, group of scientists did an extensive review of research on the safety of crops from GMOs over the past 10 years. They found no significant harm directly tied to genetic engineering. And the American Medical Association thinks genetically modified foods are OK. Part of an official statement notes that in almost 20 years, no clear impacts on human health have been reported or confirmed in professional Which acts contradictory to another article written by Christina Sarich titled, Suffering from Inflammatory Bowel Disease from that claims that are solely to blame for the increased number of kids with Santana 3 disease in the U.S. As well as other published articles like, 7 Ways GMOs Affect Your written by Alana Burke and, Should We Care About Genetically Modified , written by John Shaw. Which both proclaim that GMO consumption is linked to birth defects, as well as cancer, and bowel inflammation and bleeding. Showing a skew on the facts regarding the negative health risks of consuming GM foods. Which should be universal before any decision is placed upon whether to have or not have them in our country. Further some, since the rise of many issues regarding world hunger, farming, and our economy have shifted as well. Famine in India is nowhere near how horrid it was back before were not on our counters. Farming was also more demanding and difficult with less of a payout. It was done on larger land, with a substantial amount of crops having to be thrown away. Crops were either no good for the market shelves, nutrient depleted or ran through by bugs. Which ties directly into the economy, with more money being forced into pesticide resistant sprays for these vast fields of crops that only a small proportion actually wind up selling. Making profit come at a significantly slower rate than it does today, with We are able to plant more crops, on smaller amounts of land than ever before with them being more nutrient rich and tasteful than before without the loss of so much product and high cost of pesticides that could potentially be causing our body damage too. In conclusion, it should be easy to see why I believe need a bit more time before a clear and concise decision to ban them occurs. They are too new to the market with not enough clear evidence on the negative effects have on our body. As I pointed out the skewness in facts from one website to another. And have impactful benefits that we might not be able to Santana 4 accommodate without them. Such as slowing down the rate of world hunger and deaths related to hunger, and feeding our ever growing population size. Santana 5 Work Cited Awareness, GMO. GMO Timeline A History of Genetically Modified  GMO Awareness. Rosebud Magazine , 09 Oct. 2014. Web. 10 Apr. 2017. Burke, Alana M. 7 Ways GMOs Affect Your  Newsmax. N.p., 09 Feb. 2015. Web. 06 Feb. 2017. Rosendal, Kristin G. GMO assessment in Norway: societal utility and sustainable  GMO assessment in Norway: societal utility and sustainable development EMBO Reports. Anne Ingeborg Myhr, 21 Aug. 2008. Web. 20 Feb. 2017. Sarich, Christina . Kids Suffering from Inflammatory Bowel Disease from  Natural Society. N.p., 25 Oct. 2014. Web. 08 Mar. 2017. Shaw, John N. Should We Care About Genetically Modified  Food Safety News. Food Safety News, 01 Feb. 2010. Web. 06 Feb. 2017. Siegel, Kate, and Suzanne Verity. What You Need to Know About  WebMD. WebMD, 03 Dec. 2016. Web. 10 Apr. 2017.