Running head: BENEFITS OF GMO 1 Project 3: Benefits of GMO on health Smirnou Stanislau University of South Florida BENEFITS OF GMO 2 Outline I. Introduction Developments in biology allowed scientists to modify genomes of organisms and that made possible potential improvement of food sources, modification of human pathogens, and other organisms to benefit human health. Years of artificial selection are now replaced by the months or genetic engineering and a growing number of bioengineering techniques outcompete old methods of artificial selection and allow more advanced improvement of organisms. Genetically modified organisms are beneficial for human health as they can be used for food supplementation, for the treatment of diseases and genetic disorders. II. Counterargument Many people believe that GMOs are harmful and that combinations of genes from different species cannot occur in nature or in traditional or that are no enough evidence that GMOs do not harm our GMOs 2017). Even though those points are not correct, many people become mislead by that information and develop their opinion based weak evidence. III. Genetically Modified organisms (GMOs) are beneficial for human health, because they provide vital micro and macro nutrients that are necessary for humans to avoid some diseases such as vitamin A deficiency blindness. a. the Provitamin A Biosynthetic Pathway into (Carotenoid-Free) Rice by Ye and colleagues. b. Increasing concentration of provitamine A by the genetic modification (GM) of rice prevents vitamin A deficiency (VAD) blindness. BENEFITS OF GMO 3 IV. Genetically modified organisms can be used to treat different genetic disorders. GM viruses are effective agents for gene therapy of hemophilia. a. therapy for by Murphy and High. b. Genetic engineering of viruses and incorporation of a correct version of gene can be a potential treatment of genetic disorders such as hemophilia B. V. GM bacteria a. of therapeutically modified bacteria into gut microbiota inhibits by Zhongyi and colleagues. b. Genetically modified bacteria can be incorporated into human microbiome to treat obesity. VI. Conclusion BENEFITS OF GMO 4 Project 3: Benefits of GMO on health Developments in biology allowed scientists to modify genomes of organisms and that made possible potential improvement of food sources, modification of human pathogens, and other organisms to benefit human health. Years of artificial selection are now replaced by the months or genetic engineering and a growing number of bioengineering techniques outcompete old methods of artificial selection and allow more advanced improvement of organisms. During the last decade, many advances in bioengineering techniques occurred that allowed scientist to use genetically modified organisms (GMOs) in many fields. However, arguably the most important sphere where GMOs are used is the human health. Genetically modified organisms are beneficial for human health as they can be used for food supplementation, for the treatment of diseases and genetic disorders. Many people believe that GMOs are harmful and that combinations of genes from different species cannot occur in nature or in traditional or that are no enough evidence that GMOs do not harm our GMOs 2017). Even though those points are not correct, many people become mislead by that information and develop their opinion based on weak evidence. During the last decade, many articles were published trying to show harmful effects of GMOs on human body. However, all those articles used fraud science to support their claims and authors were denied in publishing their articles in respectful scientific journals. Myths about the harmful effect of GMOs are actively spread by medias and easily mislead people without strong scientific background. Genetically Modified Organisms (GMOs) are beneficial for human health, because they provide vital micro and macro nutrients that are necessary for humans to avoid diseases. There are many disease caused by the lack of supplements in the food and most them a prevalent in the third BENEFITS OF GMO 5 world countries were people are not able to afford diverse diets rich in vitamins and other biologically active substances. One type of disease caused by the lack of vitamin A in the diet is vitamin A deficiency blindness (VAD) blindness. According to Ye and colleagues, vitamin A deficiency blindness is a common condition in some part of the world and around a quarter of a million people in Southeast Asia are going blind each year due to lack of vitamin A supplementation. Scientists estimated that around 124 million children worldwide have VAD and proposed a solution to that problem. They created methods of genetic modification of rice that allow to increase production of provitamin A in the rice endosperm. Ligation of bacterial version of gene that can catalyze production of from its precursor helps to enrich rice in pro- vitamin A and solve the problem of vitamin A deficiency (Ye et al., 2000, p. 303). Many other papers proposing solutions for malnutrition problems exist and their number is growing significanly. Potential benefits of GM techiques in the constantly growing population and a changing climat is imposible to overestimate and future survival of human species might depend on genetically modifed food sources. Genetically modified Organisms (GMOs) can be used to treat different desease. Ther are many described human diseases and new methods of treatmant are developed every year. One of the most rapidly developing approaches for treatment is modificatio of pathogens that cause deseases. Those methods are especially usefull when a disease is caused by a bacteria. Nowadays obesity is a rising problem in many countries and development of theraputic techniques that will allow us to treat that condition and to prevent complecations caused by obesity is crusial. Zhongyi and colleagues described a way to use GM bacteria to change human microbiome and treat obesity and provided evidences in the effectiveness of their method. Modification of BENEFITS OF GMO 6 pathogen showed a positive result in experiments and indicated decrease in body weight accumulation and adiposity (Zhongyi et al., 2014, p. 3391). Genetically Modified Organisms (GMOs) are beneficial for human health because they can be used to treat different genetic disorders. There are many described genetic disorders in human populations and usually they are impossible to treat. approach for their treatment is the replacement therapy which provides body with the substance that cannot be synthesized because of malfunctioning of a defective gene version. However, new approaches for the treatment of genetic disorders were developed due to advances in genetic engineering techniques. Human viruses can be modified to target specific cells and insert correct versions of genes inside cells with defective versions of genes. Murphy and colleagues described the first clinical trial of hemophilia treatment with GM viruses. Hemophilia is characterized by the mutation in gene that encodes blood clotting factor and without working gene, blood cannot coagulate properly. Clotting factor effected by the mutation is produced in the liver and thus, viruses that specifically target liver cells can be used for the treatment. Genetically modified viruses are able to target liver cells and introduce a correct version of gene inside liver cells and make the organ produce a certain amount of blood clotting factor that significantly decreases symptoms hemophilic patients (Murphy & High, 2008, p. 480). Genetically modified organisms are beneficial for human health and can be used as a treatment for many debases and disorders. GM plans are a good targets for enrichment and supplementation with vitamins and other micronutrients that can solve the problem of malnutrition in poor countries. Modification of human pathogens is a new approach for treatment of human diseases and disorders that can potentially become a key for treatment of genetic disorders and other conditions that are nowadays considered incurable. BENEFITS OF GMO 7 References Are GMOs harmful? (2017). Retrieved April 3, 2017 from http://www.debate.org/opinions/are gmos-harmful-yes-or-helpful-no. Murphy, S. L., & High, K. A. (2008). Gene therapy for hemophilia. British Journal of Hematology, 140(5), http://doi.org/10.1111/j.1365-2141.2007.06942.x Ye, X., Al-Babili, S., A., Zhang, J., Lucca, P., Beyer, P., & Potrykus, I. (2000). Engineering the provitamin A biosynthetic pathway into (carotenoid-free) rice endosperm. Science, 287(5451), 303-305. Zhongyi, C., Lilu, G., Yongqin, Z., Walzem, R. L., Pendergast, J. S., Printz, R. L., & ... Davies, S. S. (2014). Incorporation of therapeutically modified bacteria into gut microbiota inhibits obesity. Journal of Clinical Investigation, 124(8), 3391-3406. doi:10.1172 JCI72517.