Zhou 1 Guangzheng Zhou Mark J Nusspickel ENC 1101 Spring 2017 April 3rd, 2017 Tardy Revived Miracle the Rising of Graphene Material Have you ever heard the materials? Throughout the history of human civilization, new developed materials always brought an entire new era; the intensity of steel opened the gate of knight age, plastics direct leaded the modernization we had all around us while the nano-silicic plates were declaring the dawn of information age. Now, the next evolution is coming, which is known as the rising of graphene material. Graphene only has single atom thickness while the theoretical mechanical strength is the strongest that human have ever had! Its properties not only including high conductivity in both heat and electricity, but also exhibits a great potential of possible applications; especially next generation of portable electronic device. Obviously, someday, this materials would play important roles in our daily life. However, since the graphene has first time been prepared in 2004, a decade has passed, it is necessary to consider when will this exciting material come true? Maybe because public were affected by the great enthusiasm of authorities in the research field, over- optimistically, many people commonly hold an expectation of minor developed period on this material than forecast. They believe the rapid graphene- relative technologies developing speed will make the applications coming soon. Also, the good news of new graphene discover constantly appeared on the media that made Zhou 2 an unidirectional propagate of graphene technologies developing speed. Incomplete, or unilateral understanding of research situation is the main issue. It is inadvisable to over optimistic believe that the graphene applications will come true in anytime. Although statistical data shows that the studying implementation of graphene technology is developing at a rapid speed, nevertheless, more time is need to thoroughly know and develop this amazing material. As a common view of graphene studying, the graphene is rapid developing in the greatest scale ever, we could cay that every day we can have new discover of this material, by the studying of researches tendency in 2009, which provide: brief overview of the number of publications about graphene (Fig. a) indicates the growing number of publications in this field since its discovery. This diagram shows an increase by factor of approximately 10 in five years based on the Chemical Abstracts Service (CAS) database. The total number of citations per year, based on the data obtained from Web of Science (WoS), is shown in Fig. It is true that the graphene studying is increasing evidently, consider the countries and institutions involved in , we even can say the graphene technologies developing is progressing an unprecedented speed with great global cooperation, but it does not mean that our understanding of graphene is comprehensive enough to apply it into our life. We still need to take a long Zhou 3 time to understand graphene and establish appropriate theory for graphene application. The amount of research is not equal to the level of understanding. To acquire required graphene application, we must design appropriate embryo, the application of technologies can never be achieved without attempt. The commercialization of graphene applications need more studying, our understanding of graphene we had just passed the beginning step, systemize all we learned to real application is impossible in only one step. Although, we should admit that we have already exposed almost all of fundamental properties of graphene, it does not mean we do have to know how to apply this super tiny and thin material into smart or space elevator. Down-to-earth the developing of applications still have long a way to go. Of- course, only surmount restrict of imagination, by using innovation and creation, compare with past technologies, such as plastics, rare-earth material and so graphene application will come true very soon. Just as Edison had failed hundreds of times when inventing lamp, graphene need time to overcome the millions of technological obstruction and challenges, it will take time, but we still can be optimistic for this material. Although we have already developed dozens of convenient or efficient methods to prepare graphene. Some of methods even have great potential to perform mass production with almost perfect purity rate. But the methods are required to develop for specific requirement on production. Correct, not only the basic method of mechanical stripping, but also many other outstanding methods (which can make us amazing on the technologies we had) appeared, such as Liquid phase and thermal exfoliation and Zhou 4 Chemical vapour deposition. We now have many different available methods for prepare different qualities of graphene. Unfortunately, as mentioned above, despite of preparation is not the problem, graphene material is not like paper that we can process easily, better process methods are necessary to achieve the requirement of its application. We direct use graphene without any plan or design. Novoselov, who is one of the authority in graphene studying, his article showed: the The market of graphene applications is essentially driven by progress in the production of graphene with properties appropriate for the specific application, and this situation is likely to continue for the next decade or at least until each of many potential applications meets its own Which clearly supported the argument of graphene application still need time to develop corresponding and productive manufacture and process methods. In short words, the amount of graphene relative researches were increasing year by year, which prove a positive studying situation and condition. Also, our understanding of graphene, especially the developing its application is remain on the initial stage. Although we have many mature methods that can prepare graphene already, the reprocess of the raw material is still a huge challenge. There is no doubt that graphene technologies have lots of wonderful advance in past decade, however, it still need a long time to come true as real application the we once imagined. we should be rational to acknowledge that we wound not have real application soon. Whenever graphene applications finally come true, we are witnesses of the beginning of a new age. As human technology advance, or even can called as the evolution of intelligence basic on Zhou 5 knowledge of the world, we are going to expect and absolutely will experience more than just innovation of technologies. As an old saying goes: opposite of wisdom is the objective truth always rise, and its impact always profound and lasting. Zhou 6 Works Cited Ball, Philip. expect graphene to perform miracles Philip  Opinion. Guardian News and Media, 28 Dec. 2012. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Dempsey, Paul. Flat Out For The  Engineering & Technology (17509637) 3.19 (2008): 34-37. Applied Science & Technology Source. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Novoselov, K.S., et al. A Roadmap For  Nature 7419 (2012): 192. Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Small  Entrepreneur 42.12 (2014): 70. Business Source Alumni Edition. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Segal, Michael. Selling Graphene By The  Nature Nanotechnology 4.10 (2009): 612. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Taghioskoui, Mazdak. Trends In Graphene  Materials Today 12.10 (2009): 34-37. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 5 Feb. 2017.