Running head: PROJECT 3 1 ENC 1101: Project 3 Intermediate Draft Jordan Taylor The University of South Florida PROJECT 3 2 ENC 1101: Project 3 Intermediate Draft diverse therapeutic and pain-relieving applications, as well as its future economic and medical potential, has convinced over half of the states in the U.S. to pass varying forms of marijuana the federal current prohibition on the drug. To this end, states such as Pennsylvania and more recently Florida have passed medical marijuana laws covering various conditions and ailments; more notably cancer or AIDS-related weight loss. A smaller number of states have also approved marijuana for recreational use; such as Colorado and Oregon, and recent financial reports are very promising. Some may argue, however, that marijuana is a dangerous gateway drug that has underlying negative health effects which deem the drug unsafe for wide-spread legalization, but there are sparse amounts of evidence backing these claims. The federal current scheduling of marijuana blatantly contradicts the plethora of recent conducted in recent decades that highlight its proven safe and effective relief for certain conditions. Therefore, marijuana should be legalized in the U.S. so that state policies no longer conflict with the federal prohibition and that the full medical and economic potential of marijuana may be realized. Although many of the taboos surrounding marijuana have all but disappeared, there still remains a formidable opposition of legalization. Proponents of the federal prohibition do well to highlight the unavoidable health risks involved with inhaling any smoked substance, as well as the possible impact the legalization of marijuana may have on societies across the U.S. One key argument brought up is the role that marijuana will play as a gateway drug; that it reduce perceived barriers against the use of other illegal drugs and provide access to these (Cohen, 2010, p.658). There is, however, little evidence proving this theory when marijuana is prescribed and properly used under supervision of a medical professional. As for the health risks, PROJECT 3 3 there is currently no equally effective alternative to providing treatment with marijuana other thank smoking it, and the effectiveness of the treatment significantly varies from patient to patient . With this is mind, many policies, such as in Canada, have passed legislation allowing patients with specified medical conditions to grow cannabis for their own personal use as a sort of at your own compromise (Hall, W., & Degenhardt, L., 2003, p.694). For many patients, there exists no other relief for symptoms caused by their conditions than the therapeutic effects of smoking marijuana. Many of the approved illnesses for medical marijuana treatment listed in state legislatures are currently incurable. For example, the noted biologist Stephen Jay Gould claimed that the of not experiencing nausea caused by chemotherapy was greatest he ever received in all his years of treatment (Cohen, 2010, p.657). However, due to state policies needing to individually decide on their own version of marijuana legislation, there is an underlying variability in the conditions approved for medical marijuana treatment. The inconsistencies across state policies are definitely not to be ignored, such as in J. Bestradhniy & K.C. article in medical marijuana laws in the United where the data gathered showed that permits marijuana for about 7 times the number of conditions (40) permitted by Washington, the most restrictive state (Bestrashiniy, J., & Winters, K.C., 2015, p. 641). This polarity can cause conflicts between state legislatures regarding patients smoking marijuana for a condition approved in one state, but is a federal offense in another. Conflicts such as these may be entirely avoided if the federal government lifts the federal prohibition on marijuana and creates a nation-wide, uniform policy. Colorado has reported to have made $1 billion on marijuana revenue in 2016 alone. What is more impressive is the fact that most of the transactions involving marijuana that year were entirely cash-based. This is due to the inability of any marijuana-related businesses to utilize PROJECT 3 4 federal institutions such as banks when it comes to any money generated from a marijuana- related sale. Banks and credit and debit cards allowed to accept or spend money tied to any illegal is technically what marijuana sales are because of the current scheduling of marijuana (AS STATES LEGALIZE, 2017, p.29). Yet another problem easily solved by a unified national marijuana policy. marijuana economy is still very much developing, and being able to use credit cards or banks will only make that economy generate more than $1 billion annually. This is also just one out of 50 states in the U.S.; marijuana could very easily become a multi-billion dollar industry with the backing of the federal government. It seem possible for long-term development in this country to involve the coexistence between state policies legalizing it, and the federal government ignoring the majority of the country advocating its legalization. Marijuana initiatives seem to be outgrowing the shell of regulation that the federal government has set aside for them, and eventually must face this inevitable necessary evil that it has so long ignored and had a bias against. For the U.S. to be a global leader in medical developments and economic prosperities involving marijuana, marijuana must be re-scheduled or completely legalized by the federal government. PROJECT 3 5 References AS STATES LEGALIZE MARIJUANA, LAWS REMAIN MURKY. (2017). Journal of Property Management, 82(1), 28-29. Bestrashniy, J., & Winters, K. C. (2015). Variability in medical marijuana laws in the United States. Psychology Of Addictive Behaviors, 29(3), 639-642. doi:10.1037/adb0000111 Cohen, P. J. (2010). Medical Marijuana 2010: Time to Fix the Regulatory Vacuum. Journal Of Law, Medicine & Ethics, 38(3), 654-666 Hall, W., & Degenhardt, L. (2003). Medical Marijuana Initiatives: Are They Justified? How Successful Are They Likely to Be?. CNS Drugs, 17(10), 689-697. doi:10.2165/00023210- 200317100-00001 PROJECT 3 6 OUTLINE I. diverse therapeutic and pain-relieving applications, as well as its future economic and medical potential, has convinced over half of the states in the U.S. to pass varying forms of marijuana the federal current prohibition on the drug. To this end, states such as Pennsylvania and more recently Florida have passed medical marijuana laws covering various conditions and ailments; more notably cancer or AIDS-related weight loss. A smaller number of states have approved marijuana for recreational use; such as Colorado and Oregon, and recent financial reports are very promising. Some may argue, however, that marijuana is a dangerous gateway drug that has underlying negative health effects which deem the drug unsafe for wide-spread legalization, but there are sparse amounts of evidence backing these claims. The federal current scheduling of marijuana blatantly contradicts the plethora of recent conducted in recent decades that highlight its proven safe and effective relief for certain conditions. Therefore, marijuana should be legalized in the U.S. so that state policies no longer conflict with the federal prohibition and that the full medical and economic potential of marijuana may be realized. II. Counterargument A. Gateway hypothesis B. Smoking in general not healthy C. Cost of policy enforcement outweigh profits III. Support A. Treatment with marijuana sometimes better than existing treatments B. Within 10 months in 2016, Colorado generated $1 Billion in marijuana revenue C. Inconsistencies across state policies causing isues/conflicting with federal government D. May have reverse Gateway drug turn to marijuana to alleviate withdrawal symptoms from harder drugs E. Reported to reduce crime following legalization Conclusion