Student 1 Student Maria Theodosiou ENC 1102.050 16 April 2017 The Dangers of Deforestation From child labor to drug trafficking, there are many issues that plague various societies across the globe, but seldom is it that one can find an issue that affects absolutely everyone. However, the issue of deforestation is one that affects people no matter where they are on Earth, even here at the University of South Florida. In a research article published by Earth Observatory, scientists claim that the current rate of deforestation continues, the rain forests will vanish within 100 causing unknown effects on global climate and eliminating the majority of plant and animal species on the (Urquhart et al. 1). If something is not done now, the world as we know it will and not for the better. Deforestation is an issue that can and will pose great harm for our environment and inhabitants, however we can work together to combat deforestation by lobbying for change and boycotting products that are produced by inherent deforestation. Through educating others and spreading awareness, you can help deforestation become a thing of the past. To understand the urgency of the need to combat deforestation, one must know the dangerous effects the problem creates and the threats it poses. The most prominent issue brought forth by deforestation is the issue of climate change. According to the World Wildlife Organization, Forests play a critical role in mitigating climate change because they act as a carbon up carbon dioxide that would otherwise be free in the atmosphere and Student 2 contribute to ongoing changes in climate patterns. Deforestation undermines this important carbon sink function. It is estimated that 15% of all greenhouse gas emissions are the result of deforestation. (WWF Overview). If we continue to allow deforestation to happen, we will be caught red handed in aiding the destruction of the Ozone layer. As carbon emissions increase, holes in the Ozone layer that block the UV rays start to form, causing the Earth to warm up at an alarming rate. Then, as temperatures rise, the ice caps will melt, causing sea levels to rise. This event would be disastrous for people living in Florida, as so many live in cities that are currently at sea level, such as Tampa. If deforestation is not stopped or slowed down, coastlines may very well be underwater in the years to all of which could have been prevented if the effort to combat deforestation is successful. In addition to climate change, many different forms of wildlife may disappear if deforestation is not stopped. According to Martha J. Gloom, extinction, endangerment, and ecosystem degradation are not the aims of human societies, but are the unfortunate by-product of human (63). While corporations and firms that profit from deforestation may not intend to destroy the homes of wildlife and ultimately cause their extinction, it is important to acknowledge the fact that their greed is the reason you and your children may never get to see a tiger or an orangutan, even in captivity! Because corporations that specialize in forestry and agriculture are the biggest culprits in causing deforestation, the best way to help curb deforestation is to hit them where it with your wallet. The power of the consumer is perhaps one of the most influential yet under- scrutinized form of protest. Because companies produce goods and services based on consumer demand, the best way that we can help stop deforestation to prove to companies that deforestation is simply not good for business. Products like paper, timber, palm oil, and other Student 3 agricultural products are often produced in an area where deforestation has occurred, so when thing you can do as a consumer is to become educated about the choices you make when buying these goods. By checking the labels and researching where and how your food and other household products are made, you can make the smart decision to only buy products that have been guaranteed by the company to be made in the eco-friendliest manner, and boycotting products that are not. In addition to buying eco-friendly products from companies such as Paper Products and Environment you can also do your part in reducing your own waste by reusing bags when you go grocery shopping or using a refillable water bottle as opposed to drinking from plastic ones. Finally, you can do your part by recycling paper products in your household, so that somewhere on Earth, a life will be spared as opposed to being cut down to replace the waste you have created. Though all these methods are instrumental ways in fighting the effects of deforestation, lobbying for policy change is an effort that we all must engage in to make a difference. To make our voices heard, we must demand that our representatives will work on our behalf, as opposed to special interests. As a USF student, you can call U.S. Congresswoman Kathy office at (813) 871-2817 and urge her to take the initiative to help fight against deforestation by implementing anti-deforestation legislation. Deforestation is one of the most major threats not only to mankind, but to other species as well. It contributes to climate change, rising sea levels, and great losses to wildlife and other forms of biodiversity. By fighting for change through our lobbying efforts, our consumer power, and a few eco-friendly lifestyle changes, we can be the difference that saves our planet from its current rapid destruction. As USF students, we should make it our priority to ensure that our future and our future is one that is environmentally sustainable and free from Student 4 deforestation. The dangers of deforestation are most certainly real, and its threats many, but with our conjoined efforts, we can clear out deforestation for good. WC: 966 Student 5 Works Cited Deforestation:  Worldwildlife.org. World Wildlife Fund, 2017. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Solutions to  Greenpeace.org. Greenpeace, n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Groom, M.J. (2005). Threats to Biodiversity. In: Groom, M.J. Meffe, G.K. Carroll, C.R. (Editors) Principles of Conservation Biology. Sinauer Associates, Inc., Sunderland, Massachusetts, USA. Urquhart, Gerald, Walter Chomentowski, David Skole, and Chris Barber. Tropical  Earthobservatory.nasa.gov. NASA, n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.