Van Decker 1 John Van Decker Kristin Gocinski ENC 1102-909 20 April 2017 Alpha Sig Leadership on Campus Like many universities around the United States, The University of South Florida (USF) offers a numerous amount of opportunities for students to get involved. These opportunities are ones such as Room Assistant (RA), Orientation Leader (OL), and positions at Student Government (SG). Positions such as these allow students to grow personally and socially, while also giving them connections for the future. As a student at USF, one would not want to pass up opportunities such as these, or would they? The Zeta Omicron Chapter of Alpha Sigma Phi, due to excessive involvement on campus has been restricted, in terms of numbers, for how many members can hold certain leadership positions on campus. USF Office of Fraternity and Sorority Life (OFSL) has done this due to the belief that access to the positions would create a power struggle, that would cause USF to lose diversity in the upper echelons of their student leadership. Also, OFSL believes that access to positions such as OL and RA would be unfair in terms of recruitment when it comes to other chapters on campus. However, these beliefs are very far from the truth. The Zeta Omicron Chapter of Alpha Sigma Phi, wishes to better their members in every aspect of their lives. Therefore, it is to be expected that many of the members would be heavily involved on campus. While they may not be directly engaged in the issue at hand, Alpha Sigma Phi Headquarters can get engaged in this situation. The Zeta Omicron Chapter of Alpha Sigma Phi is deliberately being restricted by the Office of Fraternity and Sorority Life at USF, for reasons unwarranted. Alpha Sigma Phi Headquarters needs to act as Van Decker 2 their mission and values are the exact same as the Zeta Omicron Chapter of Alpha Sigma Phi, and they have combined interests. In fact, by giving support will help in achieving the Alpha Sig mission and will give them more reason to expand on USF campus as well as other locations in Florida The University of South Florida is an institution that seeks to educate and prepare their students for their future. However, the fact that be willing to restrict their students from opportunities that other students from other affiliations would normally have, makes many think different. Alpha Sigma Phi, Zeta Omicron Chapter works to better their members through positions of leadership on campus to make their members leaders of their own lives as well as can achieve greatness now and in the future. Ann. T Hilliard, discusses student leadership and involvement in her article, Leadership at the She talks about how leadership ability requires assistance from others, and how it needs to be developed (Hilliard 94). By the end of the article, she also concluded that student leadership holds major benefits for students in the future, and encourages as many college students as possible to get involved (Hilliard 96). If USF OFSL continues to not allow members of this National Greek Letter Organization to have equal rights to participate in these positions, that would be deemed unethical not only by the members of the Zeta Omicron Chapter but also by many in the student body. Researcher James O. Pawelski wrote a journal about ethics called, as Ethical Democracy Definitions and In this journal, Pawelski discusses character development in students and how that directly relates to their success in the future (1). By the end of his journal, he concludes that restricting students from opportunity will stunt their growth in character and will have a direct negative affect on their future growth (Pawelski 21). Management Department Director of Bridgewater State University, Stanley Ross, also wrote an Van Decker 3 article about leadership development titled, Conceptual Model for Understanding the Process of Self-Leadership Development and Action-Steps to Promote Personal Leadership In this work, he discusses how people become good self-leaders through experience and guidance. This applies to the current issue at hand in that by restricting the members of Alpha Sigma Phi Zeta Omicron Chapter, these students will not only be set back by the lack of opportunity that other students have, they will also be set back in terms of personal growth and will lack the experiences that other students have gained from their college experience. In short, if USF OFSL continues to deprive these students of a proper college experience, said college students can and will suffer in the future socially and in terms of occupation. Alpha Sigma Phi is an organization whose open motto is Better the Mission, and The Headquarters branch oversees the operations of all chapters in the nation, works to establish new chapters, and promotes the Alpha Sigma Phi Brand. For example, if headquarters makes the decision to build a chapter in anther university, they would have to send a representative to build the chapter, and recruit members so the chapter can then work independently from headquarters. By the point in which the chapter works independently, headquarters withdraws and only expects reports from that point forward. The Alpha Sigma Phi mission is, be the co-curricular and continuing organization of and their vision is, Better the World through Better Mission, and While the members of the Zeta Omicron chapter are currently being held back from opportunity on campus by the USF Office of Fraternity and Sorority Life, Alpha Sigma Phi Headquarters has the chance to gain a lot from aiding their chapter. Van Decker 4 The current issue at hand involves USF OFSL, who currently are the ones restricting, the Zeta Omicron Chapter, who is fighting to have their members be equally represented in the system of student leadership, and the members of the Zeta Omicron Chapter being restricted. While the vision and mission of Alpha Sigma Phi Headquarters directly align with those of the Zeta Omicron Chapter, there are also many benefits that Alpha Sigma Phi Headquarters could reap from this engagement. The first would be that they would establish an improved relationship with all their chapters across the nation. Neha Gupta and Vandna Sharma wrote an article about corporate engagement and how that relates to improved employee relations called, Relationship Between Corporate Social Responsibility and Employee Engagement and Its Linkage to Organizational Performance: A Conceptual Gupta and Vandna delve in the world of HR and discuss how improved relations between employee and employer allows for increased performance as well as a heightened sense of trust and longevity (69). This relates to Alpha Sigma Phi Headquarters in that it will create a heightened sense of trust and longevity for all chapters across the nation. The second benefit is that they can leverage chapter success towards national success. This way they can help achieve their mission and vision through aiding one of their chapters. This will allow for better leaders in the world who are both leaders in the work environment and leaders of their own lives. Plus, this will aid Alpha Sigma Phi headquarters in marketing the Alpha Sigma Phi brand. Anca Francisca Cruceru and Violeta Radulescu wrote a journal called, Succesului de Marketing Prin Orientarea Strategica a Organizatiei/Achieving Marketing Success Through Strategic Orientation of the In this article, Cruceru and Radulescu discuss the importance of radical and new methods for marketing success (31). By marketing individual chapter successes, the Alpha Sigma Phi brand can thus be promoted on a more individual level. To sum it up, engagement in to the issue at Van Decker 5 hand will allow Alpha Sigma Phi Headquarters to benefit greatly in ways that the organization may not have seen before. To be engaged in the issue, Alpha Sigma Phi Headquarters is advised to mediate discussion with the University of South Florida OFSL, holding the Zeta Omicrons best interests at hand. Thus, the issue of restriction of student involvement can be mitigated. The Zeta Omicron Chapter of Alpha Sigma Phi has been attacked by the University of South Florida Office of Fraternity and Sorority Life. By being restricted in terms of what positions members of the Zeta Omicron Chapter can take, these students are being restricted from personal growth socially as well as growth in terms of leadership and work ethic. If Alpha Sigma Phi Headquarters were to intervene and aid the Zeta Omicron Chapter, there would be increased positive relations between the two designations, as well as progress towards the Alpha Sigma Phi vision and mission as well as the possibility for increased advertising and marketing. Therefore, it is imperative that Alpha Sigma Phi Headquarters step in and mediate. (Word Count: 1428 words) Van Decker 6 Works Cited Mission, and Alpha Sigma Phi, http://alphasigmaphi.org/vision-mission-and- purpose. Accessed 20 April, 2017. Cruceru, Anca F., and Violeta Radulescu. Atingerea Succesului De Marketing Prin Orientarea Strategica a organizatiei/Achieving Marketing Success through Strategic Orientation of the  Romanian Journal of Marketing, no. 4, 2012, pp. 25-32, ABI/INFORM Collection, https://search.proquest.com/docview/1416787944?accountid=14745. Gupta, Neha and Sharma, Vandna. Relationship Between Corporate Social Responsibility and Employee Engagement and Its Linkage to Organizational Performance: A Conceptual IUP Journal of Organizational Behavior, 2016, pp. 59-75, Ebscohost, http://eds.b.ebscohost.com/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?vid=2&sid=f5efd85d- 1c2b-48c5-b5ad-54145bdc752c%40sessionmgr104. Accessed 20 April, 2017. Hilliard, Ann T. Student Leadership at the  Journal of College Teaching and Learning, vol. 7, no. 2, 2010., pp. 93-97 ABI/INFORM Collection; ProQuest Social Sciences Premium Collection, https://search.proquest.com/docview/218888073?accountid=14745. Accessed 20 April, 2017. Pawelski, James O. as Ethical Democracy: Definitions and Journal of College and Character, vol. 5, no. 9, 2004, pp. 1-43, tandfonline, http://www.tandfonline.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/doi/abs/10.2202/1940- 1639.1398#aHR0cDovL3d3dy50YW5kZm9ubGluZS5jb20uZXpwcm94eS5saWIudXNm Van Decker 7 LmVkdS9kb2kvcGRmLzEwLjIyMDIvMTk0MC0xNjM5LjEzOTg/bmVlZEFjY2Vzcz10 cnVlQEBAMA==. Accessed 20 April, 2017. Ross, Stanley. Conceptual Model for Understanding the Process of Self-Leadership Development and Action-Steps to Promote Personal Leadership Journal of Management Development, Vol. 33 no. 4, 2014, pp.299-323, Emerald Insight, http://www.emeraldinsight.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/doi/pdfplus/10.1108/JMD-11-2012- 0147. Accessed 20 April, 2017.