Jiang 1 Linzhi Jiang Kristin Gocinski ENC 1102 910 April 21, 2017 Walk Away from Obesity In this modern world, the pace of life is increasing with technological advancements, but also the weight, people put less attention on themselves than they should do, obesity became one of the major problems in American society. According to the statistic, more than 1 in 3 adults are considered to be obese & obesity Walmart, an American multinational retailing corporation, Walmart grocery stores covered all over America and it has become one of the necessities in life. Obesity in America need to be reduced, Walmart can provide lower price for healthy food to help the society prevent obesity, Walmart will make more profit based on their participation. Obesity is severe and it must be reduced, otherwise will cause more disease to happen in this country. Obesity is deadly, everyone should eat healthier and exercise regularly to prevent obesity before it becomes worse. Having a good lifestyle is more than important when people feel tried from work or school, they start to themselves, they do not eat regularly, they eat fast food, they avoid exercise. When people do not use physical way to export the toxin in their body, too much toxin accumulates together, first it will embody in fat, second it will augment into the disease. According to the research article, the combination of healthy lifestyle and long-term exercise will provide better overall improvement and prevent overweight and obese in adults (Messier et al. 1501). Obesity is not only overweight, it could cause disease or increase the illness level of disease. According to the research statistic, is a growing epidemic in Jiang 2 most developed countries including in the United States resulting in an increased number of obese patients with end-stage renal (Kwan et al. 1). Therefore, to make a better America, Americans must have a healthy lifestyle to prevent obesity. In America, Walmart is best known for their low prices grocery, Walmart covers the best grocery market in America, Walmart receives 100 million American customers per week Company Walmart plays an important role in life. According to Quinn, percent of U.S. households bought something at Wal-Mart. Wal- Mart sells about 30 percent of all U.S. household consumables, 15 to 20 percent of music and movie discs and tapes, 19 percent of groceries, and 16 percent of (xi). People likes to shop at Walmart one of the reason is it has all kind of grocery and another reason is it has the lower price than another market has. mission statement is people money so they can live (Ferguson). Low price grocery became signature, thereupon target market generally is lower income class. To help Americans prevent obesity Walmart can reduce prices on healthy product, Walmart will benefit from helping the society prevent obesity in two ways, first is Walmart can make more profit, the second is Walmart can improve its corporate reputation. To make more profit must be the original goal for every business. Walmart has the most grocery stores in America, but their profits are quite limited. Many people love to shop at Walmart is because of it sales lower price goods, but most of the lower price food that Walmart sales are unhealthy food or not as fresh as it should be, for instance, frozen food. Lower income people or economized customer would shop mostly those unhealthy foods, and the unhealthier food they eat into their body, the higher rate of becoming obese. If Walmart increases the price on unhealthy food and lower the price on healthy food, people will balance their purchasing, people will but more Jiang 3 healthy food, like vegetables and fruits, not only cheap unhealthy food. Walmart will make more profit based on that. In another hand, Walmart can improve its corporate reputation. There are many people who hate to shop at Walmart, according to the research, Walmart consistently scores low on customer love due to many reasons (Hill). If Walmart helps the society prevent obesity and advertise it, more people will give Walmart compliment. Corporate reputation is very important for one business. Having a healthy lifestyle is very important, reduce the rate of obesity is reduce the death rate, Walmart as a leading business of America society, must help Americans walk away from obesity by reducing the price on healthy goods. According to the research article, is widely recognized that overweight and obesity can reduce the length and quality of (Satcher). Walmart only needs three simple steps to show its engagement. The first step is to lower the price on healthy goods, for example, vegetables and fruits, exercise equipment, fruit juice and organic food. The second step is to higher the price on unhealthy food, for example, froze food, container food. The last step for Walmart is to advertise Walmart give healthy goods in lower price and encourage customers to buy more Walmart needs to help the society to reduce weight, to have a healthier body, the more healthy people the society has the more people will shop at Walmart. According to the Satcher, nation must take action to assist Americans in balancing healthful eating with regular physical for the Obesity is severe, everybody needs to participate in preventing it. In conclusion, obesity is a major problem in American society, the rate of obesity epidemic need to be reduced. In order to prevent obesity, people need to balance their eating habits, eat healthier and exercise regularly. Walmart as one of the biggest corporation in America, it needs to participate in helping Americans have a healthier life. Walmart can lower Jiang 4 their price on healthy goods to attract more customer. A healthy life can bring people more happiness, walk away from obesity, Walmart must engage. Jiang 5 Work Cited Ferguson, Edward. Vision, Mission, Generic & Intensive Panmore, panmore.com/walmart-vision-mission-statement-intensive-generic-strategies. Accessed 21 April 2017. Hill, Catey. Reasons Walmart is the most-hated retailer in Market Watch, www.marketwatch.com/story/4-reasons-walmart-is-the-most-hated-retailer-in-america- 2015-02-18. Accessed 21 April 2017. Kwan, Jennifer M., et al. of the Obesity Epidemic on Kidney Transplantation: Obesity Is Independent of Diabetes as Risk Factor for Adverse Renal Transplant PLoS ONE, vol. 11, no. 11, 2016, pp1-14. Doi: 10.137/journal.pone.0165712. Accessed 21 April 2017. Mlilitello, Lisa K. et al. of Healthy Lifestyle Beliefs and Behaviors in Parents of Overweight or Obese Preschool Children Before and After a Cognitive Behavioral Therapy Intervention With Text Journal of Pediatric Health Care, vol. 30, no. 3, 2016, pp 252-260. ScienceDirect, doi: 10.1016/j.pedhc.2015.08.002. Accessed 21 April 2017. Messier, Stephen P. et al. and dietary weight loss in overweight and obese older adults with knee osteoarthritis: The arthritis, diet, and activity promotion Arthritis & Rtheumatology, vol. 50, no. 5, 2004, pp 1501- 1510. Doi: 10.1002/art.20256. Accessed 21 April 2017. & Obesity NIDDK, www.niddk.nih.gov/health-information/health- statistics/overweight-obesity. Accessed 21 April 2017. Jiang 6 Quinn, Bill. Walmart Is Destroying America And The World: And What You Can Do About Third Edition, Ten Speed Press, vol. 1, no. 1, 2005, pp 1-51. books.google.com/books?hl=en&lr=&id=NeFRYdYBK5IC&oi=fnd&pg=PR9&dq=wal Accessed 21 April 2017. Satcher, David. + Obesity: U.S. Surgeon General Call to Action to Prevent and IDEA Health & Fitness, vol. 20, no 10, 2002, pp. 27, Academic OneFile, go.galegroup.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/ps/retrieve.do?tabID=T002&resultListType=RES tPosition=1&docId=GALE%7CA94009481&docType=Article&sort=RELEVANCE&co ntentSegment=&prodId=ITOF&contentSet=GALE%7CA94009481&searchId=R1&user GroupName=tamp44898&inPS=true#. Accessed 21 April 2017. Company Statistic Brian, www.statisticbrain.com/wal-mart-company- statistics/. Accessed 21 April 2017.