Anjelica Johnson Mr. Phillips ENC 1102 16 May 2017 The Benefits of Technology Technology. Something that started out as just an idea has become an essential part of society. Organizations like the Fred Rogers Center for Early Learning and Media believe that technology is an asset, not only to adults but to children. As the world knows technology has many uses. With technology being such an important aspect of life, it is a shame that more schools, especially elementary schools, have not turned to using it to benefit the education of the children. To give children the best possible way to learn and grow, everyone needs to be educated on technology and get involved in the cause. The first step to getting involved is to get educated about the topic at hand. As students started to look for new ways to communicate and learn, teachers needed to come up with new methods of instruction and testing. Since technology is constantly growing, people are constantly looking for new ways to use it. Technology, in society, in this generation is all about social media and schools around the world who have access to technology use social media as a source for the older students. The goal of this essay is to use the same technology to give generations to follow the best chance at a good education starting young. Many studies have been done to try and prove that technology is and can continue to be a great asset to the education of young children. A single site case study was done by Widener University and the result, describes the outcomes and lessons learned from the implementation of a technology professional development initiative aimed at helping three special education teachers from an urban elementary school learn how to infuse technology in their content literacy After the study was complete recommendations for future professional development programs that focused on technology were offered. Another study was done to follow the development of information and communication technology (ICT) and how it has affected teaching methods. According to an article from the Creative Education journal, on selected literature, it was found that the advantages of applying ICT in teaching math mathematics are: It attracts interest in learning math; it increases their motivation and performance; it encourages lifelong learning; and it facilitates positive interactions and The next step is to get involved. Whether that be by joining an organization or attending events. Some organizations include the Fred Rogers Center, the National Association for the Education of Young Children, and the Center for Children and Technology. These organizations may be different but their goals are the same. They are advocates for technology because their research has led to approaches that foster learning through new technology. As far as events, the Fred Rogers Center hosts a conference every year. According to the official website, to bridge and build the fields of early learning and media, the Fred Forward Conference brings together researchers, technologists, media creators, educators, and advocates, to explore current and emerging issues impacting the healthy development of children birth to age They do this to try and find ways to solve these problems for the benefit of everyone. Works Cited Ciampa, Katia. Bridges between Technology and Content Literacy in Special Education: Lessons Learned from Special Use of Integrated Technology and Perceived Benefits for Literacy Research and Instruction, vol.56, no. 2, Apr. 2017, pp.85-113. EBSCOhost, doi: 10. 1080/19388071.2017.1280863 Finger, Peter, and Walt Seng. Forward Fred Rogers Center for Early Learning & Media. Fred Rogers Center for Early Learning & Media, Dec. 2016. Web. 30 Apr. 16, 2017. Zakaria, Nur A. and Fariza Khalid. Benefits and Constraints of the Use of Information and Communication Technology (ICT) in Teaching Creative Education Vol. 7 Issue 11, p1537-1544.