Milien 1 Miwolf Milien Kristin Gocinski ENC 1102.909. 21 April 2017 The End of the Ugly Side of FIFA Most soccer fans will always remember the unforgettable 2014 FIFA World Cup which took place in Brazil as it will probably go down among one of the most shocking tournament in sports history with the host losing 1-7 to Germany. According to Sporteology, is one of the top entertainment industry around the world and no doubt the most famous sport organization on the (Sports Top 10 List), because of the practice of soccer all around the world. As a result, the FIFA World Cups are one of the most watched events every four years, which makes them a big part of the human culture. The tournament is known for having positive feedbacks, because it brings so much joy in the heart of many fans who have the opportunity to see their country compete for the most prestigious trophy in soccer history. However, the FIFA World Cups contain a dark side that is unknown by most of its followers. The biggest controversy up to date is the fact that FIFA exploits migrant workers to build expensive stadiums for the 2022 World Cup which will take place in Qatar. This problem can end by FIFA partnering with one of the biggest and most legit construction firm in the world: VINCI Construction. The exploitation of workers by FIFA should be something that the whole world is looking to fight against because it is just morally and ethically unacceptable. By partnering with FIFA, VINCI Construction will be able to open jobs for people in the construction field while treating them the right way and ending Milien 2 controversy. To make this possible, they should contact FIFA to discuss the idea as soon as possible and start changing the world. The world should all come together to fight against the exploitation of workers by FIFA. Even though according to Mao-Chou Hsu, sports events has become a big part of recreational (13), nowadays, the abuse of laborers is a severe problem as many groups and individuals are mistreated on a daily basis all across the globe by organizations. Unfortunately, many who are abused do not have a big enough voice to speak for themselves. They might speak out but not heard. This is exactly what is going on with preparation of the 2022 FIFA World Cup . According to Azadeh Erfani, order to host in 2022, Qatar will rely on the labor of approximately one million foreign laborers to build the stadiums and infrastructure necessary to hold the World (623). The country will need to put many foreign laborers to work because of factors like low wages. It is also said that bulk of economy rests on the shoulders of foreign construction (Erfani 623). The worst is that these workers have no other choices. According to an investigation conducted by The Garden Newspaper, workers have been working in conditions which have been said to be inhuman and some are still waiting to get paid after a year of labor. They are trapped in the country as they can only leave with the permission of their Foreign laborers are taken advantage of by being exploited in many cases. No one deserves to be treated this way no matter the circumstance that they are living in. An organization that has the power to help these workers from suffering is VINCI Construction. According to VINCI Construction, Construction is a company specialized in the realization of infrastructures and The 115-year-old French privately-owned company reports the largest revenues among construction company in the world. The company is known to have built many big and important infrastructures. One of these high-profile Milien 3 infrastructure projects has been the Gariep Dam in South Africa, completed in 1971 and the Stade de France. The arena was build for the 1998 football World Cup, and now serves as national Stadium. company operates globally while employing more than 183,000 according to Global Construction. Their mission statement is be the preferred construction and facilities partner for their clients and to be the benchmark against which their competitors are Their ultimate goal is surpass industry benchmarks by excelling in health and safety, environmental sustainability, learning and development, stakeholder Furthermore, they also look to foster a collaborative yet decentralized approach which encourages dialogue, freedom, flexibility and autonomy, creating a culture of shared Based on their mission statement and goals, it can be said that VINCI Construction is always looking out for the well-being and growth of their employees while constructing the highest quality of infrastructures. By partnering with FIFA, Vinci Constructing will change the live of many people all over the World. Vinci Construction is a construction firm that needs projects assigned and the employment of many workers in order to generate the most amount of revenue possible. By partnering with FIFA, the construction company will be assigned to construct one of the most prestigious infrastructures in the world which are the stadiums for future World Cups. The is going to be great for the growth of the company. Apart from benefiting itself, the company will also come to the aid of the workers being exploited by corrupted companies while treating them like human beings. Like it was seen earlier, the company really cares about the well-being and personal growth of their employees, which is a sign that they will treat the workers with respect. VINCI Construction is related to the topic because, in the past, they have constructed a stadium that was used for the 1998 FIFA World Cup with no controversies. Unfortunately, they are not partnered Milien 4 with FIFA, thus not responsible for the construction of current and future stadiums. However, it can be made possible with simple steps. Workers are being exploited by FIFA which causes many controversies. Fortunately, this can be stop with the intervention of VINCI Construction. The construction company needs to contact FIFA as soon as possible in order to gain a partnership that will benefit both, VINCI Construction and workers being exploited. The company will be able to change the world by also witnessing a lot of growth in the process. After partnering with FIFA, the company will need to take charge of the construction of all of the infrastructure related to the World Cups. In recent years, FIFA has been known to have exploited laborers in the preparation of the 2022 World Cup. This phenomena is really unacceptable and should no longer exist. Thankfully, with the engagement of VINCI Construction on the topic, this controversy can be put to an end. BY getting involve, VINCI Construction will be able to generate a great revenue while coming to the aid of the laborers suffering by treating them well. All they need to do is contact FIFA as soon as possible, take charge of the construction of the infrastructures related to the World Cups and change the world. Milien 5 Milien 6 Works Cited MAKHITHA, K. M. perceived marketing benefits of the 2010 FIFA World for craft USFLibrary, pp. 232. Accessed 27 January 2017 Mao-Chou Hsu. Benefits of 2014 FIFA World Cup in USFLibrary, 2014, pp. 13- 19. Accessed 27 January 2017 Azadeh Erfani. AWAY RESPONSIBILITY: ROLE IN RESPONSE TO MIGRANT WORKER ABUSES IN 2022 WORLD USFLibrary, vol.22, 2015, pp. 623. Accessed 27 January 2017 Milien 7 Milien 8