Echeverria, !1 Since the Nazi regimen, genetic engineering has been a controversial topic due to its ties with eugenics which was prominent during that period of time. Following the Second World War, this science had a relatively quiet period but experienced a resurgence in the when researches saw the benefits of modifying the human genome. Soon scientists possessed the capability to eradicate genetic diseases in human embryos that could present harm during the lifetime. Currently, one of the main purposes of genetic engineering is the implementation of specific genes from some species to other to enhance their capabilities. One example is the implementation of a bioluminescent gene in trees with the intent of conducting them to glare at night thus reducing the use of electricity to illuminate certain areas. Even though genetic engineering present various promises, there still exists arguments that question the use of this science. Many of these arguments question how the modification of the human genome can affect a human throughout their life time. Other concerns come from an ethical standpoint questioning what authority do humans have to interfere with the natural state of species. Due to these concerns, despite the immense potential that genetic engineering presents, its use should only be limited to the treatment of genetic diseases . Like mentioned before, genetic engineering contains the enormous potential to cure complex diseases that have eluded scientists for decades. These diseases range from neurological conditions such as Alzheimers Disease to musculature diseases including Duchenne muscular dystrophy. Although these benefits seem grandiose, there exists the potential that if this science is exploited, it could potentially lead to harmful consequences that affect the human gene pool. The idea of the misuse of genetic engineering can be especially seen in the article A Cure That May Cost Us Ourselves by Anderson W. French. Here the author provides an interesting idea when he Echeverria, !2 points out that not only can genetic engineering potentially harm a patient (as seen when a patient in the University of Pennsylvania died during gene therapy due to toxicity levels) but it can also cause damage in a broader scale. To exemplify this notion, he states that we have the ability to give a patient any gene we want in order to treat a disease, then we will also have the ability to give a human being genes for any purpose besides therapy. The downside of this powerful technology? Eugenics could be practiced on a scale far larger than any selective  policy could ( French, 1999). This is obviously a startling idea because it present the notion that society as we know it, faces a real threat in the future. If genetic engineering were to be used freely to the point where we can manipulate or enhance the traits of future generations, this become eerily similar to the goal of the Nazi Party in their quest to perfect the human gene pool through Not only is this worrisome, these series of events could potentially lead to a society that has been divided into different classes based on genetics. The upperclass could potentially be those with the means to enhance traits such as intelligence while the lower class will be discriminated due to their genes. Although many scientists insist that there should be limits on genetic engineering, there are still some that believe that this science should be used well beyond medical reasons in order to the playing This type of opinion can be seen in the article Five Reasons We Should Embrace Gene-Editing Research On Human Embryos by Julian Savulescu. To further iterate this idea, the author states that by using genet engineering, the science would stop the thus allowing fairness for future generations (Savulescu, 2015). Savulescu justifies the use of this technology to enable fairness by comparing it to special services and Echeverria, !3 other social interventions thats are used to correct inequalities between social-economic classes that exhibit differences in privilege. Many scientist such as W. French still argue that this extreme use of genetic engineering could eventually lead to social classes based on genetics, the author counters this notion by arguing that due to the more progressive use of genetic engineering, the only outcome that will seen is that more knowledge about diseases such as disease origins will lead to the development of treatments for diseases that can be produced cheaply. And that would reduce, rather than increase, inequality. Even though Savulescu presents some reasonable arguments for the use of genetic engineering, similar to her, many people who support this extreme use of the science often forget the potential negative effects that gene-modification can cause in society. Due to the fact that this technology was not as widely available, many of the potential consequences that were theorized were merely speculative and were strictly conceptual. As the technology is becoming more widely available, many fear that it will promote further division of social classes within a society. According to researcher Homa Azargoon in her paper Genetic Engineering and its Consequences, she states that the middle and low classes that could not afford such technology would degrade to an even weaker, inferior position. This social consequence of human genetic engineering would disrupt the social order to the point where it would be By allowing the wealthy to overuse this technology, not only does it further promote the already noticeable discrimination in society but it also disrupts the social order. Genetic engineering has the potential of widening the gap between social classes. A possibility is that the wealthy and privilege could modify their offspring to develop socially desirable traits. Besides Echeverria, !4 the social consequences, Savulescu also seems to ignore the fact that genetic engineering also can have an impact on the same patients that use this science. In one specific study, researcher Stuart A .Newman recognized that The germ-line introduction of an improperly regulated normal gene into mice resulted in progeny with no obvious effects on development, but enhanced tumor incidence during adult life. Such effects may not be recognized for a generation or (Newman, 2000). The fact that there are possible consequences demonstrates why the use of gene modification should be strictly medical. Not only can it provide harm to patients in the future, it was also noted that it can affect the future offsprings of the original patient. Despite the recent charting of the negative side effects accounted for, no amount of data collected from animal trials will ever assure that the first human trials will be safe. Due to this fact, Newman states that to profoundly alter the biology of the developing becomes an ethical Despite the immense promises that genetic engineering provides, it is obvious that there needs to be strict regulations in place for this science. This is due to fears that genetic engineering will be used as tool that the wealthy will utilize to further widen the gap between social classes, thus disrupting the social order. Other fears include how this science will affect not only the patient that will be enhanced by this science but also his offspring and future generations. Echeverria, !5 Bibliography: Anderson, W. French. A Cure That May Cost Us  Newsweek, vol. 134/135, no. 26/1, 27 Dec. 1999, p. 74. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http:// search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=aph&AN=2606669&site=eds-live. Five reasons we should embrace gene-editing research on human  Phys.org - News and Articles on Science and Technology. N.p., n.d. Web. 31 Mar. 2017. Sandel, Michael. Designer Babies: The Problem with Genetic  Tikkun, no. 5, 2007, p. 40. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/ login.aspx?direct=true&db=edsglr&AN=edsgcl.168354780&site=eds-live. Wald, George. The Case against Genetic  Sciences, vol. 16, no. 5, Sep/Oct76, p. 6. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/ login.aspx?direct=true&db=aph&AN=4862708&site=eds-live. Designing Rules for Designer  Scientific American, vol. 300, no. 5, May 2009, p. 29. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx? direct=true&db=aph&AN=37353299&site=eds-live. Echeverria, !6 Powledge, Tabitha M. Scientists urge revamped regulations for genetic  Genetic Literacy Project. N.p., 06 Jan. 2015. Web. 31 Mar. 2017. THE HAZARDS OF HUMAN DEVELOPMENTAL GENE  THE HAZARDS OF HUMAN DEVELOPMENTAL GENE MODIFICATION. N.p., July 2000. Web. 04 Apr. 2017.