Kulow !1 Nathan Kulow Professor Phillips ENC1102 April 16 2017 In Need of Reform There are an array of current issues in society, many of which are not talked about among the the majority. The Federal Reserve, or simply the Fed, has a larger impact on the lives of the general populace than many realize. The Fed is not part of the government and is a privately run central bank that controls the financial sector of the economy. Its purpose is to promote the stability of the U.S. economy and the financial system. In many ways the Fed has shaped the history of the United States since its creation in 1913. This is especially true in recent years, due to the growing size and power of the financial sector in the United States e.g. Wall Street banks and investment firms. The Fed largely impacts how these cooperations operate due to the ability to control lending and interest rates, as well as their ability to bail these firms out if they go bankrupt. While there are many positive aspects of the Fed, there are also some serious flaws. Many of the financial crises that have taken place recently such as the 2008 housing bubble, the increasing inequality of wealth, and the national debt is largely due to how the Fed operates. What happens within the Federal Reserve largely impacts not only everyone who lives in the United States, but also many people around the globe; this is why the people must act now and push to reform the Fed by making them fully public, reducing their overall power. Kulow !2 A very basic explanation of what the Fed does is this, say the U.S. needs money. They will issue treasury bonds, according to Investopedia, Treasury bond (T-Bond) is a marketable, fixed-interest U.S. government debt security with a maturity of more than 10 years. Treasury bonds make interest payments semi-annually, and the income received is only taxed at the federal (Investopedia). The government will then sell these bonds to the Federal Reserve, the Fed buys these bonds with money they have created out of thin air. The U.S. then pays interest to the Fed on the money they borrow. Therefore the Fed basically controls the money supply of the U.S. and they do this by creating debt. The Fed is free to do what they wish without anyone knowing, they are a completely private organization. The Fed has been completely independent since the This means there is no audit of the Fed, and this private bank is responsible for trillions of dollars in government debt. Many might say that the Wall Street banks are the ones to blame, but many governors of the Federal Reserve are retired of huge investment firms and banks. Writer Jordan Haedtler writes, During the last year, three vacancies have opened up to head regional Federal Reserve banks around the country. One by one, all three of the spots have gone to former insiders from Goldman (Haedtler). These are the same people who are supposed to be regulating banks on Wall Street. In a case where Sen. Bernie Sanders questions Fed Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke on the economy, Bernie says, had absurd situations where Jamie Diamond, the CEO of the largest financial institution in America sat on the New York Fed, job is supposedly to regulate Wall Street. Many of us think that is the fox guarding the (Sanders). What Bernie explains, and the constant increase of inflation are the two major problems with the Fed, and must be resolved if the country desires a fair and effective central bank. Kulow !3 The ability to create inflation, their ability to bail out huge banks on Wall Street, and whatever else the Fed might create money for is the reason for the systematic decline in value of the U.S. dollar. Investopedia claims, the Federal Reserve was established in 1913, the price level in the U.S. was still lower than it was in 1800. Over the next 100 years, the dollar lost 96% of its value, causing nominal prices to rise nearly (Investopedia). So virtually the Fed depreciates ones savings and economic securities, and has been since its creation in 1913. Every time more money is added to the money supply, the average citizens bank account decreases in value. The ones who do benefit from this are investment firms, banks, and multinational corporations. This is because whenever the money supply increases, the value of these assets increase as well. While those with savings and those who live on fixed wages have to deal with increased prices for the things they want to buy, their savings now buy them less, and their wages remain unchanged. Consequently, they must take on debt to be able to afford the things they need, which means they must go to the banks. Many think the best solution to this issue would be to completely abolish the Federal Reserve. This idea might sound like an immediate solution to this problem, but without a central bank the United States and many other countries would be in a deep depression. This is why the most sound solution to ending the corruption of the Fed would be to make the bank public entirely. Over the past century the policies put in act by the Fed have effected the everyday lives of virtually every family in America. The structure of the Fed is entirely insufficient when ensuring they act solely for the interest of the general public. The perfect solution to this problem would be to make the central bank completely public. According to a report written by Jordan Haedtler, Andrew Levin, and Valerie Wilson, private ownership is now out of step Kulow !4 with practically every other major central bank around the world. For example, the Bank of Canada and the Bank of England became public in 1938 and 1946, respectively, while the European Central Bank has been a public institution since its inception in the 1990s. Nearly all of the 19 national central banks in the eurozone are fully (Levin). The current law states that each region of the Federal Reserve is privately owned by commercial banks. The new law proposed would be to discontinue this law and make each Federal Reserve bank public, and owned by the American people, therefore they can carry out the same policies they are able to use, but in the best interest of the populace. As far as appointing the Board of Governors and the Chairman, the solution proposed would be to now have elected officials for each regional bank of the Federal Reserve. Therefore, the officials of the Fed would be elected by the people, and would instead be public participation to hopefully stop corrupt big bankers from getting seats on the board. To achieve this people must become more aware of this issue. The entire financial sector is crucial to the United States, and is currently being run by people of greed who act in the interest of the public. Social contagion is key in order achieve this. The public must act now in order to end the corrupt central bank of the U.S. Signing this petition is the first step to creating a central bank that is completely public. Thomas Jefferson once said, sincerely that banking establishments are more dangerous than standing armies, and that the principle of spending money to be paid by posterity, under the name of funding, is but swindling futurity on a large (Gleason). The people must be wary of the power of a central bank, and can no longer ignore this large scale issue, the people of the United States must act now. Kulow !5 Works Cited Gleason, Stefan. Audit The Federal . Soundmoneydefense.org. N. p., 2017. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. Haedtler, Jordan. Do Former Goldman Sachs Bankers Keep Landing Top Slots at the Federal thenation. Nov 30. 2015. Accessed Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Investopedia. Treasury Bond - . Investopedia. N. p., 2003. http://www.investopedia.com/terms/t/treasurybond.asp Accessed Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Investopedia Were There Any Periods Of Major Deflation In U.S. . Investopedia. N. p., http://www.investopedia.com/ask/answers/040715/were-there-any-periods-major- deflation-us-history.asp 2015. Accessed Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Levin, Andrew. Haedtler, Jordan. Wilson Valerie. the Federal Reserve Fully Public: Why and epi.org. Aug 22, 2016. Accessed Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Sanders, Bernie. Bernanke, Ben. Sanders V. Ben Bernanke: Last . C-SPAN.org. N. p., May 20, 2015. Accessed Web. 13 Apr. 2017.