Mao 1 Ying Mao Adam Phillips ENC 1102 04/13/2017 Title: Drunk Driving Affects Everyone Getting Involved Thesis: Drunk driving affects our society at an alarming rate, and often affect those that are not involved in the actual participation in drinking, therefore it is necessary for even those that do not partake of alcohol to play an active role in abolishing the activity of drinking and driving before they become part of the statistical group affected by these actions. According to the National Highway Traffic and Safety Administration every two minutes someone is interested in a crash that involves the use of alcohol (Lundgren). Whether you drink, or partake of alcohol these statistics should be alarming and cause for concern. With nearly 30 crashes happening each hour that involve alcohol, and the fact that we spend approximately 7% of our lifespan driving (Johnson), cause for concern is needed on how drunk driving can affect life. With statistics as alarming as these, it is a necessary thought that everyone must be involved in the fight to stop drunk driving, and to take an active role in programs that focus on providing information and education on how drunk driving affects everyone in a community. The possibility that someone we know can be affected by a drunk driving crash that drinking statistically is equal to those that have been drinking. Almost never do drunk driving crashes involve two drunk drivers, statistically it just happen; that leaves all of us out there in the middle of the danger. Mao 2 Diving deeper into how widespread the problem is of drunk driving is the start to spreading the word and making the push that we all need to be concerned about and take actions that will assist in reducing the incidents of drunk driving. Many may ask how big is the problem? examine that question. With nearly 30 crashes happening each hour that involve alcohol, consider that of these crashes nearly 28 people die each day in an alcohol related crash, that amounts to approximately one death every 53 minutes Impaired Driving: Get the Facts Motor Vehicle Safety CDC Injury ). These alcohol related crashes account for almost 31% of all automobile accidents that occur in the United States. Nearly 19% of car accidents that noted a victim under the age of 14 were alcohol related, and alarming cause for concern is that of these over half of these had the child under the age of 14 listed as a passenger in the vehicle with an alcohol impaired driver Impaired Driving: Get the Facts Motor Vehicle Safety CDC Injury ). Unfortunately, as well the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration reported in 2016 an increase in traffic accidents, and this increase showed an increase in those that involved alcohol. This increase was the highest increase seen in over a decade registering with a 5% increase in alcohol related crashes (Betts). So, while we are pushing for education and awareness not enough is being done to make the impact that was needed to stop drinking and driving and reduce crashes related to alcohol use. It is for this reason that we need everyone to realize that these crashes can affect everyone not just those that are drinking and guilty of drinking and driving and should be of concern for every one of us. Statistics speak at alarming rates, and of course death is the ultimate sacrifice and affect that drunk driving can cause, but it has so many other affects that need to be considered and should push us into acting to stop this epidemic. Safety, when anyone gets behind the wheel after drinking you are not only putting your own safety at risk, but everyone. Other drivers on Mao 3 the road, passengers in our vehicles or others, bikers, pedestrians, pets, and as seen before even people out in their own yards or sidewalks. Impaired drivers put the safety of everyone at risk. The decisions for someone to driver impaired can take away the safety we all have the right to feel when carrying on our everyday lives. Drunk driving has financial impacts above and beyond what anyone would imagine. The cost associated with a DUI charge can carry on for years, and while fines may be immediate the cost of insurance premium increases carry on for long term. Those that have DUI charges may limit themselves from certain job opportunities, and in recent years also have been reported on credit reports. Should an impaired drives accident cause injury or death to another person the budgetary impact of this can be endless. Such financial burdens from legal fees, fines, liabilities can impact the family of the driver as well forever changing their lives. Finally, and often the most difficult is the mental, physical and emotional burdens that such an accident can inflict. Accidents take only a few seconds, but these factors can last a lifetime. These accidents can be life altering, and many times the emotional impacts affect not only the person involved in the accident, but their families as well. The affects can be felt across families and often have led to divorce, prison time, lost relationships with children, etc. Associated with this is also the cost of rehabilitation that may be court ordered after an accident and can affect a family by many times taking a primary breadwinner out of the family (Ying, et al. xx). Keeping these factors in mind, and considering the multitude of effects that have not been listed here, it is imperative that whether we are a drinker or not we must get involved in working towards stopping this epidemic and spreading awareness. First and foremost, the best prevention to this is to NOT drink and drive. We must as a community be diligent in spreading the word about these statistics. Research shows that the average impaired driver has driven impaired Mao 4 above the legal limit approximately 82 times before they cause their first accident or are caught by law enforcement (Johnson). The public can get involved in educating themselves, parents educating their teen children, and in general knowing what is being done to curb this epidemic and how they can help to encourage those around us in our communities to follow the laws and educate others on the dangers and statistics associated with drunk driving. The Centers for Disease Control (2016) have recently began to focus on what is being done across the country to help curb the epidemic. Drunk driving laws have been revised to the most stringent factors ever; including the zero tolerance for anyone under 21. Increased sobriety checkpoints to focus on impaired drivers. Increased orders for ignition interlocks for those that have previously been convicted of drunk driving. Mass media campaigns to spread awareness of these alarming statistics. Development of school based educational programs. During these formative years, it is crucial that effective teaching methods inform teens of the risks, and in turn hopefully reduce the number of drunk related crashes that involve this large group (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention). easy when we as a community look at these factors that are being implemented to feel as though the issue is covered and that the increased statistics show that people just care. We think this way, as a community we have the responsibility to recognize that we are all affected by impaired driving, drunk driving and that with these statistics it is just a matter of time before it affects us personally, or someone close to us. Too often we hear those in our communities say, drink and drive, so I need to worry about This is when we must focus on the fact that often the impaired driver is not the one that loses their life in a crash, it is the innocent victim. We have already learned that drunk driving crashes almost always have an innocent victim and this can be anyone of us at any time. Groups such as Mothers Against Mao 5 Drunk Drivers, local community groups, schools, employers, are all places where we can make an impact on stopping this epidemic. We must take ownership and ensure that as a community we push for educating those that are at highest risk. Focus on ensuring that those we know who may at risk of drinking and driving feel our support and that we work on focusing them towards rehabilitation and support their treatment to focus on reducing the chance that they change their own life forever. Mao 6 Works Cited Betts, Alison. NHTSA Reports Largest Jump in Drunk Driving Deaths in 10  Sobering Up, 1 Sept. 2016, www.scramsystems.com/blog/2016/09/nhtsa-reports-largest-jump-in- drunk-driving-deaths-in-10-years/. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. What Works: Strategies to Reduce or Prevent Drunk Driving Motor Vehicle Safety CDC Injury  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 22 Mar. 2016, Impaired Driving: Get the Facts Motor Vehicle Safety CDC Injury  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Motor Vehicle Safety, 5 Feb. 2016, Johnson, Tamara. Americans Spend an Average of 17,600 Minutes Driving Each  AAA Newsroom, 8 Sept. 2016, newsroom.aaa.com/2016/09/americans-spend-average-17600- minutes-driving-year/. Lundgren, Nick. Drunk Driving: It Affects  Home, 15 Apr. 2015, heartsforfamilies.org/blog/blog-april-2015-drunk-driving-it-affects-everyone.aspx. Ying, Yung-Hsiang, et al. The Effectiveness of Drinking and Driving Policies for Different Alcohol-Related Fatalities: A Quantile Regression  International Journal of Environmental Research and Public Health, vol. 10, no. 10, 2013, pp. 4628-4644.