Taylor McCullough ENC 1102 Professor Phillips April 16, 2017 Coasts If a person were to shut their eyes and think about one of the most incredible moments they have been able to experience, many would say it was a place they got to visit. A place that is naturally here because it is nature, it is something so breathtaking and beyond human control. It cannot be created by humans themselves, and those are the things that need to be cherished the most in this world. coast is a place that is so beautiful, and a gift that society often takes for granted. In order to improve coast and ensure that they will stay clean and protected for generations to come, those who live inland need to be more aware of what is going on and the issues at hand. By educating central Florida on the tragedies occurring along coast and introducing the idea of a community plan, citizens of central Florida can write to their legislators asking for more community plans along coasts to keep our planet perfect. Looking back from 2000-2010 we can see that society is more concerned with the fact that people are simply unaware of clean oceans. The issue then arises that people are also not educated on the environmental problems of the ocean. is a problem like global warming that has crept up on us because of population growth and the way we (Beachapedia). The reasoning behind this issue is simply that people lack the connection between their ground-water and the oceans. To be more specific, people who live inland do not realize that the ground-water discharges to the rivers and ultimately to the oceans. Likewise, those who live near the oceans realize that the storm-water runoff from roads and highways with many pollutants quickly McCullough 2 makes its way to the oceans (Beachapedia). Beachapedia also shares that even cruise boats are not doing their job correctly. Cruise boats are supposed to be treating their sewage but most either do not at all or only do it when near land. It is hard to blame only environmental factors alone when it is our job as people of the earth to clean up the oceans just as we should protect all other aspects of our environment. However, if you take a drive along west coast you will eventually come across a small community known as Gasparilla Island, FL. Gasparilla Island is a small quaint town created in 1909 (Our History). It is the perfect example of the ideal coastal community and should be used as a guide to teach us strategies that will give us not only economic growth but a clean coastline as well. One example of sensible construction on Gasparilla Island is their community center. In 1911 the Boca Grande School was built, soon after the school closed due to declining enrollment and was then turned into Boca Community Center (Our History). As you can see, instead of composing an entire new building, residents of Gasparilla Island update buildings no longer in use to make use for what is now needed. Little Gasparilla Island (The Citizens) has an advisory committee which over sees and finalizes decisions regarding land use on the island. advisory committee works to maintain their luxury atmosphere by agreeing that any public/commercial use should be kept to a minimum and only be used to meet basic community needs (The Citizens). The LGI advisory committee also does not allow any chain businesses to build on the island (The Citizens). This includes anything from Publix to McDonalds. If you compare this to more local coastal areas such as Clearwater or Saint Pete Beach you see a huge difference. Clearwater and Saint Pete beaches are lined with dozens of hotels, fast food restaurants, and tourist shops. LGI however only has one hotel, not a single fast food restaurant, and minimal shops located in the heart of the island run by locals. McCullough 3 Residents of these more local areas need to work to attract tourists and make profit by their beautiful beaches and natural paradise rather than commercial businesses and overdevelopment. Excessive development on these local coastlines acts as one of the leading causes of coastal land loss. The two other important categories destroying the coasts are transportation and wetland destruction (Morton). The category of transportation includes everything from land transportation to boat wakes and water circulation (Morton). LGI is ahead of the game once again by making sure their advisory committee is aware of this arising issue. Areas surrounding the island have minimal wake restrictions with some areas limited to 25 mph (The Citizens). Mobility on the island is also limited due to the lack of designated road network (The Citizens). By creating no wake zones along the coast line we would see an increase in animal reproduction and less endangerment to our friends nearby such as the manatees. To prove this is accurate, take a look at the animals we see around LGI. It is common to see multiple manatees, tarpon, sea turtles, sharks, and iguanas in just one day. On the more local and developed beaches, be lucky to even see a dolphin. Decreasing wake zones and controlling excessive transportation along these more developed coast lines will allow these beaches to be home to these striking animals as well. Wetland destruction is probably the most common cause of coastal land loss though. This includes everything from pollutant discharge to traffic and failed reclamation (Morton). LGI takes so much pride in the community they have built, so pollution is not something seen very often. Not only locals, but visitors as well make sure not to leave anything but footprints and memories behind when leaving the beach. Compare this to the common more developed areas along the coast, and you will see nothing but empty bottles, food rappers, and anything else that McCullough 4 may be seen as an inconvenience to bring to the trash. Pollution is a major cause for the decrease in animals and coastal land loss. If residents and visitors both disposed of their trash and waste correctly we would notice an enormous decrease in coastal land loss. Even though it may seem like you alone cannot make a difference in saving coasts, you can. The truth is, individuals hold more power than they think. Just the thought of being able to be a part of something so much bigger than yourself is something to truly take pride in. By taking a stand and stepping in the right direction you alone are shaping this world to be a better place for future generations to come. A way to make this dream become a reality is by writing to your legislators. The National Education Association says and e-mails can be particularly effective in influencing It is crucial to remember that the job of our lawmakers is to represent us. However, they effectively represent our interests unless you communicate with them around the issues you care about (Take Action.) If everyone took a moment to realize the impact they can make and write to their legislator, our world could be so much better. In order to preserve coastline, central Florida needs to influence local coastal communities to create advisory committees similar to those of LGI and develop their own community plans structured to fit what is best for said area. If we accomplish this small step, we can easily take charge and better control any chain construction, excessive transportation, and wetland destruction. Building a strong committee with a passion can eventually lead to laws put in place to prevent against these issues. Hopefully, if we do our part as a state we can start a revolution in saving all the oceans around the world. McCullough 5 Works Cited  Erosion and Coastal Management in Florida -. Beachapedia, 08 Feb. 2014. Web. 22 Apr. 2016. Morton, Robert A., U.s. Geological Survey, Center For Coastal And Watershed Studies, and St. Petersburg Fl 33701. OPEN FILE REPORT 03-337SUMMARY (n.d.): n. pag. Pubs.usgs.gov. Web. 20 Apr. 2016. Our  Gasparilla. N.p., n.d. Web. 22 Apr. 2016. Take  NEA. National Education Association, 2015. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. The Citizens Of Little Gasparilla Island,, The Little Gasparilla Island Advisory Committee, and Charlotte County. Little Gasparilla Island Community Plan (2007): 1-28. Charlottecountyfl.gov. LGI Advisory Committee/HDR Engineering, Inc, Sept. 2007. Web. 14 Apr. 2017.