Leistl 1 Brooke Leistl Professor Emil Smith Composition 1 7 April 2017 Returning to play after Tommy John is Successful Almost every athlete has had to overcome an injury at some point in their career. In the case of baseball players, the Tommy John is an injury primarily in pitchers because of the stressful overhand throwing motion. The overhead throwing motion puts a lot of strain on the elbow which causes a condition known as ulnar collateral reconstruction (UCL). This surgery was named Tommy John after the first pitcher who had the procedure done. It is where they must replace the ligament in the elbow with a tendon from another part of your body. Many baseball pitchers must receive this surgery and is very common in players from the age of 16-23 (Makhni, 2014). If players must receive this surgery, they have a good chance of returning to play after the surgery because of technology, more proven successful rehab and doctors who have had more experience and therefore receiving this surgery is not career ending. Most of the studies found that pitching performance after UCL reconstruction returns to baseline by the second season after surgery; that is if everything runs smoothly and there are no complications. For example, one study found that, (82%) pitchers returned to major league play at a mean of 18.5 months after surgery with no significant change in mean earned run average or walks and hits per inning (Gibson, 2007). This is showing that it did take a little longer to come back from the surgery but it did not affect the performance after the surgery. They came back to normal play. The Tommy John surgery can work miracles, Leistl 2 because unfortunately rehab without the surgery is not going to heal this problem. The technology and rehab today are a part of what makes this comeback so much better than before. After Tommy original surgery, he came back and proceeded to win 164 games. However, all the factors after surgery depend on your body type, age, how bad the injury was, etc. resulting in making a comeback or not. To this point, Cain found that, occurred in 148 patients (20%), including 16% considered minor and 4% considered This does not necessarily mean that a player cannot return to play. Typically, it just means that it may take longer, but they will come back stronger than when they were injured. Cain continues to say, these, 148 pitchers (83%) were able to RTP [Return to in the MLB, and 174 pitchers were able to RTP in the MLB and minor league combined (97.2%), while only 5 pitchers (2.8%) were never able to RTP in either the MLB or minor Those chances are high for surgery, which is why people should choose to get this surgery and make a strong recovery from it. If a pitcher who is a starting pitcher must get Tommy John surgery, it is not the end of the world because there are plenty of doctors who are familiar with this surgery now and can do it. Major obstacles that the players could face are surgery not working, re-tearing the ligament, or not being able to pitch the way they could before. The rehab is what takes the longest because they must do a lot of work to get it back to normal, but people are willing to do that. This can also help the pitchers get some much-needed rest from pitching because it is such a stressful motion on the arm. The pitchers who are at most risk of needing Tommy John surgery are starting pitchers, while experienced pitchers and those with a higher earned run average less likely to require ulnar collateral ligament (Gibson, 2007). Depending on whether the pitcher should get the surgery or not, depends on how much the player pitches. Leistl 3 However, many people will disagree with the statement that players are able to return to pitch to their full ability after Tommy John surgery, but it all depends on the individual player. For example, one study showed that after receiving the surgery, performance declines with the number of strikes thrown (51.9%-49.6%), ERA [Earned run (4.23-4.63), average fastball velocity (91.2-90.8), (Makhni, 2014). In baseball, those numbers declining are very important to the game, but players are still able to return to nonetheless after. It is understandable why people think they will not be able to return. However, according to Philips (2015), shows that they can come back just as strong or stronger if they get the proper treatment from Further, the probability of making a strong comeback is 4 out of 5 according to some studies (Wymore, 2016). Some of the best pitchers who have overcome this surgery and retuned to play are Tommy John himself, A.J Burnett, Adam Wainwright and Jordan Zimmerman. This success would not be as high without the rehab, improvement in technology, and modern experience. While Tommy John surgery is affecting many athletes, it is still not a career ending surgery. People can return to play after the surgery, even if it takes longer than others. body type is different and not everyone goes to the same doctor or physical therapist, but there is one thing in common and that is any player has a high chance in returning to play after surgery. All it takes is some time and those pitchers will be back on the bump in no time. Leistl 4 Works Cited Cain, E. Lyle, et al. Outcome of Ulnar Collateral Ligament Reconstruction of the Elbow in 1281  American Journal of Sports Medicine, vol. 38, no. 12, 12/01/2010, pp. 2426- 2434. Erickson, Brandon J., et al. Rate Of Return To Pitching And Performance After Tommy John Surgery In Major League Baseball  American Journal Of Sports Medicine 42.3 (2014): 536-543. SPORTDiscus. Web. 4 Feb. 2017. Gibson, Brett W., et al. Ulnar Collateral Ligament Reconstruction in Major League Baseball  The American Journal of Sports Medicine, no. 4, 2007, p. 575. Makhni, Eric C., et al. Performance, Return To Competition, And Reinjury After Tommy John Surgery In Major League Baseball Pitchers: A Review Of 147  American Journal Of Sports Medicine 42.6 (2014): 1323-1332. SPORTDiscus. Web. 4 Feb. 2017. Phillips, Benjamin Z., Christopher Stockburger, and Susan E. Mackinnon. Ulnar Nerve Transection During Tommy John Surgery: Novel Findings And Approach To  Hand 3 (2015): 555. Academic OneFile. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Wymore, Lucas, et al. Performance And Injury Characteristics Of Pitchers Entering The Major League Baseball Draft After Ulnar Collateral Ligament  American Journal Of Sports Medicine 44.12 (2016): 3165-3170. SPORTDiscus. Web. 19 Feb. 2017.