Saleh 1 Miriam Saleh ENC1102 14 April 2017 T.J. Murray Abortion yes it is murdering. We can use excuses and justifications for many of our actions, but using excuses for abortion is not humane. First off, abortion is murder and there is scientific evidence to explain this. There are a myriad of contraception options out there, which makes it the fault for not taking precautionary measures. Lastly, use the golden rule for this as we do for everything else. unto as you would like them do to stands ground here. You want your own parents having an abortion with you therefore you have it with your own pregnancy. To begin, abortion is murder. Once a woman is pregnant she is now with child. Being two weeks in the womb or being eight months in the womb does not change the fact that there is a person within her. The fetus has one half of the DNA and one half of the no different or less than any of us today. Just because the child has not left the womb before nine months does not make him or her any less of a human than any of us. D.G. Jones in In vitro fertilization describes such an act as the of embryos. (Jones 164) Logically speaking if we were all once embryos and our embryos had been destructed, we would have no life. You are literally taking away life. Jones went on to explain the is lost where although the embryo have a life to experience we are still impacting society negatively by taking away one of Saleh 2 future contributors. Having an abortion means taking away a valuable part of society for your own selfish reasons; society deserve murder. To continue, we are provided a myriad of contraceptive methods so an unplanned pregnancy is essentially the fault. In the following photo we have the many ways to practice safe sex. Some are more effective than others but simply doing multiple of these will guarantee that the woman get pregnant. Besides, one can always see their doctor to decide what the best option is for her. (Family Planning) Lastly, abortion should still abide by the golden rule. Do to someone else, as like him or her to do to you. In all things we do we have to have a moral compass; let me remind you just because the government does something mean moral. In fact, in The Constitutional Right Not to Kill Rienzi enlists abortion as one of the many ways the government sanctions murder. This list includes but is not limited to military Saleh 3 defense, assisted suicide, and self-defense of others. (Rienzi 170) This article continued to explain how we can all make the conscious decision to say people deserve these ways to die. Someone in military defense deserve to die because he or she is a selfless human being who can do more good towards the world after coming back home. Someone experiencing suicidal thoughts deserve toxic people assisting him or her; they can seek professional help because their lives are valuable. Someone with a capital punishment deserve to die in this manner because more often than not, these situations are complete misunderstandings where people act irrationally for no substantial reason. Just like an unborn fetus, many of these people are defenseless. They are perfectly innocent and deserve the right to live. In conclusion, abortion is completely immoral. It is flat out murder. It can be avoided given numerous options of contraception and the advise from a physician. And it is taking away someone right to live. We are all given the right of a beautiful life; neither you nor anyone else deserves the right to have that life taken away before it even starts. all stand up for pro-life. We all know it is wrong but we use excuses like money or timing to get away with taking away life. Next time you see someone considering an abortion, tell this person the truth. There is no need to be aggressive in doing it, just be completely honest about how wrong it is. You can even start attending pro-life marches, signing petitions or speaking in front of a judge. Anything you can do to prevent murder will be the most fulfilling thing you can possibly do. Saleh 4 Work Cited Rienzi, Mark L. The Constitutional Right Not to  Emory Law Journal, vol. 62, no. 1, Sept. 2012, pp. 121-178. EBSCOhost, Jones, D G. In vitro fertilization and the destruction of  Perspectives on science and Christian faith 67.3 (2015):163-174. Web. Family Planning. N.p., 2014. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. http://www.familyplanning.org.nz/media/153556/feature-effectiveness-april-2014.jpg