Caban Zavdiel Caban 14 April 2017 ENC 1102.089 1 Today, climate change and pollution are major political topics around the world. Based on hard scientific evidence, many argue that it is real and affecting us every day while others choose to ignore the evidence and argue against it. In the end, we should all agree that climate around the world is changing and the overall temperature of the Earth is increasing. The reason why is simple: the main cause of climate shifts and temperature change is us. It may be hard to acknowledge it and admitted but the evidence shows that our carbon emissions and pollution has caused significant and drastic changes. One major contributor are current methods of achieving energy, which are primarily unclean and are linked as the main cause of climate change. The most common method are coal-fired plants which are being regulated to keep emissions low but still leads to climate change and the global increase of carbon dioxide. Many studies like acknowledge this and say that global emissions of greenhouse gases must be drastically reduced as soon as (512). Some researchers predict that if we continue to be the way we are then they expect that in around 50 years it will be a different world but as of now we still have time to change our ways. Actually, many are becoming aware that this is happening and forming organizations like Greenpeace to stop companies from polluting and promoting a greener way of life. People in the U.S. are coming together to make sure that policies are still in place so that the water is not contaminated and ecosystems are not destroyed. As a means to decrease pollution and our carbon foot print we not only need to change our lifestyle but let our government representatives know that we care about the environment and support any law that protects it. Caban 2 To begin with, there is substantial evidence that climate change is caused by human influence like carbon emissions. There is a global consensus among environmental scientists that this is true. The Intergovernmental Panel in Climate Change has released four reports and the latest report stated that influence on the climate system is (R.K. Pachauri 2). This statement made by a group of scientist makes it transparent that humans are influencing the climate. Then this statement is followed by stating that the global greenhouse gas emissions are the highest in history. Paired together it can be concluded that there is a link between greenhouse gases and the change in climate because the greenhouse gases are released mainly by using coal and gas to attain energy. This causes a rise in temperature because the greenhouse gases are what keep the earth warm enough to sustain life and without them it would be an icy planet but with too much it may turn into the opposite. The effects can be directly seen at the poles, where the land is mostly composed of glaciers and permafrost. A report that Greenpeace, it mentioned that Arctic meltdown caused by runaway climate change will have grave consequences for the entire Oceans in They mentioned this because if the polar ice melts then the Earth will not be able to cool down. The ocean levels will also rise indicating that the cities near the water will suffer and must adapt to it. As shown in the same report, not only are glaciers melting but permafrost which releases methane - a powerful greenhouse Oceans in The methane that is release then goes back into the atmosphere contributing to the increase in global temperatures and climate change. As it can be seen it becomes like a cycle and ends up contributing to even more pollution. Having all of this in mind it is evident that climate change is real and it is backed up by a multitude of scientists and organizations that have committed themselves to researching and studying it. In the other hand, it can be easily said that in history the earth has gone multiple changes in climate, which is a claim Caban 3 made by those that chose to ignore the evidence. Yet, in history, the levels of carbon in the atmosphere are at an all-time high and continue to increase. The reports that the IPCC confirms this by providing graphs that show the greenhouse gas levels have been rising since the 1850s (R.K Pachauri). This indicates that a change needs to happen to have a cleaner world in the future. Furthermore, countries and organizations are taking this information to combat climate change and reverse it. Organizations such as Greenpeace and the Sierra Club are fighting companies to change their methods of achieving energy. Greenpeace started fighting the U.S. government against nuclear testing and have ever since dedicated themselves to protect the environment against any menace Organizations like this show that people are starting to care about how the environment is treated and think about how this affects future generations. Greenpeace not only deals with domestic pollution but with global solution as shown in a New York Times article where they make it public that China did not comply with their promise to stop building new coal-fired power plants (Wong). This shows that they are not afraid of whom they talk about and expose but only care about helping the environment. This article also shows that even though China did not fall through with their promise they still are somewhat aware of the damage the coal-fired plants are causing. In fact, many countries are starting to and some already have acted like in Europe where they have the biggest off shore wind turbine farms. In the U.S. companies are turning more towards these renewable types like how Tampa Electric Company now has a percentage of its energy that comes from solar. Still, this is moving slower than it should be and then some other countries because of the speculation that coal-fired plants have no effect on the environment which is why we need to educate ourselves. Finally, we can change our lifestyle and demand our government officials to be in Caban 4 support of environmentally friendly laws and regulations. Firstly, our habits need to change such changing lights to more efficient bulbs and using less water. Another less obvious one is to eat more organic foods and less meat. This is because non-organic foods use pesticides contributing to water pollution on top of the emissions that is released for transporting the goods. By buying organic foods then the contribution to pollution is decreased and has less impact on the environment. Also, eating less meat will decrease pollution because most of the meat sold at the grocery stores are from factory farms which contribute to both water and air pollution. Maybe in the future there will be electric cars that will transport the goods resulting in a completely clean and green good. In actuality, there are completely electric cars like Tesla which means that investing in one will decrease the emissions but not completely eradicate them because the energy is still most likely derived from coal-fired plants. This then leads to the investment in solar panels and other types of renewable energies for personal consumption. There is a company called SolarCity which is a leasing company that will put solar panels on the roof for only a monthly payment. They are also going to start making a roof completely made of solar panels. Moreover, supporting organizations like Greenpeace in their mission of keeping coal in the ground. They believe that coal should not even be mined and that it should stay in the ground because of the negatives that it brings It in the The last thing that should be done is to support any bills that are in support of regulations and renewable energy. This will help future generations revert the effects of pollution. We should also let our Florida government officials know that we care about the environment and is against any movement against it. Overall, we need to start changing the way that we do things. This includes are lifestyles and environmental policies. We as a species need to think of future generations and what lives Caban 5 we want them to live in. Preparing and being cautious for the future instead of just waiting until something horrific happens is a much smarter way to live. Caban 6 Work cited  Greenpeace USA, http://www.greenpeace.org/usa/about/. Accessed 28 Jan. 2017. Core Writing Team, R.K. Pachauri, and L.A. Meyer, eds. Climate Change 2014: Synthesis  Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, 2015, pp. 1- 169, http://www.ipcc.ch/report/ar5/syr/. Accessed 17 Apr. 2017. Holgersen, Stale, and Rikard Warlenius. Destroy What Destroys The Planet: Steering Creative Destruction In The Dual  Capital & Class 3, 2016, pp 511. Academic OneFile, doi: 10.1177/030981681666742. Accessed. 25 Jan. 2017. Keep It in the  Greenpeace USA, http://www.greenpeace.org/usa/global- warming/keep-it-in-the-ground/. Accessed 28 Jan. 2017. Oceans in and a Planet at Greenpeace USA, www.greenpeace.org/usa/research/polar-oceans-in-peril/. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Wong, Edward. Pledged to Curb Coal Plants. Greenpeace Says Still Adding The New York Times, The New York Times, 13 July 2016, https://www.nytimes.com/2016/07/14/world/asia/china-coal-power-greenpeace.html. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017.