Apicerno 1 Angela Apicerno Robert Ryan ENC 1102 18 April 2017 Suspense can be one of the most dangerous states a person can experience; stuck in a swing of emotions ranging between bliss and terror. For some, finding out if they got the job or if their sick child will make it through the night. For others, the lingering question often leaves a sick and empty feeling inside the souls of many. The one word can change a future forever; but the one phrase to can end a future forever. In the United States the death penalty is very much alive. On a state level its legality varies, but on a national level it is legal across the board. Staying informed on an issue like this and knowing what you can do to raise awareness and make your voice be heard could be the difference between life or death for another. The death penalty has been around since the beginning of time and has been used as a form of justice for other crimes, usually of the more violent nature. The theory behind it is that it is a binding decision that prevents the guilty of ever possibly committing a similar crime again. Many countries around the world have chosen to abolish the death penalty deeming it inhumane and unjust. Others fully support it, using it often and usually delivering the sentence soon after the verdict is given. In the United States, the death penalty is both a state and federal law. Thirty-two states have chosen to include capital punishment as legal in their constitutions. This means that if found guilty of a specific crime, they can be put to death by whatever means the state finds appropriate. This can include lethal injection, hanging, and Apicerno 2 electrocution. On the Federal level the death penalty is also legal. This means that if a person is being tried and found guilty by the federal courts, no matter what state he or she is from, they can be sentenced to death. Most people this issue is of little importance because it does not affect them, but there be a more inaccurate assumption. Although many families may never have to experience a trial where a death sentence is a possible outcome, the death penalty still greatly affects everyone. Cases involving the death penalty cost on average $600 million dollars more than cases that do not involve the capital punishment. Prisoners on death row cost an average of $90,000 more per year also (Costs These figures are astonishing as these funds could easily be put towards helping families or support other programs that fight to stop violent crimes. There are various ways to feel about this, but the bottom line is, why would there be a greater investment in highly dangerous criminals than in rehabilitation programs or other systems that try to benefit society overall? important that as members of society we do our best to give our input on what we what to see. As citizens, we are responsible for the law and policies passed on both a state and federal level. With an issue like the death penalty, it is important to understand that each vote can be the difference between life or death for many people. When put in perspective, if a loved one was being prosecuted, would you rather have them face the possibility of an early death or rather serve a life term in prison? It is the vote that dictates that. Whether you agree or disagree or are even indifferent to the current rules, it is imperative that people stay up to date and informed on the happenings around them. Being aware of the rules and regulations within the state alone can help make a more informed decision when it comes to Apicerno 3 voting on new or changing rules. A death sentence is an ultimate stop to another life and so by not choosing a side and remaining silent is choosing the side of the prosecutor. To create a change there must be a force that drives it, and that force must be this generation. Staying up to date and informed is a critical part of making informed decisions. There is an excess of information to understand when it comes to understanding the death penalty, but it is most important to understand that this is an issue everyone needs to care about. It may personally affect some, but it indirectly affects everyone. Staying up to date on how your vote or voice can help make the difference between another breath or a last meal. Apicerno 4 Works Cited Amnesty  Death Penalty. Amnesty International, n.d. Web. 21 Apr. 2017. Costs of the Death  Costs of the Death Penalty Death Penalty Information Center. DPIC, n.d. Web. 21 Apr. 2017. 32 States with the Death Penalty and 18 States with Death Penalty Bans Death Penalty -  Should the Death Penalty Be Allowed?N.p., 19 Dec. 2016. Web. 21 Apr. 2017.