McMahon 1 Jennifer McMahon Adam Phillips ENC1102.026 16 April 2017 You are What You Wear Everyone wears clothes, but the fact that not everyone knows who or how their clothes were made is concerning. In the fashion industry, most retailers are hesitant to let their consumers know how poorly they treat their labor workers. Not only that, but the fashion industry takes a toll on the environment in many different ways. Fast fashion retailers cause a big portion of these dilemmas due to the cheap materials used in order for their clothes to be priced lower than others. As consumers, whether of fast fashion or not, it is important to be knowledgeable of how transparent the retailers one shops at are. Although it help as much, a minor way to conserve the planet from the destruction of the fashion industry is to second hand shop. However, the best thing to do is become knowledgeable so that way one can change their habit of shopping for clothes and will want to inform others as well. One aspect of the fashion industry to consider when thinking about an action to take are the people who get affected the most, more specifically the garment workers. According to Ian Taplin, the way the fashion industry uses their labor workers is successfully location low cost production sources in emerging economies (such as Bangladesh) where input costs (labor) are low and productivity in the use of those inputs is high (work intensification (79). A good example of when this idea ends up affecting humanity is the Rana Plaza Tragedy. The Rana Plaza was a factory located in Bangladesh that was filled with thousands of garment workers that collapsed due to substandard materials and disregarding building codes (Yardley 1). McMahon 2 After this event occurred, many people around the world started discussing the tragedy and started to bring up questions about how many other factories actually have similar issues. According to Sarah Ditty from Fashion Revolution, Rana Plaza, the Bangladesh Accord set up to improve factory conditions, has inspected over 1200 factories for safety hazard and as a result has closed 41 and helped to upgrade many (8). Although this is exciting news, there are many other countries that we get our clothes from. All of these garment workers who get forced into terrifying situation are only humans who are trying to get by with what they can get. It is safe to say that the clothes people wear on their backs cost more than they think. Another crucial impact the fashion industry has is effecting the environment; where excessive amounts of water is being used to produce products that consumers will only throw away shortly after. Water is the one material that clothes, cheaply made or not, have in common. According to Kelly Drennan, average, it takes 2,700 litres of water to make one cotton t-shirt. That is enough water for one person for 900 (21). Imagine all of the water used to produce all the clothes in a typical wardrobe. Along with that, a good portion of them get thrown out for numerous of reasons. Some are resourceful and donate their clothes, but majority of the time people or even donation centers will throw away their clothes because they are worn out or have damage to them. These clothes will end up getting thrown into the landfills, which causes pollution. According to Jana Hawley, equates to 4 million tons of textiles going to the landfills each (3). Four million is a lot of waste for clothes that will barely be worn. What the fashion industry is doing is sacrificing the air we breathe and the water we drink for something that can be easily fixed. One resolution that most people resort to when thinking about the problem of the waste in clothes is shopping or donating at second hand shops. Although this is a good start when it McMahon 3 comes to assisting with the problem, this barely helps the garment workers or our environment. If everyone resorts to shopping second hand, the garment workers will just end up losing their jobs since the brands get put out of business. Even if shopping at second hand stores helped the garment workers, it does not help the environment as much as it needs. According to Claudio Luz, Council for Textile Recycling estimates that 2.5 billion pounds of post-consumer textile waste is thus collected and prevented from entering directly into the waste but it is still only about 15% of the clothing that is (452). The act of shopping at second hand stores is better than shopping consistently at the fashion retailers that are destroying our environment. However, it is not the only act that one can do in order to help the garment workers who are in cruel situations and our environment. As people who wear clothes in general, the main action one should take in order to help this situation is to research and educate. Even if one does not shop as frequently nor shop at fast fashion retailers, it is good to know which industries, like the fashion industry, are hindering our society. Fashion Revolution as an organization does an effective job when it comes to presenting information that everyone should be knowledgeable of. For instance, Fashion Revolution publishes a Fashion Transparency Index every year, shortly after their Revolution Week. In their index, they collect data from lots of retailers of details in terms of their supply chain. For instance, one of the many retailers that they included in their research was Chanel, a retailer that does not seem to be a fast fashion retailer since they do not sell their products for cheap prices. Out of the 40 brands that Fashion Revolution recorded in their research, Chanel scored the worst. There were five things that this research looked for: the policy and commitment, their tracking and traceability, their audits and remediation, their engagement and collaboration, and their governance (Moore 05). Chanel scored 0% on four of those aspects, meaning that they McMahon 4 showed no evidence that they had more than a Code of Conduct in place, nor were trying to make effort towards being transparent about their supply chain practices (Moore 06). Fashion goal is to show everyone the transparency in the fashion industry, how not a lot of the consumers of these brands understand what they are doing in order to have the clothes on their backs. The conduction of this research shows that it is resourceful for everyone to know where their clothes came from. Not only should one research, but one should also educate others. If one is not a consumer of fast fashion, it is always a plus to let people know how much they are affecting the human race and the environment through their shopping habits. In conclusion, the fashion industry is negatively affecting multiple things. Not only is it forcing garment workers to work in poor conditions for low wages, but the fashion industry is also negatively affecting the environment. The environment is not only wasting a lot of water for only one product, but that product ends up getting thrown away into the landfills that pollutes our air. As a person in this world, one may not be doing much to contribute to these dilemmas. Although there might be people out there who shop for quality over quantity, everyone is involved in the consumption of the fashion industry. Whether one only buys clothes because it is necessary or because they love to be stylish, it is necessary to be knowledgeable about what is occurring in the world we live in. Not only that, but it is helpful to give that knowledge to a person who is probably strongly contributing to this problem that is destroying the world we live in today. The act of thrift shopping may be the first step into helping our world, but letting consumers of this terrible cycle what they are effecting is the best action one can make to help the garment workers and our environment. McMahon 5 Works Cited Claudio, Luz. Couture: Environmental Impact of the Clothing Environmental Health Perspectives, vol. 115, no. 9, Jan. 2007, pp. Accessed 16 April 2017. Ditty, Sarah, and Lucy Siegle. Time for a Fashion Time for a Fashion Revolution, Dec. 2015, pp. Accessed 16 April 2017. Drennan, Kelly. up the Threads: Fast Fashion Led to the Rana Plaza Tragedy in Bangladesh. We Can Do Alternatives Journal, no. 3, 2015, p. 20-23. Accessed 16 April 2017. Hawley, Jana M. Recycling: a System Recycling in Textiles, 2006, pp. 24. Accessed 16 April 2017. Moore, Bryony. Transparency FASHION REVOLUTION FASHION TRANSPARENCY INDEX, April 2016, pp. 1-19. Accessed 16 April 2017. Taplin, Ian M. Is To Blame? A Re-Examination of Fast Fashion After the 2013 Factory Disaster in Critical Perspectives on International Business, vol. 10, 2014, pp. Accessed 16 April 2017. Yardley, Jim. on Deadly Factory Collapse in Bangladesh Finds Widespread New York Times, 22, 2013, pp.1-3. Accessed 16 April 2017.