McDavid 1 Althea McDavid Instructor Robert Ryan ENC 1102 017 27 January 2017 Project 3: Composing Multimodal Arguments Wearable baby monitors are the newest technological breakthrough in the baby monitoring industry. Most of them involve a device attached to an article of baby clothing, such as socks or onesies, which connects to a mobile device to give readings to the parents. These products have been thought be more convenient and provide a useful service to parents with infants. However, there are several medical parties that are concerned about the true purpose and benefits of these products. It is the intention to educate the audience in areas of the topic that they may be unaware of and may affect decision making when it comes to baby monitors. This topic does not only concern parents or prospective parents but anyone with family or friends who have or who are considering having children. The latter may be under the impression that this topic does not concern them but they have an indirect closeness to this topic. After all the facts are laid out, it is the intention to show this particular audience how exactly this topic may affect them and compel them to take action to counter this issue. One point that may be heavily considered but may not be readily known is the lack of medical review and lack of data available on wearable baby monitors. There are several medical professionals who write about the lack of medical support that these products have, deeming them completely commercial products. In this way, they are concerned about the effectiveness of these products. Pediatrician, David King, in his article wearable home baby monitors: real peace of he reveals that many of the companies who have created these McDavid 2 baby monitors do not require approval from the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) since they, admittedly, made modifications to the product so that they do not need to file for approval as time and expense that this process would have required made it (349). This also meant that the companies are not required to release the data they collected from testing the product to the public. How then, can consumers be able to establish a sense of assurance or identify a semblance of reliability in these products? Apart from them spending money on the device and putting their lives at risk to find out. Another point to consider is the overreaching implications that these devices come with. King surmises in his article that although the companies advertise the products as non-medical, i.e., not made to treat medical conditions, the advertising techniques and lack of emphasis on their non-medical nature allow their audience to run away with the idea that they may be medically useful, especially when in fear of Sudden Infant Death Syndrome (SIDS from here on) (349). SIDS is a medical condition where infants are known to suddenly die in their sleep. The American Academy of Pediatrics has stated that there is no documented evidence that home cardiorespiratory monitors, which wearable baby monitors can be considered, reduce the occurrence of SIDS They recommend several physical exercises and positions in their article that may actually reduce the occurrence instead. Therefore, not only do the companies, even if inadvertently so, exploit a fear that many parents and prospective parents of infants may have but they also put the children at risk; more so when there are more effective and inexpensive alternatives available. Further, there is evidence that these products provide false alarms from readings that may actually be normal in some infants. Another Pediatrician, Dr. Christopher Bonafide, commented on his experience with parents who use wearable baby monitors. Bonafide McDavid 3 revealed that he has met with parents who came to visit due to alarms from their monitor, which were false. Bonafide claimed that false alarms can occur due to changes in sleeping positions or by normal fluctuations in their vitals such as decrease in oxygen level which can occur occasionally but is harmless. He has stated that brought in on a false alarm are likely to undergo blood tests, X-rays and other procedures that are expensive and potentially This, therefore, presents yet another serious consideration for parents thinking of investing in such a product. Are they willing, and able, to suffer the initial cost of such a device and any subsequent unnecessary costs that may come with this device in the hope of it preventing, unassuredly so, a major occurrence in their lives. With the previous information in mind, there may be several questions in the more unengaged minds as to where they fit in to this equation. The simplest answer is through the people they care about. Someone who has no intention of having a child or does not see it happening in the near future may not directly have to think about the financial and emotional implications of investing in baby monitors. It is quite possible, however, that such a person has a close sibling or cousin or even friend who is or will be plagued by such things and by extension, this so called unengaged person will be affected. First consider a close family member and how it might affect them and hence those close to them. Let us take an unengaged college student for example whose older sibling has a child but also helps support their younger sibling with college tuition. Imagine how this relationship would be affected if the older sibling must invest at least $100 dollars on the monitor itself, as according to the article say new baby monitors may be harmful, should be the most popular wearable baby monitors are not below this threshold price. Consider also, the approximate cost of $160-$180 for pediatric consultation and anything from $15 - $600 for any McDavid 4 diagnostic tests and lab services. This according to a Blue Cross Shield of Massachusetts record (it may vary with each clinic). Can the financial implications be seen in this instance? Although this situation is specific, it can be remodeled in several ways, each involving varying levels of financial strain. Similarly to family, friends can also have a rippling effect on an unengaged party. Friends too can experience the same financial strain as family but more than that, you may feel an emotional effect from the situation. This could apply to family as well but it is more than likely that more time is spent with close friends; sharing secrets and worries and burdens than with family. According to Psychologist, Sherrie Carter, exposure to other emotions in a social environment can cause people to unconsciously mimic those emotions. She also states that it is easier to negative emotions as opposed to positive ones Therefore, if a close friend of an unengaged observer had a child and was stressed or anxious or depressed by any repercussions that come with investing in these products, in can be inferred that this unengaged party will be induced with similar feelings. Would a good way to handle this not be to become engaged in the topic? If the argument is then sufficiently convincing and the unengaged audience now somewhat engaged, the audience may be willing to take action. The simplest way to help prevent any financial stress and/or emotional turmoil for those directly and indirectly affected by the topic is awareness. The audience should take it upon themselves to share the information they would have learnt from this literature or from any further research they may be motivated to embark on. Information is power and sharing that information with loved ones can protect them and protect the lifestyle that they and those close to them have become accustomed to. Wearable baby monitors may seem like a convenient, revolutionary and useful product but it may be McDavid 5 prudent to take the time to do a bit more investigation on these products and what it may really mean for any and all parties involved. McDavid 6 Work Cited Carter, Sherrie. Are Your Company 20 th October 2012. https://www.psychologytoday.com/blog/high-octane-women/201210/emotions-are-contagious- choose-your-company-wisely. Accessed 8 April 2017. King, David. Marketing wearable home baby monitors: real peace of . BMJ: British Medical Journal (Online) 349 (2014). Accessed 8 April 2017. Mole, Beth. say new baby monitors may be harmful, should be 24 th January 2017. https://arstechnica.com/science/2017/01/think-the-latest-baby-monitors-are-a-good-idea- think-again-experts-say/. Accessed 8 April 2017. question value of monitors in baby 25 January 2017. http://www.health24.com/Parenting/Child/paediatricians-question-value-of-monitors-in-baby- clothing-20170125. Accessed 8 April 2017. and Other Sleep-Related Infant Deaths: Updated 2016 Recommendations for a Safe Infant Sleeping Pediatrics November 2016, VOLUME 138, ISSUE 5. http://pediatrics.aappublications.org/content/138/5/e20162938..info. Accessed 8 April 2017. Costs for Common Medical Services April 2009. http://www.bluecrossma.com/blue- Accessed 8 April 2017.