Leslie 1 Amanda Leslie Emil Smith Composition 1 9 April 2017 Project 3 Intermediate Draft Over time, as college athletics have become bigger and bigger and more and more money has been generated, there has been a greater movement to treat college athletes like employees and to provide them with wages and benefits. While college athletes are in school to earn a degree, most of their time is spent on their sport. It is a widely talked about topic among ex-college athletes, coaches and current players how college athletes spend the same amount of time playing their sport as people do at their job. It is easy to forget that college athletes are not just athletes; they are students first. Their lives are always non-stop from schoolwork to practices to workouts. They often work as strenuously as those who are employed full-time, yet receive none of the benefits. College athletes need to be paid in order to compensate for the time and effort they put in on a day-to-day basis. It is a well-known fact that colleges receive a large portion of their revenues from their athletes. This is a 60 billion dollar industry. An article in the College Student Journal stated 1988 the NCAA has received in excess of $150 million per year from CBS for rights to broadcast the NCAA basketball 2001). Many agree that since college athletes are bringing in that much money, it is obvious that they should be compensated for it. In fact, some schools earn over $2 million from sponsorship agreements with sporting apparel companies, such as Nike. Leslie 2 Another point that was made was that since coaches are paid so lavishly, students should be entitled to salaries. The salaries of many head coaches can top $100,000 annually. With endorsements, coaches at top programs can earn in excess of $1 million per year. Karaim, a writer for the Washington Post, argued that has rippled down through college athletics, with escalating salaries and construction of bigger and better sports facilities. Top coaches earn salaries in the millions of dollars, often many times the salary of their For example, Nick Saban, head coach at the University of Alabama, receives approximately $6.9 million a year. Moreover, college athletes under a scholarship have to adhere to a strict set of NCAA rules that restricts their ability to earn any type of outside income. Not all scholarships are sufficient to cover the full cost of tuition, room, and board. Additionally, scholarships are not guaranteed from year to year, leaving some students having to pay their own way or take on debt to get through college (Karaim 2014). The intensity of the demands placed upon college athletes essentially qualify them as employees. In 2006, McCormick argued that since the athletes are the ones producing the product, they should be the ones receiving the wage. McCormick stated that virtue of this camouflage, the NCAA and its members are permitted, like no other association of institutions or businesses in this country, to employ one type of labor without paying a competitive wage for However, some of these athletes are considered employees by law and the relationship between them and their university is that of an employee-employer. As well as the millions of dollars earned by the players each year, corporate sponsors of college teams gain extensive exposure in newspapers, on television, on the internet, and through other forms of media. Furthermore, McCormick Leslie 3 wrote labor in the demanding, and often brutal, college sports vineyard, sometimes risking life and limb, and are entitled, as a matter of right and law, to a just portion of the fruits of their Another researcher argues that the demands placed upon college athletes are very similar to those expected in the workplace. A standard job involves given time allotments, rules, and regulations. Employees are expected to put in their full effort. These characteristics closely resemble those of college athletes (McCormick, 2006). Although some people believe college athletes should get paid as employees, the NCAA believes that college athletes are students and receive the benefits of scholarships. Also, college athletes are given a variety of complementary gear, including shoes, sweatshirts, rain gear, hats, and more. In addition, taxing authorities do not tax students on the benefits they receive because they are not considered income (Cooper). Though these opinions do have a degree of validity, that validity is outweighed by an assortment of facts proving that college athletes are in fact entitled to an income. The NCAA argues that college athletes are compensated enough through scholarship. However, only a small minority of each team is given a full scholarship, so this does not compensate for the lack of payment. The combination of the gear given to the athletes and the money saved through a lack of taxes do not come close to comprising even a minimum wage income. Given these facts, it is clear that the points made by the opposing side lack legitimacy. The majority of people continue to agree that college athletes are entitled to compensation for all of the hard work that they put in. Since the athletes are bringing in millions of dollars for the colleges, working as hard and long as any paying job and have similar rules and restrictions to a job, they should be reimbursed. Although some believe Leslie 4 that they are already being reimbursed through other means, this does not comprise a fair wage for the many hours and efforts the student athletes give each week. It is about time that college athletes receive a compensation for all they do. Leslie 5 Works Cited Cooper, Kenneth J. Should College Athletes Be Paid To Play?. Diverse: Issues In Higher Education 28.10 (2011): 12.Biography Reference Bank (H.W. Wilson). Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Karaim, Reed. Paying College Athletes: Are Players School  CQ Researcher 24.25 (2014): 577. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. McCormick, Robert A., and Amy Christian McCormick. The Myth Of The Student- Athlete: The College Athlete As  Washington Law Review 81.1 (2006): 71-157. Index to Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 18 Feb. 2017. Schneider, Raymond G. College Perceptions On The Payment Of Intercollegiate  College Student Journal 35.2 (2001): 232-240. Education Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 18 Feb. 2017.