Merchan !1 Maria Merchan Professor Emil Smith 9 April 2017 Composition I Plus size modeling A plus size model is an individual that is larger in size of what is considered and specializes in modeling plus size clothing. This further complicates the standards for because plus size modeling for women starts at size 8 US. It is hard to imagine that a woman sized 8 is considered a specially when the average US woman is between 12-14 and weighs 164 pounds. (University of Texas, Although plus size modeling has become increasingly popular over time, there is still a debate about the existence of this category. There are clear supporters of plus size modeling, but there are also opposers who claim the category should not exist. Plus size modeling allows for a more diverse representation of women in the fashion world, while making the average american women, size 14, comfortable with their bodies. In the United States, most women that read fashion magazines are between the ages 18 and 27 and have an average size of 8. This is shown by a survey made by Kate Zernike where she states, years, an average woman interested in fashion magazines was thought to be a size 8, although some circles had bumped that up to size 12 in recent years. But even the women who came in on the small side in the SizeUSA survey look more like what the longtime clothing industry standards would consider a size 14, a size that is considered plus (Zernike). This survey shows how important it is for plus size models to be part of fashion. In addition, recent Merchan !2 study published in the International Journal of Obesity found that body mass index is not a reliable way to measure health. Half of Americans who are considered overweight by their BMI number are (Heiser), so in reality, a plus size model is closer in size and weigh to an average American women, than the average thin model. Representation of different body types in the fashion industry can be a positive movement towards diversity, and it is important to represent not only different body types but also different ethnicities. Throughout time, plus size modeling has become a bigger industry, and women have expressed their thoughts regarding the inclusion of plus size modeling into the fashion industry. This can be women are shown the images of larger models, paired with the plain images of underweight women, and their preferences shift away from (Mental Health Weekly Digest). By choosing the larger models rather than the underweight women, they are showing their preference for a plus size model weather than the average thin model. The fashion industry should pay more attention to what women in the United States have to say about plus size modeling, the inclusion of plus size modeling into the fashion industry could bring many positive results. One example of a positive result is that since plus size modeling represents many body types, then it can be beneficial because ultimately help girls and women develop a healthier attitude to eating. There are many models that have expressed their thoughts about plus size modeling. Olivia Campbell, a size 18 British plus size model said: am not offended by my plus-size body, I am as proud to be called plus-size as I am to be called a Many plus size models are not ashamed to show their larger body, they are proud to be considered a plus size models. Merchan !3 This has a positive impact towards society, because there are many girls that are ashamed of showing their body since they look like the regular models, and plus size modeling can begin to bring acceptance and inclusion in society. People from the fashion industry have also expressed themselves regarding plus size. Natasha Nurse, plus size model magazine editor and owner of Dressing Room 8, stated: Girls and women need reaffirmation to love and appreciate the skin that they are in. The conversation should not be about dropping plus size, but when will our society learn that beauty is shapeless, colorless, size-less, and People needs to start accepting theirselves and others the way they are, and plus size modeling can be the start of this. Many social issues, such as bullying, can be reduced with the help of plus size modeling. Many people oppose the existence of plus size modeling. They claim that underweight models have harmful effects on self esteem, but plus size modeling encourages obesity. According to an article in The Peak, societal acceptance of larger body types may discourage individuals from eating healthily, exercising regularly, and engaging in other health- conscious Opposers want an average between underweight models and plus size models to be the models in runways, and the model that is in the average between underweight and plus size is what they call This has brought many controversies within the fashion industry, a plus size model named Laura Wells, stated the use of words like by the researchers may be detrimental, as all bodies should be considered The average women in the United States has a closer weigh and BMI to plus size models , than to the average thin model. According to Bruce Lee, plus size models have the power to control factors such as metabolism, culture, food, etc, that makes someone obese. the diversity of body shapes and sizes portrayed in the media could rebalance our views about our Merchan !4 own bodies in an emotionally healthy Health Weekly Digest). The representation of different bodies in the fashion industry, is the first step towards self acceptance. Plus size modeling can be the start of a new era, and it can bring many positive effects in society. The fashion industry creates unrealistic bodies in a daily basis, and this is what society is viewing as the standard body shape. The inclusion of plus size modeling in the fashion industry can help people accept theirselves more and also accept others.(Stephen) It is important to understand that plus size modeling allows for a more diverse representation of women in the fashion world. Even though plus size models are now being included and represented, there is still a lot more that the industry and people can do. There are even some individuals that think that plus size modeling should not be its own label, instead it should just be included in modeling. Merchan !5 Works Cited More Plus-Size Models Could Change Obsession with Thin  Mental Health Weekly Digest, 2012. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http:// search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=edsgao&AN=edsgcl.309818201&site=eds- live SFU Study Finds That Models Encourage  UWIRE Text, 2016. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx? direct=true&db=edsgao&AN=edsgcl.439004298&site=eds-live. Zernike, Kate. Sizing Up America: Signs of Expansion From Head to  The New York Times. N.p., n.d. Web. 1 Mar. 2004. Lee, Bruce Y. Do Plus-Size Models Really Cause  Forbes. N.p., 19 Dec. 2015. Web. Stephen, Ian D. and A. Treshi-Marie Perera. Judging the Difference between Attractiveness and Health: Does Exposure to Model Images Influence the Judgments Made by Men and  Plos ONE, no. 1, 2014. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0086302. Heiser, Christina. The Truth About Whether Women Are Actually  Womens Health. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 01 Feb. 2017. Web. 08 Apr. 2017.