Rocchio 1 Chris Rocchio Instructor Ryan ENC1102.059 16 April 2017 Written Argument Intermediate Draft All over the world, animals are being abused, mistreated, and held captive in some of the most inhumane environments. Most people have either seen a commercial or read an article talking about the poor treatment of animals. The age group of people who are most exposed to the unethical treatment is teenagers. Teenagers are educated about the poor animal treatment throughout middle school and even into high school. Most of the teenagers either pay attention or know what to do to help. According to The ASPCA (The American Society for The Prevention of Cruelty to Animals), 60 seconds, another animal is This should not and cannot happen any longer. To stop this from happening more individuals need to help with the issue. The most important stakeholders who must become engaged with the issue of poor animal treat is teenagers. These stakeholders should become more engaged because of how often animal cruelty occurs, the relativity is extremely high due to most households owning or have owned a pet, and the easy and readily available sources for everyday people to help. To begin with, the unengaged teenage stakeholders must become engaged in the issue of unethical animal treatment because of the frequent incidents of animal cruelty. Animal cruelty involves all aspects of hurting animals in any way, shape, or form. Whether it is starving an animal, keeping them in poor living conditions, or physically harming them, it is all cruel. As stated before, every 60 seconds, another animal is abused. If an animal is abused every 60 seconds that means over 1400 animals are abused every day. On average, dentists say you should Rocchio 2 brush your teeth for two minutes, which would mean that every time you brush your teeth, 2 animals are somewhere being abused. A main source of poor living conditions for animals is puppy mills. Puppy mills are large businesses which focus more on gaining profit out of the dogs, then actually keeping them healthy. Many of the dogs kept in puppy mills end up with heart or kidney disease and many end up dying. Another main animal abuse tactic is hoarding animals. Animals need room to live, just as humans do. If too many animals are living in a small environment they can end up looking as if they have disease or as stated by The Animal Legal Defense Fund (ALDF). According to the ALDF, over 250,000 animals every year are victims of animal hoarding and these animals usually suffer for six months to years even after they have been rescued. Furthermore, the teenage stakeholders should become more engaged with the issues involving the unethical treatment of animals due to it relating so much to most of them at one point or another in their lives. Growing up at some point in most teenagers lives there has been a pet in the house that the family has loved and cared for. By the slight chance the family has not had a pet, the teen may have brought home the class pet at one point during school or played with a pet. The pet owners would not want anything to happen to any of their pets, so why should it be allowed to happen to other animals? The issue is important because there are rules and regulations for owning pets, whether it be a household pet or a commercially owned pet. According to the President of PETA, Ingrid Newkirk, liberationists do not separate out the human animal, so there is no rational basis for saying that a human being has special rights. A rat is a pig is a dog is a boy. all Just because an animal talk (although some say that dogs understand English), or walk on two legs like humans do, mean that animals feel just as humans do. Animals can break bones and bruise just as Rocchio 3 humans do. Defenseless creatures must have someone to speak up for them and fight for them. The animals depend on people to defend their lives. Without people defending the lives of the animals every day, many animals may end up becoming endangered or extinct if they receive any help soon. Finally, the teenage stakeholders must become engaged with the poor animal treatment issues because of the large amount of empowerment that they can achieve if much of the teenagers use the resources that are readily available to them every day. Once teenagers start going into the upper grade levels in school and taking more strenuous science classes, they begin getting more exposed to the animal cruelty when animals subjects come up during the year. There are multiple sources for teens to visit to donate money to the organizations or report any incidents if they know of any. Animal abuse is illegal in all states but is also a felony in 31 states. If any abuse is seen or heard of, make sure to contact your local police department or rescue shelter. In addition to reporting any crimes, any donations for local shelters are essential. Most people have a plentiful amount of free time or money, but that is not an excuse to not help. The littlest donations of money are appreciated and can help the shelters out by allowing them to get more food and supplies for the animals. If you cannot afford to donate money to the shelters, at least give them a few hours a week to help with daily activities near the shelter. Some of the simplest activities such as cleaning the living arrangements of the animals or feeding them or even as fun as petting and playing with them can provide a tremendous help. Some of the main organizations who teenagers can donate to or contact if they see any incidents are Pet-abuse.com, The People for The Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA), The American Society for The Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (ASPCA), and many more. Rocchio 4 In conclusion, animals need as many people as possible to come together a help them in their fight. Animals should not be held in poor and unfair living conditions, abused, or tortured in any way. For the unfair treatment of animals to be stopped worldwide, all stakeholders must be engaged. Since teenagers are all exposed to the horrific treatment of animals during their schooling, they are one of the most educated group of stakeholders that can help. All teenagers should become more engaged with issue of unethical treatment of animals because of the often incidents of animal cruelty, the amount of relevance of the issue is extremely high in most teenagers current or past lives, and there are endless amounts of ways for each teenager to make an impact to better the issue. Rocchio 5 Works Cited American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. Puppy  Web Accessed April 14, 2017. American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. Animal Hoarding  Web Accessed April 18, 2017. Preventing Animal  Pet-Abuse.Com. N.p., n.d. Web. 18 Apr. 2017. <http://www.pet- Cudworth, Erika. Killing Animals: Sociology, Species Relations and Institutionalized  The Sociological Review, vol. 63, no. 1, Feb. 2017, pp. 1-18. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1111/1467-954X.12222. Animal  ASPCA. N.p., n.d. Web. 18 Apr. 2017. <https://www.aspca.org/animal- cruelty>.