Logan Nolte Professor Phillips ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Oil Drilling to the Common American In world, reliance on oil is at its peak. The cost per barrel is tracked by the second by everyone due to the demand for the good. The biggest reason for this demand is the use of personal automobiles by the vast majority of Americans. With more people coming into the United States and the population rising at an incredible rate, more cars will be purchased thus the need for oil will rise. What many people do not know is the harmful effects of obtaining oil. The method of extracting oil is drilling or offshore drilling. Americans need to drop the oil dependency and go towards alternative energy and mass transits so that the common worker can stay in work. The negative implications of offshore oil drilling heavily outweigh the positive reinforcements; the situation will continue to worsen if alternative uses of energy are not explored. demand for oil is expected to increase by 18.7 million barrels per day (mb/d) over the next 25 years, reaching 111 mb/d by (Laroche 1). This estimate was taken by OPEC in 2014, assuming that no drastic change manifests. That is the U.S importing about $994,466,000 worth of oil per day, given that the demand of oil will not raise to the demand (which it will). The U.S cannot keep purchasing this amount of oil to fill the needs of consumers, the U.S debt is already much too high. This has the opportunity to plunge the U.S in another recession, causing thousands of jobs to vanish. For those in the automobile industry, this means that their employment would be the first to go, since the bottleneck of oil sales would hit so hard that the public would be forced to look into other means of transportation. With that being said, those are only the negative implications of only using the oil. The risk of spilling oil is still there and when this tragedy strikes, an extreme amount of jobs and money are lost. When the large oil spill of 2010 struck, not only was the environment harmed, but Americans along with the U.S. were devastated. economic impact is far worse. The Gulf fishing and tourism industries produce $3.5 - $4.5 billion a year. It will cost BP $4 billion to contain and clean up the mess, and another $4-$5 billion in penalties. At the time, the NOAA forecasted there was a 60% chance the slick would reach the Florida (Amadeo) While this oil spilled killed many fish that consumers depend on in America, the spill had a 60% chance of affecting the state with the best tourism. The fishing industry lost about 3,000 jobs and 700 million dollars; for the American worker these are scary numbers and pushes people to find a better alternative oil disaster affected the cellular function of the killifish a common baitfish at the base of the food chain. It harmed the development of larger fish such as mahi-mahi, and reduced the number of juvenile Bluefin by (Amadeo). 20% when worked into the yearly revenue of fisheries is an insane amount of money lost due to something that could have been completely avoided if America had stopped using oil. While an immense amount of money was lost in this oil spill, it compare to the value of animal life and the environment. The marine life that did nothing to deserve this was suffocated by crude oil. America still has the chance to reverse any damage done to the environment by allowing the environment to heal; by switching to alternative energy and lowering oil consumption. With the amount of options available to the public, America needs to drop the oil dependency. With a rapid increase in technology, electric and hybrid cars are becoming more efficient and lowering their costs. It has come to the point where going and purchasing a hybrid saves money. hoped the introduction of a hybrid gas-electric car that cut pollution and got a then eye-popping 45 miles per gallon on the highway would green its (Muller). While saving the environment and cutting down on oil usage, the common consumer who purchases automobiles will be saving money. Having the average American worker purchase and use this will create more jobs, save the owner money on gas and lower the dependency on oil. Purchasing a hybrid car be a budget issue either for the common American. The average Joe makes about $34,940 a year; with financing options available almost everywhere, purchasing one of these would not hurt too badly. Another way that the average American worker could save money and save jobs would be the usage of public transportation. this study showed that the existence of Trans-Jogja has potentially contributed to the reduction of global and local environmental pollution through mainly the avoided motorised trips by shifting to Trans-Jogja, particularly from motorcycle, car, and the conventional The quotation above states that public transportation did in fact help reduce environmental impact and oil dependency. Using public transportation does in fact save money to the average American worker and use up an incredible amount of time. The last way to help protect American jobs would be to donate some time to organizations that help clean oceans or donate money to these same organizations. Doing this will allow jobs in the fishing and tourism industry to continue making money so that they can create more jobs and expand. Lowering the United oil dependency only has positive implications for the average American and the environment. In conclusion, lowering the United oil dependency by switching over to hybrid cars and using mass transportation creates more jobs for the American people and promotes a healthy environment. Works Cited Amadeo, Kimberly. BP Spent $56.4 Billion on Spill So  The Balance. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Fool, Matthew Frankel The Motley. the average American household income: How do you  USA Today. Gannett Satellite Information Network, 24 Nov. 2016. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Laroche, Olivier, et al. First Evaluation of Foraminiferal Metabarcoding for Monitoring Environmental Impact from an Offshore Oil Drilling  Marine Environmental Research, vol. 120, Sept. 2016, pp. 225-235. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.marenvres.2016.08.009. MULLER, JOANN. Toyota  Forbes, vol. 197, no. 7, 31 May 2016, pp. 50-56. EBSCOhost,ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login. aspx?direct=true&db=buh&AN=115274550&site=eds-live.