Ramon 1 Bradley Ramon Professor Adam Phillips ENC1102.026 April 16, 2017 Project 3 Intermediate: Abortion A baby is a huge responsibility to have, likely even the largest most people will ever have in their life. You have to be able to care and provide for the baby financially as well as give it the attention it needs for proper development. Some couples think they are ready, and back out, while others simply were careless. Needless to say if abortion were not an option, many people around the world would suffer greatly with the heavy burden of having a child. To say a person is pro choice on the matter of abortion means that they support the right to her own body. To be pro life means to value all life including those of unborn babies in this case. This struggle over abortion has been going on for many years and has remained a prominent issue to this day. There are several organizations that have been created along the way that fight on behalf of women as well as supporters of right to get an abortion as well as to end abortions. Having a child is a large responsibility and women should be able to have control over whether or not they want to go through the excruciating process. However there are various side effects to having an abortion that in many instances that outweigh getting the abortion. It is important to go out and make sure that both parties are properly educated before having Ramon 2 intercourse, to help not only yourself, but as well as another life you could have potentially had. You can do this in a wide variety of ways. Support pro life organizations, protest, sign petitions, there are plenty of ways available. Before a decision can be made about anything, proper knowledge should be had. Abortion not only affects the body, but their mind as well. Several case studies have been made that link abortion to mental illness. A study that was published in the Scandinavian Journal of Public Health, said that, Young adult women who undergo... abortion may be at increased risk for subsequent  ( Penderson 2). There is not only anxiety that comes with the problem but abortion can also change a perspective. According to a collaborative study published in Psychology, views abortion as a potentially stressful life event within the range of other normal life Major et al. 5). These studies indicate that the mental blows can affect a woman who terminated her pregnancy up to five years after termination. These are serious issues that many people do not take into consideration when they go into an abortion clinic, they simply go into a clinic and want the baby gone. The emotional state of women getting an abortion can be so unpredictable that a study published recommends the following, Emotional support may be beneficial for women having abortions who report intended pregnancies or difficulty (Trussel and all could have likely been prevented in the first place had they taken the proper preventative measures, whether it be condoms or birth control pills. On average only about .02% of couple have an unintended pregnancy if a condom was used, and used correctly, this is pulled from a study conducted from over 8,000 sexual acts in one year RA et al). This is not something that only affects women, but steril men as well. If you have fertile seen then you are capable of reproduction, making you Ramon 3 equally responsible for the fetus being developed by your partner. The fact that you are killing a possible life should be taken into consideration. If you wait long enough to get the abortion the fetus starts to develope nerves and will be able to feel the pain of the abortion procedure. If you do not want to deal with those responsibilities take the proper precautions. What can you do to help? There are plenty of ways that anyone who is willing to help, can. The easiest ways to help can be done from your home. You can donate to a wide variety of pro life organizations such as the NRLC ( National Right to Life Committee), Susan B. Anthony List, Students for Life of America, Feminists for Life, etc. They all need monetary support to continue fighting for safety as well as the life of the babies inside of them. You can also sign petitions online that can help sway some laws in Congress. You can even take it upon yourself to educate your friends through social media by sharing educational links and stories that will help make people make a more educated decision. A more active way to support a cause is to go out and protest. This can be done is many ways, Many pro life organizations operate at a national level and hold rallies year round, if you found one that you like, be sure to watch their respective websites for news on upcoming protests that you can participate in. However, you do not need to wait for an organization to act, you can take it upon yourself to educate the masses. You can rent public spaces and hold seminars, you can print out flyers and hand them out, you can even hold your own fundraisers and sponsor women on your own time. Lastly is the option for women who are more on the fence about the issue on abortion. If you feel like you are ill prepared to handle the emotional or financial responsibilities of having a child you always have the option to give the baby up for adoption. There are several organization with sterile couples Ramon 4 Who can not have babies on their own that would absolutely love to take care of yours for you and take the responsibility off of your hands. Abortion is a lot more safe than it used to be but it is still a heavy handed problem for women mentally. There are several ways to get around the problem of abortion. It is imperative that when having sex you are aware of all the risks that come with having intercourse and take proper preventative measures. Donations, rallies, and petitions are all valid ways to support the pro life movement, and if you need an alternate solution to abortion, adoption is always a viable abortion. Go out and save the life of the future. Ramon 5 Works Cited Major, Brenda, et al. and Mental Health: Evaluating the American Psychologist (2009): n. pag. Web. Rocca, Corinne H., Katrina Kimport, Sarah C. M. Roberts, Heather Gould, John Neuhaus, and Diana G. Foster. Decision Rightness and Emotional Responses to Abortion in the United States: A Longitudinal  Plos One 10.7 (2015): n. pag. Web. 10 Apr. 2017. Trussell, James, and L.l. Wynn. Reducing unintended pregnancy in the United  Contraception 77.1 (2008): 1-5. Web. 10 Apr. 2017. Abortion  ProConorg Headlines. N.p., n.d. Web. 10 Apr. 2017. Lang, Joshua. What Happens to Women Who Are Denied  The New York Times. The New York Times, 15 June 2013. Web. 10 Apr. 2017.