Serge Shakleford Project 3 Rough Draft Today, animal products are cheeseburgers at a fast food restaurant to leather wallets. Meat eating and animal fur wearing are some commonplace today that often people do not think deeply about the impact animal consumption has on the world or even individual life. However, despite the prevalence of meat eating in society, there has been a recent movement in both veganism and vegetarianism. More and more people all over the world are giving up meat and are choosing to live healthier, more ethically sound lives. The reality is that despite the commonplace scene of meat eating, consuming animal products is detrimental in a variety of ways. To live a more healthy, ethical life, now is the time to stop eating meat and help not just the planet but also oneself. Despite what the meat and dairy industry might claim, eating animal products produces negative effects to health. It has scientifically been proven that societies, such as the United States, tend to have higher levels of cholesterol in their blood, and higher rates of coronary heart diseases, than societies where people depend more heavily on plant (The New York Times, 1981). Scientific evidence abounds which demonstrates that those who eat a plant based diet do not have such high rates of health problems. Eating meat not only raises cholesterol and heat disease, but also increases the risk of different types of cancers as well as obesity. The consumption of animal products is thought to increase the of hormones, which, in turn, promote growth of cancer and that meat does not contain and other nutrients that have a protective (The Physicians Committee, 2015). In short, the litany of negative health affects eating meat creates should be enough to raise eyebrows. It has scientifically been proven that eating meat is not as healthy as society once thought. Serge Shakleford Project 3 Rough Draft Besides just the negative impacts animal consumption causes to human health, there are terrible effects on the environment and society. Although most people live in urban environments and do not witness the animal cruelty, the abuse of animals on a wide scale does, in fact, exist. The fact that are crammed by the thousands into filthy windowless and have their throats slit, often while still is enough to make stomach churn (PETA, 2017). People who do eat meat often think of the harsh reality of how their food got to their plate, but there is intense animal suffering that does occur. The cruel farm factory process that take place are also bad for the environment. Meat eating cultures harm the environment since require much more land, food, water, and energy than plants to raise and thus taking up valuable resources (Melone, 2015). The sheer number of animals needed to meet current consumption needs harms the environment on a wide scale. With meat eating being so prevalent in society, and with knowing the consequences it can produce, one can take comfort in knowing that veganism and vegetarians are solid pathways. The health benefits of being vegan or a vegetarian are enormous. Studies have shown that a vegetarian diet reduces mortality from heart disease as well as mortality from certain cancers. In deep contrast to meat, fruits and vegetables contain important vitamins and minerals such as vitamin C and B carotene which are reported to protect against heart disease as well as stroke (Key, Thorogood, Appleby, & Burr 1996). Eating fruits and vegetables and avoiding animal products strengthens physical health. Numerous studies in recent years are now concentrating on the benefits of meat-free diets. These types of diets are becoming more and more endorsed by the medical community and through respected groups such as the American Dietetic Association (Harvard Health, 2009). Plant-based eating not only provides humans with all the needed nutrients but also can reduce the risk for many illnesses. Serge Shakleford Project 3 Rough Draft With delicious foods such as hamburgers, bacon, and steak out there and so readily available, why should one even think about giving it up for the animals and environment? The fact is, most people do not witness the daily act of animal abuse which occurs on a wide scale. Those that do watch documentaries which show the horrors of animal factory farms often give up eating meat for good. A great portion of meat eaters today just exposed to the truth behind how their food is processed and how it arrives at their table. Besides just the horrific animal cruelty, fragile environment is currently in a state of turmoil. Overpopulation continues to become a major concern as well as the ability to make sure everyone is adequately fed. The damage that the meat industry causes to the environment is significant and reducing this intake can help reduce carbon dioxide emissions which drives global warming. Eventually global warming will catch up to the world and reducing and halting animal consumption would drastically help the planet for the better. Besides just helping and being more ethical towards animals and the environment, going vegetarian or vegan can help oneself significantly. People usually have an area in their lives in which they are trying to lose weight, get clearer skin, reduce their risk for diabetes, and be overall more health conscious. By starting a plant-based diet, many people can achieve these health benefits. Not only that, overall the quality of life increases. Who want more energy throughout the day? Who want to lose weight in a healthy way? Switching to a plant-based diet can help anyone no matter what their troubles are. Now is the time to act and start a plant-based diet. Every day, countless animals suffer abuse and the environment continues to degrade. People all over the world face health challenges that can be improved by switching to a plant-based diet. For some people, the transition to giving up meat and eating a vegetarian or vegan diet may be difficult, but there are plenty of resources Serge Shakleford Project 3 Rough Draft available to make the transition not only easy but also enjoyable. PETA provides free that contain delicious recipes and tips to make the transition a treat. Other sources include websites like thevegankit.com which contain blogs, videos, recommended readings, as well as advice on the transition. Once one makes the commitment to live a more ethical, healthy life, a whole community is available to welcome oneself. Despite meat consumption being accepted today, research is coming to light about the negative health, ethical, and environmental consequences meat consumption brings. Knowing more information of how meat travels to plate as well as the affect eating the food can do allows for people to make better decisions on why vegetarianism and veganism is the way to go. Starting a plant-based diet have to be a fact, resources and communities are out in the world to make plant-based eating a pleasure. If one wants to help the environment as well as oneself in a variety of ethical and healthy ways, then one must take the step to maintain a plant-based diet. Serge Shakleford Project 3 Rough Draft Works Cited Factory Farming: Misery for  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. <http://www.peta.org/issues/animals-used-for-food/factory-farming/>. Health Effects of  The New York Times. The New York Times, 17 Aug. 1981. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Key, Timothy J A, Margaret Thorogood, Paul N. Appleby, and Michael L. Burr. Dietary habits and mortality in 11 000 vegetarians and health conscious people: results of a 17 year follow  BMJ. British Medical Journal Publishing Group, 28 Sept. 1996. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Meat Consumption and Cancer  The Physicians Committee. N.p., 02 Nov. 2015. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Melone, Linda. 10 Reasons To Stop Eating Red  Prevention. N.p., 19 Nov. 2015. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Publications, Harvard Health. Becoming a  Harvard Health. N.p., 1 Oct. 2009. Web. 15 Apr. 2017.  Vegan Starter Kit - Becoming Vegan. N.p., n.d. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. <http://vegankit.com/be/>.