Bedi 1 Sean Bedi Instructor Ryan ENC 1102.059 15 April 2017 Project 3 Intermediate Draft Vaccines For The Future The debate over the use of vaccines is never fully out of the focus. Organizations from both sides of the argument always make sure to keep their beliefs relevant for as long as possible, as they feel that vaccinations are a topic that should be addressed as soon as possible. Parents of young children have to make a decision on whether or not to vaccinate them. Recently, the concern over the possible side effects of vaccines has reduced the rates of vaccinations of young children there has been a steady increase in the amount of parents refusing to vaccinate their children. This decline in immunizations can pose a problem for the overall health of an entire community if vaccination rates begin to increase. (Zangger Eby 22). The decision for these parents on vaccinations should be one that will benefit the health of the child, which vaccines most definitely provide. Parents on the fence about vaccinations need to act on allowing immunizations for their children for the sake of their health, and those around them. Vaccines have been proven to be beneficial to a health as long as they are administered in a timely fashion. In an article by Mark Doherty and his group of researchers, a group of professors spanning the entire globe, it speaks of the vaccines such as the Hepatitis B vaccines that were successful in protecting individuals from the disease after being birthed from parents that were susceptible to the disease (Doherty et al 6710). Additionally, research of vaccines over a period of time has shown that the decrease of vaccine usage for a specific disease Bedi 2 can cause the reappearance of the said disease. As referenced by Alberta Di Pasquale and her group of researchers from Universities from the Americas and Europe, this phenomenon was perfectly exemplified during the measles outbreak in Europe and the United States. It was shown that as soon as the usage of the measles vaccines declined, the amount of measles cases in both areas began to steadily increase (Di Pasquale et al 6673). However, one of the most notable occurrences of vaccines working is eradication of Polio due to vaccination. This virus used to infect thousands of American citizens each year and could result in paralysis and death. Once the vaccine was created in 1955, the virus began to slowly diminish in occurrence until it has become next to extinct today (Center for Disease Control and Prevention: Polio Vaccination). The vaccine for Polio is now given to children at the 2 months, 4 months, 6-18 months, and 4-6 year ages in order to keep Polio away from the children of today (Center for Disease Control and Prevention: Polio Vaccination). The numerous health benefits from receiving vaccines is undoubtedly worth risking the alleged health risks posed by anti-vaccination organizations, who do not necessarily have the medical evidence to support their claims. Not vaccinating a child simply does not make any sense from a health standpoint, as it virtually can only help the child and those around them. It cannot be stressed enough how important it is to vaccinate children on time, and for following generations to do the same. An individual that does not care to educate themselves about the importance of vaccines is dooming the success of their child and impeding their ability to grow as a healthy human. Simply ignoring vaccines is destined to keep a child from developing properly and puts them at risk for the contraction of potentially life-threatening diseases that could be avoided by vaccines. It is especially important because it is not only protecting the child from the disease, but all of those who do not have the immunity to fight off Bedi 3 the diseases. This is idea is known as herd immunity, which aids in the protecting of certain people that are not immune to a certain disease. The idea behind herd immunity is that if a mass amount of people in a community are vaccinated and become immune to a disease, then it makes it harder for a disease to reach those that are not immune or not vaccinated through basic human interactions (Holubar et al 1). However, if an insufficient amount of people get vaccinated in a community, then it is more likely that one non-immune individual will contract the disease and spread it to another non-immune individual. As shown by this concept of herd immunity, it is extremely important to vaccinate children so that not only the child themselves are protected, but to also protect the individuals that the child comes into contact with. This is also done in order to protect the elderly from diseases as well, as the elderly typically have weaker immune systems than those younger than them (Zangger Eby 22). This primarily affects the elderly when individuals do not receive the flu vaccines, especially children. Schools are already considered distribution centers for the flu virus. If unvaccinated children end up contracting the flu from the school, it is likely that it can be transmitted to elderly caregivers or parents. For some elderly, catching the flu can lead up to life or death situations. However, if the children had received a flu vaccine, there would be an ever so slightly slimmer chance of them contracting the virus and spreading it those that may not be immune to it. This in itself should show parents the effects of children not receiving simple flu vaccines and how it can directly affect them and any immediate elderly in the family. From just some of the circumstances that have been presented, it should be clear that vaccinations should not be ignored and procrastinated on. One characteristic of a responsible parent is to keep the health and safety of your child at utmost importance. By refusing vaccinations for your child, this responsibility as a parent has already been failed. However, just Bedi 4 because you have not started vaccinating your child, mean that it is too late to join the cause. Vaccinations are a key component to the health of a child and should not be waited on. Additionally, in order to keep the aforementioned herd immunity within a community, a certain amount of individuals must stay vaccinated. It is important to spread the importance of immunizations, as the entire community relies on those around them to keep vaccinations up to date and sustain that herd immunity that is ever so important. In order to aid in spreading the importance of vaccinations for children, organizations such as Voices for Vaccines are great for engaging in communities that aim to increase the amounts of vaccinations across the United States. Their mission statement shows that they are, a parent-led organization that supports and advocates for on-time vaccinations and the reduction of vaccine-preventable (Voices for Vaccines Mission: About). Their prime goal is to spread the knowledge and safety of vaccines to parents that are not immunizing their children and provide medical based facts about the importance and safety of the vaccine. There is a multitude of ways to join the cause for the increase of vaccinations for children, and simply enlightening those that are unaware of the importance of vaccines can change a live for the better. On-time vaccinations of children should not be taken lightly. Immunizations are pinnacle to a young health, as it is one of the most effective ways at protecting children for infectious diseases and viruses. Refusing immunizations for children is simply setting up their health for failure in the future and medically, makes no sense. Spreading the importance of vaccinations to those that are skeptical about them is the first step in creating a community that is capable of resisting potentially dangerous and infectious diseases. Bedi 5 Works Cited Center for Disease Control and Prevention. Center for Disease Control and Prevention, 3 Feb. 2016, https://www.cdc.gov/vaccines/vpd/polio/index.html. Accessed 15 April 2017. Di Pasquale, Alberta, et al. Vaccine Safety Evaluation: Practical Aspects In Assessing Benefits And  Vaccine 34.The Changing Face of Vaccines and Vaccination (2016): 6672- 6680. ScienceDirect. Web. Accessed 15 April 2017. Doherty, Mark, et al. Vaccine Impact: Benefits For Human  Vaccine 34.The Changing Face of Vaccines and Vaccination (2016): 6707-6714. ScienceDirect. Web. Accessed 15 April 2017. Holubar, Marisa, et al. Impact of Vaccine Herd-Protection Effects in Cost-Effectiveness Analyses of Childhood Vaccinations. A Quantitative Comparative  Plos ONE, vol. 12, no. 3, 3/1/2017, pp. 1-22. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0172414. Accessed 15 April 2017. Voices for Vaccines. for Vaccines: Voices for Vaccines, https://www.voicesforvaccines.org/about/. Accessed 15 April 2017. Zangger Eby, Amy1, Impacting Parental Vaccine Decision-  Pediatric Nursing, vol. 43, no. 1, Jan/Feb2017, pp. 22-34. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx ?direct=true&db=eue&AN=121353600&site=eds-live. Accessed 15 April 2017.