Colon 1 Perry Colon Professor Lisa DuBois ENC 1102 Section 046 26 February 2017 The Case for Closing Guantanamo: Amnesty International In the quest to close Guantanamo Bay, multiple organizations and activist groups have stepped up to the plate to convince people across America that it would be in the best interest of others if they were to close Guantanamo Bay. However, one of the best organizations at doing this is Amnesty International. Amnesty International is a human rights group that operates not only in the United States of America, but in countries around the world. They focus on helping people around the world who are victims of injustice, oppression, or any other sort of mal- treatment. In fact, Amnesty International exemplifies this and everything else that it stands for in its mission statement: work to protect people wherever justice, freedom, truth and dignity are denied. Currently the largest grassroots human rights organization, we investigate and expose abuses, educate, and mobilize the public, and help transform societies to create a safer, more just (Amnesty International). One of the biggest issues that Amnesty International is focused on is the closure of Guantanamo Bay. Amnesty International publishes many images pertaining to human rights issues. However, some of their most powerful images are those that deal with the issues regarding the detention center at Guantanamo Bay and the movement to close the detention center at Guantanamo Bay. To figure out how effective and in what manner Amnesty International uses its images, one would have to look at some of the images that have been published by Amnesty International and analyze how each of the images Colon 2 are used. By using these images, Amnesty International hopes to use emotional appeal and appeal to basic human decency to show people that Guantanamo Bay is a place that mistreats its detainees and needs to be closed immediately. To begin, first look at image A. Image A shows a man in an orange jumpsuit and mask, and layered over his picture is the American flag. The man also has his wrists tied together with zip-ties, he is on his knees, what seems to be headphones on, what seems to be blackout goggles on, and there is text in the Amnesty International logo that says years without justice. Close The man in the picture in the orange jumpsuit is supposed to represent a prisoner in the Guantanamo Bay detention center. The stripes on the American are supposed to represent the bars of the prison cells. It can also be said that the wrists zip-tied together, the blackout goggles, and the headphones represent how the detainees at Guantanamo Bay are shut out from the rest of the world. In image A, there is an appeal to Ethos because Amnesty logo is on the image. Ethos is the appeal of authority or authenticity in an image (1.2 Ethos 27- 31). There is an appeal to Pathos in this image because it can invoke emotions of sorrow or possibly anger (1.4 Pathos 37-40). There is an appeal to Logos in this image, but only due to the caption. When an image appeals to Logos, it gives statistics or data to appeal to the logical side of rhetoric (1.3 Logos 32-36). This image appeals to Logos because the phrase years without implies that indefinite detention is obviously not right and should not be happening in the world. With all that being said Amnesty International succeeds in appealing its thoughts on the Guantanamo Bay detention center and its position on the fact that it should be closed. Amnesty International does this by appealing to emotions with its elements of Pathos, showing that they are an important player in this issue with its appeal to Ethos, and that supporting their cause would be a very good thing with its appeal to Logos. Colon 3 Next look at image B. Image B shows a line of people in orange jumpsuits with black bags over their heads lined up behind one another. There is also text on the image that says Lastly, in the background of the image, there is a man, also in an orange jumpsuit, holding a sign that says indefinite detention. Charge or The people that are lined up behind each other in the orange jumpsuits and the black bags on their heads represent the prisoners that are in the detention center in Guantanamo Bay. This is because because that is how prisoners are transported when they are moved around the detention center. This is probably done to show people how inhuman and cruel the Guantanamo Bay detention center is. In image B, there is an appeal to Ethos because Amnesty logo and URL to their website are both on the image. There is an appeal to Pathos in image B because the people that are lined up with the black bag on their heads could invoke feelings of unease, sorrow, or remorse (1.4 Pathos 37-40). There is an appeal to Logos in image B, however, like in image A, the only reason there is an appeal to Logos in the image is due to the text on one of the signs. The statement indefinite detention. Charge or appeals to Logos. The statement appeals to Logos because it pokes at how it does not make sense that people are held in Guantanamo without any sort of guarantee of release or trial. To conclude this paragraph, Amnesty International succeeds at conveying its opinions and thoughts on the issue of Guantanamo Bay because it appeals to Ethos, Logos, and Pathos. In conclusion, Amnesty International succeeds at conveying its opinions and beliefs about various human rights issues using very powerful images that appeal to emotions, logic, and show their credibility. This shows the world that they have a well deserved place in discussing or protesting about these issues. This is especially true in the case of injustices perpetrated and committed in the detention center in Guantanamo Bay. Through the analysis of images A and B, Colon 4 it was clear that Amnesty International purposefully designed these images to send a powerful message. The message being that Guantanamo Bay is not something that we should keep or tolerate because of the inhuman treatment of its prisoners. In addition, Amnesty International uses small statements to reinforce its position on certain issues and strengthen or add on to the messages that their pictures were trying to convey. Although these images are very powerful tools in conveying Amnesty beliefs and opinions on certain issues, there is one problem with them. The way that the images are composed and designed, they almost look like propaganda images rather than images trying to convey a serious and true message. This is a problem because if people do have a serious concern whether the images published by Amnesty International are propaganda, it may cause a person to discount that image in terms of its credibility and it may cause them not to believe the message. However, this belief is probably limited to a very select number of people, so it would not matter in terms of the ability to successfully convey Amnesty message. So, to close, Amnesty images succeed at conveying their messages. Colon 5 Image A Image B Colon 6 Works Cited About  Amnesty International USA. Amnesty International, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Man Behind American Flag Bars. Digital image. Control Publicidad. Amnesty International, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <http://controlpublicidad.com/2012/02/17/amnistia- internacional-carga-contra-guantanamo>. #SHUTDOWN GUANTANAMO. Digital image. Amnesty International. Amnesty International, 31 Dec. 2013. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <http://blog.amnestyusa.org/americas/for-new-years- these-3-men-get-an-end-to-indefinite-detention/>. McKee, Jessica; McIntyre, Megan. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 27-31. E-text. McKee, Jessica; McIntyre, Megan; Lane, Emily. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 32-36. E-text. McKee, Jessica; McIntyre, Megan; Gayle Lee, Kendra. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 37-40. E-text. Snyder, Peter. Paper Chase Serious Law. Primary Sources. Global  JURIST - Amnesty International Demands Closure of Guantanamo Bay. University of Pittsburgh, 23 Jan. 2014. Web. 10 Mar. 2017. <http://www.jurist.org/paperchase/2014/01/amnesty- international-demands-closure-of-guantanamo-bay.php>.