Humphreys 1 Lucelle Humphreys Instructor DuBois ENC 1102 12 March 2017 use of Advertisements Mental illness is a huge issue in America with millions of children and adults suffering each day. This is due to many factors including insufficient education and awareness, limited access to healthcare and poor national/local support for those suffering. National Alliance on Mental Illness (NAMI) is an organization that is dedicated to better lives for the millions of Americans affected by mental (About NAMI). To accomplish this their goal is to educate, advocate, listen and lead. They work to provide support for individuals and families suffering in many different communities. Image A was produced for Mental Health Month in 2015 in order to educate its audience. Image B was produced for their Stop Stigma campaign in order to raise awareness and funds for NAMI. Both images use rhetorical appeals such as pathos and kairos. NAMI produces images that provide information about mental illness and what their organization does. The strong use of ethos, pathos, logos and kairos is present throughout the images making them effective in educating their audience about mental illness in America. Image A was produced for mental health month in 2015. At the top of this image there is a statistic, in white letters, that states of all lifetime cases of mental illness begin by age In the bottom center, there is a sentence that states, the warning signs so that you can help a friend or loved In the center of the image there are 100 little stick figure people, 75 of them are randomly highlighted in blue and 25 of them are highlighted in green. In the Humphreys 2 bottom left hand corner there is the web address for Mental Health Month and the logo for Mental Health Month 2015 below that. In the bottom, right hand corner there is the hashtag and the NAMI logo below that. This image uses multiple rhetorical appeals in order to educate its audience about mental illness and mental health month. According to Lane, McKee, and McIntyre logos or an appeal to logic is consistency and clarity of an argument as well as the logic of evidence and (Lane). The statistic is an example of this appeal. This is effective because it gives clear information about when mental illness usually begins. Another rhetorical appeal utilized in this image is pathos or an appeal to emotion. The statement, at the bottom of the image, is an example of this because people have an emotional connection to their loved ones and friends. It makes the audience think about these people and makes them responsible for the well-being of these important people in their lives. The hashtag is also an appeal to pathos. This hashtag also makes the audience responsible for their loved ones. It implies that they need to educate themselves in order to make a change for the people suffering and the problem as a whole in the United States. Omer Yusuf agrees that goal is to families and people affected by mental illness a (Yusuf). The hashtag is another way to give all those affected more of a voice. Another rhetorical appeal used in Image A is kairos or an to timeliness or the right time to. . . perform the correct (Hoffman). This image was produced for Mental Health Month in 2015 as shown through the logo in the bottom left hand corner of the image. This shows the urgency of the image. NAMI wants its audience to educate themselves during this month in order to be able to help their loved ones. The use of the logo in the bottom right hand corner of the image is an appeal to ethos. It shows the validity of Humphreys 3 the image and that it was produced by a reputable source. The use of all of the rhetorical appeals in this image continue goal of educating and. Image B is an infographic that was produced for the Stop campaign in the winter of 2016. The background of this image is teal and all the other components are white and gold, the colors of the campaign. At the top of the image in white lettering the image says, action against with the last word highlighted in gold. Stigma is highlighted because it is the most important part of the sentence. The main goal of the campaign is to educate Americans about mental illnesses. So that they do not carry around false notions about people affected by these ailments. Right below this in large white font it has their hashtag for this campaign, and my loved ones and ending harmful stereotypes and giving to in smaller lettering. These words were placed in gold boxes with white letters, each of the were left out of the gold box. This encourages viewers to personally share what they know about these ailments to other people. This also furthers the mission to spread awareness. In the bottom, right hand corner of the image there is the web address for the campaign, This allows viewers to easily access the site to learn more about the campaign and NAMI in general. Image B uses multiple rhetorical appeals in order to persuade its audience to participate in their campaign. The words at the bottom of the image are appeals to pathos. These words cause the audience to, again, think about their loved ones. It puts the audience in charge of educating and informing their loved ones about mental illness in order to help end the epidemic throughout the United States. NAMI adding the word is something that appeals to emotions. It causes the audience to think about how awful stereotyping can be. It is such an easy and simple thing to do but can be detrimental in helping those who struggle with mental illness. Humphreys 4 This campaign was all about harmful stereotypes and myths about mental illness and ensuring that anyone who needs help and support can find (IStopStigmaBy). This image effectively relays this goal. The gold in the image highlights the parts that are important and what should be focused on. NAMI wanted to spread education for mental illnesses, end harmful stereotypes and raise money for their organization in order to further their work. This image uses effective rhetorical appeals in order to further the goals of NAMI. use of ethos, pathos, logos and kairos is present in the images they produce. The use of these appeals furthers the goals of their organization by educating or encouraging the education about mental illnesses. Image A informs its audience about when most lifetime cases of mental illness begin. It puts the audience in charge of being educated in order to help their friends and loved ones. Image B encourages its audience to join their campaign to stop the stigma behind mental illness by getting educated, ending stereotypes and donating to the organization. Mental illness is something that affects millions of Americans and people across the world. NAMI works every day to decrease this effect in the United States. Using images and infographics is something that is very operational in furthering their goal of educating Americans, advocating, listening and leading. Humphreys 5 Works Cited Hoffman, Allyson and Sawchyn, Alysia. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. Pg 41. Web. Accessed 25 February 2017. Lee, Kendra Gale and McKee, Jessica and McIntyre, Megan. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. Pg 37. Web. Accessed 25 February 2017. National Alliance on Mental Illness National Alliance on Mental Illness. Web. www.nami.org/Get-Involved/Take-the-stigmafree-Pledge/IStopStigmaBy. Accessed 25 February 2017. National Alliance on Mental Illness About National Alliance on Mental Illness. Web. http://www.nami.org/About-NAMI. Accessed 7 March 2017. National Alliance on Mental Illness. Image A. www.facebook.com/NAMI/photos/a.394456672315.196043.85273022315/10154119932 057316/?type=3&theater. Accessed 25 February 2017. National Alliance on Mental Illness. Image B. www.facebook.com/NAMI/photos/a.10150791685607316.474858.85273022315/101555 53226152316/?type=3&theater. Accessed 25 February 2017. Yusuf, Omer. relaunches in Madison The Jackson Sun. USA Today, 2 March 2017. www.jacksonsun.com/story/news/2017/03/02/nami-relaunches-madison- county/98631522/. Accessed 7 March 2017. Humphreys 6 Image A: Image B: