Jeffrey Hoang Hoang 1 Instructor: DuBois English Composition 2 21 February 2017 Human Rights Watch The Human Rights Watch abuses, expose the facts widely, and pressure those with power to respect rights and secure (Human Rights Watch). They are an independent, international organization that works to advance the cause of human rights for everyone. The organization wants to spread the word of the issue to those who are unaware by either writing articles or presenting pictures. The two pictures presented by the Human Rights Watch show the mistreatment of the less fortunate. Image A portrays a boy locked up in a cage and looking through a small opening. As for image B, it shows a group of people sleeping outside on the ground with barely any cover. The goal for these two pictures are intended to make the audience feel sorry for them and therefore rely heavily on pathos. Although they are mainly based off pathos, the images also represent the other rhetorical appeals (logos, ethos and kairos). The Human Rights Watch wants the audience to help them fight for the rights of these people and to make sure they get what they deserve by presenting rhetorical appeals, mainly pathos in both the images. Image A puts the audience a depressing mood with its color scheme and image B makes the audience pity for those sleeping on the ground. The use of these rhetorical appeals on the images will make the audience want to help the organization in fighting the current issue. The Human Rights Watch uses dreary and gloomy images to further their goal in preserving the rights for all. Hoang 2 In image A, it images a boy locked up in some sort of holding cell staring out of a tiny opening with the caption saying in the Name of This means that the countries mentioned in the image (Vietnam, China, Cambodia, and Lad Por) are using such treatments on their people that is considered as torture. on the country, so-called treatment consists of a regime of military drills, forced labor, psychological and moral re- education, and shackling, caning, and (International Bridges to Justice). The picture is rather distorted to look like it is a tight space cell and completely closed off. The main message of the image is to end the use of torture but mainly in Vietnam, China, Cambodia, and Lad Por. Image A heavily relies on pathos, the main part being the helpless boy in a cell. When the audience first sees this picture, their eyes head straight to the helpless looking boy making them feel sorry for him. The image really captures the sadden and scared eyes of the boy. Besides the boy, the color scheme of the image portrays a negative mood to the audience with it being only one color. Besides the Human Rights logo, the whole image is grayed out. The color gray is more of a negative color and therefore reinforces the message of the picture greatly which emphasizes the tone and mood of the image. Besides the fact that image A relies heavily on one rhetorical appeal (pathos), it also has other appeals in it such as logos. is the consistency and clarity of an argument as well as the logic of evidence and (Hoffman, 32). The caption of the picture in the Name of really captures the meaning of it. Without the caption, the audience could misinterpret the picture. The boy in the picture is clearly being portrayed as the one being tortured by others based on the caption. As for the other rhetorical appeals, the image does present ethos by having the Human Rights logo on the top right corner. The logo is a Hoang 3 blue square with the name on it. The Human Rights Watch is a widely-known organization known to defend the rights of others worldwide and having their logo on the image will show credibility. The Human Rights Watch are completely against the use of torture and their mission statement for it is that are committed to pressing government authorities to act to prevent torture, as well as bringing those who engage in torture to (Human Rights Watch). As for the next image, image B is showing a group of people sleeping outside on the ground and some with barely any cover. This image also relies mainly on pathos but also has other rhetorical appeals present. The image has no caption in the picture and the Human Rights logo is on the top left side, rather larger than on image A. This image is to make the audience feel sorry for the people and the overall message is to be grateful for everything and not to take anything for granted. In the picture, there are some that are sleeping with no covers at all but just the clothes that they wear. Some look to be sleeping on newspaper and they are all bunched up together to keep warm. There is one tent up in the background but does not look sturdy at all. The unstable tent could represent isolation and how rough those lives are. Overall image B is to make the audience have sympathy for these people and how rugged their lifestyles are. There are other rhetorical appeals in the image but not as strong as pathos. For logos, the image does convince the audience that these people are homeless and are struggling to make end meet. There is no need for a caption because the message of this is clear unlike in image A how the audience could misinterpret it. As for ethos, it has the Human Rights logo on the Hoang 4 picture, rather larger but still there to emphasize that the organization will be fighting for this issue. Overall these two images are intended to convince the audience to help the Human Rights Watch fight for the freedom of these people. By doing so, the two pictures must have rhetorical appeals. Although both relied heavily on pathos, they also have other appeals such as logos, and ethos. Image A strongly presents pathos by showing a helpless boy and the color scheme. While image B shows a group of people sleeping outside on the ground which is to make the audience feel sorry for them. These two pictures are intended to help raise awareness on the topic by relying on the rhetorical appeals. The Human Rights Watch wants to accomplish their goal to stop all wrongdoings that violates the rights of others around the world by getting their message across. Hoang 5 Image A Image B Hoang 6 Work Citied Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, eds. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. E-text. International Bridges to  International Bridges to Justice - Dedicated to protecting the basic legal rights of ordinary citizens in developing countries since 2000. Human Rights Watch, 18 Oct. 2012. Web. 11 Mar. 2017.  Human Rights Watch. HWR.org. N.p., 2012. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.