Cohen 1 Brian Cohen Instructor Dubois ENC 1102 February 26 th 2017 Not For Sale An Opposite Selling Point In modern day society, it is common to hear about the war on drugs, guns, green energy and even oppression of political expression. In these illegal taboos of America position or the sex worker industry strikes as one of the biggest prohibitions (Procon). Today bountiful amounts of legal enforcement are put in place to keep these sex workers off the street men or women and to prevent all forms of sex trafficking. But what this judicial system lacks are rather a rehabilitation process and or a safe zone for partakers of the industry (Malloch). Not for Sale Campaign is an organization that focuses on acting as a safe zone for workers in the industry to enter without fear of prosecution, and to start a rehabilitation process in terms of the workers future, and to actively fight to end human sex trafficking (Not For Sale). Not for Sale Campaign does a fit job in fighting the sex worker industry and human trafficking by producing images demonstrated in image A and image B, by leaching on in a sympathetic way that provokes and promotes change to end the sex worker and human trafficking industry. Not for Sale Campaign sees the sex work industry as a dictated and controlled industry by illegal sex trafficking circles (Not For Sale). Human trafficking and sex worker industry is an inhumane and internationally illegal industry that exercises modern forms of slavery. Not for Sale strongly believes in fact that prostitution is one of the most singly forced industries as they state no human would want to be a forced sex worker or even a forced labor worker in that need Cohen 2 (Not For Sale). Not for Sale promotes awareness to the issue of sex trafficking, they act as ambassadors to pull men and women from the industry. They use their networking connections as part of a rehabilitation process to help member getting out of the industry or being saved from the industry and assimilate to a normal lifestyle. Not for Sale also acts as a career service and guidance ordinance in a sense as they help saved and ex members of the sex worker and human trafficking industry find self-sustainable job positions and even education guidance that they need to better a future for themselves. Not for Sale ultimately strives to promotes a world of equality and put a stop to the sex worker industry and abolish human trafficking all together (Not For Sale). Not for Sale does it utmost to reach and maintain its mission statement to ending the sex work and human trafficking industry, with multiple utilities such as partnerships, seminars, local awareness, and even images (Not For Sale). This can be achieved by Not For Sale Campaign by the use of multiple rhetoric appeals snapping a photo may seem effortless, your work can have serious implications for persuasion in the same way that writing choices (Hoffman). One of the images that Not for Sale has produced to fight the issue of sex work and human trafficking can be referenced as image A. In image A, you have a little girl that is in the center of a group of people with no one faces showing but hers. Her face showing the expression of confusion, with her eyebrows tilted up and a tense squeeze on her face. This little girl is wearing minimal clothes and holding an open coconut in supplement to as being a bowl for eating suggesting the potential state of poverty of her location. The lower left corner of image A states am not for sale. You are not for sale. No one should be for sale. Become an Nothing left in the image but in the bottom right corner Not for Sale campaigns logo in a vibrant orange box almost in the shape of a rugged flag. In image A Not for Sale Cohen 3 campaign uses rhetoric appeals to draw in an audience to sprout awareness and change to the human trafficking and sex worker industry. The images main center as stated before is a little girl that looks confused, with everybody blurred behind her. Emphasizing that the start of trafficking starts with young children especially women, pulling in the sympathy of others or pathos. The part of the image of the girl holding the coconut as a bowl also highlights that human trafficking tends to be more prominent in areas of poverty and brings awareness to children living in poverty in a sympathetic sad way. The image then is accompanied by a few sentences as if the little girl was narrating over it am not for sale. You are not for sale. No one should be for sale. Become an as coming from the girl highlighting the immorally of the industry and to spread further awareness and to put an end to the industry another form of ethos (Not For Sale). At the end of that very sentence it ends strong with the sentence an as a call to action as Kairos, telling more people its urgent to support the fight against human trafficking. In reference to image A, Not For Sale campaign has produced other images with multiple rhetoric appeals to attract an audience to the issue at hand of human trafficking and the sex worker industry, this image can be referenced as image B. In image B the majority of the picture is a high definition zoom of what appears to be a female eye, as it is dictated by suggested female characteristics such as long thick eyelashes and long blonde hair in the back. This eye is crystal blue, but has an odd reflection in the clarity of it as of a barcode in the reflection of the eye. In the lower right corner of the image it states than 17,500 people are trafficked into the United States every Highlighting a fact about the industry on our own soil. Just like image A, image B is also represented in the lower right corner of price tag with their logo For occupied in it. Image B has pathos in it as well as it shows and demonstrates fear in whosevers eye it maybe as the muscles under the eye look tense and not of comfort. The image Cohen 4 also sets a sense of discomfort in the terms of the industry think of their victims as numbers in their eyes through the barcode in a reflection of the eye. This shows the non-value of human life to an audience as they are merely a number bringing in sympathy to value all human life equally as a form of pathos. In image B Not For Sale uses the rhetoric of logos to show a surprising statistic of 17,500 people are brought to the United States via human trafficking. This statement also emphasizes the United States, as most people think those large number are only seen in third world countries like depicted in Image A. Conclusively, Not For Sale Campaign ultimately strives to put a global end to all forms of sex working and human trafficking industry. They achieve this by multiple resources to bring and sprout awareness, as demonstrated in images A and B Not For Sale Campaign strategically uses rhetoric appeals to significantly draw in an audience in crowd to highlight the inhumane and reality of this tragic industry (Not For Sale). Cohen 5 Image A Cohen 6 Image B Cohen 7 Works Cited Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, eds. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. E-text. Malloch, Margaret. Human trafficking : the complexities of exploitation. Edinburgh : Edinburgh University Press, 2017. Book. Not For Sale. Not For Sale Campaign. n.d. <https://www.notforsalecampaign.org/>. Procon. 100 Countries and Their Prostitution Policies. n.d. Article. <http://prostitution.procon.org/view.resource.php?resourceID=000772>. Statistic Brain. Prostitution Statistics. n.d. Web Page. <http://www.statisticbrain.com/prostitution-statistics/>.