Rory Sullivan Professor Dubois ENC 1102 10 March 2017 An Analysis of Greenpeace Advertisements Reliance upon strong visuals can be found by the organization, Greenpeace, in their mission to create an environmentally sustainable and friendly relationship between the interactions of humans with nature. As an activist group they commonly protest fossil fuel companies, among other corporations they deem destructive to the environment. The international organization also protests through posters, advertisements and public service announcements which appeal to Ethos, Pathos, Logos, and Kairos. The images selected strongly appeal to the aforementioned rhetorical devices, however they also provide separate goals and perspectives of the organization. Image one is of a Oil Rig, this is descriptive of how Greenpeace feels toward oil companies and the issues connected to the use of fossil fuels. Image two provides a doomsday message for the Sumatran Tigers, providing depressing facts about the species and grim imagery. Greenpeace developed these images to highlight their goals or accomplishments using rhetorical devices such as emotional images, double entendres, statistics, sponsoring logos, and vivid images. The Oil Rig is an official advertisement published by Greenpeace to celebrate the 30 th anniversary of their activism. However, the inclusion of the simple phrase 30 Years of invokes ethos by demanding the authority of Sullivan 2 organization. Authority is derived by experience, this is explained by Judith Rodin by her discussion about the use of commercial anniversaries in the advertising world provide their customers with evidence of their age and thus their (Rodin 2017). Also, included in the advertisement is the Greenpeace logo, which is a mark of the organization and identifies with a select group of people who have heard of their actions, message, or name. The logo is also ethos because of its use to implicitly say Greenpeace supports this concept. That message connects people who embrace other Greenpeace works to this new or developed idea, which image one showcases. Separating from the authority drawn by the words on the image the illustration of the advertisement is colorful, creative, and holds meaning within its design. The image is focused on the which is designed as an Oil Rig, contrasting the grayscale background. The background fades from a dark grey at the top of the picture to a solid white at the bottom. This choice of design could hold significance because the white portion of the background surrounds the celebratory phrase while the gray is located by the image of the Classically grey represents dark or gloomy ideas. positioning of the color grey to surround the Oil Rig could represent the anti-fossil fuel tone. The Oil Rig itself is colorful and bright to symbolize the celebratory nature of the advertisement, however the choice of the illustrator to depict the rig as a was explicitly trying to invoke the visualization of treating an oil rig as a which would entail the destruction of the oil rig. choice to design the this way is an example of visual rhetoric, which is the underlying message or tone depicted by an image (Hoffman et al). This connects with goals because of their beliefs opposing the use of oceanic oil rigs and the overall use of fossil fuels. Sullivan 3 Greenpeace selected this oil rig to represent their fight against the fossil fuel industry, which they have been fighting since their founding in the early 1970s (Greenpeace 2017). Depicting their opposition on their celebratory advertisements gives the audience a picture of enemy, an oil rig. The choice to celebrate their anniversary with the image of an oil rig also could be due to the multiple cases of Greenpeace protesting oil rigs. As an organization sixteen of their countless protests have been aimed at preventing or occupying the use of oil rigs by the fossil fuel companies. These protests are significant to Greenpeace International because they were largely successful in drawling attention to their cause (Greenpeace 2017). The simplicity of the imagery allows the audience to understand the advertisement by observation, while the ethos of the visual demands the audience to respect the message Greenpeace wants to convey. The Sumatran Tiger Exhibit is a detailed warning, produced by Greenpeace with the sponsorship Canadian Museum of Natural History to support the protection and preservation of the Sumatran Tiger. environmental goals includes the protection of all (Greenpeace 2017). Therefore, it is highly appropriate for them to publish an advertisement with the rhetoric found on the Sumatran Tiger Firstly the image provides the audience with a strong rhetorical appeal to ethos, or authority. Both of these appeals take the form of a logo with brand recognition, similar to the use found in the first image. The ethos of the advertisement are the Greenpeace logo and the Canadian Museum of Natural History. logo is placed in the image to allow the audience to identify who published the image, while the logo serves to sponsor the idea depicted by the visual. Many people may not have visited the Canadian Museum of Natural History, but the idea of a museum implies Sullivan 4 the image provides trustworthy, knowledgeable, and accurate information. Ethos, in general, invoke the reputation of the organization while calling respect for their causes, however in this image the ethos serves to show support for the topic covered in the advertisement. Similar to the first image of a lone Oil Rig, the Sumatran Tiger Exhibit introduces pathos through a lone Tiger skull mounted on a stand. The skull is surrounded by a dark black background with contrasting white font lettering. The black background is somewhat illuminated by a beam of light shining on the centered tiger skull. Using black in this image holds emotional values of sadness, doom, death, and stark seriousness which are all supported in the text of the piece. Skulls draw imagery of death while the position of the tiger skull on a stand maintains the theme of a museum exhibit. Without the text found on this illustration the audience could possibly guess at the meaning behind the advertisements design. However, the main bodies of text include vital information and rhetoric pulling the purpose of the image to the forefront of the audience. Information within the advertisement allows people to read the statistics and facts addressed by the dreary imagery. Logos, or thought invoked by facts, is summoned by the small paragraph found in the lower right hand corner of the visual. The paragraph states are only 400 Sumatran Tigers left in the wild. And if rainforest destruction is allowed to continue soon be gone The strong statistics and wording of the paragraph brings the audience to conclude the mentioned tigers are in trouble. connection to animals is found in our domestication of pets and interest in shows like Planet Earth or documentaries such as March of the Penguins. Greenpeace uses our connection to animals, and the dark facts presented in the paragraph, to entice the audience to support goals of rainforest protection. The illustration also Sullivan 5 uses a rhetorically technique called Kairos, which invokes a feeling of timelessness, rushing the audience to and back the subject of the cause. Kairos is found twice in the Sumatran Tiger image. inclusion is obvious in the big white letters followed by we act the diction in these phrases rush the audience to either support cause or feel the guilt of a tiger species going extinct. Secondly Kairos is included in the gray box in the bottom right of the visual, the phrase sure this day never calls the reader to action in order to prevent or the extinction of the Sumatran Tiger. style of protesting is extreme, with protests often ending in arrests, controversy, or violence. Their choice of images also contains their extreme style with the production of visuals such as the dark Sumatran Tiger Exhibit, or the implicitly dark Oil Rig The strength of the designed visuals hold the tone of Greenpeace and the urgency found in their message. Both of these illustrations support the mission statements of Greenpeace by providing imagery, facts, emotion, and a call to action for their audience to side with and respond to. Sullivan 6 Works Cited Greenpeace ad labels Asia Pulp & Paper a tiger  Greenpeace Canada. Greenpeace, 23 Jan. 2012. Web. 23 Feb. 2017.  Greenpeace Canada. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Mar. 2017. Greenpeace: Pinata,  Greenpeace: Pinata, 3 Ads of the Greenpeace, 01 Apr. 2014. Web. 23 Feb. 2017. Greenpeace Protecting  Greenpeace USA. N.p., 23 Apr. 2011. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric (really) matters: explorations in rhetoric and argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. Print. Rodin, Judith. Anniversaries Are Not to Be  Harvard Business Review. Harvard, 31 July 2014. Web. 23 Feb. 2017. Sullivan 7 IMAGE 1 Sullivan 8 IMAGE 2 Sullivan 9