Solano 1 Ariana Solano L.E. DuBois Composition 2 February 26 2017 Livable Wages for Factory Workers Clean Clothes Campaign goal is to promote the idea of having a living wage available to all kinds of workers. In Asia over 15 million people work in the garment industry, an industry like this relies on cheap labor equaling in a failure to provide a livable wage. (Clean Clothes Campaign). A Livable wage is a minimum amount that a worker to earn to afford the bare necessities (Just Economics). The minimum wage should be equivalent to a livable wage but it is not the case in all jobs. Clean Clothes Campaign began their mission in 1989 to help workers receive the respect they deserve. mission is to improve the working conditions and create empowerment to industry workers (Clean Clothes Campaign). They strongly believe in the idea that every worker should have a livable wage. Clean Clothes Campaign mission is to make sure the human right to a living wage is provided to garment workers, both images reflect on what it means to have a living wage and why it is important for a worker to receive enough to maintain a healthy lifestyle by using morality to represent ethos, sadness to represent pathos, and kairos which refers to their Week of Action. The first image from Clean Clothes Campaign is a clean/bold advertisement that uses various colors which are very visually appealing. The purpose of this image is to show what categories fall into the necessities of living. They list 7 categories; Food, Rent, Healthcare, Education, Clothing, Transportation, and Savings. Any worker should be able to afford all those categories with their salary. The image asks the audience to understand why these aspects are Solano 2 important. In various cultures similar to the American culture people might even take these for granted not realizing some families cannot afford all the same things they can. The advertisement tries to accomplish an understanding that a living wage should be a human right regardless of where they are living. A living wage should be able to be earned in no more than 48 hours per week which is a standard working week (Clean Clothes Campaign). In industries like the garment industry workers do not have a say in many things one being their wages (Kates 1). This advertisement makes people question the morality of not getting a fair living wage in this type of industry. The image uses vibrate bold color to catch the eyes. The dark background makes the circles pop implying that they represent importance. In the speech bubble they include both boy and girl figures to show there should be no difference between genders and pay raise. They use simple images so anyone can view and determine what they are and see their importance. Lastly the advertisement uses ethos and pathos to narrow in on emotions and morals. The second image from Clean Clothes Campaign is a simple yet a meaningful advertisement. The images purpose is to show that half is not enough, the ad includes red lines through midpoints of various parts in the ad. This highlights the idea of how half is not enough because it would not be a full advertisement without the other half of it. The image makes the audience realize that everyday things come with a price that is not achievable to all. The image tries to accomplish that making half of what a person should be making it not enough to support their everyday needs. Clean Clothes Campaign shows that people should not have to worry if their paychecks for the week will be enough to cover food for the table and rent money. Without receiving a living wage employees must work overtime to receive bonuses or are unable to call Solano 3 out even for illnesses (Clean Clothes Campaign). Constantly working is not good for the body and in many industries workers are required to be on their feet most of the day (Kates 1). The image uses red to show importance. The lines they cross throughout the image are red and the phrase garment workers a living Red draws attention so the audience can see the meaning of the advertisement. They use a white backgroud to have the colors stand out more to represent the importance of them. The phrase is not is large and to its own side so the audience is drawn to that first. The advertisements main goal is to try and advocate the idea of having garment workings paid a living wage. The first rhetorical appeal that is present in both image 1 and image 2 is the ethos. This reflects on the truthfulness, credibility, and morality of the images. In image 1 all categories are are at least used once a week if not every day, this reflects on the truthful aspect of the advertisement. The image is accurate in stating a living wage is a human right for all people. Where a person lives should not determine if they should be allowed a living wage or be subject to being involved in cheap labor. Morally this image appeals to people because without a living wage people can not afford the things they need. People can reflect on their job/pay and reflect on how there could be people who do more and get paid less than them. They can even be paid so much lower that they can not even afford basic necessities like food. Image 2 has many similarities to the first. The advertisement is shown to be accurate because is not especially if bills cost amount of money while a person only makes By not getting paid a full wage mean being unable to pay for bills fully. By including Clean Clothes Campaign, the company is approving the messages for having a living wage as a human right (Mckee). Morally Solano 4 this advertisement appeals to the idea of workers being unable to provide for families because they do not make enough as they should. The next rhetorical appeal is pathos, this appeals to the emotions the audience should feel while looking at both advertisements. In image one the concept of having a livable wage as a human right make the audience question the disadvantage of not getting a living wage and where it puts them at. When people do not make enough to where they can live off of it sacrifices are made. Less food than needed is purchased for the week, worn clothes get passed down or clothes that are grown out of are still worn because they cannot afford to buy new ones. Economic classes often have projects which reflect these concepts, student are asked for a month to wear the same 3 sets of clothes for the whole month (West Morris Mendham High School). As the month goes on the task becomes harder and harder to follow due to the fact that in american culture it is almost considered weird to wear the same clothing in short amounts of time. For image 2 is not is shown with red lines through it, this symbolizes half of what a person can afford. People have to make choices of what is more important food, rent, education. It gives the workers sympathy because of the possible challenges assumed when a worker only receives half of what they worked for. The last rhetorical appeal is kairos, only image 2 shows this appeal. Image 2 represents kairos because it refers to their week of action. In 2013 multiple countries in Europe participated in a week of action for industry workers who do not receive a livable wage. During the week of October 21-28 people held actions in streets and shopping centers to bring awareness of what a living wage is and why all workers should receive it (Clean Clothes Campaign). Some forms of campaigning were asking people if they would be willing to work over 12 hours a day with no Solano 5 bathroom breaks, possibly unsafe conditions, and a wage below the poverty line (Clean Clothes Campaign). Image 2 shows support for people who do not make a livable wage, it calls to action the fact that all workers deserve a livable wage. Clean Clothes Campaign mission is to make sure the human right of a living wage is provided to garment workers, both images reflect on what it means to have a living wage and why it is important for a worker to receive enough to maintain a healthy lifestyle by using ethos, pathos, and kairos. CCC strives to make sure the minimum wage is a livable wage for all people. Half is not enough especially when a person has to provide for a family, transportation, housing and more. Word count: 1453 Solano 6 Works Cited Clean Clothes  Clothes Campaign . N.p., 29 Apr. 2013. Web. 17 Feb. 2017. Just Economics. Just Economics of Western North  Economics of Western North Carolina About Living Wage Comments . N.p., n.d. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. Kates, Michael.  The Ethics of Sweatshops and the Limits of Choice  Ethics Quarterly 25.2 (2015): 191-212. Web. Mckee, Jessica, and Megan McIntyre. 1.2 Ethos  Matters (n.d.): 25. Web. West Morris Mendham High  Morris Mendham High School . N.p., n.d. Web. 10 Mar. 2017. Solano 7 Image 1: Image 2: