Student 1 Student Lisa Dubois ENC 1102-706 5 March 2017 Save Those Who Saved Us Shockingly, fifty percent of all suicides are committed by veterans due to unemployment, homelessness, and not receiving their health benefits. Since 2008, there has been a growing number of 5.5 million disabled veterans and the number continues to grow as more veterans return home from war not as the same person as they were before (Bureau). To clarify, a disabled veteran is one who is entitled compensation or was discharged from active duty because of a Unfortunately, many of veterans are not obtaining the proper care benefits as they wait endlessly for their applications to go through. To add to the chaos, the actions in congress from the republican party are creating a sense of hopelessness as they favored to cut $1.4 billion from the Veterans Affair Funding Bill of 2015 (Leal). Due to that fact, veterans are forced to find other assistance from programs like the Wounded Warriors Project to receive the proper care they need. However, the profuse number of veterans seeking additional help can degrade the distinctive care of these programs. Veterans need the funding from the government for their rightful compensation. Therefore, those who need the further help can benefit from exclusive organizations like the Wounded Warrior Project for their programs to improve their mental and physical health. The Republican party is commonly known to have an immense love for the military and veterans. One can find evidence in the GOP website where it states that Department of Veteran Affairs must shift from an adversarial to an advocacy relationship with our veterans. Our Student 2 wounded warriors deserve the best medical care our country can (Priebus, et. Al). This implements the idea that they believe to have more of a participating relationship with the veterans. The Republicans platform states many promises providing care and dignity for the veterans and their families. Their idea is to trust that the strengthen and improve its efforts through partnerships with private enterprises, veteran service organizations, technology and innovation, and competitive (Priebus et. Al). By hiring officials that will follow those guidelines, the Republican party believes that veterans will finally obtain the proper needs they deserve. With their ideas on veterans being the strength, it is ideal to help them out. Unfortunately, they seemed to have drifted away from their promises. When Vermont senator Bernie Sanders, also chairman of Veteran Affairs at the time, pleaded for a billion that was mainly for healthcare usage, the Senate Republicans blocked the proposal (Gordon). They later noticed that the eternal wait-times for the veterans to receive healthcare became a problem, they admitted to only giving the department $16 billion. However, House Speaker John Boehner believes that funding is not the problem as he states VHA is absolute failure to take care of our and injection of funds can fix the department because it is just (Gordon). Therefore, complications as such gives organizations that are meant to be used as an additional source more patrons that are consuming their benefits as their primary foundation. Attempting on implementing better intentions, the GOP aims for VA health care a premium standard of choosing their type of own health care and where to gain access. Moreover, non-profit organizations for the disabled veterans that provide further assistance in mental and physical healthcare, such as the Wounded Warrior Project (WPP), are acquiring their funding solely from donations and philanthropists. WPP is an organization that Student 3 raises awareness and enlists the aid, helps the injured service members, and provides additional aid and programs to further help those who need it and their families. The organization provides help to 97,743 veterans and 22,042 families (Wounded Warrior Project). The organization creates projects in every field, such as their Warrior Care Network and Warriors to Work, where they support these veterans with mental and physical wellness along with opportunities to gain employment. This organization not only assists the veterans, but their families too. Alas, it has come to a point where veterans do not retain benefits from the government and only these organizations. The main conflict resides with the Congress and the Republican National Committee. With the $1.4 billion cuts in Veteran Affair funding due to the Republican party, causing a domino effect to issues regarding the care they need. The concerns begin where about 70,000 fewer Veterans will receive VA care, meaning less staff will be needed and cutting jobs, then causing to create delays in medical research (Leal). This subsequently causes the exhaust of other non-profit organizations with the abundant of disabled veterans seeking help. It is also unjust for the Republicans to point fingers. Per Gordon, go to great lengths to demonstrate their support for Americans in uniform, but when vets return shortchange their care and then blame the The goals for their budget cuts was to transfer the VHA from a public service to a private one. The goal then lead to the reduction of integrated facilities and drastically cut care. As it was successful for the first six months, it still caused the VHA to ask for more funding as they still fell short in a gap (Gordon). Another problem is the outrageous wait-times the veterans anticipate to receive care. For example, there have been 12,700 cases, only in the Los Angeles area, where veterans waiting over 90 days to see a physician and some waited six months (McKay). Student 4 These issues of endless wait times and defunding of the VHA must be resolved. While non-profit organizations cannot practically change the law, they could use their platform to speak out for those who do not have a voice. Speaking to republican congressmen to persuade them about ideas where funding can be changed is a good first step. Regarding the wait times, Secretary of Veteran Affairs, Sloan Gibson, addressed the issue at a House Committee of Veteran Affairs hearing. He successfully convinced the committee which 7 million more patient appointments and increased the number of patients receiving treatment, in some places by almost 20 (Gordon). Consequently, the negotiation being proposed can work. By following the trend, non-profit organizations can do the equivalent and change the perspectives of republicans. If acknowledged and accepted, the compromise ensures credibility for the Republican party as they strive for change in the health care system, hence will give them more support from veterans which would benefit them in the long run. In retrospect, conflicts between government funding and non-profit organizations that assists veterans should be brought to further attention. While the republicans favor cutting funding for the Veteran Affairs department, non-profits, like WWP, take in the helpless veterans to assist on their medical care. Nevertheless, other subordinate conflicts arise that can seem inevitable, for example the endless delays veterans wait just to see a doctor. As it is a difficult topic to overtake, it still can be done. Lobbying and speaking to congressmen can challenge the ideas and possibly change their perspective. The overall matter to funding for veterans is vital because the United States is a country who takes pride in our troops. Therefore, it is evident to care for those who paid service and risked their lives in the military; returning home from traumatic experiences changes a person, hence needing special care. If the distinct care is not provided, suicide rates in our country will escalate which majority unfortunately Student 5 acting from veterans. Performing this compromise will hopefully create a ripple effect in spreading the awareness. (WC 1268) Student 6 Works Cited Bureau, U.S. Census. U.S. Veteran Facts and  Disabled World. Disabled World, 01 Nov. 2011. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Gordon, Suzanne. Unfriendly  American Prospect, vol. 26, no. 4, Fall2015, pp. 68-75. EBSCOhost. Web. 26 Feb. 2017 Leal, Reynaldo. How $1.4 Billion in Budget Cuts Will Impact  VAntage Point. US Dept. of Veteran Affairs, 21 Apr. 2015. Web. 03 Mar. 2017. McKay, Tom. 5 Shocking Facts About the Way the U.S. Really Treats Its  Mic. Mic Network Inc., 26 Oct. 2015. Web. 04 Mar. 2017. Priebus, Reince, John Barrasso, Mary Fallin, and Virginia Foxx. Republican National Committee  GOP. Republican National Committee, 2017. Web. 03 Mar. 2017. Wounded Warrior  Wounded Warrior Project. N.p., n.d. Web. 04 Mar. 2017.