Shanks 1 Mariah Shanks ENC1102 DuBois February 26, 2017 Lush Cosmetics campaigns & ads Animal cruelty is something that a number of companies have been working towards ending for many years. The cosmetic and body soap company, Lush, is one that has continuously showed its support towards the cause by being very vocal about the topic at hand. Whether from being word of mouth or through visual campaigns. Their mission statement goes more in-depth with this by stating, want to show the world that it is possible to invent, manufacture and bring to market an entire range of products that adhere to all the legal safety requirements, without ever having to test on animals along the Lush believes this statement to be the Supplier Specific Boycott (Lush Fighting Animal Testing). Lush has then produced The Lush Prize, annual prize of $312,037.50 to groups or individuals working in the field of cruelty- free scientific (Lush launches 250k). In the two images that were produced by the company one showcases facts about The Lush Prize given out each year. In which the goal is to show awareness about the companies working towards ending animal testing and the amount of money Lush is willing to reward. The other image chosen talks about cruelty free cosmetics in which the goal is to evoke an emotion, and thought process about a makeup brand choices that can ultimately change a view on animal cruelty. These two images both showcase argument on animal cruelty by evoking emotions, showcasing facts, and authority, which can get the audience to really think and take action on what they believe in regards to animal cruelty. Shanks 2 Lush has produced a prize named, The Lush Prize, in which they award a cash prize to an organization or company that has been working to no end to putting a stop to animal testing and cruelty. Image 1 is an ad that was made to support this exact cause, in which it gives information about the Lush Prize and what it is made for. This purpose of image 1 can be described as evoking the audience to feel a sort of recognition that there are companies that actually work towards putting an end to animal testing rigorously. It showcases that there is also a prize for those companies and organizations to get rewarded for their hard work. It can also be described as being produced to show others how serious and adamant Lush is about ending this problem of cruelty on animals since they are willing to give recognition and money to organizations with their same viewpoints. In Image 1, there are some points that can be considered an appeal to Ethos, which is as stated in Rhetoric Matters, method of persuasion in which the speaker or writer (the attempts to persuade the audience by demonstrating their own credibility or  (McKee & McIntyre 25). In image 1s case, they provide a link to the Lush prize website that can show credibility to the audience. The audience can then go on the link provided and research about all the statistics that may be present on the website. The prize fund amount is also put on the picture in red which can draw your eyes to that section of the advertisement. This helps with credibility in the way that the audience sees how much money they are willing to award to a company that is raising enough awareness. This can also show credibility in the way that the audience can see that Lush is reliable with the amount of money that they are willing to award to the companies or organizations. Another element that the audience would see on image 1 that can show credibility or trust would be the statistic talking about how Lush has worked for more than 20 years to end animal testing. This example could also be used to explain the rhetorical appeal of logos, which Shanks 3 is the appeal to logic or facts. The long period of time that they have been working towards to put an end to this problem can let people know that they are very informed about the cause. Lastly in image 1, Ethos is involved with the statement present on the bottom of the image, more than 20 years of fighting for non-animal tested This could get the audience to feel surprised in a way since many people look over the fact that some companies still use some ingredients or sell their products to countries that test on animals. The audience sees 20 years and become surprised that this issue is still unsolved and the practice is still done. Pathos, which according to Rhetoric Matters is appeal to emotion, or is a rhetorical device that can be used to draw in the audience and help them connect with the (Lee, McGee, McIntyre 35), is present in image 1 in some ways. For example, the emphasis on the word in the first image can help make the audience get drawn initially into the advertisement/campaign. The size of the word ultimately gets the audience to read the rest of the advertisement. Which in the end can make the audience feel that Lush is a company that is really serious about ultimately putting a stop on animal cruelty. Lastly, another example that can show pathos is the statement on image 1, which states put animal testing in the history books where it This could evoke emotion in the way that it makes the audience realize that animal testing should be something in the past with the advancements of technology. The audience can then realize that the advertise or campaign wants animal testing to be ended and to be only talked about in textbooks. Since many times history books something that really talks about current topics that happen day to day. Kairos, according to Rhetoric Matters an appeal to timeliness, or identifying the right time to write/say/perform the correct action to obtain a desirable result, and then doing (Hoffman & Sawchyn 39). This is present on Image 1 with the year that is put on the Lush Prize logo. The year 2012 can show timeliness in the way Shanks 4 that is shows if the prize was already given or not. Since if you are looking at the campaign in say 2014 you can tell that the 2012 prize has already been given out. Also that the prize is being given to companies for their work that they have been doing within that year. In the second image produced by Lush, it talks about National Kissing Day and asks the question, your kisses cruelty The purpose of the image is embedded mostly into the question posed into the campaign for National Kissing Day. The question makes people wonder about if the lipstick that they may be wearing is tested on animals. Which in the end if the people care enough they might google their lipstick brand and really see if the brand tests on animals or not. The image is basically trying to accomplish an evoked thought from people viewing the advertisement by saying that Lush is not really saying to buy their lipsticks. They just want people to really research their products and seeing if they are cruelty free or not. On image 2 ethos is present on the ad campaign mostly on the bottom of the picture with the companies that the advertisement is supported by. The campaign that they seem to be advertising for is supported by the Humane Society International and the HRA (Humane Research Australia). Since these companies support this campaign people would think that a legitimate ad campaign. These companies are well known in the press and media for many of their efforts to help save animals. Regarding the rhetorical appeal with pathos, on the second image, the image of lipstick kisses draws people into the campaign because they might be interested in cosmetics. When they read the poster they see the question present, your kisses cruelty It could evoke the emotion and make people feel the need to start using cruelty free products or stick with the same old products that may hurt the animals that it is tested on. Shanks 5 Logos can also be used to explain the topic of the picture since the question posed could make the audience really think if they relate or not to the topic at hand which is animal testing. It could pose a different positon on the issue since because instead of thinking that the audience has no way in partaking in animal testing. The fact that they are still buying the products that still participate in animal testing means that they agree with the practice or care for it ultimately. Kairos can be used in image 2 based on the date that is present on the image. This can build a sense of timeliness so that the people reading the ad campaign will see when the campaign or the hashtag, will be used and that it is National Kissing Day. Lush actually had this campaign to raise awareness about animal cruelty and to break the Guiness Book of World Record for the most lipstick kiss prints taken in 12 hours (Lush Cruelty Free Kisses). The hashtag is used maybe to advocate or promote the campaign since many people use social media to raise awareness. All the pictures or related news on this hashtag could be all in one place so others can see and really understand what they are talking about. Lush is a company that is solely against animal cruelty as a whole. They use the Supplier Specific Boycott to be on top of the game and not use any ingredients from countries that still partake in animal testing. Lush has created the Lush prize and other campaigns to raise awareness on the cause that they support. The two images that were chosen and produced by Lush, both showcase their argument on animal cruelty by evoking emotions, showcasing facts, and authority, which can get the audience to really think and take action on what they believe, in regards to animal cruelty. Shanks 6 Works Cited: A., Lisa. Lush Cruelty Free Kisses Saturday July 6 th The Buzz. Lisa A., 5 July 2013. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. ** Lush launches 250k [pounds annual prize fund to end animal  Cosmetics International 2012: 13. General OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. LUSH Prize Awards to Innovators Against Animal  Ecouterre LUSH Prize Awards 250000 to Innovators Against Animal Testing Comments. Lori Zimmer, 19 Nov. 13. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. * Fighting Against Animal  Still Fighting Against Animal Testing. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. *- First Image Citation **- First Image Citation