Williams 1 John Williams L.E. Dubois ENC 1102 11 March 2017 Project 2 For an organization to make effective change, they must advertise their goal in a way that appeals to most of society. To do that, they must add visual rhetoric to successfully persuade their audiences. The WAZA (World Association of Zoos and Aquariums) is an organization that is dedicated guide, encourage and support the zoos, aquariums, and like-minded organizations of the world in animal care and welfare, environmental education, and global (WWAZA). They believe that zoos are essential to protect and promote wildlife conservation. This association has high sets of standards related to their animal care and a zoo must meet these certain standards to receive the approval/ certification. To spread awareness about the benefits of zoos, the WAZA releases several images and advertisements to the public These images could portray different meaning but their main purpose is to show to positive effects zoos have on preservation. Their images incorporate different styles that persuade the public that zoos are in the best interest for wildlife. This organization uses appeals, such as Logos, Pathos, and Kairos, to enact effective change towards their objective. One of the propaganda is a celebration project advertisement that features several statistics and facts. The top of the image reads Zoos Do and why we desperately need them. Now more than Then, it lists three facts saying and Aquariums spend 350 million each year on wildlife 33 extinct species can now only be found in zoos and aquariums around the those, 31 species have reintroduction and breeding Williams 2 This picture features element involving logos and kairos. The three quotes with numbers, have aspects of logos because they are dealing with logic and reason. They show that the WAZA is extremely dedicated to wildlife conservation and they have done a lot of work to preserve it. They state that 31 out of the 33 animals that can only be found in zoos are now able to return to the wild. This encourages their audience to team up and support them because they are capable of effective change. Kairos come in to play regarding the sentence about more than because when they are talking about zoos and we desperately need adding a sense of urgency to the idea that we need them and how can pursue relating to conservation (Palmer and Sandoe). The purpose of the image is to show that zoos are ginormous factor when it comes to conservation. Also, it shows the WAZA truly cares about making change because in the center, three words appear that reflect the goal Conserve and In addition, these facts, and elements of timeliness cause society to stand up and create change within zoos to help better living conditions. Therefore, an organization would rely on elements of Logos and Kairos because by seeing these statistics and the urgency, they would convince the audience (even if not animal lovers) that something must be done relating to animal care and conservation. Another one of the publications is one of their magazine covers. Their seventeenth edition of the cover portrays their future zoo design and their typical patrons. It shows two wolves playing in what appears to be the natural habitat and a couple of feet away are two children that appear to be happy by watching these animals, and talking amongst their selves. The words of Zoo and Aquarium are laid across the picture (Chin and Markus). This advertisement is designed to persuade the public to supporting the WAZA in the goal of enhancing the and bettering their policies by using the rhetorical Williams 3 appeal, pathos. They enact this by provoking emotions like excitement, hopefulness, and glee in their audience. Feelings like hopefulness and excitement come in to play, when the audience hopes that they will get the opportunity to experience what is being portrayed in this magazine. The excitement comes from the idea of possibly going to one of these newly reconciled zoos, while the feeling of happiness might encourage them to support the WAZA because they can observe wild animals up close in their natural habitat. The pathos elements in the magazine cover helps to persuade the public to get involved and make the necessary changes take place to assure this future design come true. Some stakeholders add these hidden rhetoric styles to corral support and get approval for society. By adding these styles, sometimes a hidden meaning is rendered in the promotions, which can contribute to their goal. These hidden meaning can vary from person to person because everyone will see it a unique way. A simple component of rhetoric can lead to many different meaning, which reflect the main goal of the World Association of Zoos and Aquariums. For example, one of the possible ways these images can help achieve their goal is for zoos to convert and adapt the rules, regulations, and standards to fit those of the WAZA. A zoo might see the images and advertisements produced by the WAZA and all the positive, encouraging assistance they are getting from the public, so the might decide to team up with a join them. By working with the WAZA, the parties that favor the idea that zoo were established for the benefit of wild life have just gained a valuable ally. This is important because these stakeholders must to work together and stand up for their beliefs because organizations such as P.E.T.A. which are trying to destroy everything they have working for. Hence, why it is so important for organizations to add these qualities and styles to their ads. Williams 4 Many corporations such as the WAZA (World Association of Zoos and Aquariums) use advertisements to promote and gather support for this mission. The WAZA used a billboard and the cover on one of their magazines to achieve their goal is expanding and improving zoos. To this extent, they add rhetorical qualities in their ads to help persuade their audiences. The WAZA mainly uses appeal to pathos is an appeal to emotion, and it is the rhetorical device that is most often used to help an audience connect with the argument or (Lee, McKee, and McIntyre 36). They mainly use this strategy because the concept of emotions and animals play hand in hand, when it comes to persuading their audience. Especially when the public sees animals being mistreated or neglected. Allowing this appeal quite affective with this topic. On the other hand, logo is used occasionally if they are sharing statistics or information about research concerning how take both conservation and care to be important (Palmer and Sandoe). The two previous examples used logos, kairos, pathos because they used facts/ reason, timeliness, and the emotions to gather support and elaborate on the main of idea of their cause. The appeals they chose to use in their propaganda is majorly important as it related to furthering their organizations goal of refining zoos. Williams 5 Works Cited Chin, Susan A., and Markus Gusset. Contents. S.I.: Publisher Not Identified, 2016. 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Lee, Kendra G., Jessica McKee, and Megan McIntyre.  Rhetoric Really Matters. Tampa: U of South Florida, 2016. 34-40. Print. Palmer, Clare, and Peter Sandoe. Contradictions in Care & Conservation Zoos &  Center for Humans & Nature. N.p., n.d. Web. 11 Mar. 2017. WWAZA. WWAZA: World World Association of Zoos and  WWAZA : World World Association of Zoos and Aquariums. WWAZA, n.d. Web. 11 Mar. 2017. Williams 6