Gimenez-Beron 1 Tomas Gimenez-Beron L.E. DuBois ENC 1102 March 5, 2017 Money Talks The National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) is the most powerful governing body of college sports in the United States and Canada, which manages hundreds of thousands of student-athletes throughout the North American continent. The College Athletes Players Association (CAPA) is a small organization that focuses on fighting for the rights of college student-athletes. The NCAA has been around since 1906 and has focused on organizing and managing collegiate sports in North America over the past 111 years, and along with organizing the sports for North American colleges, universities, and institutions, the NCAA has also provided scholarships for students in order for them to keep pursuing their athletic dreams in college, while also pursuing an education and a degree. CAPA is a young organization, having only been formed since January 2014, but they have been advocating heavily for college rights over the past 3 years. Their main concern is advocacy for student athletes to be paid their part from all the revenue that the NCAA gets from the hard work on the field. These two organizations are both dealing with the dilemma of that should college student athletes get paid (aside from scholarships). This issue is an important contemporary concern because more and more student athletes are complaining about not having enough personal money to live a comfortable life, and they have the time to get a job because too busy working on the field, but are not receiving any money from their hard work there, which Gimenez-Beron 2 brings in millions of dollars to the NCAA (Edelman). There is very much controversy behind the case of whether college athletes should get paid or not for their work on the field, much like professional athletes, however, there is the dilemma over rich schools having an unfair advantage, while there is also the dilemma of college athletes feeling like slaves to the NCAA. The primary goal of the NCAA is to provide education for college athletes and help them be successful in life, through the factor of sports. than $2.7 billion in athletic scholarships is distributed each year along with access to medical care, academic support services and first- class training (http://www.ncaa.org/). On the other hand, the primary objective of CAPA is to make sure that student athletes get paid for their hard work on the field, and to make sure that the best interest of the student athlete is put first before the NCAA. time to fight for justice. Billions of dollars are flooding NCAA sports, yet players are often stuck with sports- related medical expenses, lose their scholarships due to injuries, and scholarships often what they are promised to (http://www.collegeathletespa.org/). both concerned with the treatment of the student athletes and their success, while they are still in college playing sports. They both need a compromise in order to keep student athletes happy with their rewards for their hard work on the field. They both want what is best for the college athletes. The NCAA, however, wants to keep the playing field even and keep the integrity of college sports where from money and keeping the passion in the sports. The past solutions that have been offered were that extra benefits were given by the NCAA, as before they just paid tuition, they later added on housing, then meal plans, then books, then clothes and gear for their respective sports. In regards to past attempts at reaching an agreement: The Northwestern football players forming the Northwestern Players Union, which was declined by the National Labor Relations Board (Nocera). Gimenez-Beron 3 Both stakeholders have made some progress in order to ease the tension created by their incompatible goals, such as the NCAA giving them scholarships and extra non-cash benefits, while the CAPA is lowering its demands for college athletes getting paid. However, the problem that arises when reasonable people disagree about this issue is that the student athletes are still getting paid in scholarships for tuition and housing and that should be enough (Thelin). The NCAA prides themselves on giving college athletes a chance to have their school paid for and receive an education, and that any extra money is simply unnecessary as the scholarships provide housing, tuition and meal plans. But they understand that college athletes need extra money in order to live their daily lives and just in case of emergencies because they have time for regular jobs as their sports take up all their free time. One new, previously untried approach to creating a compromise between the stakeholders is for high school athletes boycotting college sports (NCAA) and skipping college and going straight to the pros such the playing overseas, getting a sponsor, or joining up and coming league that are semi-pro but have less restrictions (such as the NBA which requires at least 1 year removed from high school basketball, or the NFL which requires at least 2 years removed from high school football) in order for them to start getting paid earlier and be able to start helping out their families. This proposed compromise benefits the NCAA because it keeps the athletes with intrinsic motivation in the NCAA, and the ones that are just chasing money, out of the NCAA. However, some problems that both sides would have with this solution is that there would be less talent in the NCAA, which would cause less people to watch collegiate sports, thus a loss of money. And the solution might cause a problem with CAPA as more high school athletes would elect to go pro, they would be losing an opportunity at an education, which means that if they do not make it to the big leagues, which most high school athletes that they would have a Gimenez-Beron 4 hard time finding a good job and being able to support their family. It would not directly affect CAPA as they just advocate for rights, so if high school athletes decide to go pro, they would have nothing to advocate as their main problem would be solved. Also, they have to pay any college athletes extra money. The proposed compromise also benefits CAPA because it helps athletes right out of high school or in college, to have the opportunity to leave to start playing their respective sports and start getting paid. It benefits both stakeholders because the NCAA stays the same and have to deal with any players with just extrinsic motivation, and college athletes can leave and start getting paid. So what will happen between the NCAA and the CAPA, will the NCAA give in and start paying college athletes in order to keep more players in college, which could lead to some of the top rich schools having unfair advantages and having to cut sports in order to pay its athletes OR will the NCAA stay the same, and lose many great high school prospects, which could mean less excitement in the league and loss of revenue for the NCAA. Whatever happens, each athlete will go down its own road and the decisions they make will impact their lives greatly; the great risk that lies in the decision between education and money could mean a huge difference in the outcome of each athletes life. Gimenez-Beron 5 College Athletes Players Association (CAPA), www.collegeathletespa.org/. Accessed 29 Mar. 2017. National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA), www.ncaa.org/ . Accessed 29 Mar. 2017. Nocera, Joe, and Ben Strauss. of the Union: How Northwestern football union nearly came to Sports Illustrated, 24 Feb. 2016, www.si.com/college- football/2016/02/24/northwestern-union-case-book-indentured. Accessed 29 Mar. 2017. Thelin, John. Why We Pay College Time.com, 1 Mar. 2016, http://time.com/money/4241077/why-we-shouldnt-pay-college-athletes/. Accessed 29 Mar. 2017. Edelman, Marc. Reasons Why Student-Athletes Are Employees And Should Be Allowed To Forbes.com, 30 Jan. 2014, https://www.forbes.com/sites/marcedelman/2014/01/30/21-reasons-why-student-athletes- are-employees-and-should-be-allowed-to-unionize/#9024a6f8d051. Accessed 29 Mar. 2017