Student 1 Student L. E. DuBois ENC 1102 26 March 2017 Equal Energy Distribution Modern society pays much attention to protection of the environment as extensive growth of production and other manufacturing activities significantly damages the nature. It became obvious that reckless usage of natural resources and irresponsible attitude towards the future of the planet should be blamed and even prohibited on a legal basis. Therefore, many countries adopted various environmental laws and established special organizations and commissions that are supposed to monitor and control the activities of different companies in terms of their correspondence to environmental norms and regulations (Shaheen 43). It is especially important in the sphere of energy production and dissemination as the companies engaged in the extraction of natural resources, such as oil and natural gas, are considered one of the biggest polluters of the environment. In the United States the informational aspects of this problem are overseen by the U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) that analyzes, and disseminates independent and impartial energy information to public understanding of energy and its interaction with the economy and the (EIA). This organization actively promotes electricity from renewable sources and repeatedly shows the disadvantages of oil and natural gas production. This information makes a negative impact on the other stakeholder, Exxon Mobil company, that is the biggest American multinational oil and gas corporation. As a whole, these two organizations treat the significance of oil and gas production differently, but they declare the common aim of granting US people affordable energy. To reach a compromise Exxon Mobil could focus on eliminating environmental problems that the EIA highlights and the EIA could in turn draw Student 2 the public attention to the progress and benefits that Exxon Mobil brings to American people. On one side of the issue there is the U.S. Energy Information Administration that was created in 1977 as an integral part of the U.S. Federal Statistical System (EIA). This organization works in close cooperation with the U.S. Department of Energy and is accountable to its management. The EIA neither creates any laws regarding the energy sphere, nor can it directly order companies how they should behave in the market and what environmental problems they should address. However, the EIA deals with the information about the spectrum of energy sources, end uses, and energy and, as result, has a significant impact on all the players and agents in this industry (EIA). Its reports, booklets and other services are widely read by the public that tends to trust this information as it is official and supported by the government. One of the main priorities of the EIA is to promote ecologically-friendly sources of energy and analyze the cases of environmental pollution among energy companies. Its official website has a special page devoted to the environmental problems in this sphere and the representatives of this agency often describe negative aspects of oil production in their regular reports. For instance, they draw the public attention to the fact that petroleum products are a source of carbon dioxide emissions that significantly harm the ozone layer. They also claim that oil companies pay insufficient attention to safety, thus oil spills can destroy the marine life. The other side of this conflict is Exxon Mobil, a corporation that deals with various aspects of oil and natural gas extraction, refining, trade, etc. is the ninth largest company by revenue and has about 73 thousand (Coll 19), this company is considered to be the most important descendant of John D. Standard Oil Company and currently has the refining capacity of about one million cubic meters of oil (Jones 78). The company has been often criticized for its weaknesses in terms of the environmental protection. One of the most serious problems was 1989 Exxon Valdez oil Student 3 spill in Alaska that was perhaps the most damaging spill to the environment in human history (MacKay and Munro 1522). The conflict between the EIA and Exxon Mobil is not direct and it is not described in mass media as a threat to both organizations. However, it is obvious that the focus of the EIA on electricity and constant highlights of the problems in oil and natural gas companies damage the reputation and decrease the revenues of Exxon Mobil. Although the information disseminated by the EIA is objective and aimed at improving the energy market, this organization overlooks the significance of such multinational corporations as Exxon Mobil and others. The image of these companies is damaged and despite their efforts to eliminate the negative impact on the environment, they are nevertheless regarded as dangerous polluters. There is lack of information about their progress in the sphere of environmental protection, but the public gets a variety of news and reports about the failures. Having lack of support from the state energy agencies, such as the EIA, Exxon Mobil faces constant challenges that reduce its productivity and, as a result, lead to worse social benefits for the workers and even cuts in the jobs. Although the EIA is not the only organization that highlights the negative aspects of Exxon Mobil activities, it has a significant influence on all the players in this market. In addition, it signals the perspective of the federal government as it belongs to the U.S. Department of Energy. The compromise between these two stakeholders is crucial as they both play a significant role in the US energy sphere and their fruitful and harmonious cooperation will bring many benefits to the society. Despite the fact that Exxon Mobil is a corporation that is bound to prioritize high revenues, these two organizations could reach agreement if they focus on their common goal making the energy safe and accessible to the American people (Shaheen 54). As Exxon Mobil representative says, have the same concerns as people everywhere, and that is how to provide the world with the energy it needs while reducing Student 4 greenhouse (Adam), Exxon Mobil focuses on the protection of environment during the producing of oil and considers that is one of the responsibilities of the company. Although this compromise does not mean that the EIA should hide the truthful information about the negative impact of some oil procedure, provided Exxon Mobil focus on the elimination of the environmental problems, this state agency could pay more attention to the promotion of the Exxon Mobil services and products. It is important for the US as currently there is no way of refusing oil and natural gas as energy sources. Moreover, Exxon Mobil provides a great number of jobs and secures a vast amount of infrastructure elements that need to be supported. Therefore, one of the possible situations to reach the compromise could be the following. As the EIA sees oil spills as one of the biggest problems of Exxon Mobil, the company should develop and introduce new technologies to prevent them and provide real information about their effectiveness (Kearney). As it is a great step forward in the energy security, the EIA should make a report about this progress and disseminate it as its usual analytical documents. Generally, the compromise is that Exxon Mobil pays more attentions to protecting environment while EIA makes less efforts on this aspect. All things considered, the compromise between the EIA and Exxon Mobil will be a step towards the harmonization of the energy market and better environmental security in this sphere. It will let the society to get much better access to energy in a variety of its forms including electricity, oil and gas. This compromise will allow both organizations to get substantial benefits for their own purposes and American people. If the conflict between the interests of oil producers and state organizations is successfully solved, all stakeholders will get a breakthrough for the global community as it may serve as a role-model for other countries as well. (Word count: 1,296) Student 5 Works Cited Adam, David. Mobil continuing to fund climate sceptic groups, records The Guardian, http://ceadserv1.nku.edu/longa/ClimateChange/vignettes/Politics/ Exxon pdf. Accessed 23 February 2017. Coll, Steve. Private Empire: Exxon Mobil and American Power. Penguin, 2013. Jones, Christopher F. Routes of Power: Energy and Modern America. Harvard University Press, 2016. Kearney, Diane. Outlook Through Surface Transportation Board, 2010, https://www.stb.gov/STB/docs/RETAC/2010/March/EIA%20AEO%202010.pdf. Accessed 23 February 2017. MacKay, Brad, and Iain Munro. Warfare and New Organizational Landscapes: An Inquiry into the Exxon Dispute over Climate Organization Studies, vol. 33, no. 11, 2012, pp. 1507 1536. Shaheen, Glenn. Energy Corridor. University of Pittsburgh Press, 2016. Energy Information Administration, 2016, http://www.eia.gov/. Accessed 23 February 2017.