Last name 1 Student Professor DuBois ENC 1102 5 March 2017 Protection for All: Security and Human Rights Since the cruel tragedies that occurred during World War II, the Human Rights movement has been in the international spotlight. People are no longer turning a blind eye to inhumane situations like before. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR), the first component of the International Bill of Human Rights, was created by the United Nations shortly after the end of World War II in hope to prevent violations of human rights (Boersema). Many countries signed this document in support but have failed to abide by its laws. Amnesty International works to protect and promote these human rights stated in the UDHR International There are many other groups that stand for human rights, but there are also some that use their pro-human rights stance to under the violations of human rights, like the Organization for Defending Victims of Violence (ODVV) based in Iran. The ODVV claims they are a non-profit, organization that been active in the field of human rights and humanitarian since 1988 Organization for Defending Victims of ). According to the International Campaign for Human Rights in Iran, this organization has done nothing to support the human rights movement. Although Amnesty International and the ODVV are considered because they human rights, they oppose one another because one truly supports human rights and the other violates these rights. A realistic compromise between the two organizations would include a sit-down meeting where an agreement is reached on what forms of torture are acceptable and can be used and which are not. Last name 2 Amnesty International is a global movement of individuals acknowledging and fighting injustices and promoting human rights, including the basic human right to not be subjected to torture. This organization was founded in July of 1961 in London, United Kingdom. Their purpose is to and expose abuses, educate and mobilize the public, and help transform societies to create a safer, more just (Amnesty International USA). They are currently the largest grassroots human organization, meaning they use local support to build up and gain international support (Amnesty International USA). This organization even received the Nobel Peace Prize for their crucial work in all forms of human rights advocacy. Amnesty International refers to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, along with the entire International Bill of Human Rights, to support their claim that every person is born with certain rights that cannot be taken away despite the situation. One of the specific human rights campaign Amnesty International runs and promotes is the protection of prisoners from torture. Their the campaign spans to highlight issues such as detention and imprisonment, the death penalty, enforced disappearance, human rights defenders, and prisoners of conscience, which all can include forms of torture whether psychological or physical (Amnesty International USA). They also have a campaign called Flows of Arms that Fuel which focuses on the military and police abiding by human rights laws (Amnesty International USA). In its entirety, Amnesty International is an organization devoted to the protection of human rights, including those of prisoners and detainees, and accountability of all who violate human rights laws, which causes opposition with those who believe torture is necessary in certain cases. The Organization for Defending Victims of Violence is a non-profit, organization that supports and promotes human rights and humanitarian activities in Iran Organization for Defending Victims of ). It was established in 1988 in Last name 3 Tehran, the capital of Iran. They have been a pioneer among Iranian-based Non-Government that participate in many Universal Periodic Review State reviews, according to their website for Defending Victims of They are also associated with many well-known organizations such as the United Nations Department of Public Information (UNDPI) and a national coordinator of the Global March Against Child Labor based in New Delhi for Defending Victims of There has been criticism of the ODVV from the Human Rights Council during a 4-week conference highlighting that the ODVV did not care to comment and remained silent about the situation of prisoners of conscience, ethnic and religious minorities, and university students at the hands of judicial and intelligence So-Called NGOs that Support Torture and Child ). This type of public criticism causes opposition from actual human rights organizations like Amnesty International, that dedicate all their efforts into the human rights movement. Although both organizations stand for and promote human rights, the indirect conflict between these two organizations arises from the amount of effort and support each organization provide. Amnesty International seems to take the stand of or meaning they are against all forms of torture and will never allow a situation to go unnoticed. Organization for Defending Victims of Violence is more of a the type of organization, meaning they promote human rights to some extent, but they allow certain instances to occur without speaking out against it. So, the question becomes, is ODVV an actual human rights organization? Amnesty International would say no because they do allow some forms of inhumane imprisonment, although they have never publicly criticized the ODVV. The ODVV is similar to the Executive Branch of the United States government, because both parties have allowed and used cruel forms of torture to benefit themselves in protecting their citizens. Their reasoning is Last name 4 the of ideology, meaning the reaction to a situation depends on the details of the situation and an overall theme cannot be applied to all cases since they are all different (Allhoff). Even though Amnesty International and ODVV have never tried to compromise, Amnesty International and the Executive branch have spoken out regarding the other party. This form of public criticism did not help their situation, it only fueled the fire so that is not an effective form of compromise. The most efficient form of mediation is simply talking through the issues face to face. Granted the two stakeholders are not in direct opposition, preventative measures could be taken to avoid any type of complications. A sit-down meeting between the leaders of Amnesty International and the Organization for Defending Victims of Violence would be a huge step in preventing opposition. During the meeting, both parties would have to agree on what forms of torture are acceptable in certain situations. For example, if there is a suspected terrorist undergoing interrogation, isolation is acceptable. This way Amnesty International has some say- so in what can be done and the ODVV cannot turn a total blind eye to the forms of torture in Iran. Neither stakeholder gets what they want completely, they both have to give a little in order for the compromise to work. Amnesty International and the Organization for Defending Victims of Violence are two supporters of the human rights movement, however they each have a different set of boundaries on what is allowed to happen. Amnesty International has a policy towards any violation of human rights. The ODVV has been known to ignore violations because it benefits their organization. A preventative measure taken to avoid confrontation would include a sit- down negotiation where each party states their wants and a compromise is made. No one gets exactly what they want, which is the point of a compromise. (WC:1215) Last name 5 Works Cited Allhoff, Fritz. A Defense of  International Journal of Applied Philosophy 19.2 (2005): 243-64. Web. Amnesty International  Amnesty International USA Protect Human Rights. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. Boersema, David. Universal Declaration of Human Rights  Salem Press Encyclopedia. 2016. Print. Organization for Defending Victims of  Organization for Defending Victims of Violence. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. So-Called NGOs that Support Torture and Child  International Campaign for Human Rights in Iran. N.p., 23 Mar. 2011. Web. 02 Mar. 2017.