Student1 Student L.E. DuBois ENC 1102 29 March 2017 Effective treatment for depression In this day, the depression has become the general problem in daily life. Many people get depression but they can not find good methods to treat this disease. A lot of people suffer from depression, and the number of suiciding is also increasing. People encounter mental stress, life setbacks, painful circumstances or illness and death will naturally produce emotional changes, especially depression. Depression is also a major manifestation of emotional depression as a mental illness or a pathological depressive disorder. Pathological depression is often associated with significant biological symptoms and psychotic symptoms, such as persistent stubborn insomnia, a variety of psychological behavior, while weight, loss of appetite, the body appears difficult to locate the functional discomfort and the overall relationship between the symptoms. No exception is the common signs of depression. A variety of antidepressants, physical therapy, and psychological treatment can treat depression. For some patients, antidepressants are more effective; for some patients, physical therapy or psychotherapy is more effective; and for most patients, drug treatment and physical therapy may be most effective. The DBSA (Depression and Bipolar Support Alliance) and MAYO CLINIC are two stakeholders who focus on depression treatments. They use their ways to help the patients who feel helpless in against Student2 depression. However, the treatments that they pay attention are different. The DBSA is focus on Physiotherapy. Because they believe the experience from patients will be very useful. They believe patients can help each other. For the Mayo clinic, they trust that medical treatments will help patients a lot. So, the medicine is skipping the external causes of emotions, directly through the chemical method to change brain function. We can find both stakeholders have their own goals and believe they can provide better treatment to help patients get rid of depression. The DBSA provides some tips to help patient get rid of depression, they believe that psychotherapy can be more effective in treating depression. Depression patients show weakness, despair and even suicidal tendencies, are due to depressed patients negative self, their own experience and their own future, they produced a series of negative emotions and thinking, to their own psychology has brought difficult to contain the conflict, they live in their own dysfunctional judgment and unable to extricate themselves, and life in the sudden and stress events and accelerate and consolidate their cognitive model, vicious circle seems has been out of life lost. According to DBSA journal article(Psychotherapy: How it Works and How it Can Help), The psychological treatment of depression can use a variety of psychological methods, such as: psychoanalytic therapy, cognitive therapy, psychomotor therapy, suggesting that therapy, etc., to guide patients to change the cognitive and spiritual reconstruction, to resolve adverse cognitive So that they produce pessimism and disappointment, to arouse the own positive beliefs, this process is a psychological counselor under the leadership of the journey to explore their Student3 own soul, any drug can not be replaced. The DBSA companion support group is a little different, DBSA companion support group believes that each mental health path is unique, not exactly the same way. Although people who are in emotional problems will sympathize with each other, DBSA believes that participants should support each other, give each other hope, comfort and encouragement. The Mayo Clinic is more like a medical center. They believe medical treatment can help patients a lot. The goal of this organization is inspiring hopes and contributes to health and well-being by providing the best care to every patient through integrated clinical practice, education and research. The Mayo Clinic suggests patients to eat Antidepressants to treat the depression. According to the article Depression, Major Depressive antidepressants are a class of major treatment depressed, depressed mood, pessimistic, negative drugs, medication can make emotional excitement, improve mood, enhance thinking ability and make the energy improved. There are many medicines since the advent of the since the development of fast, especially in the past ten years, many new antidepressants endless. This type of drug is not only antidepressant effect, anxiety, forced state and phobia also has a certain effect. Long-term medicine maintenance is essential because depression is a common, easy to relapse of emotional diseases, the literature reported that if you do not give the drug intervention, then there may be 10-20% of patients only once in their lives, will not recur , But most patients may relapse. Therefore, in order to make every patient as little as possible relapse, no recurrence, long-term drug maintenance therapy is essential, long-term drug maintenance to prevent recurrence has a very important role. Student4 The do the stakeholders have in common is health. They all care about people who are suffering by depression. They shared concerns do the stakeholders have in common is the health. There are a lot of patients might choose wrong treatment to help themselves. However, it will hurt there health. The needs do the stakeholders have in common is the most effective treatment for depression. There is a considerable part (in the contemporary urban population is actually the majority of patients), even if the mood improved, many of the troubles in life or can not solve. The medicine is skipped by the external cause of the mood, directly through the chemical method to change the brain function. There are many of the troubles of life; including some of the own personality basis itself is to produce depression, just as a fertile soil that breeds weeds, antidepressants are like herbicides, although the grass is removed medicine will stop growing a weed. Which makes a lot of patients seem to simply can not get away medicine. So, Psychological treatment at this time comes in handy. A variety of antidepressants, physical therapy, and psychological treatment can treat depression. For some patients, antidepressants are more effective; for some patients, physical therapy or psychotherapy is more effective; and for most patients, medical treatment and physical therapy may be most effective. According to Hummel, article, diagnosis, good access to psychotherapy, and early intervention could improve care for depressive older For patients with severe depression, physical therapy can be used to relieve depressive symptoms relatively quickly; while Student5 the medicine can be achieved through the treatment of antidepressants can achieve satisfactory treatment. Depression after the first use of antidepressant drugs, adhere to take some time later, and then with the psychiatrist for psychological treatment. The process of having psychological treatment also needs to keep using medicine. In general, it will be around five years for the first time after the diagnosis of depression, the persistence of medication. Long-term medication does not seem to improve after the disease, but some of the drug gradually formed a dependency, more serious or even damage the health of the body. The main reason for this result is the excessive exaggeration of the treatment and elimination of physical symptoms, while ignoring the psychological factors that cause depressive disorder - that is, the potentially defective cognitive approach, this deep-rooted negative psychological disorder Affect the generation, maintenance and development of depression. The reason is that medical treatment is only a temporary cure. Psychological counseling may not be able to cure this but can help you a deeper understanding of their understanding of the disease to ease the conflict to improve the quality of life. Medical treatment and psychological treatment is not divided into two kinds of treatment, but complement each other. (WC: 1208) Student6 Work cited Psychotherapy: How it Works and How it Can  PsycEXTRA Dataset (n.d.): n. pag. Web. March 5, 2017 herapy) Gao, Kerning, et al. Number Needed to Treat to Harm for Discontinuation Due to Adverse Events in the Treatment of Bipolar Depression, Major Depressive Disorder, and Generalized Anxiety Disorder with Atypical  The Journal of Clinical Psychiatry, vol. 72, no. 8, Aug. 2011, pp. 1063-1071. EBSCOhost, doi:10.4088/JCP.09r05535gre. Lieberman, E. James. Edelstein, Michael R. & Others. Therapy Breakthrough: Why some Psychotherapies Work Better Than  Library Journal, no. 18, 2013, p. 107 Franciotti, Kevin. Psychedelic Drug Helps  New Scientist, vol. 232, no. 3103, 10 Dec. 2016, p. 8 Hummel, Jana, et al. Original Study: Illness and Depression in Elderly Student7 Patients. Cognitive Behavioral Group Psychotherapy in Geriatric Patients with Comorbid Depression: A Randomized, Controlled  Journal of the American Medical Directors Association, 01 Jan. 2016