Student 1 Student Professor DuBois ENC 1102 29 March 2017 Broken Beyond Repair Just because something is broken does not mean it needs to be discarded. This is the case for even broken electronic devices that cannot be repaired. There are two different stances on how to go about with the recycling of electronic devices. One is to repair it and try and reuse the old device, but there are some problems that arise when doing so, such as the risk of having precious data falling into the wrong hands. On the other hand, one can just recycle the old device completely, but then there is a problem that arises when reasonable people disagree about this issue, which is that if the items are simply destroyed, it can be bad for the environment due to the hazardous chemicals in the batteries. So, when something is broken beyond repair why not have it sent to have it broken down so that parts can be sold and potentially reused for future repairs. and the related issue of sustainable development are increasing in importance around the (Oliveria 1592). The use of these nonrenewable resources is a pertinent issue in day and age because technology is outdated the moment it is off the shelf. This is why it should be recycled down to the essentials or even repaired so that it can have further use if it is damaged. The primary goals of the first stakeholder, Urban e-Recycling, was to collect the old electronic devices and destroy them. The process was done free of charge and the profits were made via the reselling of the precious materials found in some of the devices. The precious Student 2 materials are recovered by some rather interesting processes, one of which is PCB assemblies by thermal and/or chemical treatment in order to remove reusable valuable electronic which also removes some of the hazardous materials (Kaya 67). The principal arguments used by the stakeholder to support their position and claims were more to inform the readers of this different option that was available to them free of charge. There were many images found on this website that used the rhetorical appeals of kairos, pathos, logos, and ethos to get their point across and hopefully prompt the reader to consider it as a viable option. There are some drawbacks when using this process though, such as the hazardous chemicals use to get the metals from the old electronic devices. the last few years, developing countries like Colombia and China have started to establish formal e-recycling facilities, moving e-waste indoors with varying degrees of protection from hazardous (Ceballos 159). This is a step in the right direction, because keeping the workers safe should always be one of the top priorities of any company. There is even some legislation being passed trying to just remove these hazardous materials from the products altogether. (Ceballos 161). The primary goal of the second stakeholder, All Green Recycling, was to collect the old electronic device, which is usually damaged and they charge a price for the pickup and destruction of the old device. They then repair the device, if they can, and resell it for a profit. Due to the changes in information and communication technologies, the concomitant increasing versatility of most electronic devices together with the downward trend in prices have led to a drastically reduced lifespan for most electronic leading to a rather significant increase in the number of electronic devices that are getting thrown out (Tanskanen 1001). For instance, 2008, the number of personal computers had already surpassed 1 billion the overwhelming majority of which have already reached the end of their life, or will reach it Student 3 meaning that there was a lot of technology just being thrown out or recycled but not necessarily efficiently (Tanskanen 1002). Instead, the stakeholder could have broken down these personal computers and saved the spare parts and rebuilt some of the computers for a profit all in the meanwhile they are reducing waste. The shared interests that the stakeholders have in common, despite them having incompatible goals, is to provide a better future for future generations by eliminating as much waste as possible. The shared concerns that the stakeholders have in common, despite them having incompatible goals, is that they both worry about the security for the individuals whom are recycling their old devices. Therefore, both send certificates of destruction, which essentially means that the devices were successfully wiped of all personal information. The shared needs that the stakeholders have in common, despite them having incompatible goals, is that they both need people and businesses to recycle their old devices, without this, they would not have a business. main difficulty associated with the implementation of e-waste recycling is the collection system, as its efficiency depends not only on the education and cooperation of the people but also on cooperation among industrial waste generators, distributors and the (Oliveria 1592). There is a way to solve this seemingly incompatible issue with the two Since electronic devices that can store personal information are more of a newer technology, there have not been too many past solutions attempted to solve this issue. It is also a newer problem because we are producing electronic devices on a scale never seen before in the history of mankind. One solution I have seen a video for was a robot that would take apart an iPhone and place each part in a separate stack, so that those parts could potentially be reused. robot, known as be used to deconstruct the iPhone 6 and recover a wide range of Student 4 precious metal including, aluminum, copper, tin, tungsten, cobalt, gold, and silver (Banchiri). This is just the start for this type of technology, further in the article Apple had talked about plans to expand this technology to other devices and to recover other materials as well. A solution that I thought of though is for these companies to team up, and if they cannot repair the device then they should send it to the recycling plant and have it stripped of all precious metals and other potentially reusable parts. Both stakeholders can a to ease the tension created by their incompatible goals by teaming up together and sharing profits made through this new streamlined process. This works because both companies would like to eliminate as much waste as possible, and this would be exactly what would be going on. Some new previously untried approaches to creating a compromise between the stakeholders that I can offer is like the iPhone video mentioned earlier. But instead, that is done on a much larger scale, and not just for iPhones or phones in general. They could have machines or people in multiple parts of this factory and each area could specialize in taking apart either one specific thing, whether it be a television or a gaming system. Or, they could specialize in just taking off one part of the device and having that passed down to the next person in the line. This proposed compromise would benefit both stakeholders in a positive way, not by just increasing their profits and market, but by also going along with their goal of eliminating as much waste as possible. Urban e-Recycling would benefit from this because it would just streamline the process for them to take apart the device. Also, instead of them literally just shredding some of the parts, they could be shipped back to the original manufacturer to be reused. Or, saved for repair for future items. This planned cooperation would benefit All Green Recycling by allowing them to not just repair what they can, but they can have spare parts, so say if a mother board was broken, they could take the part from a similar computer and Student 5 put it in the other. This would allow them to repair many more devices, reducing waste and maximizing their profits. This compromise would realistically have to first be implemented by either the; the companies merging in to one, or the company can do it by themselves and just add another branch to their business. Some specific steps that might need to be taken to implement this compromise is to do a small scale run of this just to see and prove to the stakeholders and other companies that this process could work and be more efficient than current processes. (WC 1400). Student 6 Works Cited Green All Green Recycling. All Green Recycling. Web. 22 Feb. 2017. Banchiri, Bamzi. Can Recycling Robot Liam Put a Dent in  The Christian Science Monitor, 2016. 22 Feb 2017. Ceballos, Diana Maria and Zhao Dong. The Formal Electronic Recycling Industry: Challenges and Opportunities in Occupational and Environmental Health  Environment International, vol. 95, 01 Oct. 2016, pp. 157-166. 22 Feb. 2017. Kaya, Muammer. Recovery of Metals and Nonmetals from Electronic Waste by Physical and Chemical Recycling  Waste Management, vol. 57, Nov. 2016, pp. 64-90. 22 Feb. 2017. Kumar, Sashi and Shatrunjay Rawat. Future E-Waste: Standardisation for Reliable  Government Information Quarterly, 24 Nov. 2015. 22 Feb. 2017. Oliveira, Camila Reis de, et al. Collection and Recycling of Electronic Scrap: A Worldwide Overview and Comparison with the Brazilian  Waste Management, vol. 32, 01 Aug. 2012, pp. 1592-1610. 22 Feb. 2017. Tanskanen, Pia. Management and Recycling of Electronic  Acta Materialia, vol. 61, no. The Diamond Jubilee Issue, 01 Feb. 2013, pp. 1001-1011. 22 Feb. 2017. Urban e-Recycling. Urban e-Recycling. Web. 21 Jan. 2017.