Roeder Katherine Roeder Intermediate Draft E. Smith 04-11-2017 Deep Brain Stimulation helping Disease The testing of Deep Brain Stimulation effects on Disease (PD) have been going on since the early 2000s. This procedure is constantly being perfected. Deep Brain Stimulation (DBS) has been proven by a multitude of tests and experiments to be the most effective way to treat the tremor effects of Disease. One of the first tests preformed was the hand-eye coordination experiment, this shows research on the control patients have while undergoing Deep Brain Stimulation. Patients are set up in a chair with their arms laying on the rests, and only using wrist and hand movements they must follow lines or patterns given on the screen in front of them. The point of the research is to improve the voltages conducted to give the movements a more smooth feel. With the new research being done the effectiveness of the voltages can be better observed, and with that they can also be better maintained. Although after a long period of time researchers concluded that the brain could be more reliant on the voltages the implant produces. The next test that was performed was the Deep Brain Stimulation effects on Rapid Eye Movement sleep (REM). The study had a small test group, over the age of 50 with Disease. All undergoing DBS, it used a sleep study to observe the rapid eye movement (REM) sleep cycles. Ann Neurol wrote demonstrated a near doubling of nocturnal REM sleep between the DBS and DBS states, without significant changes in other sleep (2009) meaning that DBS highly effects the sleep of the patients. The purpose of the study is to Roeder connect DBS treatments to REM cycle patterns, which control brain maturity, homeostasis, learning and emotions, all which could significantly alter someones daily life, if DBS changes one or more of those things. These researchers do believe DBS significantly changes the REM cycle sleep the patients are having. Concluding that DBS could also be modifying learning, alertness and emotions in a negative way. The last test I focused on shows the perspective of the patients in the process of deep brain stimulation. In most cases when deep brain stimulation is used, the patients choose how aggressive the treatment is. They can choose this by selecting a higher voltage and the implant will then send stronger signals out to the brain, which stops or lessens the tremor. When patients use a progressive process it decreases the odds that the brain will be strictly reliant on the implant. A majority of the patients picked the most aggressive process but other articles prove that picking that approach can produce multiple negative or harmful side effects later in their life. These tests prove that DBS is an effective treatment for PD, but certain tests also mention that DBS could cause emotional and learning disabilities. The largest claim against DBS is that the brain is will become more reliant on the implant, then when the implant is removed the brain could even be worse then before. The reasoning is that the brain is easily trained but if it senses something else doing the work more efficiently than it does, it will stop the natural response to send voltages by itself. This is also why doctors recommend using a steady approach and letting the brain get adjusted to the implant before it just takes over the natural process. This could relive the migraine and other minor effects patients can sometimes have. After reviewing the results of the tests preformed on Deep Brain Stimulation in relation to Disease, strongly recommended. The tests prove to be helpful, detailed and still being perfected to this day. Taking into consideration the faults in the testing, most of it is Roeder controlled by patient and doctor. Every aspect of this process is controlled by the doctor and patient, and can take as long as the patient needs.