Kim 1 So hyun Kim Modlin-Jackson ENC 1101 9 April 2017 The importance of education and the way of improving education in developing countries. Education is one of the most important components for developing countries because educated students will be crucial resources for countries in a various way such as economy and technologies. Especially developing countries need to focus on the education system. The world is becoming more and more intense. Improving education is one of the most effective ways of having competitiveness in the globalized world. There is a too big chasm between developing countries and developed countries because in developing countries they cannot have enough information and educated human resources. However, providing a better quality of education will gradually reduce the gap between developed countries and developing countries. Also, education can be opportunities for people to have right to know decision and participate in their decisions. Therefore, we should provide improved quality of education to students by introducing various teaching methods such as E-learning system and education because without having knowledge met people cannot get involve in policies. Learning is most effective way of changing developing countries. accumulation and application have become major factors in economic development and are increasingly at the core of a competitive advantage in the global economy (The Importance of University Education 1). However, some people think that improving education Kim 2 is not the most important methods for helping developing growth. Instead of improving the education system, we can supply better health cares or high-tech machinery which can help people to get jobs. However, I disagree with this assertion. This is because education does not make immediately difference, but we can see improvement after years. When students finished their school and start to work, developing countries can have the more high quality of human resources. Human resource is essential for developing countries to increase their competitive power. After developing countries can have enough power to survive in globalization, the countries can have enough money and technologies to provide health care system and jobs to their people themselves. If they just get the help such gaining money or aid from other developed countries, it is not sustainable. In other words, we need to help developing countries to evolve autonomously without the aid of other developed countries. There are two vital teaching methods which can improve developing countries. The first method is that schools in developing countries can introduce E-learning system for educating their students and teachers. However, some people challenges this by mentioning E- learning is not the best way of learning subjects. The reason is that students cannot easily understand some subjects which need a specific explanation for understanding the concept. For instance, it is better to use classroom teaching for helping students to understand the engineering courses and art classes than using e-learning. These subjects are hard to learn from e-learning system because students cannot ask questions which they want to know or these classes are based on learning skills. I agree with E-learning system does not perfectly fit engineer and art classes, but there are solutions which can solve these problems. I think teachers can settle these problems by using the outline. According to the author of Blended Learning In High Schools, Larson and Murray say that guidelines going with each module will summary what kind of Kim 3 concept for learning subjects should be taught before starting the E-learning classes (94). Also, teachers can stop the videos during watching it and do interactive in-class exercise which is related to the video (Larson,94). For example, instructors give students some worksheets and assignments which can help students to follow the internet based lecture. E-education provides various advantages to developing countries and developed countries. This is because people can get more access to information, locally and globally (Moussa, 3). These days, the growth of the smart devices is rapid and it is enabled offers great opportunities for learning on the go. Traditional forms of education are highly restricted in developing countries. By contrast, online courses are more flexible and have huge potential. However, teaching based high-technology makes students study less than in class lectures. We know that some students cannot concentrate on learning when they using electronic equipment. For example, if students take e-learning classes by computer, some students do not listen to lecture videos well. They will access to internet or texting with other students. It will make academic performance decrease. To prevent such cases, teachers can provide internet based exam or quizzes once a month. So, they can check how much students know and study about the subject. Then, teachers can help the students to understand something which they do not know. Also, for preparing the quizzes and exams, students will study more. The second method of teaching is that improving roles and a relationship between students, teachers, cultures, and teaching methods in developing countries. For instance, each student has different household economic durables and parents support (Azigwe, J.B., et al. 51). Some parents have an interest in academic record and encourage them to study, but not all parents do that. Especially, teachers in developing countries have traditional methods of teaching and it causes low quality of education. (Deb 73). For example, during a math exam, teachers can offer formula sheets and it helps students to Kim 4 study other essential concepts of math than wasting time for memorizing formulas (Deb 73). In conclusion, education is an important method of evolving developing countries. Governments in developing countries should offer good quality of education to students and people by introducing various teaching methods. Moreover, education is important to both developing countries and developed countries. Therefore, developed countries should help the developing countries to have a high technology for using e-learning system. If developing countries can be strong as much as developed countries, the overall world economy will operate more actively. As a result, overall welfare will hugely increase and people can live in better world. Kim 5 Works Cited Azigwe, J.B., et al. The Impact Of Effective Teaching Characteristics In Promoting Student Achievement In  International Journal Of Educational Development, vol.51, Nov. 2016, pp. 51-61. ScienceDirect. doi:10.1016/j.ijedudev.2016.07.004 Deb, Pradip. Physics Teaching And Learning Methods: Comparison Between The Developed And Developing Country  AIP Conference Proceedings, vol.1263, no,1. July. 2010, pp. 70-74. doi:10.1063/1.3479897 Ischebeck, Posted By: Jens. South Africa leading in adoption of online  The Media Online. Mar. 2017, N.p. Accessed 31 Mar 2017. Larson, Richard C.1, and M. Elizabeth Murray. Open Educational Resources For Blended Learning In High Schools: Overcoming Impediments In Developing  Journal Of Asynchronous Learning Networks, vol.12, Feb. 2008, pp.85-103. Education Source. Accessed 2 February. Moussa, Nabil, and Sandra Moussa. Quality Assurance Of E-Learning In Developing  Nonlinear Analysis, vol.71, no.12, Dec. 2009, pp. 32-34 doi:10.1016/j.na.2008.10.003 The Importance of University Education in Developing  Educational Pathways. 01 Apr. 2017. n.d. Accessed 31 Mar 2017.