WU1 Yanfeng Wu Adam Philips ENC 1102 April 16 2017 Air Pollution Ecology is one of the most important factors that affect human health. Every year the environmental conditions in the world are deteriorating. One of the most vital problems is air pollution. The issue of air pollution is quite serious. Every day, our environment is polluted by factories and transport. If people stop using coal and gasoline, the whole humanity will suffer from the lack of pure energy. That is why every single person has to realize the level of seriousness of air pollution and start acting immediately. One of the main types of air pollution comes from transport. According to Gruzieva, substances such as carbon monoxide, oxides of nitrogen, particulate matter and volatile organic compounds are emitted from the (Gruzieva). About 90% carbon dioxide from car that is generally released into the atmosphere. The maximum amount of emissions is recorded during peak hours. The exhaust contains some toxic substance, such as No and Co. nitrogen dioxide will triggers the lungs and causes asthma exacerbations. Solid particles, which are deposited around (including those on clothing and skin) is a part of the pollution from road The smallest of substances are able to penetrate deeply into the lungs, which are aggravating respiratory diseases. A significant number of these particles are emitted in the air by vehicles with diesel engines and big trucks. The exhaust gas will generate carbon dioxide that emitted into the air which contributes to the greenhouse effect that causes global warming. organic compounds such as hydrocarbons and benzene induce the formation of smog. Emission of hydrocarbons is a consequence of not complete combustion of the Louis Anthony) It WU2 can be gases or solids. Benzene which enters the atmosphere may cause lung cancer and respiratory diseases. oxide with the air masses move over long distances, connecting with grey, falls as acid rain, polluting the earthen lands, water bodies, destroying various Anthony,95) smog is a result of the action of solar ultraviolet radiation on nitric Louis Anthony,95) Nitrogen oxides can also connect to solid particles of incompletely burned fuel, which will form photochemical smog. The overall reaction of hydrocarbons, oxygen and nitrogen oxides in solar radiation lead to the formation of ozone. Therefore, asthmatics are more likely to suffer from the smog. Transport is not the only cause of air pollution. Its main source is the industrial enterprises; such as coal factories. example, coal in thermal power plants is accompanied by the emission of smoke that contains dioxide and nitrogen (Pudasainee, 48). Besides the above-mentioned effects, the dioxide may cause respiratory and various diseases. In addition, Plastic burning can also cause serious air pollution. In the production process of plastics, the harmful substances go in the atmosphere and destroy its ozone layer. These gases can be accumulated in the atmosphere up to 100 years. Therefore, even though people try to reduce emissions, people will still feel the negative impact of gases that have been accumulated in the atmosphere. Moreover, burning a large amount of household garbage which constantly accumulates, appears some smoke, which contains Through an increase in air pollution, people are more likely to get asthma diseases. is an increase the incidence of asthma and other respiratory diseases among children, deteriorating elderly people, pregnant women, people with heart or lung (Cox,92). Unquestionably, children have low immunity. When they breath in the toxic gases, it will easily cause them sick. children are our future. Protect our children means protect future. The mentioned information proves the fact that air pollution is serious issue WU3 that should be solved in the future. People have to realize that their actions cause huge damage to the environment. Moreover, they harm not only the environment but also their own lives by overuse transports, coal and plastic. In the result, there is a need to solve air pollution. Every person may contribute to it. In order to reduce the air pollution, people should think about methods from big aspect to individual. Form the big aspect, in developed countries, an emission control system of combustion products is installing. However, the price of the system is too high to let every country to make it. An additional way to improve the environment is the installation of filterable facilities at power plants and other industrial enterprises. The desulfurization of flue gas in coal-fired power plant can significantly reduce the sulfur dioxide in the smoke. Furthermore, the installation of catalytic on car gasoline engines will reduce amount of emissions of nitrogen oxides, carbon monoxide and hydrocarbons. In addition, some resources companies should explore cleaning energy because they earn so much money. Then , they have enough power and money to invest to new energy. They The mentioned solutions are effective and may help to change the state of air pollution. The only problem is cost. That is why there is a necessity to invest in protecting air. People may contribute to the improvement of the environment. So, every person should realize the seriousness of the problem and do their best to change it respectively. It seems that sometimes people do not realize the complexity of the problem. However, the result of the air pollution is the increase of diseases. The number of people who suffer from respiratory diseases is quite high and it gradually continues. Consequently, they may cause other serious disease that may lead to fatal results. From the individual aspect, there are many ways to decrease theof air pollution today. One method of reducing the rate of air pollution is to clean fuel. In some particular gasoline from harmful stuffs might damage the brain of children. Besides, rules, introduced in WU4 1960-70-ies in Los Angeles for the purpose of dealing with smog incorporate the requirement to equip all vehicles with catalytic converters of exhaust (Gardner). Some cars without qualified engine will produce some toxic gas during the fuel burning. Thus, people should use some qualified gas and car when they use transport. Additionally, as above- mentioned, coal and plastic are two elements will cause air pollution and generate toxic gases. Hence, people are supposed to reduce or stop using plastic bag and coal. These are some super easy way for people to do it. Moreover, trees and forest are considered as the lung of the earth, which means plants can absorb the pollutants in the earth. Therefore, planting trees is also a good way to protect our air environment. Government should appeal citizen to plant trees and award the people who have already planted trees. The last suggest for people is decreasing the time to drive cars, convincing them to take a bus or use bicycles. In conclusion, air pollution is one of the most important issues today. Actually, the environment suffers greatly from different ecological problems. However, air pollution is the biggest one. The basic factors causes pollution are transport and industries because there are some harmful substances in the atmosphere that cause different kinds of problems. Consequently, there is a need to take measures to improve the air. More importantly, the key to solve it is education. From now on, everyone should learn the knowledge of protecting ecology and be aware of the importance of environment. Also, do not forget to educate our children, planting the seed of protecting environment in their heart. Finally, every single person may contribute by investing money into projects that protect the ecology today. WU5 Works Cited Cox, Louis Anthony (Tony). Socioeconomic and air pollution correlates of adult asthma, heart attack, and stroke risks in the United States,  Environmental Research 155: 92-107 (2017) Gardner, Sara. LA Smog: the battle against air  Marketplace. 14 July 2014. Accessed 15 April 17. Gruzieva, Olena Epigenome-Wide Meta-Analysis of Methylation in Children Related to Prenatal NO2 Air Pollution  Environmental Health Perspectives 125.1 106 (2016). Pudasainee, Deepak, Yong-ChilSeo, Jin-Ho Sung, Ha-Na Jang, and Rajender Gupta. Mercury co-beneficial capture in air pollution control devices of coal-fired power  International Journal of Coal Geology 170 48-53 (2017) Witze, Alexandra fuels blast off: propellants offer satellites greater efficiency and lower toxicity than liquid In Nature. 7464 509 (2013)