1 Brandon Wachtfeitl Adam Phillips ENC1102 4/13/17 Project 3 Initial Draft The Department of Homeland Security has been a very important and active department under the federal government since 2002. Due to the recent 9/11 terrorist attacks, the DHS became one of the largest active braches in the United States (About the Agency). Focusing on one of the largest agencies within the DHS, the Federal Emergency Management Agency otherwise known as FEMA has many factors that are involved in its upkeep. When it comes to money, FEMA is highly under budgeted and is lacking the necessary resources to do their work efficiently as well as effectively. With the help of volunteers, FEMA can gain the resources to do their national duty to its fullest potential. Many disasters and large scale incidents happen each year and it is up to the federal government as well as average citizens to make a lasting difference. In order to sway an uneducated stakeholder, the audience will be educated, engaged, and empowered to make a difference with the FEMA organization. With its creation, the DHS actually absorbed 22 smaller agencies that would cover different agendas within the realm of This became the largest U.S. government reorganization in over 50 years. Some of the primary agencies that were absorbed in this movement were the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, Customs and border 2 protection, Immigration and Customs Enforcement, and Federal Emergency Management Agency. These core groups take up the most time and effort from the DHS, but with time comes money and resources. Originally, FEMA was created under President Jimmy Carter in 1979. From the beginning, mission statement has been to and serve the American for, responding to, and recovering from all domestic disasters, whether natural or man made, including acts of (About the Agency). President Bush officially made FEMA a part of the DHS on March 1, 2003. Out of nearly 250,000 employees under the DHS, only 2,600 are active FEMA disaster responders. Since the incident rate is so high and the responder count is so low, FEMA respond with the speed that the public requires (Brown, Kay). Due to the slower response rate, more homes and people are affected the current disaster resulting in more total resources used by FEMA. A good example of a slow, yet effective disaster response is Hurricane Katrina. FEMA faced its largest disaster in the summer of 2005 when Hurricane Katrina made landfall in the states. Originating in the Bahamas, Katrina made its make up into the Gulf of Mexico and first made landfall in southern Florida. It then strengthened into a Category 5 hurricane within the Gulf and eventually made its way to Louisiana where it did its worst damage. In total it swept through Florida, Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama, and even affected parts of Texas. Over these states, Katrina covered over 92,000 miles and destroyed most of the large city of New Orleans. Thousands of lives, homes, and businesses were ripped out from under its residents leaving the city in a state of utter destruction. FEMA responders were highly unprepared for this massive storm and were slow in their efforts of disaster prevention and cleanup (Moynihan, Donald P). Damage prices totaled at around 108 billion dollars making 3 Katrina the most cost effective disaster in history. In the following weeks and months, FEMA housed roughly 114,000 families in their emergency trailers. Although FEMA was able to house hundreds of thousands of people, many thousand were left homeless with little to no basic supplies. Once the cleanup was finished and the damages were maintained, The Post-Katrina Emergency Reform Act was passed. This reform labeled and addressed the various short comings of the organization as well as the many new ideas they needed to implement for future disasters (Brown, Kay). This disaster example was implemented to show just how much damage a single event can do. Since only 2000, FEMA responders have organized the cleanup of over 2,100 incidents. These numbers reiterated the fact that FEMA is in need of more active responders in the case that more help is required. This sparked the idea of volunteer, FEMA trained, individuals that would be of assistance to FEMA responders. The United States averages roughly 120 disasters a year and need more active responders to help incase of another large disaster like Hurricane Katrina. Once the idea for volunteer responders came about, FEMA added a program through their website for the public called the Community Emergency Response Team (CERT). Also on the website, FEMA gives the option to donate giving more resources to the organization as well as the CERT program. The volunteering information limited to their online site. FEMA provides lists of locations nearest to you where you can have face to face encounters with FEMA responders as well as active volunteers. They give you an overview on the basics of what you could potentially be involved with and even how to progress through the volunteer system. When becoming apart of a response team, taught disaster preparedness for hazards you may encounter in the community. This training includes being educated on fire safety, search and rescue, team 4 organization, and even emergency field medical operations. If you wanted to increase your assistance you can be further trained in the circumstance that needed for a state level incident (Community Emergency Response Teams). With this extra assistance, the DHS budget will increase for the organization, the disaster response time will quicken, and the people being affected by the disaster will get their necessary care in record time. When it comes to volunteering, the Bureau or Labor Statistics says that people between the ages of 19-25 as well as adults over the age of 60 are the least likely to participate. The older age group has difficulty handling the labor requirements to volunteer leaving it to our current generation. up to the current generation to make lasting impacts in our nation to benefit us as well as the generations to come. Within the Department of Homeland Security, many smaller organizations work separately and together to keep the internal affairs of the United States running smoothly. Due to a lower budget, some of these smaller agencies do provide to their fullest extent. In specific, the FEMA organization is highly under budgeted and needs help to further to do their job of disaster prevention and cleanup. With the help of different people within communities across the nation, FEMA can provide the necessary resources the country needs. Whether it be a natural disaster or a man made one, FEMA will always at your service. 5 Annotated Bibliography Brown, Kay. GAO Federal Disaster Assistance. 2017. N.p., n.d. Web. 9 Apr. 2017 This source is a new 2017 article that mentions the slow efforts during Katrina disaster relief. It then mentions the reforms passed after the disaster addressing what FEMA plans to improve upon as they progress forward. Further the article goes into depth of how FEMA works as well as their general mission/statement. The article goes into the process in which an event is labeled a as well as how it can move up from a local, to a state, and then to a natural disaster and the differences between them. Information is given on the locations of the 10 disaster relief regions as well as the locations of their offices/relief centers. Moynihan, Donald P. The Response to Hurricane Katrina. 2009. Web. 11 Apr. 2017 This source gave me statistics on different things involving Hurricane Katrina. Some of the statistics include number of deaths, people left homeless, homes destroyed, and total cost in damages. using this information to invoke an emotional appeal within my audience to interest them in helping people like this in need after a disaster. I used Katrina as my example disaster because of the amount of damage it caused, but many other disasters happen each year that are swept under the rug that need to be more known to the public for general awareness. Volunteering in the United States,  U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, 25 Feb. 2016. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. This source is what helped me address my target unengaged stakeholder which turned out to be us college kids. Statistically showing, our age group right out of high school is the least likely to be engaged in volunteer activity. By using empathy this source invokes a response from the audience to get them engaged and involved with the topic at hand. About the  FEMA.gov Federal Emergency Management Agency. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. Community Emergency Response  Community Emergency Response Teams FEMA.gov. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Apr. 2017. Both of these sources were subsections in different areas on the FEMA website. About the Agency gave me facts about the DHS and more importantly FEMA itself in which I used to educate my audience. I then used Community Emergency Response Teams to further educate and also empower my unengaged stakeholder on how to get involved with FEMA and help local and even state disaster prevention and relief. These teams are trained by FEMA professionals on the basics and even upper level skills involved in being a CERT volunteer.