Nani Williams Prof Adam Phillips ENC 1102 April 16, 2017 Promoting change, disrupting Global Warming Did you know that sea ice, an intense predicted effect of global warming, has rapidly decreased in numbers over the years. hard to understand how an issue that is so prominent with a number of effects has been so easily neglected. There are many people of different classes that ignore any reparations simply because they believe global warming does not affect them. However, Global Warming has greater effects on the earth than expected and although it may not harm one specific class of people in general, everyone in some way or form is effected. The argument over how to tackle climate change, and who/what causes the problem tends to deter people from finding a solution. To fully understand how to reverse the effects of global warming education is needed on what it actually is, how it affects every community, and how one person can empower another to make changes to their habits. First, Global warming is a phenomenon whose effects can be reversed. So, important to start changing the world- literally. In 1896, the theory of Global Warming first came to light, by scientist Svante Arrhenius. This theory was based on the combustion of fossil fuels and emission of carbon dioxide to the air. Ever since then, that sole theory has been researched and has increasingly proven to increase the more that people pollute the earth. Pollution to the earth occurs in many forms but mainly through the burning of fossil fuels. By contributing these gases and particles to the atmosphere climate change comes into play. initial measurements demonstrated that CO2 abundances were significantly lower during the last ice age than over the last 10 kyr of the (Delmas et al., 1980; Berner et al., 1980; Neftel et al., 1982). This quote specifically refers to the difference between the world in a more natural state before the industrializations of human life. The Ice age occurred when the world was untouched and humans have machines that release carbon into the air. The human footprint was almost nonexistent in terms of their contribution to the atmosphere, especially in comparison to effects. Back in the times of the ice age, Ice covered almost everything and the world has a sense of balance in terms of how climate was consistent in every area. In contrast, climates that were once specific to one region are rapidly changing. This change is beginning to shift around epidemics, sicknesses, and kill off many different species. After analyzing these effects how can one person relate to implement change in the habits of their daily lives. The first step to take when analyzing our contributions to the world is to look out how we can change small habits. Of course, getting a new car tomorrow that relies only on electricity would be great, but for most Americans that luxury as readily accessible so the best thing to do is to start small. To lower the human ecological footprint, one person can start by becoming an advocate. By advocating for change there is always the possibility to touch and reach out to another individual and that person can later cause change to spread like wildfire. of climate change are projected to be many and varied, ranging from changes in ecosystems, to impacts on human systems such as water resources, to potential forced human migrations, to widespread acidification of the oceans, to insurance and reinsurance Nicholson-Cole, 356) In this quote, the authors explain very plainly the effects global in the past, but these can corrected with simple solutions that everyday people have the power to implement. Global Warming affects our children, though some of us may be okay with conditions what will happen to those to come after us. How can we promote sustainability? The effects of Global warming affect people in more ways than one, because of how much people rely on daily habits change easily invited. But, to do best for the society as a whole people can start small by changing what they eat, their means of going to work and even how we spend our money in different places. To change how our world reacts to different situations, to change how species of animals quickly become extinct the reparations must first start in the homes of the average families. Unfortunately, the change of climate is increasing rapidly, but hopefully that trickle down effect to much larger corporations will grow just as quickly before it is too late. http://www.lenntech.com/greenhouse-effect/global-warming-history.htm The consequences of climate change Climate Change 2007: The Physical Science Basis. Contribution of Working Group I to the Fourth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate S., D. Qin, M. Manning, Z. Chen, M. Marquis, K.B. Averyt, M.Tignor and H.L. Miller Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, United Kingdom and New York, NY, . Saffron Sophie Nicholson-Cole Do Vol 30, Issue 3, pp. 355 - 379. First published date: January-07-2009