Thompson 1 Khalani Thompson 4/15/17 Professor Adam Phillips ENC 1102 Video Effect on Children Video games are a growing medium in media-scape. As they have become more popular, video effect on children is often under scrutiny. Despite evidence opposed to it, there is a negative stigma towards video effect on children. The ramifications for the continuation of this mindset could possibly be dangerous; possibilities include both the restriction of other entertainment mediums and rising rates of depression and suicide in adolescents. This set of negative ideals can be combatted by contributing towards the positive image of video games in the public eye like contributing to video game related charities or sharing experiences with others. Video games are an entertainment platform that has had growing popularity since the As an art form their depth can be just as deep as television of literature. There exists a negative opinion among many in the public surrounding video effect on children. In an NBC news article interviewing a parent video games were referred to as waste of Other activities such as watching sports on television are less subject to such news articles. Many parents ban video games from their households despite evidence suggesting that they are not dangerous to children, but can actually spur interest in academics and other activities, like Thompson 2 reading. In a study conducted by Kristie Jolley in The English Journal entitled Games to Reading: Reaching out to Reluctant an experiment was conducted among grade school students. This results suggested that students with a lower interest in reading showed a great increase of interest when presented with reading material that was similar to the content of their games. This information provides an example of video positive influence on children despite their negative reputation among some people and media outlets. While violent games marketed towards adults exist, video games are rated. In this rating system games given a mature rating are not available for purchase by minors. Games marketed toward children are often times educational or supplemented by strong morals. If this continued treatment of video games as a pariah continues it could hold grave consequences. In Australia some games have been banned for sale in the country outright. Though violent video games mostly populate this list, the all-ages game was banned for a long period of time in the country as well. If the perception of effect on children were to become worse, a similar ban could also be imposed on similar games. If such regulation of a medium became commonplace it is possible that such regulations may permeate themselves into the realm of movies, televisions and books. These mediums that have undoubtedly effected society as a whole and growth could be neutered. With these risks under consideration, it is apparent that most people today could be affected by the perpetuation of video games as a negative influence. Unfortunately another, risk of the continued negative perception of video games is rising depression rates and by extension suicide rates among youths. There is evidence to support that video games can alleviate the symptoms associated with depression. A study conducted by William Russell and Mark Newton published in Journal of Education and Technology found that Thompson 3 similarly to traditional exercise video games exhibited a positive mood effect on adolescents. Depression is very often linked to suicide. In addition to being therapeutic video games also provide an alternative outlet to adolescents and children. The larger demographic of adolescnets that commit suicide are often times involved with drugs and alcohol (Range 134). Video games provide another option to children that may be surrounded by these temptations. The pressure that many adolescent children feel growing up that leads to depression and similar conditions can be alleviated by video effects. To improve video perception in the public there are numerous ways to take action. One way is to donate to charities such as Play. Play is a charity mission statement is Play is dedicated to improving the lives of children in hospitals and domestic abuse shelters around the world through the kindness and generosity of the video game community and the power of The charity was founded in reaction to an article voicing a negative opinion surrounding games. In accordance with that many of their charity events and efforts are presented in a way that frames video games as a positive force in lives. Play has also done research involving the effect video games can have on lives. The organization has developed a treatment for Children under extended hospital stay using games as therapeutic device. Giving support to Play would mean providing support to the positive image of video games through continued charity acts and research involving children. Another way to improve video perception would be through playing one and sharing that experience with others. Given the availability of smart phones and devices it is likely that even if one own a game console it is likely they can play one of the thousands of free games available on these devices. An article in Art Education by George Szekely described the Thompson 4 effect that sharing experiences can have on educating others on a subject. In the publication, the author made several observations on exchanging how he and his colleagues shared perspectives informed each other. Sharing experiences can allow someone on the opposite side of an issue become more receptive toward a dissenting opinion. When one holds separate views it becomes easier to De-humanize the other side and dismiss their views (McLatchie and Tobias 664). Sharing opinions is the first step to bridging what is in many cases, is a generational gap regarding the perception of video games. The media platform of video games is one that benefits all ages. However, in modern society a the mindset can often times dominate the conversation surrounding the subject. By focusing possible negatives rather than the tangible good than can be and has been done, harm can be done to lives and minds. By combating this mindset we can continue to explore new ways in which this medium can improve both the lives of children and adults alike moving forward. Thompson 5 Works Cited Greitemeyer, Tobias, and Neil Mclatchie. Denying Humanness to  Psychological Science vol. 97, no. 5, 2011, pp. 659-65. Web. 14 April 2017 Jolley, Kristie. Games to Reading: Reaching out to Reluctant The English Journal, vol. 97, no. 4, 2008, pp. Web. 15 April 2017 Mark Newton and William D. Russell. Psychological Effects of Interactive Video Game Technology Exercise on Mood and Journal of Educational Technology & Society, vol. 11, no. 2, 2008, pp. Web. 16 April 2017 Range, Lillian M. Prevention: Guidelines for Educational Psychology Review, vol. 5, no. 2, 1993, pp. Web. 16 April 2017 Szekely, George. for the Sharing of Experiences and Art Education, vol. 41, no. 3, 1988, pp. Web. 15 April 2017 Taylor, C. The Journal of Ethics, vol. 3, no. 1, 1999, pp. Web. 15 April 2017