Student 1 Student Instructor Derisi ENC 1102 12 April 2017 The Power of Wind Energy to Reduce Climate Change Imagine if all of the polar bears and penguins went extinct; it is common knowledge that this may happen if global warming continues to occur. One method of reducing climate change, which is when the average weather conditions change over a period of time, is to use alternative forms of energy; specifically, wind energy Fossil fuels, or fuel that is obtained from the buried remains of living organisms, contributes to climate change as carbon emissions lead to a greenhouse gas effect that increases the temperature of the Earth (Reece et al. 1272-1275). A controversy exists as to whether wind power is a viable alternative to fossil fuels due to the cost and the unsightliness in some communities. However, wind energy, especially the use of offshore turbines, is highly beneficial in reducing the effect of fossil fuels on the environment and outweighs the cost and side-effects on nature and the community. Wind power is an alternative energy that uses the wind to rotate a turbine, which, in turn, rotates a motor and generator that converts wind energy into usable electricity. Recent development and research has led to the installation of offshore wind turbines. The Department of Energy states that the possible energy capacity of wind power equals about times the generating capacity of the current U.S. electric power system This observation shows that there is a vast potential for wind energy that is currently not utilized. The development of Student 2 wind turbines is a direct response to the increasing rate of climate change and global warming that has been occurring. Using alternative forms of energy vastly decreases carbon emissions, which reduces the greenhouse gas effect. This issue remains a public concern as it affects living environment of every organism on Earth, including humans, and reduces the diversity of life. Even though there is a large amount of information describing the benefits of wind energy, there are those that still believe that wind power is detrimental. The National Wind Watch, or NWW, is an organization that does not believe wind energy is a viable alternative to fossil fuels, and that the installation and implementation of wind farms should be halted. The NWW claims that the use of wind energy negatively impacts the environment, and reduces the habitats. Additionally, they say that wind turbines are loud and unsightly, which may affect communities that live nearby Wind One method in reducing the unsightliness and noise is to move the wind farm offshore into the ocean, which removes the disturbance. While there is an impact on sea life, with offshore wind farms, it is only rated mild to moderate, with no high impact on animals living in the location (Synder and Kaiser 1574-76). Additionally, since wind turbines would help reduce global warming, wind farms would globally reduce the impact of carbon emissions (Duan 348). Due to the increasing need for alternative energy, wind power becomes a useful substitute to fossil fuels. However, a misconception exists; it is not meant to be used alone. Wind power becomes more viable when it is utilized with other forms of alternative energy. A 2017 study on wind power in China by Hongbo Duan in Environmental Research states that is an indispensable parts of a comprehensive temperature-limiting (Duan 348). This shows that wind energy should be utilized along with other forms of energy, such as hydroelectric dams or solar power, as the combined energy would help replace fossil fuels. Student 3 Moreover, the use of wind turbines reduces overall carbon emissions (Duan 348). Therefore, wind power potentially reduces global warming as carbon emissions are a large contributor to the problem. Onshore wind farms also provide another benefit to farmers as it can aid in controlling the temperature in which the crops grow, consequently allowing different types of crops to be grown that normally would not survive Offshore wind farms, on the other hand, have a higher energy capacity as the wind is typically stronger over water. As PBS NewsHour reports, the country of Denmark provides about forty percent of its energy needs through the use of wind turbines, offshore and onshore (PBS NewsHour). Many companies are beginning to invest in this technology through installation and research, and as a result, countries like Denmark are using wind farms which can convert enough electricity to power around three thousand houses (Reed). This leads to many employment opportunities, which helps to bolster the economy as a whole. The implementation of wind turbines reduces climate change and even provides many benefits for the neighboring communities. While many problems have one specific victim, that is not the case with global warming and the lack of wind turbines. Every living organism is the victim. One species, though, that has suffered the most is the Golden toad, from Central America. Due to climate change, the species has now been declared extinct, with global warming as the cause. After a species has gone extinct, it becomes impossible to rectify and remediate the effect. Other species of animals, such as the polar bear and the penguin are experiencing the effect of climate change, and they are in danger of possible extinction. While natural selection and eventual adaptation to the new climate would occur, the effects of increasing temperature would be irreversible Student 4 To combat climate change and advocate for the research and implementation of wind energy, one should contact their local representative to help lobby and show support for wind energy. In order to effectively and efficiently complete this task, people should stay informed about new bills and laws that are being introduced and voted on by keeping up to date with the websites of the state and federal legislature. Moreover, by being daily-advocates in normal life and sharing information learned with family and friends, one might help educate people on the impacts of global warming and the benefits of wind farms. Additionally, it may be beneficial to join grassroot organizations, such as 350.org, whose goal is to reduce global warming, and advocate for the reduction of fossil fuels and use of wind farms These are only a few ways to fight against global warming. The environmental impact of doing nothing is much more harmful than the implementation of wind energy, which will reduce the current effects of carbon emissions. The utilization of offshore wind energy is a beneficial method in reducing climate change and carbon emissions, while providing a more environmentally friendly wind turbine option that has a smaller impact on daily lives. On a lower level of advocacy, talking with people about the benefits of wind energy and educating their community is a first step in beginning to reduce climate change. This advocacy may lead to children living longer lives in a society - with wind power - that uses only alternative fuels, breathing clean air with no pollution, and living in harmony with nature that is not endangered. (WC: 1158) Student 5 Works Cited 350.Org, 350.Org, 350.org/. Accessed 13 Apr. 2017. Species Hit Hard by Climate Change-Including One Already National Geographic, National Geographic Society, 8 Apr. 2017, news.nationalgeographic.com/news/2014/03/140331-global-warming-climate-change- ipcc-animals-science-environment/. Accessed 13 Apr. 2017. Merriam-Webster, Merriam-Webster, www.merriam- webster.com/dictionary/climate%20change. Accessed 12 Apr. 2017. Duan, Hongbo. and Temperature Benefits: The Role of Wind Power in Environmental Research, vol. 152, Jan. 2017, pp. Science Direct, doi:10.1016/j.envres.2016.07.016. Accessed 21 Feb. 2017. Wind National Wind Watch, National Wind Watch, www.wind-watch.org/. Accessed 15 Feb. 2017. PBS NewsHour, director. U.S. Builds First Offshore Wind Farm. YouTube, 11 Dec. 2016, www.youtube.com/watch?v=rUj0CUlnHhs. Accessed 29 Mar. 2017. Reece, Jane B., et al. Campbell Biology. New York, Pearson Education, 2014. Reed, Stanley. Wind Moves Into The New York Times, The New York Times, 7 Feb. 2017, www.nytimes.com/2017/02/07/business/energy- environment/renewables-offshore-wind-green-power- dong.html?rref=collection%2Ftimestopic%2FWind%2BPower&action=click&contentCo llection=energy- 2&pgtype=collection. Accessed 29 Mar. 2017. Student 6 Snyder, Brian, and Mark J Kaiser. and Economic Cost-Benefit Analysis of Offshore Wind Renewable Energy, vol. 34, no. 6, June 2009, pp. Elsevier, doi:10.1016/j.renene.2008.11.015. Accessed 22 Feb. 2017. ENERGY.GOV, U.S. Department of Energy, energy.gov/science-innovation/energy- sources/renewable-energy/wind. Accessed 29 Mar. 2017. Turbines May Benefit National Science Teachers Association, vol. 54, no. 6, ser. 16, 2017, pp. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ed sgao&AN=edsgcl.480286535&site=eds-live. Accessed 22 Feb. 2017.