Driving is vital within Florida and several parts of the world. Driving provides us to expand our opportunities from where public transportation would not otherwise allow. Especially in regards to outside popular cities where there lacks consistent public transport. It is within our right to drive in almost every country, given the appropriate licence to drive. Consequently, there are still several rules and resources that should be presented and explained to new and current drivers and should be more publicized to prevent further collisions or overall interfere with other commuters. For example, within every state in the United States there are state specific DMV websites that provides insight into the world of driving. These sites include information on how to apply to be a new driver along with available driving classes which can be on hands learning in addition to learning the basics of how to read driving signs and the proper rules of the road. In addition, these sites can provide a window into how to conduct yourself when you begin driving within a specific state. Most driving laws are universal and there are even sites which provide universal driving licenses at the cost of educating yourself appropriately and taking the necessary steps to test and apply for one. One typically unenforced rule in many states that is more if a courtesy to other driver is to stick to the right side of the road for traveling and if available pass on the left lanes. However, many seem to forget, that unlike Britain (which follows opposite lane behaviors (left being the side you should be driving on and traveling on and the right being where oncoming traffic arrives from and is the passing side), in many countries you should only travel in the right lane and it is rude and even impedes on others commute if they require to be somewhere faster than the speed which you are traveling. In addition, every car in the 21st century comes equipped with turn signals which signal drivers behind you and even in front of you what direction you wish to turn or what lane you wish to be on. These turn signals too are often forgotten and it is common courtesy and even a danger preventative driving method which alerts other drivers to accommodate for you and allow them to orient themselves to avoid colliding with you. Resources: https://www.flhsmv.gov/handbooks/englishdriverhandbook.pdf This link provides all the formal rules of the road within Florida along with descriptions of when to use certain lights on your car and anything which pertains to driving in Florida. http://www.grunge.com/15680/universal-traffic-laws-nobody-obeys/ This link provides an article discussing certain universal driving rules that many do not know or choose to disobey. http://udsonline.ca/road-test-preparation/ Though most may not seek a universal driving license it is still important to learn a couple if not all the things required to achieve one. This site is an educational site which contains lots of information on rules of universal driving and even provides instructions for how to acquire a universal driving permit. http://www.dmvflorida.org/florida-traffic-laws.shtml This site provides information on the multitude of florida driving laws including how to conduct yourself on the road and what behaviors to avoid. In addition, there includes permits and license information which you may need to legally drive your vehicle in the state of Florida.