Student 1 Student Professor Derisi ENC 1102 16 April 2017 The Suppression of a Great Nation What if someone told you that Africa was a sleeping economic giant being suffocated by the world around him or her? What if being forced from their ways inhibits the growth of the internal economy of Africa? There are companies trying to aid African rural communities and help boost the self-sustaining economy that once made these communities thrive. for The and are two examples of these non-profit stakeholders. For the sake of this conversation, self-sustaining economies are such that the communities grow, harvest, and sell crops/woods (in Africa). Tourism outlets, such as safaris, utilize these native communities to intrigue their customers and as a display of culture. African Dream Safaris advertises that they offer an experience to witness African culture first hand in the tribe (African Dream Safaris, africandreamsafaris.com). However, while displaying the culture, the safari customers pay natives to take pictures, do dances, and for handmade crafts; this influx of cash into a non-cash economy causes social separations (Foure and Santana-Gallego). Furthermore, this makes these communities begin to rely on this payment for food, clothes, and water (they go into a nearby town and purchase these items). Once the reliance on this payment is set, then the natives focus on entertaining and not sustaining on their own crops and trees. The solution to reversing the detrimental reliance on a cash-economy is donating to stakeholders that are trying to reestablish a self-sustaining lifestyle and teach efficient new ways of farming; if companies such as safaris, Student 2 who benefit from the locals, are involved then their negative influence of pushing cash into the economy will also be negated. Africa has thrived due to the rich natural resources and fertile soil throughout the continent. However, colonialism has left a lasting imprint on the lifestyle of the natives. African natives have been living off the land forever. The farming lifestyle is engrained into the culture so much so that the production of crops decided where communities settled and livestock became currency and a sign of socioeconomic standing. That is all being taken away which is smothering the growth of rural African economy. The influx of cash into the economies based on reciprocity, crops, and livestock has disrupted the harmonic flow. As tourism has grown on the continent over the years, tourism has become a prevalent influence in the addition of cash into the native economies. Since Africa has so many natural resources and fertile lands to benefit from, a bad relationship with natives can cause lack of cooperation with new mine (or any other form of utilizing the resources). Therefore, to restore good relations with natives and for the benefit of tourism, steps must be taken to bring a farming economy back to these natives. Donating to non-profit organizations who advocate for the self-sustenance of the native African societies provides for less reliance on the cash flow from outside sources The communities can regain a reliance on the production of crops and plants/trees that product strong for clothing and woods for selling or building. Since the cash economy is so limited in these areas, the constituents are poor and have little money; however, since they rely on this money, they spend more time working, preforming, and earning low wages and less time on farming (The Economist). Therefore, a crop harvest that supplied a whole village with food has become two dollars a day that might buy rice for a meal. Furthermore, if an organization has the funds to teach new techniques to natives then more crops can be produced in a more efficient manner. Student 3 The production of more crops, in less time, and a wider variety can assist in a shift away from the money needed to buy food (the biggest cost of natives). The documentary N!ai explains how a pretty African woman is focused on by tourists and paid much more than others (John Marshall). Because she became wealthier than others, she got food and others became jealous and angry. This tore apart and depleted the economy of the tribal community. The victim of this issue is the native of the rural African communities. They become the spectacle of entertainment and become dependent on money that they should have never been dependent on. These natives have to use money to purchase necessities because they are spending their time doing anything but farming (Basil Davidson). If they spent their time farming, then they would not have to work as hard to earn nothing; they would also be able to sell their crop for a decent profit in order to buy clothes or other luxuries. The rural plights appeal to so many countries and communities that have experienced a suppression of growth due to colonization or the forced movement to cash-economies. There is a mass amount of rural communities in Africa that have been forced to work for companies as harvester, miners, or entertainers (safari guides or dancers for safari guests). These natives have been subjected to miniscule payment from the companies that subject them to labor. In return, the time spent working and not farming is not worth the pay and does not provide for the families and communities. for The is a non-profit organization that addresses this issue at the basic level (Trees for The Future, Trees.org). They send people into the communities to teach the natives how to farm and harvest crops (even new crops) in order to reestablish the crop-economy that flourished the self-sustenance economies of times passed. Furthermore, there is another non- profit called that something very similar. Both of these non-profit organizations Student 4 promote the growth of the farming societies that can produce enough food for the people within them (Ripple Africa, rippleafrica.org). Donations are the number one way to help these native Africans. Donations fuel the funds to send farming experts and supplies to Africa to teach natives how to provide for themselves and their communities. Volunteering is a secondary way to get involved that requires a lot more time but is worth the effort. Donating to help expand the organizations is the most direct and efficient way to support the cause. Since any amount will help a non-profit organization, telling friends and family about the issue and how they can help the rise of a smothered nation, it touches the logical side of them. National competition leads to lower prices in aspects such as groceries, gas, and technology; this is logically beneficial to all people, unless you like paying more for your avocados (for no reason). The African rural societies are being pushed into a cash-economy system that does not benefit them, only those controlling their employment. The native Africans are preforming for tourism groups for small payments, which feeds money into their non-monetary economy. This cause division in classes and resent among those who get more money and attention as shown in the N!ai example. This influx of money is causing natives to work more and farm less. This lack of crop production drives down the profit of the entire community. The supply of food is less as well because more natives are working rather than farming. Non-profit organizations are making a push implement the farming techniques and lifestyle that once ruled the African continent. The funding of these companies is essential to the bounce back of an economy that worked best for the natives (self-sustenance). The growth of this continent power scares large companies because the extraction of resources will be more difficult. But the suppression of these communities is making them more rural than before: hunger, poverty, and death. Donating, volunteering and Student 5 supporting companies that advocate farming is the only answer to helping bring these communities to self-sufficiency. (WC: 1279) Student 6 Works Cited Africa Dream  Africa Dream Safaris. Michael Wishner, n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. <http://www.africadreamsafaris.com/?gclid>. Africa. Prod. Basil Davidson. Perf. Basil Davidson. National Telefilm Associates (NTA), 1984.Africa. Mitchell Beazley Television. Web. A Green  The Economist. The Economist Newspaper, 12 Mar. 2016. Web. 03 Apr. 2017. Fourie, Johan and Santana-Gallego. The Determinants of African  Development Southern Africa, vol. 30, no. 3, Sept. 2013, pp. 347-366. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1080/0376835X.2013.817302. N!ai, the Story of A!Kung Woman. Dir. John Marshall. Documentary Educational Resources, 1982. Videocassette Trees For The Future. Why Trees Sustainable  Trees For the Future. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Tree Planting in Africa -  RIPPLE Africa. N.p., n.d. Web. 03 Apr. 2017.