Taylor Jacobson Maria Theodosiou ENC1102-003 16 April 2017 Project 3: Disturbance of Ecological Psychology- A Disconnect Between Humans and Natural Environments We are all a part of a growing technological world, where a majority of humans living in United States own a smartphone or know people who do. While technology is very useful and provides entertainment, it is disconnecting us from the natural environment, where humans came from. Because of this separation, we are not only endangering the environment and the animals living in it, but we are creating more problems for ourselves. Staying inside often with technology can create a higher likelihood for mental disorders and a social disconnect between humans, which is one of the biggest issues in ecological psychology (Velarde, 2007). Because of the negative psychological effects associated with being disconnected with nature, all humans need to contribute to caring about and connecting with the environment. I encourage everyone to take just an hour out of their busy weeks to take a walk at a nature preserve or natural area without a cell phone or take a weekend camping trip. If more people do this, they can improve their mental and social health. Ecological psychology is the study of the mental and emotional relationship between humans and their surroundings (Bonnes et. al., 2004). Specifically, this issue revolves around the natural environmental and social aspect of ecological psychology. The big problem is the growing industrial and technological world, which disrupts the natural balance of the emotional and social connections in their brain. These growing aspects of the modern life cause stress, emotional and mental problems, and disconnects humans from their natural and social environment. First World humans are captivated by their technology and are more comfortable being indoors than outdoors. According to the Annals of the New York Academy of Sciences Journal, around 90% of our time is spent indoors, in our entire lifetime (Bratman et al., 2012). Because of this excess of time spent away from nature, humans are acclimated to having a comfortable temperature in their homes and know where their food, water, and other supplies are coming from. Humans are in very little pain or discomfort in their pampered lives, and staying in nature for extended periods of time can disrupt this feeling of ease. Although we feel less comfortable in the natural environment because of our busy lives, we actually are more happy and more social when we are in nature (Nisbet et. al., 2012). Every day, we feel more connected and involved with the world and with each other through social media, but it is only making us less social. Technology changes our behavior and can have an impact on social relationships, creating a barrier between the two people talking online, masking emotions, and dissolving a possible connection needed for a solid interpersonal relationship (Morris, 2015). Intimate and personal relationships are stronger with physical contact, which is why it can be so hard to keep in touch with friends over the internet and have long distance relationships (Kraut et. al, 1998). To add to that, humans become even more separated when they care more about making money than the environment. Many humans want to make things easy on themselves by buying the cheapest, least energy-efficient food, using fossil fuels, and filling up landfills by not recycling. Humans do not care as much about doing these harmful things to the environment because the industrial and technological world has separated them from the natural environment. With this growing separation, humans do not care as much as they should about caring for and enjoying nature. it comes to urban planning, protecting wildlife is often but if you care for natural areas, we can plan for a successful future while still being energy efficient and respectful of the environment (Science Alert). If we had a stronger connection with the ecology of the environment, we can still enjoy and put our time into modern aspects of our lives, but with a different perspective, caring about and keeping in mind, what is best for the environment before what is best for business, as hard as it seems. In general, college students are very stressed, fatigued and emotionally unstable, most of the time. Re-engaging with nature and disconnecting from the internet for a little time each day could make a huge difference in any life, but especially a college student. Being outside just a little more each day increases a happiness and generosity (Nisbet et. al., 2012). Having is being in touch with nature and understanding how to make the world more sustainable, and because of this nature relatedness or connection with nature, humans become more happy (Nisbet et. al., 2012). Being a little stressed from college could be a little more bearable if the college student were in a better mood. Not only does being in nature improve well-being of individuals, but it surprisingly improves social connections with other animals and humans (Nisbet et. al., 2012). In addition, having face to face conversations and spending time with people in person can help develop and strengthen a social connection. Interacting with people can make sure emotions and words do not get interpreted incorrectly and help us to study facial expressions on people. Younger generations and even partially our generation cannot decipher emotions or facial expressions as well because they talk to each other more over the internet, with just words or emojis, which limit the amount of facial expressions and emotions. Some expressions are characteristic to certain people and help us build a relationship with them as we discover how they express emotions through facial and body language. Improving on social relationships can increase well- being and mental stability, which is what a lot of college students long for. It is not too late to create a relationship with our surroundings again and become aware of the increasing environmental problems. Anyone can do it and there are multiple ways to become reconnected with nature. The first step to getting reconnected is to get educated on environmental problems and how to help lessen the negative effects on the environment. Some simple things anyone can do is to make efforts to recycle and re-use things, ask for paper instead of plastic at the grocery store, and read the labels on products you buy. You may be spending a bit more time and money, but caring about the environment now will not only make you happier but make your children and their children happier when they are growing up. It would be difficult to watch them grow up and have their children in an atmosphere where it is always extremely warm, the air is polluted, and most wild life is endangered or extinct because of garbage and waste. The second step is to actually step into nature, whether it is for an hour, a day, or a weekend. I have spent countless hours outdoors at my summer camp and it feels so incredible to admire the natural elements of the earth and the universe. After a while, I got used to not taking a shower and pampering myself every day, because it feels so good to be away from the industrial world and to put down my phone as I am spending time in nature. I always get this feeling of a completeness and happiness inside of me whenever I am in nature for long periods of time, and even just taking walks around campus gives me a similar feeling. Being away can be hard at first, but the bustling city life was always hard to go back to after being at camp for a while. We often visited and hiked the trails of a beautiful state park at this summer camp during the day, which is something you could easily do. Applying to be a camp counselor or going to a camp is one way to reconnect, but also finding state and national parks in your local area (https://www.nps.gov/findapark/index.htm) to explore is another way. These parks have beautiful places to explore, hike, swim, and even camp. Find the closest one to you and invite family and friends to come along to reconnect with you. It does not have to be a state park either; it could be a dog park with trees and a pond, it could be a field of grass with a couple trees in your backyard, or it could be a bike path through some woods in your neighborhood. Reconnecting with nature does not have to be a daunting and difficult task for people to complete. With a little time and effort, we can care for and enjoy nature to be happier, while still balancing a job and enjoying technology every once in a while. Humans have grown too comfortable with the indoors and technology, because it has caused a disconnect and an obliviousness with the nature environment, and in turn has fizzled social connections. Poor mental health and an empty social life from our modern life can be fixed or improved by exploring the natural world around us by just simply getting educated on environmental issues, and finding a local area to discover and admire. We are content with our modern lives, and it is much easier just to conform to that life by being inefficient and wasteful. It is also much simpler to sit inside on your phone than it is to walk outside or bike somewhere to go admire nature. But with the small effort, you get rewarded and future generations can be positively influenced by that as well. Works Cited Bonnes, M., Nenci, A.M. Psychological Perspective and the Ecological Ecological Psychology, Vol. 3, 1, 2004, pp. 1-7. Bratman, Gregory N., Daily, Gretchen C., Hamilton, Paul J. Impacts of Nature Experience on Human Cognitive Function and Mental Annals of the New York Academy of Sciences, Vol. 1249, 1, 2012, pp. 118-136. Kraut, Robert, Lundmark, Vicki. Paradox: A Social Technology That Reduces Social Involvement and Psychological American Psychologist, Vol. 53, 9, 1998, pp. Morris, Chris. Technology Killing the Human CNBC, 15 August 2015, http://www.cnbc.com/2015/08/15/gy-killing-the-human-touch.html. Accessed 30 March 2017. Tool Helps Plan Greener Science Alert, 29 April 2013, http://www.sciencealert.com/new-tool-helps-plan-greener-cities. Accessed 25 March 2017. Nisbet, Elizabeth K., Zelenski, John M. and Feeling Connected: The Distinct Role of Nature SAGE Journals, Vol. 46, 1, 2014, pp. 3-23. Velarde, M.D. Effects of Viewing Landscapes Landscape Types in Environmental Urban Forestry & Urban Greening, Vol. 6, 4, 2007, pp. 199-212.