Prithipaul 1 Prithipaul Toshita Kristin Gocinski ENC 1102-909 23 April 2017 Merging of two research fields that are primarily developing our everyday life. Research in the scientific field is essential for future progress and improvement of the society and the current way of living. Space Exploration is a wide area of study where many discoveries are being made using improved technology. The technologies used to transfer data from space probes to Earth have improved to a large extent. Oceanographic exploration is another field of study where there is a possibility to discover new findings. These are two opposing field of study that are using similar technologies and are promoting the same goal; to encourage research. The improvement of the living conditions will be ameliorated with the collaboration of these two fields that have more similarities than differences. Research in space has led to many discoveries that broaden the field of study. The research carried out focused mainly on sending humans to other planets and mark zones of habitability of other planets and stars. Humans have been sent to space and conducted many missions to bring important information to develop research. To make this possible, strategic missions are being designed to conduct mission to the Red planet. The possible missions that can be undertaken were determined by specific analysis was carried out, to verify their applicability on all identified intermediate destinations concepts; as result a matrix was Prithipaul 2 (Viscio 814). These conceptual matrixes were created to organize and plan future possible missions to other planets. There once was water present on the surface of Mars but now the surface is dry and claim of liquid water beneath the Martian surface is based on theoretical calculations (Lunine 125). From further research, it could be determined that Mars was not the only planet that can host life and nature; other moons and icy planets have signs of microbial life. moon Europa, and moons Enceladus and subsurface oceans whose existence has been detected or inferred by two independent spacecraft (Lunine 123). Cassini Saturn orbiter has been analyzing the surface of the moons of Saturn and discovered that there is a dense atmosphere surrounding Titan. The presence of an internal ocean was confirmed by the research performed by the probe. The use of robotics and new technologies contributed to a large extent in carrying out the research. believes that humans will start relying on intelligent and versatile robots to perform mundane tasks as people increasingly work and live in (Boesl 11) These findings help to prepare future manned mission in outer space, knowing specifically what conditions and atmosphere are present on the planets. The known conditions will increase the capability of humans to conduct these missions more comfortably and unable adaptability in these conditions. Oceans offer a wide area where research can be conducted and more discoveries can be found. Research on the living creatures in the ocean provide a lot of benefit to learning adaptive skills faced in difficult situations. This will help in discovering not only the living conditions and ecosystem of the living creatures but will also help to better understand their adaptability to harsh conditions in which they are living. As Mark Shrope states, research conducted helps in out how cells in critters big and small can function under such immense The Prithipaul 3 organisms must withstand a strong water pressure that acts above them because of the depth of the ocean. In doing so, the endurance of the organism is brought to a higher level which make them adapt in even harder situations. They use the change in environment to their advantage and modify themselves accordingly to survive. Some organisms living deep down the ocean produce their own lighting method to navigate in darkness. They use the surroundings as a challenge to adapt and develop new feature to survive. The changes in behavior of these organisms are being studied to improve current situations and find solutions to the similar difficulties that humans are facing to survive in a different environment. Organism like crustacea and sea cucumbers in the ocean contain chemicals that are protein binders that can be a remedy to many diseases. These chemicals are protein stabilizers that can heal protein chains and make them function properly in the body. Researchers claim that potential treatment for can be found when studying these creatures. (Shrope 61). The organisms that are useful to the treatment of the diseases are mostly found in trenches deep down the ocean. relevance has biologists excited about discovering potentially useful protein stabilizers in organisms that survive in the (Shrope 61) These could bring a cure to the diseases that do not have one. A specific jellyfish was discovered in the Pacific Ocean and research was carried out to know more about the rare creature. The jelly fish had an intriguing color that incited further research. The use of robotic arm made this task possible to extract the jellyfish from the vents. (Science and Children 7). These discoveries may seem trivial initially but they give an opening to different branches of study which then have a huge impact on the medical field. The merging of these two sciences will increase the understanding of unknown extreme environments. By analyzing the living creatures in the ocean and the conditions in which they are Prithipaul 4 living, solutions to adapt to difficult conditions will be found. They are the examples to follow since the survival of their species was determined by the adaptability in the environment they are living. From this analysis, humans can develop their capabilities of adaptation to their fullest while focusing on the endurance by building it up. The use of similar technology from these two partners will benefit the collaboration of these associations. Robotics was used in both field to perform different tasks to improve research. The technologies that are being developed at a fast pace are only providing the opportunity to broadened the field of research. With the increasing amount of software and programs that are constantly improving, research is encouraged and promoted. This will facilitate living conditions and improve the current lifestyles of humans. The benefits are that the medical and health field will be enhanced greatly since the equipment and machines used will be improved. Cures to unknown rare diseases can be found with more research in the field. Prithipaul 5 Work Cited Boesl, Dominic, Look into the Crystal Ball: Predicting the Future of Robotics [Industrial IEEE Robotics & Automation Magazine, vol. 23, no 4, p 10-19 (2016), http://ieeexplore.ieee.org.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/document/7786883/?reload=true. Accessed 23 April 2017. Lunine.I, Jonathan, World Acta Astranatica, vol. 131, no 1, p 123- 130 (2017), http://www.sciencedirect.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/science/article/pii/S0094576516311511. Accessed 23 April 2017. Science and Children, vol. 44, no 9, p 7-8 (2007), http://eds.a.ebscohost.com/eds/detail/detail?vid=5&sid=61b86eb6-eb93-4d3c-88f5- ebaf8ba2d814%40sessionmgr4009&hid=4111&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWRzLWxpdmU%3d#db=eu e&AN=507986328. Accessed 23 April 2017. Shrope, Mark, to the bottom of the Scientific American, vol. 310, no 4, p60-69, http://eds.a.ebscohost.com/eds/detail/detail?vid=7&sid=81432557-9870-407e-bf93- 4254b460a5bd%40sessionmgr4006&hid=4111&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWRzLWxpdmU%3d##AN =94982371&db=aci. Accessed 23 April 2017. Viscio, Maria Antonietta, et.al, methodology for innovative technologies roadmaps assessment to support strategic decisions for future space Acta Astronautica, vol. 94, no 2, p 813-833 (2014), http://www.sciencedirect.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/science/article/pii/S0094576513003743. Accessed 23 April 2017. Prithipaul 6