Lando 1 Alex Lando Professor Gocinski ENC 1102 20 April 2017 Concussions in the NFL The NFL has been around for almost 100 years and topic of concussions is still a touchy subject among players, coaches, and executives. In 2015 there were 271 concussion reported by players in that season. This is the most ever reported in a single season. This proves they are a still a huge issue that needs to be addressed by the NFL. Over the past few decades there has been an increase in player suicide. A lot of scientists believe these suicides are due to a form of a degenerative brain disorder called CTE which is believe to be in some concussion victims. A stakeholder that would generally believe to not be involved with this issue is FIFA. FIFA stands for Federation International Football Association, this controls all international soccer matches and league play. There are more concussions in soccer than people think, from heading the ball constantly or even the goalie hitting their head against the post. These two organizations have no direct relationship with each other. If FIFA and the NFL team up to invest more time and money into research on concussions and how to make their games safer. Then they would both benefit from that investment. Concussions are a prevenient thing in the National Football League. I believe that the NFL is not doing enough to fight the issue of concussions in their league. The NFL needs to invest more time and money into this topic. If they do not, they risk more players getting injured which could turn younger players away from play which would hurt the future of the sport. Even Lando 2 today there are parents having their kids play sports so their kids have brain problems when they are older. There are certainly areas where the NFL can improve the safety of the sport. Also, if the NFL does more extensive research and finds little to no correlation between playing football and getting concussions/ having future brain problems. There is a lot at stake for the NFL and football right now. It is crunch time and the NFL needs to act now. FIFA is the nonengaged stakeholder that I will be discussing. mission statement is to develop football everywhere, and to touch the world through soccer. Soccer is not typically thought of as a contact sport but it has plenty of contact to the head area. FIFA along with the NFL has not done nearly enough when it comes to concussions in its respective sport. The one thing FIFA has majorly different than the NFL is they will have to do research not only on males but females. In an article written by Martin Roger, he states that women are more likely to get a concussion than men. So the research would have to be different as well. But it is evident that FIFA needs to put more money and effort into this topic. If they they run similar risks that the NFL does. Parents could begin to get scared and place their kids into a sport with less direct head contact. This would hurt revenue and the overall love for the sport world wide. This might seem like a farfetched idea to get these two corporations to work together on this issue but if they do they will both come out on top. They both are billion dollar corporations that could put a lot of money together to get good research on the issue of concussions in their sports and how concussions effect the players later in life. Also both of these organizations are in two different parts of the world so it would get the best minds from around the globe working on this issue. There is some major common ground between both FIFA and the NFL. It comes apparent when you look at what could happen to either of these sports if concussion rates begin to lower. Parents will begin to hold their kids out of these sports lowering participation Lando 3 rates which over a few decades would hurt both of the leagues. If something happen soon this will happen and both leagues will see a decrease in skill thus decreasing their profits. The first step that needs to happen is these two organizations need to meet, probably the commissioners of both leagues. They need to discuss the problem and see the possible solution if they team up. They need to act soon and start and plan to invest their time and money. After this they need to start long term examinations on current and former players. After this they will be able to make improvements to the safety equipment and procedures of their sports. As seen above, FIFA and the NFL need to reach an agreement on this issue and team up to take down concussions in their respective sports. If they they will remain stagnate, which will lead to decreasing participation rates in youth leagues which over time would lead to lowering the skill level in the pro level thus lowering profits for both leagues. This would hurt the love of the sport for a lot of the fans which would be terrible. We need to see improved investments from both leagues and hopefully they act now on this issue. Lando 4 Work cited About FIFA:  FIFA.com. N.p., n.d. Web. 21 Apr. 2017. http://www.fifa.com/about-fifa. Ossola, Alexandra. NFL game changer: Scientists finally tackling concussions head-  CNBC. CNBC, 03 Feb. 2017. Web. 21 Apr. 2017. http://www.cnbc.com/2017/02/03/nfl-game-changer-scientists-tackle-concussions-head- on.htm. Sports, Martin Rogers. FIFA fails to address concussion problem head  USA Today. Gannett Satellite Information Network, 10 June 2015. Web. 23 Apr. 2017. https://www.usatoday.com/story/sports/soccer/2015/06/10/fifa-concussions-evaluation- breaks-substitution/71000800/.