Albert Campbell Professor Paquette Composition I 16 April 2017 Project 3 Intermediate Draft How can individuals in our society be expected to accept facial malformations and disfigurements which severely disadvantage their opportunities in life? From day to day interactions to job interviews they are perceived differently due to one of their most personal features. Yet the primary medical solution to alleviate this suffering is disputed by some medical professionals. For decades, facial transplantations have been challenged for their ethical issues; however, over time, the practice has been proven to be ethical and justified. Facial transplantations have been proven to be ethical through the extensive research caused by debate in the medical community, the successful results which have been observed, and recent attempts of professionals to improve the practice and make it safer. It can no longer be claimed that not providing facial transplant treatment is more ethical than providing the surgery to patients. The debate surrounding facial transplant has existed since it was first introduced. Intense opposition of the surgery led to developing stronger research and refutations which would ultimately improve the ethics of the procedure. Before surgeons could attempt to drastically change the life of a possible candidate, they heard every possible way it could go wrong. Opposition helped to reveal aspects of the surgery which may have not been fully realized by those developing it. This is signified by an article written in 2004 before even partial transplants had been attempted. By the end of an article, Karen Maschke and Eric Trump conclude that facial transplantation surgery must be better understood before it can be performed on human patients. There are risks and benefits that may accompany the surgery that are still unknown to both the surgeons who perform it and the patients who receive it. Ethical concerns led the authors to deny its justification which was supported by a medical team which felt they were prepared to attempt it (Maschke et al, 33-35). As doctors became urged into further research, they began to acknowledge the issues brought out by those who thought it was too dangerous. Medical professionals believing that the operation was too risky were basing their judgement on the well-being of the patients. Opponents saw the first attempts of facial transplants as using patients as experimental subjects who were unable to provide proper consent of the procedure. As Michael Freeman and Pauline Abou state, without full knowledge of the risks caused by a facial transplant, the patient be ethically worked on. Ultimately they find that that may beset the donor and the family and the disfigured community have been (Freeman et al, 81). Like the beliefs of Maschke and Trump, they called for a halt in the procedure until it was better understood (Freeman et al, 81). These claims and counterarguments were eventually expunged however, by the application of the surgery onto its first patients. It is much more difficult to debate the results of facial transplantation surgery. Documentation of facial transplants and the long-term results of the surgery show the true benefit to risk ratio without the issue of skepticism. Professionals who praise the practice with the evidence of case studies are much more legitimate than previous doctors who have the similar resources to base their argument on. Laurent A. Lantieri and Marcelo Goiato independently use case studies to examine the worth of facial transplants after they had been implemented on patients. Lantieri wrote an examination of nine procedures which occurred prior to 2011. Specifically explained in the article is his belief that the ethical disputes surrounding the procedure could only be resolved through clinical research. Case studies would provide professionals with the knowledge needed to remove issues within the surgery. Through his research of patients who underwent the surgery, Lantieri describes the procedure to be life- saving. The issues of having a disfigured face often outweigh the potential risks, and it is the duty of medical professionals to provide treatment to patients when it is necessary (Lantieri, 23- 28). Three years later, Marcelo Goiato provided his own analysis of seven case studies of the procedure. The goal of his article was to summarize the ability of facial transplantations to restore function and aesthetic quality to patients (Goiato, 733-739). Both of these aspects, Goiato concludes, are met by the procedure. He states that facial transplantation is a option to restore a severely disfigured and that therapy improves quality of life of mutilated (Goiato, 739). Using clinical trials, Goiato and Lantieri both depicted the value of facial transplantation. Successfulness of the procedure up until that point led to a shift in the attitude of the medical community. Skeptics and opposing doctors diminished compared to those who supported its usage once published results dispelled ethical issues. A successful procedure which improves the life of its patients without significant risks can not be withheld from those people who are suffering. As results continue to be processed and analyzed, doctors are seeking ways to improve the results further in the future. At this point in time, it is difficult to claim facial transplantation is unethical. Not only have professionals worked strenuously to make it safe and results have proven such, but it continues to be improved and worked on. Doctors are dedicated to providing patients with a safe and beneficial procedure. Another article by Laurent A. Lantieri demonstrates the continuing effort of medical professionals to advance and help the care of patients with the facial transplantation procedure. This article was written five years after the article mentioned earlier and is more focused on understanding where the procedure has gone wrong. Lantieri discusses the most crucial steps and writes out specific guidelines doctors need to follow which will improve its outcomes (Lantieri, 1398-1407). Patients are becoming less and less experimental subjects and are receiving care which is more and more advanced. Ethical issues involved with facial transplantation have been extinguished throughout the years of its development. Each dispute, every patient result, and all the ways it is being improved to this day serves as the proof. Doctors have dedicated themselves and their work to providing safe and effective treatments, and their dedication has led to a truly ethical surgery. The debate surrounding facial transplants serves no purpose anymore as its ethicality has been justified. Currently, its benefits are only set to be improved in the future.