Project 3: Composing Multimodal Arguments Climate Change and Coral Reefs Coral reefs around the world are being threatened by a variety of factors; some of which, are caused by humans. A structure that is visible from space and has been around for more than 500,000 years, will likely die entirely in this lifetime even through efforts to try to restore it. In recent years, coral bleaching has become much more prevalent than before due to significant rising ocean temperatures and climate change. With two-thirds of the Great Barrier Reef bleached, most, if not all of the organisms that inhabited the reef will be gone. It only include the Great Barrier Reef but other reefs worldwide. Reefs provide much more than just habitats, but also include a large part of the economy for countries with large parts of the reef. Without a significant change in the activities of humans, the impacts will cause climate change to continue to bleach coral reefs destroying something that has been in the world for a significant amount of time. Coral bleaching can be caused by several things. Climate change is one of the largest factors in this process. Healthy coral is inhabited by microscopic algae which are its main source of food and also helps to give the coral its color. When the overall temperature of the Earth increases, it also causes ocean temperature to increase. This leads to the coral becoming stressed which triggers the algae to leave the coral leaving it vulnerable to diseases and without a food source. When this happens, it causes reduced growth and reproduction in coral and increases mortality (Marshall 2000). More substantial bleaching occurs in areas where there is a higher ocean temperature than the usual temperature. Pollution is also a large factor that impacts coral reefs. Air pollution helps contribute to global warming which increases ocean temperature as well. People contribute to a large part of the pollution factor. Emissions from cars are released into the air and oils can leak into the groundwater systems which lead to the ocean. Agricultural and commercial runoff plays a significant role in pollution for coral reefs as well. The reefs can be affected by fertilizers and pesticides that runoff from nearby farms or lawns since eutrophication could occur. Too many nutrients in the water could lead to an increased production of algae that causes the oxygen in the water in that area to deplete. Runoff from cities, homes, and roadways flows into the oceans and causes coral reefs to become stressed. Improper disposal of wastes or chemicals, oils left in the streets, or dumping sewage can all lead to negative impacts on coral reefs. In studies performed, samples of coral were exposed to elevated levels of UV radiation and the effects were recorded (Lesser 2010). It showed that photosynthesis and growth rates declined when exposed to elevated temperatures and UV radiation. Coral bleaching has many causes some natural, but most caused by people and their interactions with the world. Since people have caused the majority of this issue, people must find a way to mitigate the effects. Reefs contribute more to society than most people would think and humans are directly affected by these factors. Like rainforests or grasslands, coral reefs support a great deal of biodiversity. While maintaining a different type of habitat, reefs provide shelter and a food source to over 9000 species of marine life. With a total of 34 animal phyla existing in nature, 32 of these are found on coral reefs compared to only nine found in tropical rainforests. Each of the species that the coral reef provides habitat for has a specific role that helps the ecosystem thrive. Without the reef, these organisms would either have to fit into another ecosystem, or eventually die off. Coral reefs also provide support for the economy. Tourism and fishing bring in a decent amount of money for countries that are located near large parts of reefs. Many people enjoy snorkeling or boat rides to see the reefs and the marine life that lives on them. In some places, the Florida Keys for example, brings in around $3 billion on tourism alone. However these economic factors can only be successful if the reefs are properly maintained and with the majority of the Great Barrier Reef announced as dead, this factor will likely tend to decline significantly. Coastline protection is another large factor that coral reefs provide. The reefs help to provide a buffer from storms, waves, or hurricanes that might form out in the ocean. Damage from these natural events would occur to the shore and coasts if there was nothing to help reduce the impact that may take place. This helps to save money since if no one had their homes or buildings destroyed, there would be no construction costs to rebuild anything. Lastly, another impact from coral reefs is research. Coral reefs have provided several advances medically including treatments for certain cancers and diseases. Research from reefs works so well since coral reefs are sedentary, they must develop defenses to diseases and predators. For example, corals produce secosteroids which helps protect them from disease. Recently, this has been used to treat asthma and other inflammatory disorders (Levins). It is possible for many more medical advances to be found but with the decline in worldwide coral reefs, it is far less likely to occur. Since people are some of the reasons why there is such a large decline in coral reef population, there are ways for people to help make the issue better. Not every action has to be a large one, but they all make a large impact overall. simple for anyone to make an effort even if they taking all of the steps. One way people can help is to reduce their pollution. Pollution can easily find its way into waterways and into the air. This could include properly disposing of their garbage instead of littering, biking or walking instead of driving everywhere, and being conscious of what chemicals and pesticides are used on their lawns. People can also volunteer to help coral reefs. This could include helping to clean up areas surrounding reefs or even providing information to others about being conscious about actions and conserving reefs. Conserving water is another large part of helping to protect the coral reefs. The more water used in a household, the more likely runoff is to find its way into the oceans which can add chemicals to the coral reef environment. Lastly, people can talk to their local government officials. This way, they can help to push for stricter coral reef protection and conservation laws and policies. Coral reefs provide many things to people including ecosystem biodiversity, increases in the economy, coastline protection, and medical advances. With most of the Great Barrier Reef, a structure visible from space, dead, several of these factors may not exist in the near future. Coral bleaching is an extreme issue in society due to climate change largely caused by pollution. It may not be possible to fully restore the reef, but if people make an effort to protect and conserve it, it will reduce the harmful effects on the reef over time. References Marshall, P. A., and A. H. Baird. Bleaching of Corals on the Great Barrier Reef: Differential Susceptibilities among  SpringerLink. Springer-Verlag, n.d. Web. 18 Apr. 2017. Lesser, Michael P. Coral Bleaching: Causes and  Springer. Springer Netherlands, 09 Jan. 2010. Web. 18 Apr. 2017. Levins, Nicole. The Nature  Coral Reefs and Medicine The Nature Conservancy. N.p., n.d. Web. 18 Apr. 2017. Hernandez, Greg. 25 Things You Can Do to Save Coral Reefs. N.p., n.d. Web. 18 Apr. 2017.