The meaning and the creation of life is a beautiful thing. Abortions in the United States are getting in the way of that. An abortion is legal intervention, performed by a licensed clinician that is intended to terminate an ongoing of Disease Control). As Americans time to take a stand against unnecessary abortion (an abortion that is not being preformed to save the life of the mother) and the taking of innocent lives. According to the CDC in the Abortion Surveillance of 2013 there were 664,435 abortions in the United States. Of all these abortions less than one percent were preformed to save the life of a mother. That amounts to nearly 664,435 lives that were taken from innocent babies that have a say on whether or not they got to live or die. As we need to care about this because who are we as humans to decide whether or not another human being gets to live or not? Whether or not you believe the human race developed from a single cell or that God is the giver and taker of all life. It is not human effort to create life and be a human decision to take it away. The typical meaning of a American means that you are against all abortions. However, it can be skewed a bit. Some American believes that abortions are acceptable if the life is endangered like myself. This is a simple understanding of what it means to be but there is so much more to the meaning. According to the American Center for Law and Justice Be is to be and to Promote Human Flourishing for The abortion industry has successfully peddled the fallacy that in order to be one must be nothing could be further from the Center of Law and Justice). Instead of encouraging an easy way out of an unwanted pregnancy like abortion, Americans encourage women to be strong and choose life for their babies. We tell women that they are valuable an contributing members of without childbirth there would be no society. (American Center of Law and Justice). Above everything the sole fundamental belief of a life American is that no matter who it is no matter how small or weak, every life is precious and worth saving. The CDC reports that out of all pregnancies in the United States, half are unintentional. This means that one of every two pregnancies supposed to happen. Out of these unintended pregnancies four of the ten will be aborted. This comes out to about 21% of all pregnancies in the United States resulting in abortion. Being (against abortion) this is unacceptable. Motions need to be set into place to stop unnecessary abortions. Women all over the United States get abortion simply because they are not ready to have a child or support a baby. Less than one percent get abortions because lives are endangered. Well, if a woman is not ready to have a baby she be engaging in sexual activity because there is always a chance, although very slim if using proper contraception, that a woman can get pregnant when she engages in intercourse. Although many Americans like myself get their basis from a religious belief there are many other ways that statistically and scientifically back up the reasoning of Americans. A major grey area in the abortion debate is deciding when life actually begins. Since Americans believe abortion is murder we believe that life starts at conception. The Research Counsel backs up the claims of Americans with the fact that at conception when the sperm penetrates a human ovum, or egg a new cell comes into existence called the Zygote. A zygote is in fact composed of human DNA, undeniably making it human and very much alive. not an alien or a monkey or some sort of bacteria a live growing baby. human! In order for anything to be considered biologically alive it must meet four components, growth, reaction to stimuli, and Science clearly proves that a zygote is own organism and undeniably human. Not only is a zygote a living being, but also according to Endowment For Human at just 22 days after conception a heartbeat can be detected by ultrasound. Most women even know pregnant at 22 days after conception considering that it typically takes a missed menstrual cycle (typically about 28 days) to hint that a woman may be pregnant. As previously stated, many activists will claim that the beginning of life is a grey area that no one really knows when life begins or that it begins in implantation, which typically happens around nine days after ovulation. This claim is given simply to try and claim that zygote is not alive and essentially eliminate any guilt of an abortion. However, the zygote is scientifically proven to be alive. Continuing along the lines of opposing views and arguments we must first look at the data from the Research In a survey conducted during late November and early December of 2016 researchers found that 69% of would vote to not overturn the Roe v. Wade law. This law makes abortion legal within the first three months of pregnancies, or so most Americans think. According to ushistory.org and the Family Research Counsel abortion is undoubtedly legal within the first three months, but what most Americans understand is a clause was put into place allowing for abortions after the first trimester if a doctor deemed necessary due to a health. Mental health falls into this category allowing doctors to preform abortions because women say they are mentally unstable and unable to have a child. Seeing how most Americans favor a restricted abortion right, Roe v. Wade actually allows for unlimited abortion rights, thus countering an argument that the law has contained second and third trimester abortions. choice activist also state that an abortion is acceptable because a body. up to the woman to decide what she wants to do with her anatomy. They would be right, if the baby alive. Since once again proven that a zygote is very much alive the decision of abortion just between a woman and her body, but between a woman and another living being. A human being is alive when they are one week old and when 20 years old, but a mother get to kill her child when he or she is 20, so why should she be able to when still a zygote? simple, because their own separate being who deserves a chance at life as much as someone already been alive for 20 years. The facts on abortion are clear. Over half a million innocent babies are killed each year. Although the numbers have dropped slightly since 2013 still not enough and be until every child has a right to his or her own live. The numbers will not continue to drop unless people take a stand and fight for the right of those human beings that fight for themsevles. There are many ways for someone to help fight for causes. Some are as simple as donating to a life organization or simply being there for someone who is considering an abortion. Other more invested ways of supporting including volunteering at these organizations or even running for leadership positions to get your voice out there. Above all the biggest way to help Americans is to simply share your beliefs. Present people with the facts and encourage them to consider how each person no matter what stage of life they are in has a right to live.