Bryanna Tanase Prof Smith Composition I 9, April 2017 Tanase 1 The Benefits of Vegetarian Diets for Weight Loss Over the years, several different types of diets have come about to appeal to the varying degrees to which individuals can tolerate cutting out meat from their diet. These include the commonplace vegetarian diet, the not as common ovo, pesco, and lacto vegetarian diet, and veganism. The latter is the most extreme type of vegetarian diet, which eliminates all foods containing animal products, while pesco-vegetarians can consume fish and other seafood, ovo- vegetarians can eat eggs, and lacto-vegetarians can eat dairy products. Nutritionists and ordinary people alike have promoted these diets because of their supposed ability to decrease risk of diseases such as diabetes and cancer, as well as aid weight loss. On the other hand, some individuals have condemned them because they can lead to nutrient deficiencies. Nevertheless, vegetarian diets are a powerful weight loss method and should be considered as a diet option for individuals looking to lose weight. One of the critical things to consider when choosing a diet plan is to make sure that it provides all the essential vitamins and nutrients the body needs. According to Ann Reed Mangels and colleagues of The American Dietetic Association, vegetarian diets provide a number of nutritional advantages such as lower intake of saturated fat and cholesterol while providing a higher intake of carbohydrates and fiber (748). This design bolsters weight loss as the fiber keeps individuals fuller longer, while complex carbs provide a source of lasting energy that will deter them from reaching for food when they are not hungry. The amount of plant based foods that a diet contains could also play a factor in weight loss. Gabrielle Turner McGreivy and her research team conducted a study comparing five different vegetarian diets and their success for weight Tanase 2 loss, and found that the vegan group had the most success, losing body weight, followed by the vegetarian pesco-vegetarian semi vegetarian (- and omnivorous groups (354). This led them to conclude that as participants ate more foods such as beans, vegetables, and fruit while taking in less animal products, the more successful they were in attaining and maintaining their weight loss. In addition, they found that more plant based diets also led to more favorable changes in macronutrients, fiber, and (McGreivy et al, 356). Essentially, as dieters consumed a higher quantity of plant based foods, their cholesterol levels fell and their fiber intakes rose, enhancing their weight loss for the same reasoning mentioned above. Proper nutrient intake is important when dieting because it can lead to more significant weight loss. The number of calories allotted daily is an equally important factor in dieting because if one wants to lose weight they have to burn more energy than they consume. However, it is important that a diet provide just the right amount of energy to deter feelings of deprivation and keep participants satisfied so that they do not reverse their progress. Plant based foods are generally low in calories on their own. Some examples as given by MD Stephen Panebianco include tofu, tempeh (a type of grain), and chia seeds (55). As a result, participants can enjoy more of these foods and feel satisfied because of it, encouraging them to stick with the diet rather than stop because they feel they are not eating enough. This statement is supported by a study done by Gabrielle Turner McGreivy and associates in 2007, which compared a vegan diet to the National Cholesterol Education Program (NCEP) diet for weight loss. As the name suggests, the NCEP main guideline was to restrict saturated fat intake by replacing high fat dairy products with low fat ones. They found that the vegan group lost 10 pounds more than the NCEP group due in part to the fact that they took in less calories while eating a greater amount of food Tanase 3 (2278). The vegan group could eat more food because the food that they ate was not as caloric so they could enjoy more, leading to greater satisfaction and weight loss. Even though vegetarian diets are beneficial for weight loss, if they are not planned properly they could lead to the development of unhealthy eating habits and weight control methods. Ramona and colleagues devised a study to assess the relationship between vegetarian diets and weight loss, dietary intake, and weight control methods among adolescents and young adults ages 19-23, comparing those who had been or were currently vegetarians. It was found that although former adolescent and young adult vegetarians lost more weight, they were 20 percent more likely to develop an eating disorder than their non-vegetarian counterparts. The researchers attribute this finding to the idea that their study, as well as others, indicated that young people adopt vegetarian diets so that they have an excuse to eliminate certain food groups (650). The elimination of an entire food group from a diet could lead to a critically low consumption of food, and inadequate nutrition, thereby increasing chances of developing an eating disorder. Adolescents also face pressure from their peers to have a certain physical appearance on top of dealing with body insecurity themselves, which encourages them to try unhealthy diets and weight loss methods that are detrimental to their health (McGreivy et al, 659). These findings suggest that vegetarian diets have a correlational relationship rather than a causational one. The choices that one makes while participating in a vegetarian diet, such as restricting their caloric intake or eliminating food groups could potentially cause an eating disorder, but they are not directly related to each other since there are many individuals on a vegetarian diet that are planning their meals appropriately. Anna Bardone-Cone and her research team conducted a similar study to the one above in 2012, comparing vegetarian eating habits of females who were recovering from an eating Tanase 4 disorder, had one previously, or had never been diagnosed with one (1248). They found that women who were vegetarians at one point had a higher risk of having an eating disorder than those who did not, the difference in their findings was that they discovered that most of the women used the vegetarian diet as a way of concealing their condition from their family and friends (Bardone-Cone et al, 1249). This supports the claim that vegetarian diets and eating disorders are correlated, but do not directly cause each other, because someone may already be diagnosed with an eating disorder and now tell others that they are on a plant based diet to make the weight loss seem natural instead of forced. Vegetarian diets are an appropriate method for weight loss that individuals should look into if it is one of their goals. This is because they offer a higher intake of nutrients that provide long lasting energy and fullness, such as fiber and carbohydrates. Plant based foods have lower calorie counts, allowing individuals to eat more, which boosts their satisfaction and encourages them to stick to their diet. Although vegetarian diets seem to cause eating disorders, they share a correlational relationship in that vegetarian diets can conceal preexisting eating disorders. Based on this information, those looking for a weight loss plan should weigh the pros and cons of each and choose the one that best fits their needs. Tanase 5 References Bardone-Cone, Anna M., et al. The inter-relationships between vegetarianism and eating disorders among  Journal of the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics 112.8 (2012): 1247-1252. Mangels, Ann Reed, Virginia Messina, and Vesanto Melina. Position Of The American Dietetic Association And Dietitians Of Canada: Vegetarian  Journal Of The American Dietetic Association 6 (2003): 748. Academic OneFile. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. Panebianco, Stephen M. The Merits And Pitfalls Of  Explore: The Journal Of Science And Healing 1 (2007): 55. Academic OneFile. Web. 2 Feb. 2017 Ramona, et al. Adolescent And Young Adult Vegetarianism: Better Dietary Intake And Weight Outcomes But Increased Risk Of Disordered Eating  Journal Of The American Dietetic Association 4 (2009): AGRIS. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Turner-McGreivy, Gabrielle M., et al. Applied Nutritional Investigation: Comparative Effectiveness Of Plant-Based Diets For Weight Loss: A Randomized Controlled Trial Of Five Different  Nutrition 31.(2015): 350-358. ScienceDirect. Web. 24 Jan. 2017 Gabrielle M., Neal D. Barnard, and Anthony R. Scialli. A Randomized Weight Loss Trial Comparing a Vegan Diet to a More Moderate  Obesity 15.9 (2007): 2276-2281