Cohen, 1 Zachary Cohen Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 14 April 2017 The Cruelty Behind Animal Testing Do you own a pet? Do you care about the well-being of animals? If the answer is yes, there is a big chance that you would be interested in learning more about animal cruelty and animal testing in order to make an action to abolish it. What many people do not know is that every day, animals are forced to be tested on, causing them an immense amount of pain that no innocent animal should ever be put through. Organizations such as PETA (People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals) and CFI (Cruelty Free International) aspire to educate anybody and everybody of the cold hard truth which is product testing on animals, as well as any other form of animal cruelty. In order for animal abuse to be eradicated, people must become aware of the situation so that they have the knowledge to end it. Although product testing is necessary before a product reaches the market, it is unethical to use animals to test the products on. motto is are not ours to eat, wear, experiment on, use for entertainment, or abuse in any other other words, this means that animals should not be abused in order to make or save money. In the product industry, primarily cosmetics and medicine, most corporations require their products to be tested on animals before it reaches the market. These organizations state that they use animals because it provides them with a trial and error on their products so that they can perfect it before it is consumed or used by humans. But Cohen, 2 why should it be animals that are tested on and not humans? tell you why. Money. If companies were willing to sacrifice a small amount of money, people would be willing to have products tested on themselves as a job. According to PETA, over 100 million animals are crippled, poisoned, and abused in United States labs every year. During these tests, 92% of the products that are deemed safe on animals fail in human trial due to how differently the human body works than animals (Humane Society). One test, called skin sensitization, tests for allergic reaction on the skin of animals. During this experiment, the substance which is being tested is applied on the skin or injected under the skin of a guinea pig or mouse. If their skin shows any redness or irritation, the product is altered and then retested on more animals When the product is retested, a new group of animals is used for the experiment. Because humans have different skin than mice and guinea pigs, the results of this experiment are usually inaccurate and the test on humans result in a different outcome. Testing is vital before releasing any product to the public. But, forcing an animal to be put through these experiments is completely unethical. In order for people to understand the pain animals are put through during testing, they must know which experiments are being performed. In a test called acute inhalation toxicity, approximately 20 mice are used. During the experiment, they are placed into a tube for 14 days (Humane Society). The substance which is being tested is released into the tube, forcing the mice to breathe it in. The purpose of this experiment is to determine the amount of the substance that is required to kill half of the mice over 14 days. During this test, symptoms that the rat experience include bleeding of the nose, seizures, convulsions, death, etc (Humane Society). In another experiment called chronic toxicity, 400 mice are used in order to test for cancer and the long-term effects of a substance. Everyday for Cohen, 3 two years, the mice are force fed, injected with a substance or have the substance rubbed on their skin. After two years of exposure to the substance, all 400 mice are killed in order to examine their tissue. When examining their tissue, researchers search for any signs of cancer or other diseases (Humane Society). In another experiment called reproductive screen, 675 mice are used. During this test, male and female mice are force fed a substance for 2-4 weeks. After this period of being fed, the mice are mated. When the females become pregnant, they are fed the substance throughout their entire pregnancy. Once the pups are born, both the mothers and pups are force fed for another four days. After these four days, all of the mice are killed and have their tissue analyzed. Experimenters test their tissue for any signs of birth defects to determine the results of using the substance during pregnancy (Humane Society). In order for people to make a change, they must become aware of the truth behind animal testing. To spread awareness, people must understand what animal testing consists of and gain a knowledged opinion about the topic. To end animal testing and abuse, people can help make a change by signing petitions and donating to organizations such as PETA and CFI. Animal rights organizations use money to create advertisements and petitions to spread awareness and attempt to end animal testing in the United States. In Brazil, India, United Kingdom, Turkey, New Zealand, and many other countries, animal testing has already been abolished (PETA). If those countries can do it, the United States can too. Another way that people can help to end animal testing is by boycotting any company that uses animals to test their products. Many people aware that companies such as Calvin Klein, Burberry, Clorox, MAC, Michael Kors, and many more, test their products on animals before it reaches the market. By not buying any products manufactured by these companies, they will see a drastic decrease in revenue and will Cohen, 4 understand that they need to make a change. Because of boycotting, many companies have already made the initiative to end animal testing on their products. By understanding what animal testing is, people have the opportunity to spread awareness and make others care about it. Every year, over 100 million animals are killed by product testing and millions of others are tortured (PETA). Because testing products is necessary, companies could potentially pay humans to have their products tested on them. Doing so provides the experimenters with a more accurate result as well as the abolishment of killing innocent animals. If companies refuse to cut their income due to paying humans to test their products, they could slightly raise their product costs in order to compensate for it. In most experiments, either mice or rabbits are force fed toxic chemicals for an extended period of time. After they have completed their cycle of substances, they are typically killed to have their tissues examined to record the results of the experiment. Through these tests, 92% of products that pass the tests fail in human testing due to how different the human body is than mice and rabbits This means that millions of animals are killed only to receive an inaccurate result of their experiments. In order to make a change, people must spread awareness about animal testing by informing their colleagues, signing petitions and most importantly, boycotting products that test on animals. Together we can make the change to abolish animal testing. Word count: 1203 Cohen, 5 Works Cited Adler, Sarah, et al. Alternative (non-animal) methods for cosmetics testing: current status and future  of 85.5 (2011): 367-485. Bebarta, Vik, Dylan Luyten, and Kennon Heard. Emergency medicine animal research: does use of randomization and blinding affect the  Emergency 10.6 (2003): 684-687. Brandon, Esther FA, et al. An update on in vitro test methods in human hepatic drug biotransformation research: pros and  and applied 189.3 (2003): 233-246. Cosmetics Tests That Use  Humane Society of the United Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Cohen, 6 Donovan, Josephine, and Carol J. Adams. Beyond animal rights: A feminist caring ethic for the treatment of  (1996). McNamee, Pauline, et al. A tiered approach to the use of alternatives to animal testing for the safety assessment of cosmetics: eye  toxicology and pharmacology (2009): 197-209.  N.p., 16 Feb. 2016. Web. 11 Feb. 2017.  News Events, Multimedia, Public Relations N.p., n.d. Web. 1 Feb. 2017. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA): The Animal Rights  N.p., n.d. Web. 1 Feb. 2017.