Atkins 1 Michael Atkins Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 14 April 2017 How are Gun Free Zones? Without a doubt, one of the most common reoccurrences seen on televised news is the outbreak of a shooter, whether that be in an airport, a mall, movie theater, or even schools and college campuses. What do these locations have in common one may ask; more times than not, locations such as these are marked as gun free zones. A gun free zone is a location where guns are simply not allowed. In theory, gun free zones sound like fantastic idea in such locations to keep citizens safe, however this seems not to be the care in many instances. Most gun free zones have minimal gun security or many times no security to protect unarmed citizens from an unforeseen attack. For example, in 2012 in Aurora, Colorado, mass shooter James Holmes targeted the only movie theater in his proximity that had restrictions on concealed carry permit owners. This tragic shooting ended in twelve deaths and over seventy moviegoers suffering from injuries, all which had the chance to be avoided if one of those 400 plus enthusiast was carrying a weapon. Although gun violence may not affect everyone directly, gun violence is a major issue in the United States and should be addressed by making the right call regarding gun free zones. Mass shootings are one of the most devastating and tragic events today and have yet to be addressed in full to prevent such attacks from happening. The most widely and well accepted definition of a mass shooting is defined as a shooting killing four or more people (Willingham). Atkins 2 In 2016 alone, Gun Violence Archive noted that there were 384 mass shooting incidents. Between 1988-2015, only 3.8% of shootings were in locations where a gun carrying permit was allowed, resulting in 96.2% of shooting in where guns allowed or not stated to be allowed (Corcoran). Two parties dedicating time to the issue of mass shootings are the National Rifle Association and Everytown For Gun Safety, however what separates these two stakeholders is their stance and platform on fun free zones. The National Rifle association follows these numbers by fighting to end such gun restriction as to where Everytown is in denial. If more citizens comply with the view on gun free zones, these shootings which make national news would have the ability to become just another statistic of much less severe shootings that would garnish very little to no national support. Rather than sudden outcry and national spotlight, uplifting these gun free zones has the potential to create a much more inspiring news story, such as in 2015 when an Uber driver saved the lives of many in Chicago when he heard gun shots being fired into a crowd of people and proceeded to wound the gunman saving the lives several innocent civilians (Lott). By joining in the fight to lift these gun free zones, American citizens have a much greater chance of hearing these inspiring stories rather than waking up to news of a mass shooting in an Orlando Night Club or a Fort Lauderdale airport (Sherman). In 2012, moviegoers fell victim to a gun free zone after James Holmes opened fire at Century 16 Mulitplex theater in Aurora, Colorado. Within a twenty-mile range of home location, there were seven movie theaters in his vicinity; of the seven theaters only one theater had a restriction on concealed carry. That theater was the one Holmes targeted. This devastating attack led to the death of twelve victims and leaving over seventy more severely wounded. In Even though the gunman fired at an unsuspecting crowd, with over 400 individuals the Atkins 3 possibility of one citizen having a concealed carry weapon and neutralizing the suspect are much greater. diary, he stats that he would not target an airport due to However, this security presence seem to be a heightened as one may seem as in early 2017, suspected shooter Esteban Santiago opened fire in a baggage claim area claiming the lives of five and injuring a number others. This location was also noted as being a gun free zone. The likeliness of minimalizing the severity of these scene would have been greatly increase if it for these gun free ones restricting citizens from carrying a weapon to potentially neutralize the shooter. Even with all the increased gun regulations, criminals will continue to find ways to obtain weapons and establish fear and commit heinous acts one could not imagine. The only true way to protect oneself from such monstrous act is to go by the saying best defense is a good and to always be prepared by carrying concealed and uplift the implemented gun free zone. By reaching out to local politicians to push for laws that will repeal gun free zones and promote concealed carry laws, regular citizens can combat a situation when terror is upon them. After reaching out to politicians, one must make sure to be a proactive voter and vote these new laws into play. Other ways citizens can get involved is to join organizations that promote the idea of less restrictive gun control and favor concealed carry such as the NRA and make contributions for such organizations to lobby the politicians. Lastly, citizens can express their second amendment rights and the freedoms which the amendment offers and purchase a weapon for protection of oneself and others. By reaching out to politicians, joining organizations and informing oneself about firearm safety and proper usage, one may not have the opportunity to end gun violence, but have a chance to not only protect themselves but all others around while neutralizing the active shooter. Atkins 4 Gun violence is a major issue in the United States, however, citizens can protect themselves by arming themselves for protection but those freedoms are being hindered by certain gun laws preventing these responsible citizens from carrying firearms. With mass shootings becoming an all too common reality and with such a high number of shootings coming in gun free zones one must see that there is a disconnect between the two. Even though gun violence is a major issue, criminals will continue to find ways to gather weapons to commit these violent and unnecessary crimes. The best way to combat these crimes is being prepared for situation and arming oneself to not only protect themselves but others around them. Gun free zones prevent this from happening yet time after time allow for shooters to target these locations with little to no conflict with security. By voting and donating to organizations to make a change, citizens will be able to arm themselves to make life safer for all, whether that be a school, airport or even a movie theater. Atkins 5 Work Cited: Frosch, Dan, and Kirk Johnson. Gunman Kills 12 in Colorado, Reviving Gun  The New York Times. The New York Times, 20 July 2012. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Jr., John R. Lott. A Look at the Facts on Gun-Free  National Review. National Review, 20 Oct. 2015. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Mascia, Jennifer. The Latest Research on Rampage Shootings Shows Gunmen Rarely Target Gun-Free  The Trace. N.p., 01 Dec. 2016. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Mass  Gun Violence Archive. Gun Violence Archive, n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Serial  FBI. FBI, 21 May 2010. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.