Bing 1 Chandler Bing Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Legalize Medical Marijuana for Everyone, Everywhere Marijuana is a controversial issue that is talked about daily and has two opposing sides on its legalization. Many people focus on the aspects of recreational marijuana and do not realize the benefits of medical marijuana; they believe that marijuana is dangerous to the health but as a matter of fact, has died from using (Manning). Medical marijuana can regulate, and prevent several as well as fight anxiety and (Quit Smoking Community). According to Pro Con, medical marijuana is already legalized in twenty-eight states such as Florida, New York, California, Maryland and many others, but that means that twenty-two states still lack the access to its medical uses. Thus, because medical marijuana is not available to all of those who are sick, American citizens who are potential to illness should protest against the government in order to supply medical marijuana to the ill. Marijuana is commonly misunderstood in the States due to accusations of it being a gateway drug or it causing brain damage in which both are false. According to Drug Abuse, majority of people who use marijuana do not go on to use other, and a study conducted by the Northwestern University and Harvard Medical School declared no variations or functional significance on the differences of brains of marijuana users and non- marijuana users (Makin, 2014). The National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws (NORML) also claims that prohibition which forces users to associate with the Bing 2 illicit drug black market rather than the use of marijuana itself, often serves as a doorway to the world of hard There are no records of marijuana overdoses either (American Civil Liberties Union), yet marijuana is not legal everywhere in the country whereas alcohol and tobacco are. According to NORML, 50,000 people die each year from alcohol poisoning more than 400,000 deaths each year are attributed to tobacco There are many benefits to medical marijuana, in which case it can be used as pain relief to chronic pain fewer sides effects compared to (Oregon Health & Science University, 2017) and is toxic than many of the drugs that physicians prescribe every (Elders, 2004). Medical marijuana can also treat pain, nausea, spasticity, glaucoma, and movement and be used as powerful appetite stimulant, specifically for patients suffering from HIV, the AIDS wasting syndrome, or (NORML). There are many benefits to medical marijuana. Marijuana is seen as a misunderstood plant but underneath its myths, it holds the properties to help treat and heal patients. There are other reasons to why not just medical marijuana, but recreational marijuana should be legalized as well. In the states that have yet to legalize marijuana or only legalized medical marijuana, people are arrested every year for marijuana offenses in the (Rolling Stone, 2012). This means that people who only commit are put into prison; not because of stealing, abduction, or murder. They are not criminals and how are they different from smokers or alcohol-users? Recreational users are not the only ones affected; everyone is. Every American citizen is paying taxes and a partial percentage of the taxes goes to prisons. This can be seen as wasting in which the money can go somewhere else rather than to a The national organization, NORML, is for the reform of marijuana laws and the decriminalization of these so-called According to them, Bing 3 marijuana prohibition costs taxpayers an estimated $10 billion annually and results in the arrest of more than 693,000 individuals per year -- far more than the total number of arrestees for all violent crimes combined, including murder, rape, robbery and aggravated Even though medical marijuana is on the health effective side of its use, recreational marijuana also plays a major role on American citizens. Medical marijuana is not accessible to everyone in the States and there are patients who are in need of risk-free pain relief. Because not available everywhere, these patients need to go to opioids or other medicine that have more side effects than medical marijuana. Everyone has the potential to become ill so this issue should concern everyone. If medical marijuana is accessible everywhere in the country, American citizens can relieve their pains and injuries without the concerns of the side effects such as, dizziness, nausea, vomiting, constipation, physical dependence, tolerance, and respiratory seen from opioids (Benyamin et al., 2008). Medical marijuana must be legalized in order for it to be available in all fifty states, so everyone must come together and protest against the state government. Everyone should send letters to their state government and sign petitions in order to bring medical marijuana to the attentions of the government officials. People can also participate in peaceful protesting to gain the attention of more potential supporters. They can also donate money to official marijuana organizations such as the National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws or the American Alliance for Medical Cannabis and receive newsletters and updates on how to take action against the government. Supporting these organizations as well as taking action on own will get the attention and therefore legalize medical marijuana. Bing 4 Marijuana is often seen as a troubling and dangerous drug that kills and damages health. That is not the case as it contains many health benefits and can be used in treatment and pain relief. Medical marijuana affects every American citizen every citizen is prone to and should be on mind. Recreational marijuana also plays a role and marijuana users are being decriminalized in different parts of the country. Marijuana is not quite legal everywhere in the country yet, but if American citizens can protest against their state government by the use of petitions, peaceful protesting, and donation, medical marijuana can finally be accessible in all fifty states. Word Count: 987 Bing 5 Works Cited Abuse, National Institute on Drug. Is marijuana a gateway  NIDA. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Benefits of Medical Marijuana Is Cannabis Good for  Quit Smoking Community: Kicking the Habit Together. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Benyamin, R., A. M. Trescot, S. Datta, R. Buenaventura, R. Adlaka, N. Sehgal, S. E. Glaser, and R. Vallejo. Opioid complications and side  Pain physician. U.S. National Library of Medicine, Mar. 2008. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Cannabis: Non-addictive pathway to pain  ScienceDaily. ScienceDaily, 12 Jan. 2017. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Livermore, Arthur. Bernie Sanders - Let States Make Marijuana  Medical marijuana (cannabis) - American Alliance for Medical Cannabis. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Makin, Simon. Does Marijuana Harm the  Scientific American. N.p., 08 Aug. 2014. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Manning, Kristan, Lucy Tonic, PPcorn, Kyle Johnson, and Laurascaffidi. Marijuana: 5 Misunderstood Facts You Should  PPcorn. N.p., 09 Feb. 2016. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Mauney, Matt. Medical Marijuana in 28 States: Impact on Cancer  Mesothelioma Center - Vital Services for Cancer Patients & Families. Asbestos.com, 27 Jan. 2017. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Top 10 Marijuana Myths and  Rolling Stone. N.p., 22 Aug. 2012. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Bing 6 Top 10 Pros & Cons - Medical Marijuana -  Should marijuana be a medical option? N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Working to Reform Marijuana  NORML.org - Working to Reform Marijuana Laws - NORML.org - Working to Reform Marijuana Laws. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.