Kaufman 1 Celia Kaufman Professor Ryan ENC1102.57 April 19, 2017 Decriminalization of Sex Work Prostitution is known as the oldest profession in the world. There has always been a demand for sex work, yet there seems to be no regulation to protect the rights of sex workers. The reason for this is because in the United States prostitution and other sex work is criminalized. With 1-2 million prostitutes in the US (pnas.org), plenty of people are at risk for STIs and HIV/AIDS, physical and sexual abuse, and other dangers due to the lack of regulation. Decriminalizing sex work would remove the criminal penalties associated with prostitution, such as fines, community service, and convictions on a permanent record (opensocietyfoundations.org), as well as allow legislation to be passed in order to govern the profession to ensure the safety of all parties. The dangers of ungoverned sex work creates a risky service industry with more risk than reward. Because a good amount of sex workers are pressured into working, as well as their inability to exit the profession leaves many to face those risks head on. Sex workers are at risk for receiving STIs or HIV/AIDS because there is no requirement for the use of proper protection. This is not only a risk for the sex worker, but also for the customer. For the same reason, there is a risk of pregnancy and with birth control possibly no longer being offered to women for free, the risk only increases. Another issue with non-regulated sex work is the safety of the sex worker. According to report on prostitution published in 2000, show that sex Kaufman 2 workers have lower self-esteem and a lower sense of self-worth, making them easier targets for emotional manipulation, which often times leads to physical or sexual violence if the sex worker can be overpowered by their client. Because of this as well, there is also the possibility of being taken and sold into sexual slavery. Sex workers also risk being sold into sexual slavery against their will, either by their pimp or as the result of an encounter with a customer working in the business of sex slavery. Decriminalizing prostitution would allow sex workers to have the legal protection they ethically deserve, just as any other profession has. Sex work requires a more comprehensive legislation due to the complexity of the industry. A large reason for this is because a lot of sex workers find themselves in the profession. Some prostitutes are pressured into joining the industry as 14, and sometimes even earlier (pnas.org). This has led a good amount of sex workers to have not finished high school and not develop skills that would be valuable in another work setting, leaving sex work as their only option to pay rent or feed their children. There are efforts made by private organizations, such as SAGE INC., that integrate former sex workers back into the workforce by teaching them valuable skills needed to gain other employment, which leads a lot of sex workers to not feel so in the profession. However there are so few organizations that do not receive subsidizing so they cannot help as many that need to be helped. Decriminalizing sex work, would allow for more government subsidized programs to help sex workers leave the profession when they need to, instead of being trapped by unregulated organizations that allow the sex worker to be taken advantage of. Decriminalizing prostitution is less of a moral issue or whether or not sex work should be accepted and legal, but rather an ethical dilemma of whether or not sex workers deserve legal rights and a safe work environment- and the answer is yes. There are 77 countries in the world Kaufman 3 that have legalized prostitution, 11 restricting, and 5 without any law on prostitution (Chartsbincom), and of the 77 countries with legalized sex work, there has been great success in regulating the profession. The best by far is known as the New Zealand Model, which was implemented in 2003 as part of New Prostitution Reform Act (PRA). This bill decriminalized sex work while simultaneously promoted sex welfare, health and safety, while enabling them to be protected from  (nzpc.org). New Zealand found great success with this bill- sex workers, customers, and other not participating in the sex industry all agreed that sex workers deserve protection and rights. Other countries have followed in New footsteps, such as Scotland, which has had success with the New Zealand Model as well. Other countries that have implemented the New Zealand Model or created other legislation to decriminalize sex work include India, Ecuador, Austria, Germany, and Panama, which is so heavily regulated that sex workers are required to have a special identification card in order to work. There is evidence that the New England Model and other forms of governance over sex work is successful, but in order to be used the United Stated needs to decriminalize prostitution as a first step. There are approximately 23 prostitutes for every 100,000 people (pnas.org), meaning that quite literally anyone can be in the sex work industry- our sons and daughters, friends or neighbors, sisters and brothers, or anyone we pass by on the sidewalk. All of these people deserve the same safety in their profession and legal coverage as any other profession. The decision to decriminalize prostitution is the first step in regulating a risky and complex industry and ethically, all people deserve reassurance that they are protected in their profession. Kaufman 4 Works Cited Brewer, Devon D., John J. Potterat, Sharon B. Garrett, Stephen Q. Muth, John M. Roberts, Jr., Danuta Kasprzyk, Daniel E. Montano, and William W. Darrow. Prostitution and the Sex Discrepancy in Reported Number of Sexual Partners. for the National Academy of Sciences in the United States (200): n. pag. PNAS. 16 Aug. 2000. Web. ChartsBin. The Legal Status of Prostitution by  ChartsBin. N.p., n.d. Web. 19 Apr. 2017. Laws and Policies Affecting Sex  (2012): n. pag. Open Society Foundations. July 2012. Web. 28 Mar. 2017. New Zealand Prostitutes Collective. Decriminalization of Sex Work in New  NZPC (2013): n. pag. 2013. Web. 2 Apr. 2017.  U.S. Department of State. U.S. Department of State, 25 Feb. 2009. Web. 2 Apr. 2017. What Is  Stand Against Global Exploitation (2005): n. pag. Harvard.edu. Harvard University, 2005. Web. 27 Jan. 2017