Christopher Escobio Kristin Goscinski ENC 1102 21 April 2017 Hard Work Every year more and more NFL players get busted and fined/suspended for breaking the policy that no (performance enhancing drugs) are allowed in the League. Yet players choose to take them anyways to get an advantage over the other teams. Something needs to be done about all of the players that feel like they can cheat the system and lie to become the best football players, and the people who have the power to do that are the fans. Players rely on their fans in order to get their pay, without them they are just out there playing the game for free. So the fans need to show them that it is not okay to cheat and take a stand against doping in the NFL. Doping in sports is not a new concept, it has been around for as long as sports have been around. Back in the time of the original olympic games players would even eat certain figs as a booster in their athletic abilities so they could win easier. But now as time has progressed and the drugs have gotten progressively stronger they are coming with more repercussions to health and gametime (Holt, 1). This means that players are now starting to put their own well being at risk for what they think is the good of the team. But in reality how is this good for the team? They are causing self harm and run the risk of suspension which means putting their teammates at an even bigger deficit than they would have been in without the drugs. Players need to take into consideration what the outcome of using something like this is before they weigh in on actually deciding to take these drugs because they may end up causing more damage to themselves and their careers than they thought could actually happen. The question that Nfl fans are asking themselves when it comes to players being accused of doping is, we The fans think that as long as they get to see their favorite players playing for their favorite team at their top performance it matter how they got to be that good rather it was through legal or illegal means. This is not the case however, fans need to to take a stand and put an end to the illegal use of steroids. It just impact the way that the players play it also impacts the community as a whole. According to an NFL article about why we should care about the use of these drugs, the penalties for using them is very light, almost like a slap on the wrist and a warning then send them on their way. It states that Barry Bonds, a former MLB player, was never even convicted but now stands no chance of entering the Hall of Fame. But Nick Boyle and eight other NFL players all got a four game suspension and were allowed to play again with no further penalties after being convicted of using (Nafstrops). So kids think that just because the pros can do it and get away with a minimum penalty that they can do it also and not have to worry about too much penalty. They look up to these players because to them they are almost super human with their athletic abilities making them role models for the next generations, but what kind of role model does illegal drugs and gets away with it? But all this leads to the fans thinking what can they actually do to make a difference. Well actually there is quite a lot that can be done to make a change in the policy. In a Denver Post article it states that the fans are the main form of revenue for the major sports teams including the NFL, and many strikes in the past over a team just losing have cost them millions of dollars (Legwold). So whats to say that throwing an all out strike against the NFL until they either harshen the penalties or provide more drug sweeps to every player and not just suspected players work. We need to come together to focus on bringing the game back to what it was originally intended to be played as. All of the fans can ban together no matter who their favorite team is and make the NFL a safer place for the players and more entertaining for all of us to watch, just by taking a stand against the PED outbreak they have had going on. Between the thirty one players that caught a four game suspension this year and all the players from previous years, the NFL is turning into a place where steroids are just a normal routine for the players. This causes harm to them and the organization because fans want to see the players play at top physical abilities not abilities gained out of a bottle. So fans need to come together to show that it will not stand with them and to make a change in the rulebook about these drugs to make it more entertaining for everyone and a safer environment for the players. Citations 1. Holt, Richard. Sonksen, Peter. The History of doping and growth hormone abuse in sport. 2009, Accessed April 21 2017 2. Nafstrops Media. Should we care about in the NFL. 2013, Accessed April 21 2017 3. Legwold, Jeff. NFL Revenue is produced by fans. 2011, Accessed April 21 2017