MacRae !1 Hannah MacRae Professor Gocinski ENC 1102.902 3 May 2017 the food? Did you know that there are approximately 1.02 billion malnourished people worldwide (http://eds.b.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?sid=06cec6c3- e2ca-4f06-9209-8664c3a4b948%40sessionmgr101&vid=16&hid=103)? We have children and families suffering from hunger all around the world, even in the U.S. Most of the hungry and malnourished people live in third world countries that frequently experience natural disasters (@WFP Image 3). Many people around the world do as much as they can to help decrease world hunger such as turning in cans, not wasting their food, donating money and much more. Even huge companies such as Panera, Walmart, and Kellogg have made initiative towards fighting world hunger with donating money and their food products. Dunkin Donuts was funded in 1950 filling people with coffee, donuts, and breakfast items ever since. Although they make money donations towards futures they do not do anything towards fighting hunger. Many people have confronted Dunkin Donuts before for throwing away their donuts and uneaten food items after they close each night rather than donating them to a food bank. Hunger will not be defeated until we all take a part in conquering it, it would be in Dunkin Dounts best interest to donate their uneaten food items to Feeding America. MacRae !2 We are more than capable of ending world hunger one step at a time. not fair that we have more than enough resources to feed the entire world yet we have hungry people even in the U.S. because the food is not evenly distributed. According to Roger W. Hay, a scientist whom developed a statistical theorem to estimate a current rate of food production concluded that food production is increasing faster than the world So where does all this food go? Other than having more than enough food to supply everyone with the right amount to survive hunger also restricts families with children to receive proper education. Everyone should have the right to education, poverty be a reason to not be able to learn to read, to learn algebra, or even receive sex education. Many third world countries have awful school environments, if one at all, where almost impossible to focus and learn. Being hungry and trying to educate yourself is also a huge straddle itself, studies from the American Psychological Association observed that hunger causes depression, anxiety and withdrawal, all of which are obstructions to a child trying to focus on Those whom are malnourished are also more susceptible to diseases which could result in a child being absent from school for a period of time lacking them access to education. Dunkin Donuts is a multinational coffee and breakfast chain that was founded by Bill Rosenberg. They have been selling hot coffee, iced coffee, hot donuts, sandwiches, and other things for about 70 years to their loyal customers. They currently are involved in charities related to education. They have experience working with children and families in need and making a difference in the world. Dunkin donuts has a mission statement of making and serving the finest and freshest donuts and coffees quickly to their customers. Their mission statement obviously holds true or they have become a chain 5 years after being founded and MacRae !3 lasting up to almost 70 years. Dunkin Donuts has been very loyal to their customers doing all they can to fulfill your every breakfast needs. Although they take part in giving to charity, why not go the extra mile? (http://www.dunkinbrands.com./about/donuts) Dunkin Donuts has great benefit involving themselves in helping to defeat hunger such as receiving a good reputation and publicity for their kind act resulting in an increase of business. Many companies take part in charities because they want to help make a change and they know that they will get praise from their customers and the market making them stand out against their competitors in the market. Creating a relationship between your business and your community is very important for businesses considering where their money will be coming from. Having a relationship with your community in the long runs means have regulars that come in daily to purchase fine breakfast items. Also, employees respect their superiors when their company is giving back to the world in some way. It can result in motivation to work well and be happy while at their work site. Lastly, when trying to network in the market the amount you give back to charities takes a huge toll. More important businesses want to work with companies that have good reputations within the market, not people who made a dent in making their customers world a better place. In summary, people want to support brands that want to make our world a better place because their way of helping and being involved in making change (https://www.entrepreneur.com/article/241983). Dunkin Donuts should donate their leftover food each night to Feeding America in hopes to end hunger benefiting them by receiving a better reputation in the market and community resulting in more business. Getting started in donating food to Feeding America is not hard as they have already assisted 46 million Americans last year, in 2016. The first step would to MacRae !4 connect your local food bank or food pantry whom most likely works with Feeding America. They work with about 200 food banks and 60,000 food pantries around the world (http:// www.feedingamerica.org/about-us/how-we-work/food-bank-network/). They have thousands of programs to choose from for donating your food to the hungry. Once you do that the next step would be transporting your uneaten food at the end of the day to your local food bank. But where will this truck come from and paying for it? Well, Feeding America takes care of all of that! As long as you supply the food and want to give it to those who have food they want to make it as easy and fast for your act of kindness. Your last step would be watching Feeding America take the food you have donated and distributing it across the world in places that experience famine frequently such as Asia, Africa, and other parts of Central America. Donating to Feeding America is a very easy thing to do that will save thousands of women, children, and mens lives all around the world (http://www.feedingamerica.org/about-us/how-we-work/food- bank-network/). Hunger and malnutrition have to be experienced by anyone in the world. Education and a happy and healthy life only be for people that can afford it, those are things we all have rights to. Defeating hunger with the help from companies that pull in a lot of money and publicity such as Dunkin Donuts would benefit us, as a community, greatly. By donating their leftover food at the end of each night to Feeding America they would in return receive a better reputation in the market, a better relationship with their community and employees, and in the long run receive more business. MacRae !5 Works Cited http://www.dunkinbrands.com./about/donuts http://www.feedingamerica.org/about-us/how-we-work/food-bank-network/ https://www.thebalance.com/food-beverage-mission-statements-4068551 https://borgenproject.org/effects-of-hunger-on-education/ http://eds.a.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/detail/detail? sid=7d2ea2d2-370d-49af-8c9d-042d31e55703%40sessionmgr4009&vid=3&hid=4211&bdata=J nNpdGU9ZWRzLWxpdmU%3d#AN=113931168&db=ers https://www.entrepreneur.com/article/241983