1 Brandy Carr Robert Ryan ENC 1102 17 April 2017 More Food for Your Fridge Envision it is a hot summer day, and you bite into a slice of juicy seedless watermelon; ever wonder just how it became seedless? It got that way from the use of GMOs. Presently, there is a negative connotation associated with the phrase consumers will even pay extra to avoid foods that contain them. Many companies have capitalized on this, and contribute to the growing non-GMO movement. These increasing efforts against GMOs lead to less funding for further research and advancements and in turn inflate food prices due to less crop yield. As a full time college student it is hard enough to pay for tuition, books, and rent, and now add increasing food prices to the list, we will all be eating a cup of noodles every day. The process of genetic modification dates back to ancient times, about 32,000 years ago, by the process of selective breeding. While this is not what people typically think of when they hear about GMOs today, it is a precursor, and the earliest example of humans influencing genetics (Rangel). Over time this selective breeding would lead to modern day GMOs, which are seeds that have been genetically modified, meaning that their genes have been altered to contain more desirable traits such as pest resistance (Monsanto). This gives humans the ability to cultivate crops with more desirable traits. One major advancement in GMO research was made in 1980 when the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that scientists could patent genetically engineered bacteria that were able to break down crude oil to help with oil spill clean ups (Rangel.) In 2 society the controversy over GMOs is a growing public concern. Due to GMOs ability to resist pests, droughts, and other things, producers experience an increase in the amount of crops yielded, and when there is a surplus of product not only will prices be lowered, but there will be more to go around. For a product to be labeled as organic it first has to be grown without the use of prohibited fertilizers or pesticides, and must also be at or below a specified threshold for the amount of GMOs contained. Therefore, a product could be considered non-GMO but not organic (Porterfield.) Since non-GMO farms yield less crops, they typically increase the cost per product to stay competitive with companies who do use GMOs. This may not seem like a huge advantage, but with the negative stigma associated with GMOs, more consumers are willing to pay more for products without them. Currently a big issue are the very recognizable non-GMO stickers seen on products, which are often mistaken for a product also being organic. These stickers are misleading, and are how non-GMO/non-organic farmers profit, increasing prices to that of an organic crop (even though they are not), while keeping production costs down by using fertilizers and pesticides. There is such a plethora of misleading information about GMOs in society that it is a growing notion that they have negative effects on a health. For instance, a common misconception that, when ingested, a crop containing an antibiotic resistant gene would be transferred to the person ingesting it. Although this is widely believed by the public, there have been studies and research done to prove otherwise. European Food and Safety Authority (2004), among others, have determined that the risk of horizontal gene transfer from the plant to microorganisms is extremely low and that consequences would be minimal even if the transfers were to (Barrows, et al. 111). Currently, every major international science body in the 3 world has conducted independent studies, some numbering in the hundreds, and all have come to the unanimous conclusion that not only are GM products as safe to ingest as organic, but also, as of now, they have not detected any significant hazards to humans or animals (Nicola.) As college students, with limited income, this issue greatly affects us in our everyday life. Food prices are increasing due to further support of non-GMO products and therefore it will become harder to afford the basics. Companies also try to play off the fact that supporters of non- GMO will pay more, for example, when Whole Foods CEO Walter Robb announced its transition to non-GMO, are putting a stake in the ground on GMO labeling to support the right to Whole Foods promises that its transparency initiative includes all of the food we which seems a tad hypocritical now that the company is under investigation by New York Department of Consumer Affairs for falsely labeling food and overcharging customers in the process (Kelly.) One mother of two, Julie Kelly has experienced just this situation. She has had to find another place to shop, and has stated that when it comes to Whole Foods and GMOs, genetically modified items is akin to branding the product with scarlet letters to scare off customers and entice them to buy organic goods instead (just as they (Kelly.) Now think about how many people in America alone are struggling to pay the bills as it is. A continuation on the non-GMO movement could ultimately end up in a rise of price in all foods, which affects everyone. As this issue grows, it affects more and more people. At least 2,932 brand names are a part of the Non GMO Project alone (NON GMO Project.) According to GMO Inside, in the past two years ten huge companies have stated they are removing GMOs from their products. These ten include; Good Start (Nestle), Enfamil (Mead Johnson Nutrition), Sabra Hummus, Campbells, Similac (Abbott Laboratorie), Hellmanns, Hersheys, Chobani, Grape-Nuts (Post), and Cheerios 4 (General Mills) (GMO Inside.) To combat these expensive food prices people can get involved with organizations such as The Genetic Literacy, which accepts tax-deductible donations to fund further research of biotechnology. They are dedicated to separate ideology from science, or in other words, promoting public awareness on the benefits of genetic modification, biotechnology and science literacy (Genetic Literacy Project.) For a person who would like to get involved, one can take steps as simple as opting for foods containing GMOs. One easy step to take is to simply opt for foods containing GMOs when doing your regular grocery shopping, this includes, but is not limited to companies such as General Mills, and Coca Cola. Most products that are anti-GMO are clearly labeled so it would be easy to differentiate between the two, and in turn, these products would be less expensive. Companies that use GMOs are starting to label their products with scanable QR codes, so another way to help the cause is as simple as downloading an application on your smart phone that enables you to scan these codes and have the nutrition facts right at your fingertips, you can even share this on social media. Lastly, you could directly donate to any organization that is pro GMO, which means the money donated would fund further research and development on the advancement of GMOs. Make it a priority to know the facts, that GMOs have been proven safe in recent studies, and spread the word! This will counteract all of the negativity that is already associated with them. A step in the direction of furthering the usage of GMOs is a step in the direction to end world hunger! 5 Works Cited Ahmed, Farid E. Testing of Genetically Modified Organisms in Foods. New York: Food Products Press, 2004 Annaliese. Pro Modern Day Farm Chick. May 30, 2014 Bodiguel, Luc and Cardwell, Michael. The regulation of genetically modified organisms: comparative approaches. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2010. Entine, Jon, and Wendell, JoAnna. Reasons Why GMOs Are Safe To Eat and Environmentally Forbes. October 14, 2013 GMO Answers. Are GMOs Youtube. August 2, 2013. GMO Inside. http://gmoinside.org. Accessed 16 Nov. 2016. Kelly, Julie. whole foods and chipotles anti-gmo campaigning has lost my Genetic Literacy Project. Web accessed 20 Nov. 2016. Kruft, David. Impacts of Genetically-Modified Crops and Seeds on Farmers. November, 2001 Monsanto. www. Monsanto.com. Accessed 16 Nov. 2016. Nelson, Gerald C. Genetically modified organisms in agriculture: economics and politics. San Diego, Calif.: Academic Press, c2001. Pringle, Peter. Food, inc.: Mendel to Monsanto--the promises and perils of the biotech harvest. New York: Simon & Schuster, c2003. and cons of mandatory GMO Science Daily. April 1, 2016. Pounds, Kacie L. Food Fight in Florida: Assessing Florida Residents Perceptions, Purchasing Intentions, and Labeling Perceptions of Gmos. Gainesville, Fla: University of Florida, 2014. 6 Weirich, Paul. Labeling genetically modified food: the philosophical and legal debate. Oxford; New York: Oxford University Press, 2007.