Patel 1 Jay Patel Professor Ryan Composition 2 15 April 2017 Gun Control (Intermediate) Gun control has been an issue for many years now and the signs of its bearing show any means of stopping anytime soon. The 2 nd Amendment makes it clear that the United States of America (USA) wants its citizens to feel safe and allow the ownership of guns to do so. Of course they have guns to do other activities such as hunting but for the most part the guns are to make sure the people feel safe and do not get overthrown by their own government. There have been many correlations that have surfaced the fact that the more guns a population has the more gun violence that will follow. The best way to stop gun control is to simply limit the amount of guns a population has and create stricter gun laws that make it impossible for someone to use their gun as a weapon against people. The United States has 88.8 guns per 100 people, or about 270,000,000 guns, which is the highest total and per capita number in the world (GunControlProCon). Gun violence is one of the most primary causes of deaths in the USA and during 2016 alone there were over 15,000 deaths (GunViolenceArchive). With that number, around 3,500 of those deaths were minors under the age of 18 who had barely gotten to see everything their life had to offer for them. Being able to understand the substantial destruction gun violence leaves on lives and their family can really have someone truly agree that guns need to be on a lower level of occupancy. Not to mention, guns are rarely used in self-defense and people are more likely to get killed with their Patel 2 own gun. Of the 29,618,300 violent crimes committed between 2007 and 2011, 0.79% of victims (235,700) protected themselves with a threat of use or use of a firearm, the least-employed protective behavior (GunControlProCon). Ultimately, showcasing the fact that just because you have a gun does not mean you are safe from occurring violence that is going on. Furthermore, there are correlations that show that own gun can be the cause of future violence regarding themselves because of the gun theft rate being so high. With guns being a product that can be easily carried away and quickly sold at a relatively high fraction of the initial cost, the presence of more guns can actually serve as a stimulus to burglary and explained by Ian Ayres, JD, PhD, and John J. Donohue, JD, PhD, Professors of Law at Yale Law School and Stanford Law School. Thus, allowing more intention for people to perform in burglaries and theft. Coincidently, it would also be easy to say if there was a mass shooting going on and a civilian with a gun tried to get involved it would make things a lot more complicated and probably turn the situation into something far worse than it already was because the civilian is not trained for situations of such drama and commotion. Although, these might seem like great ideas to help the public reduce gun violence and lower the death rate, they need to be passed by the government still. These ideas and facts can only be understood and fulfilled by the government if enough of the population can decide to respect the facts and vote on the cause. There are many campaigns every year and strive to stop gun violence by changing the way the USA citizens can acquire and handle their weapons. Although, these campaigns mean nothing without the backup of the public which is necessary. When more people begin to start talking about how they are voting for pro-gun control others will begin to follow because the facts will start to be floating around in conversations more often Patel 3 and the word will get around which is the only way things will truly change for the better of the USA. When people first acquired guns it was for the protection of themselves and nowadays it simply used for that as much. With gun owners being killed by their own guns and burglaries regarding guns happening ever so too often one can understand it causes more trouble than good. With the correct people making gun laws there can be a safe compromise between people who loves guns and people who understand guns can be harmful in many cases. Overall, if the gun laws can become stricter and used to protect the citizens a lot more than it currently does there can definitely be a substantial decrease in gun violence and gun related deaths. Patel 4 Works Cited Gun Control -  Should More Gun Control Laws Be Enacted in the United States? N.p., n.d. Web. 20 Apr. 2017. Past Summary  Gun Violence Archive. N.p., n.d. Web. 20 Apr. 2017. Lopez, German. More Guns Mean More Gun Murders. How We  Vox. Vox, 08 Dec. 2015. Web. 20 Apr. 2017. Transition Words. N.p., n.d. Web. 20 Apr. 2017.