Ethan Best 19 April Composition 2 Healthcare in America The topic of Healthcare in the United States has been an extremely polarizing issue in recent years. The passing of the Affordable Healthcare Act (Obamacare) in 2010 caused immense controversy, as it was the first time since the that the private Healthcare industry had been challenged. Recently elected President Trump ran with the promise of repealing Obamacare. However, his replacement bill was recently shot down in Congress and Trump has yet to issue a follow up. Back in 2016, Presidential nominee and senator Bernie Sanders introduced the idea of universal healthcare to the public eye, and raised important philosophical questions such as healthcare a Healthcare is a complicated issue, and many Americans are either too uneducated on the topic to have a respectable opinion, or support whatever their political party supports. Once educated however, Americans will start to see the private healthcare industry as what it really is, a way to rip off the American public. The most well-known and disturbing aspect of the U.S. healthcare industry is the opioid epidemic. The roots of the opioid epidemic start with the war on drugs. Back in the late president Nixon perpetuated the war on drugs to criminalize the lifestyles of his two biggest enemies: the anti-war left and African Americans, according to his Aide (LoBianco, 1). However, another large contributor to the war on drugs is the healthcare industry. Industry lobbyists work to keep pain-relieving, relatively harmless drugs, such as marijuana, illegal. The industry does this so people go to their doctors for pain relief, and subsequently get prescriptions for addictive and powerful drugs like it is candy. The result of this system is the opioid epidemic, as well as huge profits for the healthcare industry. A 2011 article stated that 236 million narcotic prescriptions were written that year alone, and opioid use is responsible for more deaths than suicide and motor vehicle crashes combined (Laxmaiah, abstract). Despite this horrifying reality, the ideological brainwashing of society causes it to blame the drug addicts, and reject any efforts to change the system. The next problem with the private healthcare system is drug prices. The steady rise in drug prices in the U.S. takes a toll on individuals seeking treatment, as well as the healthcare system as a whole. Many patients suffering from deadly diseases will often avoid or lessen their treatment due to ridiculously high drug prices. A recent study on cancer patients showed that the average out-of-pocket expenses for necessary life-saving drugs is twenty to thirty thousand dollars each year, nearly half of average annual income in the United States. Even with insurance, these expenses are so unbelievable that around ten to twenty percent of cancer patients do not undergo treatment at all (Kantarjian, Abstract). It is pathetic and shameful that in a first-world society, and the wealthiest nation on Earth, people are choosing cancer over treatment because of financial reasons. The underlying issue that causes all of these problems is the privatization of the healthcare system. The United States has made it apparent that it is impossible to have a successful private healthcare system. A private system perpetuates competition; competition between doctors, companies, and even individuals. The only thing anyone in a private system cares about is money, hence the healthcare perpetuation of the war on drugs, rising drug prices, and other less apparent issues such as intentional misdiagnosing. One huge problem prevalent in our system is the lack of treatment for people with extremely rare diseases. Since pharmaceutical companies only invest in drugs that are profitable, treatments for extremely rare diseases are nearly non-existent, and the ones that do exist are often incredibly expensive. This phenomenon can also be attributed to a capitalist healthcare system. The solution to many of these problems is one many countries have already implemented, a public healthcare system. For a long time in America, the idea of a public healthcare system was taboo, with any perpetuator of the idea dismissed as a communist. However, in the last five years or so, the American public has begun to legitimately consider a public system, possibly due to the countless problems with our current one. The passing of the Affordable Care Act in 2010 was a start. This act made it mandatory for citizens to have health insurance, and allowed coverage for over 20 million people who were previously uninsured. However, the Affordable Care Act was very favorable to pharmaceutical and insurance companies as they used intense lobbying to sway politicians. In the 2016 presidential race, a democrat from Vermont named Bernie Sanders ran on implementing a public healthcare system which he called Medicare For All. Though he failed to get the democratic nomination, his campaign garnered huge support and attention, especially from millennials. campaign is undoubtedly the closest America has gotten to electing a pro-public heathcare system candidate. Although this is a good start, there is much work to be done as a large amount of politicians in Washington are accepting money from the healthcare industry, and refuse to acknowledge the needs and wants of the American public. The current privatized healthcare system is an institution beset on making as much money as possible, often undermining the American people. Atrocities perpetuated by the system include the war on drugs, the opioid epidemic, rising drug prices, as well as lack of treatment. The Affordable Care Act drastically improved the lives of the 20 million plus people that it insured, however it has done nothing to stop most of the previously mentioned issues. The Sanders campaign in 2016 showed it is possible to garner mass support for a public system, however there is still much to be done before a public system can be integrated. The future of healthcare is in the hands of the American public. We need to make it clear that Americans want a system that supports the people instead of oppressing them, and focus on profits but focuses on the well-being of Americans. Works Cited LoBianco, Tom. Report: war on drugs targeted black  CNN. Cable News Network, 24 Mar. 2016. Web. 20 Apr. 2017. Kantarjian, Hagop. High Cancer Drug Prices in the United  Journal of Oncology Practice. University of Texas, n.d. Web. 20 Apr. 2017. Laxmaiah Manchikanti, M. D., et al. Opioid epidemic in the United  Pain physician 15 (2012): 2150-1149. Schumock, Glen T., et al. National trends in prescription drug expenditures and projections for  American Journal of Health-System Pharmacy 72.9 (2015).