Morgan Craig ENC 1102 Professor Ryan Here at USF safe say we are all familiar with the signs and protest that happen right outside of Cooper Hall. On one side people are yelling and asking you how you feel about their graphic pictures of aborted fetuses; and on the other side you see students writing is on the sidewalks and arguing back and forth about why the graphic pictures are wrong. But what about you? The one that walks with your headphones in, head down, blocking off any form of confrontation as you walk through this controversial fiasco. not sexually active, on birth control, not pro-life or pro-choice; you barely know what that means, abortion affect you at all right?...WRONG According to the Guttmacher Institute, in 2014 more than half of all U.S. abortion patients were in their twenties and twelve percent of abortion patients were adolescents (Jerman, Jones, Onda). Abortion could have more to do with you than you realize. These statistics could represent your friends, family, classmates, or coworkers. While you have to go to any extremes and stand up in front of the school calling them to repent, you should make sure that you and the rest of your student body understand all the aspects and sides of abortion and the choices that are available when it comes to abortion. While the pro-life advocates that stand outside of cooper hall try to persuade you to stray away from abortion, they do a poor job at providing you with actual facts about abortion and do not clear up the common controversy surrounding it. The current law, according to the Roe vs. Wade court decision, abortion is legal with certain exceptions and restrictions put in place for safety (Reuters). There are options and choices involved with pregnancies and the pro-life ideology is not the only path that can be followed. This topic concerns you, your class mates, your family and friends, you all deserve to have and know all of your options. The pro-choice movement stands behind the notion that women have the right to choose abortion. According to the Pro Choice Action Network the movement and abortion providers are in the business of protecting and respecting human rights, their moral autonomy, and their (Arthur). There are numerous pro choice organizations that work to cater to and protect right. The National Abortion Federation works with clinics, hospitals, Planned Parenthood, and physician offices to ensure safe abortions for women and provide them with all the options they have. List is an organization that works to elect pro choice Democratic women to office in order to ignite change in the government. The National Network of Abortion Funds aims to financial and logistical barriers to abortion Network Of Abortion Funds). All of these organizations support the choices of women and are great sources to refer to for facts about abortion that you cannot get from the advocates standing outside of Cooper Hall. With all the resources out there for you to learn and understand abortion better, you have the power to change and inspire your student body. Join forces with other students whom just walk past the abortion fiascos and encourage each other to get educated on the topic. Reach out to different organizations and see what other options there are for people considering abortion. Take all these things into consideration and create a club in which students provide factual information in a safe and non-persecuting way. Become the opposite of what the pro-life advocates outside of Cooper Hall do and invite students in to learn about abortion with open arms and free of judgement. With a topic as controversial as abortion, it may seem very difficult to believe you could change the lives of students or influence your student body in any way. While it may seem impossible, not. The pro-life advocates started off in the same positon you are with a call to make a difference. They gathered some supporters and now they are making a difference here at USF. While the impact they are making is not necessarily a positive one, you have the chance to refute this negativity and become a resource for so many students. The next time you see your school being flooded with pictures of aborted children, and people shouting about how wrong abortion is, be the person who just walks by thinking abortion affect you. Be the educated person who started a club to help educate others on abortion. Be the person who stops the people walking by and let them how abortion is relevant to them. Be the person who creates a safe haven for students and lets them know they have options and choices when it comes to pregnancy planned or unplanned. Be the person who changes the reputation USF. WORKS CITED Reuters, Thomson. Roe v.  Findlaw. N.p., n.d. Web. Apr. 2017. Arthur, Joyce. What Pro-Choice Really  THE PRO-CHOICE ACTION NETWORK. N.p., n.d. Web. Apr. 2017.  National Network of Abortion Funds. Themify WordPress, n.d. Web. Apr. 2017 Jerman, Jenna, Rachel K. Jones, and Tsuyoshi Onda. Characteristics of U.S. Abortion Patients in 2014 and Changes Since  Guttmacher Institute. N.p., 10 June 2016. Web. Apr. 2017.