Elizabeth Bearor Adam Phillips ENC 1102.022 16 April 2017 Effects of Standardized Testing Standardized tests are taken annually by students all over the country. Ever since the No Child Left Behind Act was passed by President George Bush and now the recent Common Core requirements the situation has only gotten progressively worse (Knoester and Wayne 2). The standardized tests students are forced to take from third to eighth grade can not only cause a lot of stress to the students but also can affect their day to day schooling experience. Teachers and schools are also affected very negatively because of hard to achieve federal education goals and risk losing funding. With a new, progressively stricter, schooling reform coming from each successive president after Bush no better time to act than now. One may not care because their schooling days are long gone or because they have children that are currently in school but, adults have the best chance of being listened to. The same children that are sitting down for a mandated exam are the same children that have the potential to become doctors, teachers or lawyers and if they lose fate in the education system all of our futures are at stake. The most important step first in acting against standardized tests is educating yourself and others around you about the issues having to deal with them then and voting for legislators that are for the type of education system you are for. The first factor in fighting against standardized tests is being very educated on the topic to be able to answer any questions that may come your way. The most troubling aspect of standardized tests is that schools and teachers can be punished for having below average test scores. With 2008 reform congress granted schools around $5 billion but schools had to agree to terms such as, judging teachers based on their students test scores and agree to schools with low test scores by firing most of the teachers and principals, just to name a few (Strauss). These practices can make it increasingly more discouraging for teachers to believe that they are doing their job correctly. Also, forcing teachers to teach for the standardized test at the end of the year loses all creativity for the teachers. Students are no longer encouraged to be creative in school and are now being taught a specific lesson each day. Having to teach a certain lecture on a certain day can make it extremely difficult for teachers to tailor to all of their students needs. This also greatly harms students chances for success if they fall behind because classroom time is valuable and cannot be lost because of one student not understanding. Teachers must continue on with their lesson plans to be able to go through everything that is on the test at the end of the year or, risk getting losing their job. This can create a divide between teachers and students causing students to emotionally shut down and educators jobs to be at stake because of struggling pupils. But, the issue does not lie within teachers or specific schools as they do not like these restrictions rather, in the state and federal attempt to make a more educated society. Schools and teachers are only a scapegoat as stated in Valerie article, other nation in the world has inflicted so many changes or imposed so many mandates on its teachers and public schools as [America in the past dozen years. No other nation tests every student every year [like America students are the most over-tested in the These changing policies have not shown to drastically change education throughout the years. In fact, these policies has worsened education as students no longer taught art, physical education or music classes as much as STEM classes. With new Common Core standards support is at an all time low. As stated in Paul academic journal, Core Brand Tants Opinions on he states, 2012, the first year about Common Core, 90% ... said they favored the standards. But it fell to just 50% in (10). If many legislators are increasingly not in favor of common core and standardized tests there is no better time for adults to make a stand against the unfairness of these tests then now. The next important step in taking a stand against standardized tests is to educate those around you. Giving others the information on the unfairness of common core and standardized tests will make them realize something must be done. Educating others is possibly one of the best ways of fighting against these exams because the more that know the more change can be made. For example, in New York when popularity of standardized testing decreased Governor Cuomo had a team look into them and discovered that it was unfair to judge teachers on the Sense of the Opt-Out 62). It is also very important to vote for legislators that will listen to your needs. Calling and writing to your local congressman or congresswomen is one step that can be made and will begin to pressure them to vote for laws against standardized tests, as they want to be re-elected. This can be done by anyone that wants to make a stand at anytime and, the more people that contact local congress representatives the more likely of a chance there is of a major change being made. One can also vote for laws that favor changes in common core and standardized tests. Americans, as a whole, should be always asking questions about what current policies are in place especially when it comes to future generations. Making a difference in the education and lives of children will allow them to grow into well rounded adults. The current standing of the education system is a mess and must be changed soon or futures are at stake. The way standardized tests and common core is going now is unacceptable. These exams are not only not beneficial to the students taking them but also harm schools and teachers. If cumulative test scores are are progressively low for a teacher for a few years then they can risk losing their job. If test scores are below average for schools they can risk losing their staff or worse, being shut down. The more people that know about the unfairness of common core and standardized tests the better chance of a significant change happening. Telling family and friends is a fantastic way to start educating others then tell their family and friends and the cycle will continue. Also, encouraging to vote for laws and legislators that are against standardized tests will make a major difference. One can also write to their local congressman at anytime to try and encourage a change. Everyone needs to be very concerned about the lives of children and their future. With the way the education system is going future of the kids is not the main focus of lawmakers. children are doctors, lawyers and engineers and a lot of focus needs to be put on them. Refranes Knoester, Matthew and Wayne Au. Standardized Testing and School Segregation: Like Tinder for  Ethnicity and vol. 20, no. 1, 01 Jan. 2017, pp. 1-14. Web. 15 Apr. 2017 Sense of the Opt-Out  vol. 16, no. 4, Fall2016, pp. 55-64. 15 Apr. 2017 PETERSON, PAUL E.1,2, et al. COMMON CORE BRAND TAINTS OPINION on STANDARDS. (Cover  vol. 17, no. 1, Winter2017, pp. 8-17. Web. 15 Apr. 2017 Strauss, Valerie. Everything you need to know about Common Core  The Washington Post. WP Company, 18 Jan. 2014. Web. 15 Apr. 2017.