Brooke Doran Instructor Krista Townsend ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Educate, Engage, and Empower: Physician-Assisted Suicide Physician assisted suicide is defined as voluntary termination of own life by administration of a lethal substance with the direct or indirect assistance of a There are two different types of physician assisted suicide voluntary and involuntary, voluntary means the patient themselves decide that they want to do it and involuntary means a family member, friend or doctor makes the decision for the patient (Gallagher). It is legal in 7 states in the U.S. for doctors to perform physician assisted suicide, each state has their own regulations on the matter, but all of them required the patient to be a resident of that state, be at least 18 years old, have written proof that their life expectancy is 6 months or less, and the patient must have requested to participate in physician assisted suicide twice verbally and one written request after 15 days Patients have taken advantage of the legalization of physician assisted suicide to help them be relived from pain by dying. Two days after the patient turns in their final written request the doctor can prescribe the lethal medication, and the patient takes the medication usually at home in bed (Engber). Once taken the medication causes the patient to sleep, be in a coma, and then death; this is painless for patients (Gallagher). The states that have made physician assisted suicide legal have either passed an Act or it was ruled my the court, in the few cases where it was passed was by majority, but not by much; for example the acts voted on only passed by 65%, 51%, and 58%, the court only passed 5-4, and 3-2 This being said a little less than half of the population voting are against physician assisted suicide so making a compromise would be ideal in this situation. Physician assisted suicide is already legal in a few states in the U.S. so putting more regulations on it would be a much easier task for the time being instead of trying to get rid of it all together. The organization Not Dead Yet (NDY) works to delegalize physician assisted suicide. Their main focus as an organization is on the mistreatment of the disabled and elderly and these vulnerable groups could be coerced into participating in physician assisted suicide Dead Coercing someone into doing physician assisted suicide is morally and ethically wrong, if the patient does not was to do it then they should be able to live their life. Physician assisted suicide is a huge decision to make and the decision should only be made by the patient themselves, not the doctor or the patients family. In the Hippocratic oath doctors promise to do no harm to their patients, prescribing a medication to a patient for the sole purpose of them killing themselves is harm. NDY is also concerned with physician assisted suicide because not all doctors have to same view on the of and some doctors offer the lethal medication to patients who do not want it or who do not even have a terminal illness Dead When it comes to physician assisted suicide the results are deadly. If one doctor suggests physician assisted suicide because in their opinion the patients conditioned improve, but a different doctor believes that the patient has a fair chance; that patient could have potentially gone through with physician assisted suicide then they could be missing out of a healthy life in the future if he had gone with his original doctors advice. Ultimately it is a single doctor who decides who can and cannot receive physician assisted suicide, this is a cause for concern because not all doctors have to same opinion and there is not accountability system set up between the doctors, they can basically do whatever they want. There is always a chance that a patient will get better and they will be able to have great healthy life, but there is no way to know that if that patient chose to participate in physician assisted suicide. Death is permanent; you can never take it back, so having stronger regulations onto the existing legislature could do nothing but good. Everyone knows an elderly or disabled person or someone with a chronic illness and should care about physician assisted suicide because it effects people you know or yourself. This affects the elderly and disabled because they could potentially be coerced into participating physician assisted suicide by a doctor, or a care taker. Most people have grandparents who could possibly be at risk. Everyone gets old, even a parent or yourself could be effected by this eventually. The elderly and disabled might not be able to stand up for themselves, so no one would know that they are being coerced into doing in physician assisted suicide. In order to be sure that physician assisted suicide being coerced upon people it needs to be highly regulated by legislature and a group of palliative doctors who are the deciding factor of who can or cannot receive physician assisted suicide. Having a group of doctors that decide what patients can and cannot participate in physician assisted suicide would eliminate the possibility of the misjudgment of the quality of life, there would be more doctors opinions, and it could stop people from potentially being coerced into it because the person would have to request it to the group of doctors personally. A study was done to prove that groups have been abused or coerced into doing physician assisted suicide (Battin et al). The study was inconclusive being that the people the study was about would be dead already because they were coerced into physician assisted suicide (Battin et al). This can be prevented. The only way to successfully add restrictions to the existing acts that legalize physician assisted suicide is through support. The more supporters the higher chance of regulations being put into place. Every vote counts, like what was mentioned earlier the acts that were passed only won by 65%, 51%, and 58%, if more people went out and voted against physician assisted suicide these acts most likely would not have passed, one only lost by 2% Regulations need to be made and enforced quickly because this is a matter of life and death. The elderly and disabled will continuously be coerced into physician assisted suicide if a group of palliative doctors put in place soon to protect these vulnerable groups they will continued to be abused in this way. To conclude, physician assisted suicide is a way to relieve the pain people have from terminal illnesses, and is provided by a doctor after the patient or their family gives multiple requests for it. Doctors may abuse the power physician assisted suicide gives them by providing the lethal medication to patients that do not want it, which is wrong. The only way to make sure this procedure is not being abused is to make an accountability system for doctors. Making a group of palliative doctors who decide who can receive physician assisted suicide care would regulate it, and eliminate the chance of vulnerable groups to be abused. Work Cited Battin, Margaret , Agnes Van Der Hiede, Linda Ganzini, Gerrit Van Der Wal, and Bergje Onwuteaka-Philipsen. Legal physician-assisted dying in Oregon and the Netherlands: evidence concerning the impact on patients in   Battin et al. 33 (10): 591 -- Journal of Medical Ethics. N.p., 10 July 2007. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Engber, Daniel . How does physician assisted suicide  N.p., 6 Oct. 2005. Web. 13 Apr. 2017. Gallagher, Romayne, MD. Physician-Assisted Suicide and Euthanasia: Introduction Topics Articles Canadian Virtual Hospice. N.p., 31 Aug. 2016. Web. 13 Apr. 2017. Medical Definition of Physician-assisted  MedicineNet. N.p., 24 Jan. 2017. Web. 13 Apr. 2017. Not Dead Yet Disability Activists Oppose Assisted Suicide As A Deadly Form of  Not Dead Yet. N.p., 05 July 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. State-by-State Guide to Physician-Assisted Suicide - Euthanasia -  ProCon.org Headlines. N.p., 5 Oct. 2015. Web. 28 Jan. 2017.