Sabek 1 Loren Sabek Adam Phillips ENC1102 15 April 2017 Guns Save Lives Gun policy has been a popular topic since the although debate over whether Americans can obtain guns has settled in favor of gun rights. In modern-day domestic violence or homicides, guns are almost always part of the equation when regarding self-defense. Guns are used 2.5 million times a year in self-defense. It would be nice to think that firearms are able to prevent these casualties from occurring and protect the victims. Nine times out of ten, these victims are women or children. This should not be the case because women are just as able as men to defend themselves or their children in any situation using a firearm. Educating the public on the vital information pertaining to self-defense could prevent thousands of rapes, kidnaps, and homicides from occurring each year. Also on this site would be a forum where victims of the past can discuss their past experiences and ask others to educate themselves before it is too late. They can discuss why they chose to get a gun, or if others are considering getting one and need advice be the place for it. There should be educational workshops to help them learn how to handle a gun, how to reload, aim, and fire. These workshops would need volunteers that are willing to reach out and help others protect themselves. There can also be sponsorships for this movement or have employers of participants get involved in workplace giving. 200,000 women are being raped, four to six children die from child abuse, and 16,000 homicides occur every year. Although it is impossible to prevent this from happening entirely, having an open mind on self-defense, gun in hand, can make a significant difference. Sabek 2 Recently, it has been foreseen that eighty-seven percent of women buy guns to use for self-protection. This act is being supported by millions of women across the country. According to National Crime Victimization Surveys conducted at the Harvard School of Public Health, the highest incident rate of self-defense gun of the time occurred in sexual assaults. The highest rates of sexual assaults occur with women and children than they do men. and females were close to equally likely to be a victim in a criminal incident, while males were three times more likely to use a gun in self-defense in such This is not surprising since more males than females own a gun. Most female self-defense gun uses are usually within the home. This supports the fact that when women are attacked or raped it is usually by an intimate partner or someone they are close to. The first thing these women do is call 911. This is what the Brady Campaign put under their main option for women under assault. It is important to teach those who are victimized the other routes in which they may take to protect themselves from every day harm. Especially in urban areas where the crime rates are much higher in regards to homicide, rape, kidnap, and domestic abuse. A good example of an area in which these casualties occur is Orlando, Florida. In Orlando, during the late the media highly publicized a safety course that taught women how to use guns. This resulted in the rape rate to drop 88% in 1967, compared to the rest of Florida where it stayed the same. (Gun Owners Organization) This is evidence that safety courses, as well as other means of informing the public on matters regarding personal safety actually work. The common misconception when it comes to defending oneself and taking steps to learn how to do so is that it may be ineffective. Not many people take action towards preparing themselves for a violent situation that may result between life or death. This is because they think that the chances of them ending up in a situation like that is very unlikely and therefore Sabek 3 disregard the idea of having a gun. In a journal on the banning of guns, the risks involved, and the impact on self-defense, Deane-Peter Baker speaks of the rights to firearms and how if taken away, rights unlike others and would concede the power of people to protect themselves. rights such as my right to freedom of speech, or my right to property, or even my right to control over my body are violated, as serious as those violations are they nonetheless do not usually entail a permanent loss of the opportunity to exercise those There is a deep connection between the right to life and liberty and the right to defend it. This right entails the right to defend oneself from lethal weapons as the right to life. There are certain groups who do not support this right and misunderstand its benefits. Feminists who speak out on guns necessarily do not recognize the physical attribute to self- defense. They support other options like calling 911, talking their way out of the situation, or relying on a male character in their life to come to the rescue. The decision to carry a gun is not a simple question of whether or not it is the best tool for the job. It is also a social question of what types of training are available and easily accessible for women to benefit from. The emphasis on guns as the between both sexes ignores the context referring to genders in which women learn self-defense outside of women-only self-defense spaces. women who choose to become involved in their own self-defense may find that the masculine ethos of gun culture blocks their ability to learn how to use a gun proficiently. If guns are the only option, then these women may be cut out completely from (Carlson 4). Sabek 4 Works Cited: Hemenway, David. Solnick, Sara J. epidemiology of self-defense gun use: Evidence from the National Crime Victimization Preventive Medicine Vol. 79, no. 1, 2015, pp.22- 27. Carlson, Jennifer D. Gun Politics to Self-Defense Violence Against Women Vol 20, Issue 3, 2014, pp. 369 - 377. Baker, Deane-Peter. Gun Bans, Risk, and  International Journal of Applied Philosophy, no. 2, 2014, p. 235 Landsbaum, Claire. Ad Claims Is Owning a The Cut. 13 July 2016. Gun Owners Organization: Guns Save Lives