Alfalatah1 Sarah Abdulkadir Alfalatah Modlin-Jackson ENC 1101 4/9/2017 The Relationship Between Mental Illness and Criminal Behavior My research question through-out this semester was: how does being diagnosed with a mental disease affect an lifetime of committing crimes and being incarcerated because of their disease? The research done has varied, some people believe that anyone who maintains a mental disease has a very higher chance of committing crimes. On the other hand there was a lot of researchers who disagree and believe that being mentally ill does not necessarily imply criminal behavior. Many results from my research have shown that mental illness can slightly increase criminal behavior; however, it is not a main cause of criminality. Criminal behavior for the most does not result from one fact only, but is a combination of multiple risk factors that eventually lead to criminal behavior. Many people in this society suffer from a mental disorder and could be treated unjustly because of their disorder. People who suffer from drug addiction, family abuse, and alcoholism, could be treated unjustly as well. Criminal behavior is a very complex matter and there is no simple way to determine who will commit a crime. Matt article is an example of people who have committed crimes and suffer from mental illness as well. Vogel explains how people with mental illness are capable of committing crimes and their disorders could lead to criminal behavior. He also mentions that the society should not label mental illness patients as criminals because of their disease. Vogel mentions like many other researchers that criminal behavior is more complex and complicated than people actually Alfalatah2 realize. I do agree with Vogel that people should not be labeled as criminals because of a disorder they cannot control. However, he mentions that people who are drug addicts or alcoholics have a higher rate in committing crimes than mentally ill people. Drug addicts and alcoholics sometimes are incapable of controlling their addictions such as people who are mentally ill. We should not justify one behavior by pointing to someone else; because being addicted to something can get out of hand and be very hard to maintain. The best solution is to support and help people who might have a higher risk of criminal behavior. We should try to prevent them from engaging in criminal behavior as much as possible by not incriminating them for something they might or might not do. A criminal hypothesis implied that the major two possibilities for criminal behavior. First obtaining a mental illness increases criminal behavior, second is the possibility of being incarcerated because of a mental disease. John Junginger focused on this study that was done in Hawaii and analyzed the effect of substance abuse, mental illness, and its impact on criminal behavior. The National Alliance of Mental Illness (NAMI) believes that offenders who have a mental disease should not be imprisoned, but they should be treated in mental health facilities. A majority of criminals do have some sort of mental disease, alcoholism, drug addiction, or have been abused. Not all criminals belong in prison some of them only need help and guidance to overcome their addictions or trauma. Mental illness does not imply criminality alone, but combined with poverty, homelessness, unemployment, addiction, a combination of these factors together could be a reason that leads to criminal behavior. A psychiatric hospital in Munich studied patients who were diagnosed with schizophrenia and observed their criminal behavior. Michael Soyka tried to find a relationship between their behavior and link it to clinical and psychopathological characteristics. One purpose of this study Alfalatah3 was to predict if the patients will engage in any future criminal behavior or not. The results have shown that about 10% of the patients did engage in criminal behavior 7-12 years after their release from their mental health facilities. A different study by Na Zhu was done on patients who have ADHD. Those patients were also found to have a slightly increased rate of committing crimes. The study did not show a significant connection between criminality and attention problems, but there was a small percent who did connect between them both. This indicates that only a small percentage of people who are mentally ill engage in criminal behavior because of their disease. Majority of the society and people with mental disorders commit crimes based on other facts. I am not trying to imply that people who have a mental illness are incapable of committing any kind of violent behavior; however, I do believe that mental illness is not a factor to be highly considered at every crime. Mental illness still must be considered sometimes as a possible reason for criminality. In Australia Stephane M Shepherd closely studied the behavior of younger people. Their ages ranged between 12 and 25; the purpose of study was to understand why they committed crimes. were interviewed and observers analyzed certain measures to help them understand the reason for their criminal behavior. As shown in the results of this study is that people are more likely to commit crimes after a severe trauma, family abuse, and drug addiction. Providing help, care, and facilities who can support people who suffer from any kind of these problems would positively lower the rate of criminality. Preventing criminal behavior should be the main goal that people focus on especially authority figures. Our goal should be to help the young before they engage in any sort of criminal act and provide them with all necessary needs to become successful people and productive and prevent any future violent behavior. Alfalatah4 A different criminal hypothesis was considered by, Jillian Peterson. The hypothesis indicates that the main reason for criminal behavior is untreated psychiatric symptoms. This study analyzed the behavior of people who have and do not have a mental illness. The results show that only 7% of the support the hypothesis. Jillian came to a conclusion that both groups demonstrate criminal behavior based on facts such as emotional reactions, drug addiction, loathing for others, and lack of restraint. If people focus on all the various facts and reasons that lead to criminality despite the fact of having a mental disorder then there is a high possibility that the rate of crimes would lower significantly. Criminal behavior is for sure very hard to detect and explain. There will always be a thousand of reasons that could lead to criminal behavior and there is no easy way to be sure if a certain individual will commit a crime in their life. Mentally ill people are just like any other person there is the bad and good in them and the best thing to do is to try and make the world a better place that encourages everyone to act on the good inside them. It will take time and effort to lower the rate of criminal behavior, but it impossible if people truly put the right amount of effort and time into making it happen. Do not judge anyone by a certain disease or addiction they might have because people should encourage and help one another to become the best person they can be. I believe that over time the rate of criminal behavior will lower and that people will not be treated unjustly just because they have a mental illness, drug addiction, or are alcoholics. Alfalatah5 Works Cited Vogel, Matt. Illness and Criminal Sociology Compass, vol. 8, no. 4, 2014. pp. 337-346. doi:10.1111/soc4.12140. Junginger, John, and et, al. of Serious Mental Illness and Substance Abuse on Criminal Psychiatric Services, vol. 57, no. 6, 2006. pp. 879-882. doi:10.1176/ps.2006.57.6.879. Soyka, Michael, et.al. Correlates of Later Violence and Criminal Offences in Schizophrenia Research, vol. 94, no. 1-3, 2007. pp. 89-98. doi:10.1016/j.schres.2007.03.027. Zhu, Na, and et, al. Role of Inattention in the Relationship Between Mental Illness and Journal of Forensic Psychology Practice, vol. 13, no. 4, 2013. pp. 315-325. doi:10.1080/15228932.2013.817888. Peterson, Jillian, et al. Offense Patterns as a Function of Mental Illness to Test the Criminalization Psychiatric Services, vol. 61, no. 12, 2010. pp. 1217-1222. doi:10.1176/ps.2010.61.12.1217. Shepherd, Stephane M., and Rosemary Purcell. are the Factors Associated with Criminal Behaviour for Young People with Mental Health Psychiatry, Psychology and Law, vol. 22, no. 6, 2015. pp. 869-879. doi:10.1080/13218719.2015.1015399. Alfalatah6