Power 1 Molly Power ENC1102.022 Adam Phillips 16 April 2017 Public Health Care: A Call to Action Much of society realize it, but public health care is imperative for the entire community to lead a healthy life without situational or financial instabilities. The upper middle class is able to afford quality health care with both private or public health care but many as fortunate. For the lower classes, public health care is a necessity. This is due to the lower medical costs and generalized health care plans that appeal to the majority of the community. Specialized plans that come with private health care are more expensive and benefit a fraction of the community. Before supporting a private plan, those who can afford it should consider the implications that come with limiting access to public health care. Health care access, or lack there of, effects the entire community. If public health care covered nationwide, although the more fortunate will be covered, the majority of the community will negatively impact the health of others. Until everyone is considered in the discussion of health care, everyone is risking their health. To take action, getting involved in the voting process when opportunities involving health care reform, like the Affordable Care Act arise. Those with the freedom to choose their preferred health care plan can reach out to the community and local health care providers. This aids in understanding fellow struggles and in knowing the facts behind these 49.9 million Americans, and growing. Power 2 Knowing the facts is the first step to supporting those who are forced into bankruptcy or illness due to health care related struggles. Discussed by the US Census Bureau, for over forty-nine million Americans without health care, illness can be fatal. This is supported by a Harvard Medical School Study which stated that without health insurance had a 40 percent higher risk of death than those with private health insurance, a result of being unable to obtain necessary medical Care Statistics in the United States). Before the slow health care reform towards public health care, than one-third, thirty-seven percent, of all U.S. adults reported going without needed care because of (Selden, Thomas). Due to the recent reform to a more privatized health care system, now is the time to take action. Public health care should be considered by the fraction of the community able to choose the health care they believe is best for themselves, and the nation. The Nursing Inquiry of the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill states, changes in US government-funded healthcare insurance are having profound impacts on all types of community-based health-care, reducing access to care by vulnerable (Milio, Nancy). This was stated before the reform towards more universal, public health care. Because of the recent reversing of health care policy, the United States is moving back into the more privatized direction. This reversal will cause a decline in health, and an increase in bankruptcy, for many Americans unable to access private health care. The opportunity to have a nationwide public health care system will take time but is a possibility with the support of the entire community. Analyzed by the US Census Bureau, rates decreased sharply by 2.3 percentage points between 2014 and 2015, marking the largest percentage point declines over this (Barnett, Jessica C., and Marina S. Vornovitsky). This Power 3 time period correlates with health care reforms moving towards more public health care opportunities. Because of this correlation, The majority of those without health insurance struggle with financial and situational struggles. This struggle is something that the fraction of the community with the ability to chose their healthcare is unaware of. According to a Harvard Medical School Study, of health care is associated with over forty four thousand deaths per Care Statistics in the United States). These death rates will decrease rapidly if everyone in the community supports votes towards public health care, like the Affordable Care Act, and understands the statistics behind the struggle of over forty-nine million Americans. With this increase in a healthy community comes fewer cases of bankruptcy and debt. The American Journal of Medicine states that two thirds, sixty-two percent, of bankruptcy in the US in 2007 was due to illness or medical Care Statistics in the United States). One of the biggest assets of public health care is the cost difference. Private health care, although more time efficient and specialized, is individually more of an expense. This expense leads to bankruptcy throughout the community, which in turn leads to fewer Americans getting help and deaths that could be prevented. This can be prevented with more support of public health care from those who have the option of private health care providers. Although private health care comes with benefits, the more Americans who support it will create a divide between classes and health. With public health care, the nation is working together to create a healthier and happier community. The preventative measure that needs to be established is the involvement of those unaware of the impact private health care has on those who have an option. Those Power 4 who are privileged to afford health care should not turn a blind eye to over forty-nine million men and women. For those who see the ethical obligation behind considering the benefits of public health care, it is the right time to become involved. A few ways to do so are, when there are moves made to reform health care practices, actively vote. Also, getting in touch with more Americans struggling with their health care providers will demonstrate the reality of the situation. The over forty-nine million Americans uninsured need support to get the benefits they deserve to lead a happy and healthy life. Becoming more involved in the community will benefit the Americans unaware of the struggles millions of people are going through. With more people weighing the options between the two health care options in the United States, those who have the option of private health care will be heard. Now is the time to become empowered and empower others to support the public health care system for fellow Americans. Public health care, although seen as an option for many around the nation, is a necessity for those with financial and situational insecurities. It is crucial to support those without the option of private health care for a healthy and happy community. While those who have the option will generally choose private health care due to the faster and more personal care, their support is creating a divide between classes and health. The health of the community is interconnected with everyone in it. To stop the preventable bankruptcy and illness due to lack of coverage, it is crucial to get involved with the health care discussion. Voting in favor of public health care will benefit everyone in society. Private health care, although it is more time efficient and specialized, is not cost efficient. Because of this, many Americans are suffering due to preventable causes. To end this and Power 5 lower the national death rate due to health care technicalities, become more educated, involved, and empathetic to the forty-nine million Americans uninsured. Power 6 Works Cited Barnett, Jessica C., and Marina S. Vornovitsky. Insurance Coverage in the United States: Census.gov. US Census Bureau, Web. 15 Apr. 2017 Derickson, Alan, Dr. for Three-Thirds of the The American Journal of Public Health (2002): 180-90. Web. 12 Apr. 2017 Health Care Statistics in the United  HealthPAC online. HealthPAC. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Milio, Nancy. The Impact of Recent Changes in Public Health Insurance on Community- Based Health-Care in the USA. Chapel Hill: The U of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, 2000. Web. Selden, Thomas. Distribution of Public Spending for Health Care in the United Medical Benefits 2002. Web. 13 Apr. 2017.