John Weldon Kristin Gocinski ENC1102.910S17 21 April 2017 Owning the Topic of Gun Control On April 16, 2017, Robert Godwin Sr. was the victim of a publicly-broadcasted shooting over Facebook Live. This atrocity not only marks the 4,432nd shooting-related death in the United States this year (January 1-April 16), but also epitomizes the ever-growing issue of gun violence in this country According to a Gun Violence Archive report, 367 people were killed, and an additional 1,314 were injured in mass shootings alone in the year 2015 A mass shooting is the shooting or killing of four or more people at a specific time and location. In addition to these mass shooting events, there have been tens-of-thousands of firearm-related incidents in the United States this year. These incidents, ranging from unintentional firearm discharges to premeditated murders, all factor into this category. The scary thing is, these numbers only continue to rise with respect to time. When comparing shooting-related statistics between 2015 and 2016, ten other categories--which include overall firearm-related deaths, number of teens injured or killed, and much more--experienced an increase in value These increased number of mass shootings--and shootings in general--over recent years has sparked a national debate over current gun control laws and regulations in the United States. On the liberal side of the argument, current gun control laws and regulations are viewed as unreliable and dangerous to a safety and well-being. Organizations like the Coalition to Stop Gun Violence (CSVG), which favor stricter gun control laws and regulations, support a ban on assault weapons, universal background checks, and much more. On the conservative side of the argument, current gun control laws and regulations are viewed as constitutional and necessary for self-defense. Organizations like the National Rifle Association (NRA), which favor current gun control laws and regulations, support firearm and marksman training, concealed handgun permits, and much more. Although both parties desire the same outcome, which is a reduction in overall gun violence in the United States, their approaches are completely different. Ultimately, liberals believe that a decrease in firearm possession will effectively reduce gun violence, while conservatives believe that an increase in firearm possession will effectively reduce gun violence. In relation to the previously explained shooting statistics, school shootings have been a major component in these studies. According to an Everytown report, there have been 221 school shootings in the United States since 2013 School shootings, which involve the shooting or killing of children, should never be tolerated in this country. To resolve this issue, the presence of an armed police officer should be mandatory in every school across the United States. School-affiliated organizations like the Boy Scouts of America need to acknowledge this conservative proposition to ensure the safety and protection of their 2.5 million members Gun violence in the United States has increased over recent years, and school shootings are a major component in these studies. Conservative ideologies toward gun laws, specifically in the proposition to administer armed police officers to schools nationwide, will effectively reduce overall gun violence in the United States. Organizations like the Boy Scouts of America need to recognize these statistics, and support this conservative proposition in order to ensure the safety and protection of their members. Liberal arguments on the topic of gun control are inefficient, while conservative arguments toward the topic are proven effective; thus illustrating the need for conservative gun laws in the United States. A major liberal proposition intended to end gun violence in the United States is a national ban of assault weapons. If enacted, this ban would prove to be inefficient. According to an FBI report, only about 3% of shooting-related murders were carried out by assault weapons in 2014; meaning 97% of the other shooting-related murders were carried out by other firearm sources Therefore, a significant liberal argument made that a reduction in firearms would effectively reduce overall gun violence in the United States is inefficient due to the fact that so little shooting-related murders were carried out by assault weapons. A major conservative argument, on the other hand, has proven effective in reducing overall gun violence. According to a six year study (2007-2013), the effects of concealed handgun permits were compared to overall murder rates in the United States. As the percentage of concealed handgun permits soared to over 130%, murder rates dramatically reduced by 22% (Bernstein). Therefore, a significant conservative argument made that an increase in firearms would effectively reduce overall gun violence in the United States is factual. Ultimately, police officers carrying concealed handguns would effectively reduce school shooting statistics in the United States due to the fact that conservative gun ideologies prove to be effective. The Boy Scouts of America is a non-profit organization designed to provide programs for young people to improve character, train to participate in citizenship, and develop personal fitness This organization specifically targets children and young adults, and roughly 2.5 million members were recorded in the year 2015 Ranging from Cub Scout to High Adventure Exploring programs, the Boy Scouts of America provide a platform accessible to young people nationwide Most members, as a result of their youth, attend public/private schools in the United States. If the Boy Scouts of America were to support the conservative proposition of armed police officers in schools nationwide, they would greatly benefit from parental guardians, thus improving their overall credibility. Studies have proven that as an increase in concealed firearm percentages soared to over 130%, overall murder rates decreased by 22% (Bernstein). This statistic not only provides credibility to the conservative argument on gun control, but also serves as a proposition intended to effectively reduce school shootings. In supporting this proposition, a sense of credibility and trust will be gained through the parents/guardians of the Boy Scout members. Recognizing that the Boy Scouts of America organization supports a conservative argument on gun control, parents/guardians will allow more of their children to become members. As a result, the Boy Scouts of America will gain more participants, and a reduction of school shooting crimes will occur due to administered armed police officers in schools. Gun violence in the United States has increased over recent years, and school shootings are a major component in these studies. Conservative ideologies toward gun laws, specifically in the proposition to administer armed police officers to schools nationwide, will effectively reduce overall gun violence in the United States. Organizations like the Boy Scouts of America need to recognize these statistics, and support this conservative proposition in order to ensure the safety and protection of their members. References Bernstein, Gun Violence  in vol. 16, no. 2, July 2015, pp. 232-246. doi:10.7710/1526-0569.1534. (Accessed 20 April 21, 2017). Victims by Weapon, https://ucr.fbi.gov/crime-in-the-u.s/2014/crime-in-the-u.s.-2014/tables/expanded-homicide-data/e (Accessed 20 April 2017). Summary Violence 19 April 2017, (Accessed 20 April 2017). Violence Archive Violence 20 April 2017. (Accessed 20 April 2017). The Daily Conversation. Year of Mass Shootings in the U.S., 9 January (Accessed 20 April 2017).