Plouffe 1 Michaela Plouffe Adam Phillips ENC 1102 13 April 2017 Making Higher Education Affordable to End Student Debt Furthering education has never been more important. Whether it is attending a four- year university, a community college, or a technical program, education is a key factor in determining success. When a high school diploma has almost become worthless, higher education has become a necessity. However, it is treated as if it is a privilege, instead of a right. The national student debt is increasing at an alarming rate, sitting at about $1.3 trillion dollars, according to the United States Student Association. This makes attending college especially difficult for students who come from low income households, discouraging them from furthering their education. A solution to this problem could be making the first two years of college education free. The Heads Up America campaign is a movement working to establish tuition free higher education, starting with community colleges. Getting involved with this campaign would help to achieve their goal of decreasing the student debt by a substantial amount. Higher education reaps so many benefits. On average those who earn a college degree earn much more than those who and receive better benefits. The New York Times reported that, with four-year college degrees made 98 percent more an hour on average in 2013 than people without a degree. up from 89 percent five years earlier, 85 percent a decade earlier and 64 percent in the early (Is College Worth It? Clearly, New Data Say). This makes it clear that the pay gap between those with a degree and those without is increasing tremendously. However, the benefits to a college degree are more that financial. College graduates obtain careers Plouffe 2 that offer benefits, such as health and life insurance, more easily. This in turn, results in college graduates living healthier lives. Shawn Bauldry noted in his article Conditional health-related benefits of higher education: An assessment of compensatory versus accumulative mechanisms that, educated people maintain healthier lifestyles, have fewer functional limitations and are less likely to be disabled, are less likely to suffer from chronic diseases, and have lower rates of mortality (Mirowsky and Ross, (Bauldry 94). According to Rasmussen College, college graduates are more likely to have more employment enjoyment, healthier lifestyles, social mobility, and personal development. Attending college is an amazing opportunity that helps people grow as individuals. At universities students are immersed in a community that differs from what they are accustomed to. Students have the opportunity to interact with people of different cultures, increasing their awareness of the world around them. With so many benefits to higher education its wonder that so many people go on to further their education. However, to a lot of people the benefits of higher education is outweighed by the cost. The student debt is at $1.3 trillion and increasing daily. According to the United States Student Association, the average college graduates owes at least $28,400 in debt. The insane cost of college tuition combined with the additional cost of books, housing, food, and transportation can make attending college impossible. It has become more expensive than ever to attend college. Attending college has become a huge risk. While those who do attend college are more likely to be employed, it is still not guaranteed with the current economy. It is difficult to earn a position at a company when multiple other applicants have the same degree and same experience. Even if one is lucky enough to be hired at a career, they will still have the large burden of struggling to pay off their debt while trying to support themselves. The Economist reported that, cost of university per student has risen by almost five times the rate of inflation since 1983 (see chart 1), making it Plouffe 3 less affordable and increasing the amount of debt a student must take on. Between 2001 and 2010 the cost of a university education soared from 23% of median annual earnings to 38%; in consequence, debt per student has doubled in the past 15 (Higher Education Not What it used to be). With the risk that come with a substantial student debt it is no wonder why so many students are discouraged from furthering their education. Students who come from low income households especially suffer from high cost of higher education. The cost of higher education is very problematic, forcing students into years of debt and establishing for profit schools. Education just good for individuals, it also provides many benefits for society. Everyone should have an equal opportunity to a higher education. To ensure this opportunity, a solution is establishing tuition-free two-year community colleges across the nation. While this goal may seem far fetch, it is actually, very obtainable. Previous president, Barack Obama, worked during his time in office to make this dream a reality. In fact, in some states it is a reality. Jon Wiener in his article Aiming Higher: Make College Tuition Free explains how Tennessee has become the first state that offers tuition free two-year community college and how many other states, such as Oregon, are following their footsteps. The Heads Up America campaign is working to ensure that this happens for all 50 states. This campaign is built on the movements that made high schools free and universal in the past, believing that higher education should be the same. The campaign wants to make community college free for all who will work to get good grades and are serious about furthering their education. They plan to have community college paid for by the local, state, and federal governments to make sure no one misses out on this opportunity. The Heads Up America Campaign provides many resources that allows everyone to get involved in their cause. The best way to get involved in this moment is to get the word out to the public, especially on college campuses. One could become a student leader and host events Plouffe 4 to build support for the moment on college campuses or one could host a screening of the film No Greater Odds at their campus or in their community. One could even start a partner organization to support Heads Up America. However, getting involved does not have to be this extensive. Getting involve can be as easy as sharing your story about how student debt has personally affected you, or by simply using social media to get the word out. The Heads Up America website offers an Instagram frame that can be downloaded and shared to inform people of the cause. The website also offers a flyer that can be printed out and scattered across campuses and communities to also inform people of the cause. The cost of higher education is detrimental to the United States. The student debt has grown tremendously and needs to be decreased immediately. Education is a right and not a privilege that is only available for those who can afforded it. The cost of higher education keeps so many from furthering their own. A solution to this problem is making two-year community colleges tuition free. This would give everyone access to higher education and increase opportunity abundantly. A way to ensure that this happens is to get involved with the Heads Up America Campaign. The campaign is fighting to make two-year community colleges tuition free all throughout the nation. Getting involved could be as extensive as becoming a leader of the campaign within ones own campus and community, or it can be as simple as passing out flyers and posting on social media. Either way, we all are affected by the student debt and can all work to decrease it. Plouffe 5 Works Cited Bauldry, Shawn. Health-Related Benefits of Higehr AN Assessment of Compensatory Versus Accumulative Social Science & Medicine, vol. 111, 01 June 2014, pp. 94-100 Breaking Up with Student Debt Instagram Video  Heads Up America. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Free Higher  United States Student Association. United States Student Association, n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017 Leonhardt, David. Is College Worth It? Clearly, New Data  The New York Times. The New York Times, 27 May 2014. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. What It Used to The Economist. The Economist Newspaper, 01 Dec. 2012. Web. 11 Apr. 2017 Pfeffer, Jennifer. Rasmussen  Rasmussen College - Regionally Accredited College Online and on Campus. Rasmussen College, n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Wiener, Jon. Higher: Make College Tuition Nation, vol. 300, no. 14, 06 Apr. 2015, pp. 224-226.