Grajales 1 Angelica Grajales Professor Hernandez ENC 1102 April 16, 2017 Alzheimer Disease There are many diseases in the world that a lot of people suffer from and it is worse when it is an incurable disease and there is not much to be done. is a disease just like that, it is a progressive disease that millions of Americans suffer from today. It destroys brain cells and other mental functions. Over time people with the disease tend to lose their memory more and more and soon be able to remember anything. As of now there is no cure only medication to help the effects. was discovered in 1906 by Doctor Alois Alzheimer when he noticed changes in the brain tissue of a woman who had died of an unusual mental illness, and her symptoms included memory loss, language problems, and unpredictable behavior (National Institute on Aging). It is difficult having to live with a disease knowing nothing can be done about it. Thankfully, there are organizations that have been put in place to help the cause and it is important to educate ourselves about the disease and donate towards research for finding a cure. is defined as progressive disease that destroys memory and other important mental functions. Your brain cell connections and the cells themselves degenerate and die, eventually destroying memory and other important mental The main symptoms of are memory loss and confusion Disease Education and Referral Center). Some early signs and symptoms of include memory loss that disrupts daily life, challenges in planning or solving problems, difficulty completing familiar tasks at home, Grajales 2 work or leisure, confusion with time or place, trouble understanding visual images, problems with words in speaking or writing, misplacing things and losing the ability to retrace steps, decreased or poor judgment, withdrawal from work or social activities, and changes in mood and personality Association ). The disease will progress through three stages and in each stage the symptoms become worse. In the early stage begins the symptoms of mild memory loss but as the disease progresses to the other two stages, new symptoms may develop and symptoms already there might worsen. The moderate stage is often the longest, where the person with the disease may require a greater level of care. When they have progressed to the final stage, the severe stage, they may lose the ability to perform daily activities like carrying on a conversation or being aware of their surroundings (Namzaric). Alzheimer Disease is sixth most common cause of death in the United States, in fact there are more than 5 million Americans living with the (Newswire). There are multiple effects that come with having and although disease is not a normal part of aging, the risk of developing the illness rises with advanced age. A current research from the National Institute on Aging indicates that the prevalence of disease doubles every five years beyond age sixty-five. It is estimated that about a half million Americans younger than age sixty-five have some form of dementia, including disease, which is referred to as early onset Foundation of America ). For these reasons, it important to learn more about the disease and contribute towards helping find a cure. Something everyone can do to contribute towards finding a cure is knowing what to do and part of having someone close to you living with the disease is knowing how to help them. With the disease the person skills may change and they seem like a different person and the first step is understanding that the disease is causing the changes in their skills. For example, Grajales 3 communication skills, it is important to be warm and loving and be open to their concerns; be patient with angry outbursts and be aware of tone and how loud one is speaking to the person. With personality and behavior changes it is important to keep things simple, have a daily routine for them and reassure them that they are safe (National Institute on Aging). Using different coping methods is a great way to help someone and keep their life the same but it is not the only way to help someone with the disease. Since the disease has been discovered, no one has been able to find a cure, only ways to help the person live with it and provide medications that help the effects. For years disease research was completely stifled by a lack of funding. However, over time that has changed due to the Cure Fund. They are a non-profit organization that is funding research in hopes of finding a cure. That is the most important way to help someone dealing with the disease. By donating, people are providing better chances for those living with because all donations go towards research to give patients better treatment and care with the end goal of finding a cure. To conclude, Alzheimer Disease is a deadly disease that tons of Americans have to live with. With that in mind it is important to create awareness for this deadly disease so that people out there can make a difference. After learning about the disease and educating ourselves on the multiple effects and how to help someone living with the main thing to do to create awareness is donate. By donating to the cause, more funds are created which go towards more research thus, getting that much closer to finding an actual cure. Grajales 4 Works Cited Association . 2017. 15 April 2017. Disease Education and Referral Center. 18 August 2016 . 9 February 2017. Foundation of America . n.d. 29 January 2017. Cure Fund. n.d. 29 January 2017. Namzaric. 2017. 13 April 2017. National Institute on Aging. January 2017. 15 April 2017. Newswire, Globe. Landmarks Around the World Turn Teal for Awareness. n.d. 29 January 2017.