Harris 1 Brittany Harris Professor Bianca Hernandez ENC 1102 10 April 2017 Drink and Drive Some people choose to go off to a college away from their hometown and leave their parents behind. This is a milestone event that is quite exciting for some. The opportunity to deviate from their established rules finally presents itself. However, this freedom comes at a price and one must be careful when acting on some of the many temptations that are in college. One of these temptations include drinking alcohol and driving. Furthermore, the effects of drinking and driving has not only become a topic of discussion that needs to be addressed among those 21 and over, but it also has become prevalent in the younger community those under the age to drink. The Minimum Age to Drink Act has raised the age to drink alcohol to 21. Although, this Act has caused a drastic decrease in the amount of drinking and driving cases in general (MADD, 2016), younger people still continue to drink, not realizing the dangerous consequences if they decide to drive while intoxicated. Therefore, being that college resides a community of people both under and over the age to drink, it is imperative for students to be informed of this issue. Knowing the detrimental consequences of drunk driving and the amount of alcohol in each drink will be important factors that each student can be aware of so they can make safer and responsible decisions, such as calling an Uber when drunk. Drinking alcohol in college has become a social norm in this society. Of course, being able to climb up the ladder in furthering education is one of the sole reasons of going to college. However, according to The National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism(NIAA), Harris 2 some students also see drinking alcohol along with partying as a rite of passage and an important part of their college experience. About 80 percent of college students between the ages of 18-24 drink alcohol (Villanova University, 2017). In other words, students participate in drinking alcohol regardless if they are over or under the age to legally drink. Furthermore, this is a party stigma that has emerged in college and has overshadowed the laws made by The Minimum Drinking Age Act. This pattern has immersed itself into the college community and recognizing it is the key to solving the main issue that results from drinking alcohol---Drunk Driving. Deciding to drink and drive is a choice that about 1 in 5 college students admitted to doing (HealthDay, 2016). Students should be aware of the several consequences that comes with this life changing decision. There are several legal actions that can occur if a person drives while drunk. If caught by a police officer while driving and they suspect that a person is drunk with a BAC (Blood alcohol content) of more than 0.08 percent, the person will be charged with a DUI (Driving Under the Influence). A first offence of a DUI usually results in 180 days in jail, a fine of $1000, and their license will be revoked for 6 months (Metropolitan Police Department, 2016). Driving while intoxicated can result in death or injuries. Furthermore, this result only occur to the person that committed the act, but it also can apply to innocent people. The death of both the victim and drunk driver may not always occur. In some unfortunate circumstances, if only the victim dies, the drunk driver can receive a jail sentence that ranges from 0-100 years, depending on the state (Mothers Against Drunk Driving (MADD), 2016). Drunk driving is not only a self-inflicted act, but it is also selfish one. In 2016, a college student named Joseph Castano decided to drive drunk while with his friend Craig Sampson in the passenger seat. Joseph crashed the car and survived in critical condition. However, he ended the life of his childhood friend Craig (CBS Boston, 2016). Some students learn of the Harris 3 consequences until after they committed the act, so being informed is the best way to be proactive rather than reactive. According to the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism (2015) college students between the ages of 18 and 24 die from alcohol-related unintentional injuries including those involving a motor In order to help solve this problem of drunk driving and decrease these alarming statistics, it is important for students to know the different factors that feeds into it. Alcohol being available while partying has become a reality for some students as it involves it being part of their college experience. When some students go to college parties that have alcohol, many get drunk because they simply do not know the amount alcohol that they are drinking. There are many forms of drinks that alcohol can be in and each drink holds a different amount in it. There are a variety of ways that students can consume alcohol, which includes beers, glasses of wine, liquor shots and the infamous red party cup. A 12 fl oz. beer contains about 5 percent alcohol. A 5 fl oz. glass of wine contains about 12 percent of alcohol. A glass shot of liquor contains about 40 percent of alcohol. A red cup filled with alcohol is equivalent to drinking six shots of liquor. Everyone is different and getting drunk depends on gender and weight. For example, it only takes 5 (12 fl oz) beers, 3-4 shots of liquors, 3 glasses of wine (5 fl oz), or two full red party cups to get a woman that is 150 pounds drunk (New Health Advisor, 2016). However, for a 180-pound man, he can have about six beers, five shots, four glasses of wine, or two and half red party cups before getting drunk. Drinking alcohol in college has become a very popular act regardless of age and a student could be one alcoholic beverage away from getting drunk. Therefore, educating students on the amount of alcohol they could be ingesting is one solution to decreasing drinking and driving and the detrimental effects that can happen to themselves or their peers. Harris 4 By taking action, students have the opportunity to help put an end to the tragic epidemic of drunk driving that exist in their society. Fortunately, if a student happens to get drunk, there many alternatives present other than driving. If traveling in a group, one alternative involves assigning a designated driver before going out and getting drunk. Knowing in advance who will be responsible for driving can be a crucial element to avoid driving while drunk. The National Directory of Designated Driver Services (2017) was specifically made to avoid people from driving under the influence. Students are able to look up their state and county for their different services available near them. Simply saving their number in the phone and calling them when drunk is a very responsible decision. Another action that could be taken is simply using taxi service companies such as Uber or Lyft which delivers people home safely. Furthermore, some Universities even offer such services and many students aware of how easily assessable they are. For example, at University of South Florida(USF) , Student Government created Alert  for USF students to utilize if drunk. Alert Cab offers a free taxi ride from any alcohol establishment to a residence in Hillsborough County (USF Student Affairs, 2014). If students take action and consider these other alternative, it could mean not getting under the wheel and causing own death or even someone Students go to college in hopes for the best. Their goals and aspirations be sidetracked because of one reckless act of deciding to drink and drive. Although the Minimum Age to Drink Act allows only those 21 and older to drink alcohol, drinking alcohol still has become quite prevalent and popular for students in the college community, even for those under the age of 21. Therefore, it is important for students to be educated and informed of the dangerous effects of drunk driving. Also, if students knew of the variety of ways to avoid drunk Harris 5 driving such as calling an Uber or assigning a designated driver, it could help decrease the alarming statistics happening every year. References CBS Boston. (2016). Student Pleads Guilty in Crash Near Endicott College That Killed Childhood Friend. Retrieved from http://boston.cbslocal.com/2016/11/17/endicott- college-drunk-driving-guilty-joseph-castano-craig-sampson/ Drinking and Driving. (2017). Prevention Tools. Retrieved from http://www.drinkinganddriving.org/designated-driver-services/ Health News. (2016). 1 in 5 college students admitted to drunk driving study found. U.S News .Retrieved from http://health.usnews.com/health-news/family-health/childrens- health/articles/2010/06/02/1-in-5-college-students-admitted-to-drunk-driving-study-found Mothers Against Drunk Driving. (2016). Penalties for drunk driving vehicular homicide. Retrieved from National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism. (2015). Retrieved from National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and New Health Advisor. (2017). How much to get you drunk. New Health Advisor for Daily Health Care. Retrieved from http://www.newhealthadvisor.com/how-much-to-get- drunk.html Harris 6 University of South Florida Student Affairs. (2014). University of South Florida. Retrieved from http://sg.usf.edu/agencies/safe/ Villanova University: Student Life. (2015). Alcohol Use in College. Villanova University. Retrieved from https://www1.villanova.edu/villanova/studentlife/counselingcenter/infosheets/alcoholuse. html