Al Zadjali 1 Mazin Al Zadjali Instructor Modlin Jackson ENC 1101 April 9, 2017 Domestic Violence The term Domestic Violence, which is also known as family violence or domestic abuse, is violence behavior between the family members. Domestic violence can start when one member of the family feels to take control. This issue takes different forms and a widely common issue, which many countless children suffer from. This issue can take various forms of factors, such as verbal, physical, religious, financial and sexual assault. The causes of this issue are due to the history of facing family abuse as a child, dysfunctional behavior such as alcoholism or drug addiction, controlling relationship, stress and economic hardship, for example, delayed unemployment and the lack of money in the family. There are many drawbacks on whom is affected by this common widely spread issue. The victims of domestic violence will mostly suffer from emotional stress, mental health problem and physical problems. Domestic violence could be physical, sentimental and mental abuse. In other words, the physical abuse could be slapping, beating, kicking, etc. The sentimental abuse could be humiliating, isolating, threatening, etc. The mental abuse is more like the emotional abuse. There are many mental health effects of domestic violence on children that will also impact his future life, such as anxiety disorders, increased aggression and Post- Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD). That is because mental impacts of domestic violence are long term effects. Moreover, these effects could result in many problems on the child future life, that could make his life unstable. Furthermore, they could repeat the same of what happened when they were young with their future children, like an endless cycle. Al Zadjali 2 Mental effect such as anxiety disorder, depression and increased aggression are the major impact which could lead the future life to fall apart and extended the family violence suffrage. This is because mental health is related to the psychological and emotional health, which plays a major role in health. According to Wainwright: mental health impacts of multi-level violence exposure are the (Wainwright, 206) problem which could impact the life. However, many people have different points of view. Some people say the physical effects are the main problems, according to Hornor: violence is estimated to occur in 4 to 6 million intimate relationships each (Hornnor, 209). This statistic shows how huge is the physical violence in the American society. So, people say that the more number of the occurrence is high the more its likelihood to have a great impact on the child. Also, the results of the physical effects such as purple marks on the neck and broken parts of a body due to beating and can make the victims life much problematic. After doing some research I have noticed that the mental effects of domestic violence are long-term effects. In other words, the mental effects as mentioned earlier, affects the children even when they grow up. So, not only when they are at a young age, it will exist over to a long period of time. According to Rigterink: in terms of the long-term outcomes of Mental effects due to DV on (Rigterink, 1671). This indicates that the mental health impacts the child life for a long time. Yet, some researchers say, long- term effects of domestic violence have not begun to be fully (Jeong Ah, 2466). So, they are not sure what are the long-term impacts of domestic violence. There are many mental health effects, which could result in many problems. One of the most common mental health effect on the child is the Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder Al Zadjali 3 (PTSD), a continuing condition of mental and emotional stress happening as a result of an injury or a serious psychological shock, which involve facing trouble when sleeping and a continuous recall of the incident. effect of family abuse was uniquely associated with (Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder article). This indicates that the (PTSD) is one of the mental health problems. Although, some people disagree on this point, they believe that the Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) in not a result of the mental health effects, they even believe that related to domestic violence. That is because the symptoms of Post- Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD), are not associated with the symptoms of mental health effects of the domestic violence. The outcomes of mental health effects varies in the child future life, because it depends on how deep has the mental effect affected the child. In other words, if the child experienced a slight of mental effects of domestic violence, the outcomes would be different from a child who experienced it in most of his life. According to Holt: exposure may have a differential impact for children and young future (Holt, 798). That is because the results of the mental health effects in the child future life. Such as, the tension that could happen in the future relationship with his partner which could result in violence or it could prevent the child from pursuing a career and make him a drug or an alcohol addict due to anxiety and depression or it could prevent him from finding and pursuing a relationship with a partner. Although, many people opposed on the difference of the mental effects outcomes. They think that the children who experienced mental health effects due to domestic violence, might experience the same exact thing as other children experienced. It always have to be the same outcomes. Because the outcomes are not always predictable, they differ. Al Zadjali 4 In conclusion, there are many mental health effects of domestic violence on children that could impact his future life, such as anxiety disorders, increased aggression, Post- Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD), depression, etc. These impacts of mental health could make the future life unsecure and unsteady. That is because the impacts are long term effects, which could make his life unbalanced. Moreover, the outcomes of this tragedy such as a tension relationship with his future partner or not being able to pursue a career, could extended the suffrage. In my opinion, we must focus on the factors that causes these problems. So, we can eventually reduce its effect. Because the factors are the main causes of domestic violence, if we reduce the factors the causes will be reduced and so do the effects. Al Zadjali 5 Work Cited Wainwright et al. Impacts of Family and Community Violence Exposure on Child Coping and Mental  Journal of Abnormal Child Psychology, vol. 43, no. 2, spring 2015, pp. 203-215, Web. 7 Apr. 2017. Hornor et al. Domestic Violence and  Journal of Pediatric Health Care, vol. 19, no. 4, July-August 2005, pp. 206-212, Web. 7 Apr. 2017. Rigterink et al. Domestic Violence and Longitudinal Associations with Physiological Regulation  Journal of Interpersonal Violence, vol. 25, no. 9, 4 Aug. 2009, pp. 1669-1683, Web. 8 Apr. 2017. Holt et al. The Impact of Exposure to Domestic Violence on Children and Young People: A Review of the  Child Abuse & Neglect, vol. 32, no. 8, 21 Feb. 2008, pp. 797-810, Web. 8 Apr. 2017. Yoo, Jeong Ah, and Chien-Chung Huang. The Effects of Domestic Violence on Behavior Problems: Assessing the Moderating Roles of Poverty and Marital  Children and Youth Services Review, vol. 34, no. 12, 12 Dec. 2012, pp. 2464-2473, Web. 8 Apr. 2017. Post-Traumatic Stress  Mental Health America. 29 Mar. 2017. Web. 9 Apr. 2017.