Gaffglione 1 Austin Gaffglione Ms. Hernandez Composition II 16 April 2017 Social Security: The Need to Preserve and Expand Ever since its conception in the Social Security has been one of the most influential federal programs the U.S. provides for working citizens. Comprising of about 34 percent of the total income received from individuals 65 and older, Social Security is known for providing the elderly with a primary source of income (SSA Facts). This number is only expected to grow, as the number of elderly individuals in the U.S. is continuously increasing and has no indication of slowing down. In relation, the need to compensate for this growing population is essential in order to provide for future generations of the elderly with economic sustainability. With both of these things in mind, important for individuals who are being paid Social Security benefits as well as the working citizens of today to be informed about Social Security in general, learn about the significance of preserving and expanding Social Security, and take action to ensure its future. For working citizens and elderly individuals to be informed about the importance of expanding Social Security, they must know its overall history, political components, and provided benefits. Social Security was first established in 1935 by the Social Security Act, in which several provisions were made for general welfare, and a social insurance program was established to pay retired workers ages 65 and older a continuous income after retirement (SSA Gaffglione 2 History). After several different revisions in the and early , some of these including benefits for disabled individuals and dependents of those who qualify as well as the change of the retirement age to 66, Social Security is still what it was intended to be: a social welfare system to help citizens who work with a reliable source of income. From this, the stability of Social Security makes it one of the most impactful federal programs in the United States, and it also makes it a hot topic for debate among political parties. An example of this is Democratic and Republican parties, for which the Democrats are for preventing the privatization of Social Security and barring the ability to place retirement funds in the stock market (OnTheIssue). On the other hand, Republicans are in favor of giving workers the ability to control their retirement investments as well as the ability to choose to invest in their payroll taxes (OnTheIssue). In terms of benefits, Social Security primarily provides for those who are retired workers or are qualified as being unable to work. Along with this, other individuals that can receive Social Security benefits include the spouse and child of both a living beneficiary and one died (SSA). For the distribution of the payments from the benefits, they are usually received electronically from a financial institution; otherwise, an alternate federally insured account is required (SSA). From the historical, political, and functional components of Social Security, one can learn can have a general overview of the way it works and why an important topic. Along with the way it works, also important to know why Social Security needs to expand in order to provide for beneficiaries. Firstly, a majority of individuals that receive Social Security benefits use such as a primary source of income; as a consequence, taking away funding for Social Security or even removing it altogether will result in many being unable to sustain Gaffglione 3 economically. To show this, about 90 percent of individuals age 65 and older receive Social Security benefits; from this, if social security benefits were to be reduced, an estimated 90 percent of the elderly population in the U.S. would be negatively affected (SSA). To place a value on this, approximately 670 billion dollars will be provided for retired citizens to sustain economically in 2017 (SSA). Because of this, any reduction in funding of similar magnitude will cause thousands, if not millions, to be in need of an alternative source of income. In addition to retired beneficiaries, the dependents of such are also affected, as they represent 3 percent of the total population that receive Social Security benefits (SSA). Although this percentage seems very small, this value totals out to three million individuals which are still directly affected to any change made to Social Security. Along with the concern of beneficiaries, also important to preserve and expand Social Security for those who will receive the benefits of such in the near future. With an increasing elderly population that does not seem to be slowing down, any stagnant reduction made to Social Security benefits today will only create an increasing detriment for the beneficiaries of tomorrow. In fact, a lack of expansion altogether for Social Security will leave many without enough benefits to sustain economically. Because of this, not only important to preserve Social Security for the beneficiaries today, but equally important to expand Social Security to provide for individuals in the future. To ensure the preservation and expansion of Social Security for years to come, individualistic actions can be taken in the form of political activism. Examples of these actions include joining organizations that advocate for preserving/expanding Social Security as well as participating in rallies for the same purpose. By doing so, awareness of the subject will increase among others, and local government officials can even partake with legal action and try to gain Gaffglione 4 traction in Congress from such. For taking action by joining organizations, there any many of them that advocate the preservation and expansion of Social Security. One example of this is the Alliance for Retired Americans, which is a nationwide grassroots organization dedicated to ensuring social and economic justice and full civil rights for all citizens so they can lives of dignity, personal, and family fulfillment and (ARA). This organization is known for making legal contributions in preserving Social Security; in 2005, their movement prevented the possible privatization of Social Security and in 2013, their Human Chain Against the Chained movement prevented possible cuts in Social Security in over 50 states nationwide (ARA). Another example of such is Generations United, an organization whose mission is improve the lives of children, youth, and older adults through intergenerational collaboration, public policies and programs for the enduring benefit of (GU). While their works are not primarily focused on Social Security, known for advocating the preservation of Social Security since they focus on providing for older individuals, many of them being beneficiaries for such. Just like the other two examples, the American Association for Retired Persons is a nonprofit, nonwelfare organization that people turn their goals and dreams into real possibilities, strengthens communities and fights for the issues that matter most to (AARP). Among these issues as mentioned, the preservation of Social Security is one of them, as been known to take legislative action for such. From these three organizations, partaking in their actions can contribute to preserving and expanding Social Security for years to come. The future of Social Security will not only be based upon legislative battles taking place in Congress between Democrats and Republicans, but it will also depend on activism taking place from grassroot organizations from individualistic actions. Whether it takes a simple history Gaffglione 5 of Social Security or an elongated argument on why the lack of preservation of Social Security will lead to a major detriment for the economy, any form of support helps. While this subject may seem to pertain to beneficiaries of Social Security exclusively, the working individuals of today are also affected, as an expanded system for Social Security will be necessary in the near future. With these things in mind, important for others to understand the significance of Social Security individualistically and to take action for the sake of providing economic stability for others. Gaffglione 6 Works Cited Democratic Party on Social Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Bfqm. Social  Security Web. 16 Apr. 2017.  Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Real  Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Social  United States Social Security Web. 16 Apr. 2017. United, Generations. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.