Collins 1 Bethany Collins Ms. Poston ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Lesser Gun Control For A Greater United States Gun control is a very popular and current issue in world, which requires all citizens of the United States to participate. Gun control is of the selling, owning, and use of Merriam). This can inhibit the protection of people and their families from intruders and criminals. The major stakeholder in the issue is the National Rifle Association, or the NRA. The National Rifle Association advocates strongly for lesser gun restrictions, more gun owner rights and the protection of the second amendment of the constitution. When constitutional rights are being infringed upon, when it becomes time to take a stand. Less gun control laws should be enacted and citizens should advocate for this by calling for Right To Carry Laws in all 50 states, more gun education and the upholding of the second amendment. Gun control, as stated above, is the of the selling, owning and use of (Webster, Merriam). It is an issue that has been around since the United States of America gained its freedom in 1776. The National Rifle Association, founded just over a hundred years later in 1871, is the largest anti gun control organization in the United States. Members of the NRA strongly believe in upholding the constitution and the right to bear arms(NRA Second Amendment). Second Amendment protects an individual right to possess firearms for legal purposes, including for sporting use and for as stated by the Supreme Court in 2008(NRA Second Amendment para. 13). Gun control laws and pro gun control groups Collins 2 are trying to infringe on this basic right and revoke the rights of the people. These pro gun control groups believe that if we ban all firearms, the US will be safer and crime rates will decrease. It has been proven in many countries that have strict gun ownership laws, the the decrease in firearms does not decrease crime, the ownership of firearms deters crime(NRA Second Amendment para. 12). Gun control affects all parties involved, including opponents and proponents, but also those who consider themselves mutual. Someone who is mutual in this topic is someone who has no real opinion on gun control and does not care if more laws are enacted or not. But this is flawed thought, and the reason it is considered so is due to the common principles of safety and freedom. All citizens of the United States want to feel protected and safe in their communities and in their homes, but with crime rates increasing it is hard to feel this way. In order to feel safe and protected, citizens should very strongly consider purchasing a firearm. With proponents of gun control wanting to make this process even more difficult than it is, it can greatly hinder the ability of Americans to feel safe. A study completed in 2013 showed that of men and 56% of women surveyed said that stricter gun laws would make it more difficult for people to protect their homes and (Procon.org par. 3) In order to combat against stricter gun control laws, all citizens of the United States should contact their legislators and senators and vote against these laws. Another great idea is to push them to bring Right To Carry and Concealed Carry laws in all 50 states. RTC laws the right to carry concealed handguns when away from home without a permit, or with a (NRA Concealed Carry par. 4). These laws help decrease crime rates and increase feelings of safety. A push for gun education and safety training will also decrease accidents and Collins 3 increase proper use for self defense (NRA Firearms Training). Finally, the people of the United States should join anti gun organizations such as the NRA or local groups, in order to stay updated and connected with the rapid changing matter. All in all, gun control is an issue that affects all Americans regardless if they feel it does not. If more gun control laws get passed, it will not only make owning a firearm much harder but also it will restrict individual rights and freedoms. The right to bear arms was granted the the constitution and proponents of gun control want to take this right away. In order to prevent this from happening, citizens of the United States need to have an active voice in the matter. Contacting legislators and pushing for less gun control and more concealed carry laws is the best and most effective method. Another great way to win the war on gun control is to join anti gun control organizations such as the National Rifle Association. Staying active and participating in gun ownership rights is the best way to prevent more gun control laws from passing. Collins 4 Works Cited ProCon.org. Gun  More Gun Control Laws Be Enacted in the United States? ProCon.org, n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. NRA Explore. NRA Firearms  Firearms National Rifle Association, n.d. Web. 27 Jan. NRA Institute For Legislative Action. Concealed Carry  National Rifle Association, n.d. Web. 13 Apr. 2017. NRA Institute For Legislative Action. Second  National Rifle Association, n.d. Web. 13 Apr. 2017. Webster, Merriam. Gun  Merriam-Webster, n.d. Web. 11 Apr. 2017.