Intermediate Draft The topic of the consumption of meat has been one of great relevance in recent years. More and more, people of influence (celebrities, political leaders, social-media stars) have taken a stand against such diets and begun to alter their own eating habits in hopes of inspiring others to do the same. Vegan and vegetarian diets have become extremely popular, with entire cookbooks being written on how to follow such strict dietary rules. What is the point of this transition, though, and is it truly making a difference in the lives of those who follow through with it? Surprisingly, the elimination of meat and dairy in everyday meals has a significant impact on many factors. The effects of the industries that supply these products are beginning to become detrimental to the Earth and those who inhabit it. Although seen as necessary for some to eat, animal agriculture is a harmful business that destroys the planet as well as human health. Animal agriculture involves the practice of raising animals for the sole purpose of consumption or manufacturing of animal products. This has many negative affects on the Earth. First and foremost, the populations of animals are depleting fast. When there once used to be billions of fish, there are now only a few million, which is a drastic decline (Hyner). This is an issue because, besides causing a species to become endangered, it causes harm to those animals which act as predators to the fish. The species who live off of fish will lose their food supply, which will then cause their population to decline, causing a Domino Effect. Aside from just a dwindling animal population, the practice of animal agriculture causes the Earth to suffer as well. Farmers are overproducing animals, especially cows. They are constantly expanding their number of livestock by artificially inseminating female cows whenever they are not pregnant. This causes an abundance of calves, which will go through the same process (if female). The outrageous number of cows on the planet at any given time has caused there to be buildup manure, which sinks in the groundwater and pollutes it with high levels of phosphorus and nitrogen. Although this sounds harmless, as one does not normally imagine humans drinking this is extremely scary. Water goes through a constant circle, meaning this polluted water does eventually end up being used to cook, clean, bathe, and sometimes even as drinking water (Pruitt). Perhaps the scariest effect of the consumption of meat is the downfall of human health. Red meat is one of the leading causes of heart issues, including disease and high cholesterol. Because society is so used to eating meat without giving it a second thought, most people do not realize when they have reached the limit of meat they should be eating. Even eating just one sausage link a day increases ones chances of heart disease by twenty-six percent (Mari-Sanchis). This statistic puts into perspective just how much of this A is truly not good for anyone who eats it. When discussing the possibility of moving the nation over to a meat-free, dairy- free diet, most say it is impossible. This is mostly due to the lack of equal funding across the country. A lot of rural areas are miles away from any grocery store that carries alternatives to meat- fresh fruits, organic vegetables, and even imitation meats. This causes the inhabitants on that area to have to either rely on what the grocery store is carrying that week, or eat an excessive amount of fast food. These areas of vast inequality and lack of resources are called food deserts. What, then, can be done to improve the opportunists these communities have to eat better food? Some neighborhoods have put together initiatives to get the people in the local area excited about eating healthier. For example, there is a convenience store in Philadelphia that will give anyone who purchases a fifty-cent piece of fruit one dollar in return (Wright). There also needs to be government involvement. A society is only as strong as its weakest link so, if half of all American adults are expected to be obese by the year 2050, the work force of this nation has been all but cut in half. Scientific studies show that those who are overweight must take more time off work compared to those who are in shape (Wright). This responsibility falls on the government and what they make available to the public. With a better division of resources such as money and fresh foods, many of these areas could be drastically helped and changed for the better. All in all, it would be hard to stop meat and dairy consumption. However, doing so would improve the health of animals, the Earth, and humans. With intervention and conscious decision, some of the negative effects already taking place could be reversed and new issues could be stopped. Works Cited Hyner, Christopher. A Leading Cause of Everything: One Industry That Is Destroying Our Planet and Our Ability to Thrive on  Stanford Law Review 27.1 (2015): 209. Web. Mari-Sanchis, A., et al. Meat Consumption and Risk of Developing Type 2 Diabetes in the SUN Project: A Highly Educated Middle-Class  Plos ONE, no. 7, 2016. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0157990. Pruitt, Scott. Estimated Animal Agriculture Nitrogen and Phosphorus from  EPA. Environmental Protection Agency, 11 May 2015. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Wright, James, et al. Food Deserts: What Is the Problem? What Is the  Society, vol. 53, no. 2, Apr. 2016, pp. 171-181. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1007/s12115-016-9993-8.