Wrigley 1 Dakota Wrigley ENC 1102 Ms. Aranda April 16, 2017 Children and Violent Videogames In this world today, video games have gone from being only for the select few to becoming one of the most popular hobbies to have for people to have. As this popularity for games increases, so does the demand for more and more creative titles to be released, and more and more copies sold. However, it is only the youth that really understands what is inside those disks that are bought, while their parents and the older generation do not truly know what it is that the games contain. This leads to the issue that children have been getting access to games that have a M rating, which stands for mature. This is technically legal as it is the parents or at least someone of age passing the money over the counter, but in the end, everyone in that transaction knows that the child is the one that will be playing said game. That is where the issue starts. The game is rated M for a reason, it is stating that the contents of the game are only suitable for those 17 years of age or older, not for some 10-year-old to play. As everyone in the gaming community knows, there is no way to stop said adults for buying those games without creating new laws. However, the community as it stands wishes for children who obviously are too young not to play those games. There has been, in some instances, where said kids had been kicked from certain online games by the players in the game. With this the change to keep these kids from M rated games lie not with the parents, as they will still buy those games, but for the Wrigley 2 gaming community to come together and to try and block these children and to report them in game in the most appropriate category, if there is not one for it already. This is a huge problem not only for those who are of the age to play the game, but to the children who are playing these violent games. As Christopher Ferguson, who is a professor of psychology at the university of Stetson, wrote, of the study suggested that boys acted in a more aggressive manner after playing the violent video game than watching the violent (399-410). This is not the only study that shows comparable results. As Douglas Gentile, who is a psychology professor at the university of Iowa, said, thoughts were more accessible after participants played the rather than video (3943). It is obvious based off of multiple studies that violent videogames have a negative effect on the youth. However, it is still seen as being insignificant to entice anyone important to try and implement a change. As is kept in the records of the House of Representatives, president of Interactive Digital Software Association, who emphasized that most videogame players are over age 18 and that most games do not contain violent (Congress). For the gamers who are reading this, how many times have you been in game and out of nowhere you start hearing the high pitch squealing of a child who just got sniped in game? How many times have you had to throw off your headset because of how loud and obnoxious these children can be? How many times have you had to deal with a child who understand anything about strategy in a ranked game? Everyone who plays games have, and none of them like it, you are not alone. However, no matter how much you complain to yourself about how bad it is and no matter how much you may joke about to your friends, it does nothing to change how these children continue to play these games when they obviously do not meet the age requirements for the game. Most people will just mute this said child and deal with Wrigley 3 the fact that the child cannot his own in the game. However, this is not the right approach on dealing with situation. Think about what is really happening in the situation. There is a child of maybe 10 years old playing a game that is rated for teens the age of 17 and up. These games contain sexual images, gore, violence (which is really in all games today), death, and explicit vocabulary. At the age of ten, were you exposed to any of that? Maybe one or two depending, but these children are seeing them every time they load up into their library of games that have the M rating. This goes to the aspect of the online gaming community who always has to deal with that one kid on their team that has no idea what is going on. Some games allow for you and your team to kick certain players from the match, such as CS: GO (Counter-Strike: Global Offensive). This sounds dumb at first, but in reality, it is the only thing that gamers can do to keep these children from playing these M rated games online. You may think that it is dumb to ban someone on your team because it only happen but if the entire community blocks the children from playing these online games, it will discourage them more from playing them until they reach an age more appropriate for said game. However, what happens when you are in a game that does not have a kicking function? It is almost pointless to mute them as it will only hurt your team more, but what about the after-lobby for the game? There is normally a scoreboard at the end where you can interact with the different players and friend them and at the same note block them. What does this do for you? Well it basically makes it so that you will never play with, or against, the person that you block nor can they communicate with you through said game. But that does not stop them from continually playing the game, not that alone. In turn, there should also be a report feature in the aftergame- lobby, and under such. In Wrigley 4 most situations, should be the report function Under this you can report that the player you are reporting is a child who is underage and should not be playing this game. All of this sounds fine and dandy, but in reality one person cannot make all the difference by themselves. One gamer complaining about the age of another player is not going to change anything. However, if gamers all around the world come together and unite under this, more and more children will become discouraged from laying these online games when they really be. There is strength in numbers, and with that the online gaming community can become a better place for all. in it for the gamers that are above the age of 17? Look at it this way. If there are less children playing these online games, there is a less likely chance for children to be on your team in a ranked game. With that becomes a better chance for a more reasonable team. You will not have to deal with the annoying of the children after they died to a headshot that everyone saw coming but them. But most importantly, it would make the gaming community a better place for all ages as everyone would then be looking out for each other in terms of age and the rating for the game being played. Wrigley 5 Works Cited Congress of the U.S., Washington, DC. House Committee on Energy and Commerce. An Examination of the Entertainment Efforts to Curb Exposure to Violent Content. Hearing Before the Subcommittee on Telecommunications and the Internet of the Committee on Energy and Commerce. House of Representatives, One Hundred Seventh Congress, First Session. 20 July 2001. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx ?direct= true&db=eric&AN=ED463862&site=eds-live. Ferguson, Christopher J.1, CJFerguson1111@aol.com, et al. Digital Poison? Three Studies Examining the Influence of Violent Video Games on  Computers in Human Behavior, vol. 50, Sept. 2015, pp. 399-410. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.chb.2015.04.021. Gentile, Douglas A., Patrick K. Bender, and Craig A. Anderson. Full Length Article: Violent Video Game Effects on Salivary Cortisol, Arousal, And Aggressive Thoughts In  Computers In Human Behavior 70.(2017): 39-43. ScienceDirect. Web. 5 March. 2017.