Elisa Terrill 4/10/17 Prof. Emil Smith ENC 1101, Section 002 Negative Effects of Cell Phone Use As technology advances, so does the research on the effects cell phone use has on people. With these advancements in research come findings that suggest the harm caused by extended cell phone use may outweigh the potential benefits. Cell phone use can eventually lead to negative effects on a body, as well as take a negative toll on an emotion and mental level as well. While the benefits of cell phones are important, they do not outweigh the consequences associated with them. Beginning from the outside and working in, start with the physical effects and the tax it takes on body. Research done by a man named Raimondas Buckus focused on assessing the electromagnetic field radiation exposure by measuring the strength of the electromagnetic field. He conducted a variety of test between the range of 1 to 30 cm away from the phone user and under a variety of different settings such as rural or urban, indoors or outdoors, and moving or. standing still during the call. The different ranges of the phones from the users consisted of 1 cm, 10 cm, 20 cm, and 30 cm and results found that the strongest field strength occurred in indoor rural areas while the lowest electric field strength took place in outdoor urban places. In addition, it was also found that the electric field produced in a moving car was two times stronger than that emitted from a person standing still. Finally, the results noted that the safest distance to keep a cell phone is at least 10 cm away from the head, especially during calls (Buckus). As a fairly new source, published in 2014, this helps to reveal how even though the strength of electromagnetic fields differs from place to place, it still has an effect on everyone, no matter if you live next to a farm or a skyscraper. Despite knowing now where electromagnetic field strength is at peak, what exactly does spiked levels of this radiation do to a person? For starters, it can be the cause of insomnia or lack of sleep. In a certain study whose objective was to test the correlation between late night cell phone use on sleep duration and quality, 2,400 Iranian adolescents aged between 12 to 18 completed the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index questionnaire. This questionnaire is self-reported and usually is completed over a one month time frame. Of the 2,400, 1,270 of the participants reported to use their phones after 9pm. Of those, 56% of the girls and 39% of the boys reported poor quality sleep. binary and multinomial logistic regression models showed that late- night cell users were 1.39 times more likely to have a poor sleep quality than (Amra). It is suggested by most sources to put the phone down at least an hour before trying to go to sleep. This helps your body prepare for rest and gives it a temporary break from the harsh physical effects of cell phones. Digging a little bit deeper into how cell phones negatively affect people, the focus shifts to mental effects. A professor and program coordinator of educational psychology conducted a survey with the objective of examining college reported cell phone use and associated beliefs, and measuring the effect on student learning. In addition to the survey, the professor completed an experiment where some participants listened to a novel lecture without a phone while another group used a phone while listening to the lecture at the same time. After the lecture, both groups were given a quiz on the lecture. Descriptive and combined results between the survey and experiment report that there is an acceptance of phone use in class and while the quiz results showed no difference between those who used a phone and those who it was reported by those who did use a phone that they were more anxious and felt that they did worse on the quiz than they actually did (Elder). These results show the stress factor that phones have on students. While many students struggle to put them down in lecture, based off of this experiment, phones often cause us to doubt ourselves and divide our concentration on the tasks at hand. This is cause for unnecessary anxiety and stress as compared to if the phones were just out of sight and out of mind. The next level past mental effects are emotional ones. An area of great concern that draws a lot of attention is driving and texting. In an experiment conducted by McGarva in 2010, driver aggression linked to the use of a cell phone was tested. 135 participants in a city of 17,000 people were videotaped while a confederate driver in a low-status vehicle frustrated them in two different field procedures. This was done in the first experiment by having the confederate driver go well under the speed limit. In the second experiment, the confederate stayed still at a light that had turned green. When the confederate visibly talked on their phone, it was recorded that men showed their frustration by honking their horn more frequently than when the confederate was not seen talking on the phone. As for women, blind judgment based on facial expression from the video tapes concluded that they were more angry when they saw the confederate on the phone compared to when they see the confederate using their cell. Based on the reactions and facial expressions, conclusions from this experiment were drawn that these situations caused aggression for the drivers (McGarva). The anger and frustration that are depicted in these experiments help add to the argument that phones have negative effects on several different aspects on one person, including body, mind, and emotion. Despite the plethora of negative effects, some do believe that the benefits of phones outweigh the cons. In an experiment run by Kimberly Tyler, she interviewed and gave cell phones to 150 homeless youth for one month to gather daily data by sending SMS surveys. revealed that youth liked participating in the study because the SMS texting portion, for example, made them feel that someone still cared about them, prompted them to self-reflect on their life, and allowed them to make a difference (e.g. educating the public about Furthermore, the study expressed that the youth reported using the phone to schedule appointments, contact employers, and to keep in touch with family and friends (Tyler). In addition to this, a different source completed a survey on 79 teacher to help determine their stance on phones in the classroom. The results found that 69% of those teachers accepted phone use in class and were currently having students use them for course related work. These teachers identified student engagement and motivation as the primary benefits (Thomas). Although both are valid and positive contributors for cell phone use, do they really measure up? It may be a better idea to be providing the homeless with things such as meals, clothing, and face-to-face interactions instead of giving them a tool that eliminates the need for in person connections. In addition, although teachers in the study noted that phones in class help to motivate, as mentioned in study, they can also cause anxiety and stress. Contradictory to the reasons the teachers in study gave for using phones in class, they also mention that barriers to having phones in class include lack of access and class disruption, again confirming the negative mental and emotional effects. Given these minor advantages to having a phone and using it as a tool, they still do not measure up to the overall harm that phone use has. With phones affecting the body, mind, and emotions, important to ask oneself what would be worth putting all of that at risk? important to keep up with self care and do our due diligence to take care of the one body we are given. Works Cited Amra, Babak, et al. Original Article: The Association of Sleep and Late-Night Cell Phone Use among Adolescents. Jornal De Pediatria, 13 Dec. 2016. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.jped.2016.12.004. Buckus, Raimondas, et al. The Assessment of Electromagnetic Field Radiation Exposure for Mobile Phone  Vojnosanitetski Pregled, Vol 71, Iss 12, Pp 1138-1143 (2014), no. 12, 2014, p. 1138. EBSCOhost, doi:10.2298/VSP140119013B. Elder, Anastasia D. College Cell Phone Use, Beliefs, and Effects on Their  College Student Journal, vol. 47, no. 4, 01 Dec. 2013, pp. 585-592. EBSCOhost. McGarva, Andrew R., et al. Effects of Driver Cell-Phone Use on Driver  The Journal of Social Psychology, no. 2, 2006, p. 133. EBSCOhost, Thomas, Kevin M., et al. Cell Phones in the Classroom: Perspectives of Inclusion, Benefits, and  Computers in the Schools, vol. 30, no. 4, Oct- Dec2013, pp. 295-308. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1080/07380569.2013.844637. Tyler, Kimberly A. and Rachel M. Schmitz. Using Cell Phones for Data Collection: Benefits, Outcomes, and Intervention Possibilities with Homeless  Children and Youth Services Review, vol. 76, 01 May 2017, pp. 59-64. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.childyouth.2017.02.031.