Andre Polk Anastasia Khawaja ENC 1101.903 16 April 2017 Minimum legal drinking age Many people constantly debate about whether or not the drinking age should be lowered. With all the controversy of the minimum legal drinking age being lowered or kept the same, some feel that the drinking age should stay 21 because if it was lowered to 18 people believe it would increase binge drinking among teens as well as crime rates and drunk driving incidents. Crime and drunk driving are both lower when the minimum legal drinking age is 21 than when it was 18. The drinking age should not be lowered because crimes committed by those legally able to drink are a lot more prominent, especially where petty crimes are considered. Research supports the claim that the legal drinking age should not be lowered from the age of 21, because of associated crimes. A study in California showed the actual effects of crime rates decreasing when the minimum legal drinking age was 21. used the discontinuous change in access to alcohol associated with turning 21 (the MLDA in the United States) to identify the causal effect of easier access to alcohol on crime. We found increases in arrest rates for many types of crime, including drunkenness, driving under the reckless driving, weapons offenses, assault, and (Carpenter and Dobkin 521). In this economic study it is clear that alcohol is associated with an increasing crime rate, making alcohol easier to access, which can be done by lowering the drinking age to 18, has very serious ramifications on society. When under the influence of alcohol people often are not fully cognizant of their actions, and are generally more reckless, which younger children usually already are. Thus, they are more likely to be influenced to commit petty crimes like reckless driving and assault, as identified in the article. Lowering the drinking age to 18 years old would only put younger children in the hands of this manipulating substance and as such incline a younger population to participate in these illegal activities. Therefore, the drinking age should not be lowered to 18, to prevent crime rates from increasing at an earlier age. The drinking age should not be lowered because strict alcohol policy enforcement can actually solve the majority of current problems with underage drinking. Research has proved that when strict alcohol policies are enforced they actually curb the negative effects of underage drinking. states with stronger policies, particularly underage use policies, tended to have less alcohol consumption, and the relatively small numbers of states in these classes suggests opportunities for policy-makers in other states to address longstanding and continued high levels of alcohol consumption and related (Erikson Et al 12). Strict laws and increased police crackdown on under aged drinking instill a fear in some of those under 21 engaging in drinking, which in turn decrease the crimes associated with under aged drinking and improves the safety and security of society as a whole. Therefore it is fair to say that there is no valid reason as to why the drinking age should be lowered. If the concern of unhealthy under aged binge drinking and youth safety can be taken care of with stricter alcohol policy enforcement by the law enforcers then this act should be taken. This article clearly implies that the law of keeping the legal drinking age at 21 is healthy and can indeed be enforced in the United States effectively. However, some articles still argue that the drinking age should be lowered. presidents seek debate on drinking published in 2008, complained that the law encouraged dangerous underage drinking habits amongst college students. is a law that is routinely  said John McCardell, former president of Middlebury College in Vermont who started the organization. It is a law that the people at whom it is directed believe is unjust and unfair and  (Modern Brewery). This article looks at the opposite at the dangers of leaving the drinking age as is. Concerned college presidents come together to argue that the unreasonable minimum drinking age of 21 years old is causing havoc especially on college campuses. They insist that this minimum legal drinking age promotes scandalous and unhealthy drinking habits in teens, especially college students, like binge drinking. Teens, especially college students, feel they have to hide from authorities to engage in drinking with their peers and as such usually go overboard due to the novelty of it. They are not exposed to drinking at a reasonably early age and once they get the chance, they often drink to extensive and unhealthy amounts. They therefore propose that the drinking age should be lowered in an attempt to decrease the newness of drinking alcohol to college students in a hope that unhealthy drinking habits will be decreased on college campuses, and perhaps in the world at large. Conclusion is however, that the drinking age should not be lowered. The dangers affiliated with the side effects of drinking are not to be encouraged at an earlier age. These side effects are too great to risk lowering the drinking age. The crimes committed by teens under the age of 21 do not need to be potentially increased because of a lower minimum legal drinking age. Younger children who are already most likely not mature and responsible should not be put at risk of the effects of alcohol. An increase in crime rates for teens under 21, could be a problem, for the entire society. Also, if an increase in the strictness of alcohol policies can mitigate the negative effects of underage binge drinking, then such actions should be carried out b Works Cited Carpenter, Christopher and Carlos Dobkin. The Minimum Legal Drinking Age and  Review of Economics and Statistics, no. 2, 2015, p. 521. EBSCOhost, Erickson, Darin J., et al. The Alcohol Policy Environment, Enforcement and Consumption in the United  Drug & Alcohol Review, vol. 35, no. 1, Jan. 2016, pp. 6-12. EBSCOhost,ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.ed u/login.aspx?direct=true&db=sph&AN=112334205&site=eds-live. College presidents seek debate on drinking  Modern Brewery Age, 25 Aug. 2008, p. 1. General OneFile, go.galegroup.com/ps/i.do?p=ITOF&sw=w&u=tamp44898&v=2.1&it=r&id=GALE%7C A209904006&asid=a1b3e36a4c49da430a09d81a5de989ef. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. y law enforcers accordingly. The minimum legal drinking age should not be lowered as it is safer this way for our youth and our society at large.