1 Sebastian Leguizamon Adam Phillips ENC 1102 04/16/17 Illegal Immigration Immigration has been a part of the American culture since this conception. In many ways, immigration is as American as apple pie, or baseball. Due to the promise that is brought on by coming to this country, many people choose to risk everything and come here illegally. The process to becoming a citizen is a tedious and arduous one. In many cases, the red tape that keeps illegal immigrants from becoming legal is not worth waiting for. Whether it be civil war, or a better future for their children, the conditions that people come from to get to this country are egregious and inhumane. Due to the 2015 Syrian Refugee crisis, the number of immigrants in this country was steadily increasing causing and unsettled movement paving the way to the increase of nationalism in this country. Since president Trump took office, the number of Mexican migrants attempting to cross the border illegally has decreased. However, this does not mean an end to the discussion nor the problem as a whole. As a nation, we need to facilitate the pathway towards residency for the immigrants that come to this country full of desperation in hopes for a better life. European countries such as Germany and France have stepped up when the immigrant crisis began. As a global leader and a self-proclaimed protector of nations and champion of all that is just, the United States needs to see the world at the moment for what it is, a broken and dangerous place. A place where people are reaching out for help as their homes and families crumble in the hands of evil. We need to be the country that reaches out and pulls these people back up through philanthropic and humanitarian efforts. 2 The most tragic victims of the war against illegal immigration are the children. According to US law, if a child is born on US soil, he or she automatically becomes a citizens of the United States regardless of their legal status in this country. A 2013 report shows that an unprecedented 4 and a half million children (Satinsky, Sara) who are US citizens have parents who do not have documents to prove that they are legal. This means that if the parents happen to be deported, the child would have to go back with them or be, split from their parents and stay in the US with a family member or with foster care. The idea of these children growing up in the united states alone without their parent is heartbreaking. However, it may be better than being sent back to their country of origin. In many cases, the people who choose to risk it all by coming to this country illegally are doing so because of one thing. Desperation. Desperation could drive any man to do almost anything. The conditions that some of these people have to live with are unimaginable by many Americans. Although living illegally in the united states is not the easiest thing, with the constant fear of being sent back, that fear stems from the reality that if they were to be sent back to their native land, it would mean going back to danger. Whether it be a civil war in Syria, or drug cartels in Honduras, being deported back to these conditions to many, would mean a death sentence. It is hard to grasp the desperation that they must have in order to take the journey to the united states. The hope that this nation may bring to them. And the heartbreak they go through if they get deported. To understand the reasoning why, one must not look very much further than one own family. The sacrifices a parent will make to guarantee a future for their children which is better than their own, is seen in the illegal immigration. In many ways, illegal immigration is a direct result of the love and hope parents have for their children. All of which, when put into consideration, makes the raids led by the US government to deport illegal immigrants, all the more tragic. Close to 80% of all children of undocumented 3 parents were born in the United States ( Johansen, Bruce), when these raids occur, many of them are separated from their parents. The separation of family and endangering the lives of people by sending them back to the awful conditions they came from seems to go against the very values that this country stands for. The United States finds itself in a sort of identity crisis at the moment. The outcome of the US presidential election is a reflection of the desire of change in this country. With the rise of nationalism there is growing support for anti-immigration rhetoric and a connotation towards illegal immigrants as corrupting and malicious to the American way of life. This is far from the truth. For generations, millions of people have immigrated to this nation in search of a better life. People of all nations saw this country as a beacon of prosperity. The same holds true today. The current process to become a citizen of the United States has 6 requirements that the applicants must have in order to be considered for US citizenship. According to the United States Immigration Center, it takes about 6 months for someone to become citizens. However, it is not unusual for the process to take more than 2 years. This also does not include the fact that you need to have a green card for at least 5 years or be married to someone who is a citizen for at least 3. Taking into account the time it takes to even acquire a green card and have permission to come to this country legally, the path to citizenship for many immigrants is a journey that sometimes takes more than a decade. Time the most precious resource. For thousands of these immigrants, they do not have time. Their situation is so unspeakably horrible, and their desperation is so great that they are willing to break all of the rules to try to secure a better life for their children and their children. The US Citizenship and Immigration Services is attempting to reduce the wait time to 6 months after the 6 requirements are met, however as of 4 now it us still 2 years. The fear of living as an illegal immigrant on top of the fear of going back to native land creates a feeling a loneliness and depression. As a nation, we have been built by the immigrants who bring new ideas and people to this country. There are countries who are experiencing crisis that make their citizens want to leave to a better place. Due to the current US immigration process, it requires applicants to devote time that a lot of them do not have. This creates the perfect storm for the rise of illegal immigration. Instead of ostracizing illegal immigrants, we need to guide them on their path to citizenship and into a better life to guarantee a much better future for their children and many generations of Americans to come. 5 Works Cited Johansen, Bruce E. Illegal  Salem Press Encyclopedia, January. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=er s&AN=89551347&site=eds-live. GRAVELLE, TIMOTHY B. Party Identification, Contact, Contexts, and Public Attitudes toward Illegal  Public Opinion Quarterly, vol. 80, no. 1, Spring2016, pp. 1- 25. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1093/poq/nfv054. Protecting  MALDEF: Protecting Rights. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Apr. 2017. Satinsky, Sara. Family Nursing  Family & Community Health 17.1 (1994): 86. Web. How Long Does It Take to Become a U.S. Citizen After Filing My Application for  FreeAdvice. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.