Napoliello 1 Dylan Napoliello Adam Phillips ENC 1102 15 April 2017 Project 3 Intermediate Draft In recent years, the solar power industry has begun to gain much public support as the oncoming threat of climate change has begun to take its hold on the younger public of the world. As this issue has gained publicity, more and more people have stood to take action, and these people began investing themselves in organizations such as SEIA, or any others that are working to bring cleaner, efficient energy in an attempt to halt the progress of climate change. However, our progress in this direction has been slowed. During the course of these transitions, the cause has been held back by occasional legal action. This litigation has been funded by those such as the Koch Brothers, who benefit from fossil fuel mining and power, and are paying people good money to ensure things stay the way they are. This can be countered, however. If the public were to work to improve the state of the solar power market now, it may be enough to hinder, if not halt the danger of climate change. Solar power is most known for its ability to provide energy without producing any harmful waste, such as those like Carbon-13 and other pollutants released by the burning of fossil fuels. These harmful pollutants have been known to be carcinogenic, and have even been linked back to nearby power plants at case locations. Solar energy relies entirely on sunlight, and converts the energy of the light received into power for your home appliances. Solar panels are also an exceptionally low price way of producing energy as well. While it is true that Napoliello 2 solar panels are expensive, their prices have dropped significantly over the past few decades. Currently, solar panels for the average home are anywhere around one thousand U.S. dollars. This cost is quickly outweighed by savings, however. Families with solar panels powering their homes can save tens of thousands of dollars a year (Shahan, 2014.). In July of 2014, a study carried out by the Australian government reveals that the costs of providing solar power had dropped below that of coal and other fossil fuel plants by a considerable cost (Brown, 2015). In point of fact, it was projected that solar power would still undercut the cost of coal-fueled power even if the coal itself were entirely free (Brown, 2015). Solar ability to provide clean, unlimited energy at such a low cost makes it a prime candidate for the leading source of energy in America, and other countries across the world. Without consideration of solar many merits, congressmen continue to pass laws hindering the progression of solar power industries in America. With global climate change and civil unrest looming over our heads, it is time to act now. Worldwide civil unrest, especially in the Middle East, continuously have an effect on oil prices. This takes a toll on all of society, but especially those on a fixed income, as oil prices are associated with all facets of the economy. In order to mitigate this situation, it would be prudent for citizens, especially retirees and other senior citizens, to revisit solar energy as a solution for the future. Not only will this benefit individuals personally in ways previously listed, it will provide a framework and infrastructure for the future, and benefit the health and finances of future generations of their families. Three million people die every year from diseases caused by air pollution from fuel burns (Brown, 2015.). This number can be sharply dropped, however. A study undertaken in 2014 discovered that if we were to increase our percentage of power obtained by solar energy by a small amount each year, by 2050 we would have decreased the pollution in the atmosphere by 10% (Wiser, Napoliello 3 2014. This may seem like a rather small number for a 40 year difference, however, it is taking into account the time it takes for the current air pollution to disperse. This change is actually extreme when it comes to health benefits, as the number of people dying or even just getting ill from air pollution would sharply plummet and the public would be safer. Do not fret, as there are plenty of ways to make a difference and help clean up our atmosphere. Solar energy is no longer an esoteric field with unattainable options for the masses. Over the past three decades, personal options have improved and become more readily available. Local companies, especially in areas of favorable weather and consistent sunshine, provide turnkey options for the individual. In addition, most states, and the federal government, provide financial incentives, such as tax refunds, etc., that provide a benefit for investing in a Solar energy system. The major energy companies have taken notice. The latest election cycle contained a vote for an amendment that was advertised widely to help the public harness solar energy. They even had a fireman spokesperson praising the benefits of the bill. The bill, however, was created by the lobby for the energy company. The advertising campaign for the bill had a budget of over 12 million dollars, split equally between the major power companies. Rather than benefit the public, this bill would have limited public access to solar energy and penalize small business owners who supplied the hardware. Once this was uncovered and the information disseminated to the public, the bill failed miserably. The benefits of solar energy are Academic. There is a constant resource that is available for free. Decades of research have provided for affordable hardware making such technology readily available to the public. Lastly, by law, the major energy companies would buy back unused energy from you, making it even more affordable. The recent bill, that failed the vote, Napoliello 4 attempted to eliminate this clause and prevent such owners from being connected to the electric grid, which would have eliminated many benefits. Thankfully, such options remain. Less than optimal weather can also be allayed. Being connected to the local electric grid allows the individual to make use of standard electric utilities when needed. In addition, there have been new developments in battery technology. The ability to store energy for your home for later is now a reality. Elon Musk, the creator of the Tesla electric car company has created a home battery. It was created initially for any individual to store electricity in the battery from a time of day with lower rates from the electric company, to use throughout the day, taking advantage of the fact that energy use is sometimes cheaper overnight. This is just one example of how solar energy can be optimized to be less quirky. In conclusion, the time to act on solar power is now. Climate change is turning the corner and in the next fifty years may cause significant and perhaps irreversible damage to our planet if not dealt with soon. In addition, fluctuations in the oil market due to issues in the middle east and elsewhere are causing the market to become unreliable. This of course, can be exploited as an opportunity for all to assist the acceleration of the solar growth in the world. If we all work together as a group we can help provide our families with clean, reliable energy for the future, and clean up our atmosphere for the generations to come. Napoliello 5 Works Cited Shahan, Zachary. & Disadvantages Of Solar CleanTechnica, 12 Jan. 2014, cleantechnica.com/2013/10/08/advantages-disadvantages-solar-power/. Accessed 15 Apr. 2017. Brown, Lester R., et al. Excerpt: The Great Transition: Shifting from Fossil Fuels to Solar and Wind TheHumanist.com, 22 Dec. 2015. Tesla, Inc, www.tesla.com/powerwall. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. Romm, Joe. Employs More U.S. Workers than Apple, Google, and Facebook ThinkProgress, ThinkProgress, 12 Apr. 2017, thinkprogress.org/soaring-demand-for- global-solar-53f11bcaa89e. Accessed 15 Apr. 2017. Brown, Lester R., et al. The Great Transition: Shifting from Fossil Fuels to Wind and Solar Energy. New York, W. W. Norton & Company, 2015. Wiser, Ryan. Environmental and Public Health Benefits of Achieving High Penetration of Solar Energy in the United The Environmental and Public Health Benefits of Achieving High Penetration of Solar Energy in the United States Department of Energy, Energy, energy.gov/eere/sunshot/downloads/environmental-and-public-health-benefits- achieving-high-penetration-solar. Accessed 15 Apr. 2017.