Taryn Elliott Spencer Bennington ENC 1102 10 April 2017 Project 3 Outline I. Introduction International trade is quickly becoming more prominent as the world becomes increasingly more connected. More than any other point in history, consumers are able to purchase goods and products created on opposite sides of the world. While this appears to be a huge positive, issues have risen with the expansion of trade. Workers, farmers, and laborers have all suffered from trade agreements through unfair working conditions and wages. Free trade means that exports and imports are unregulated and have no tarrifs or quotas. This means that farmers and workers in underdeveloped countries are competing with the cheap prices and lack of regulation, creating a lot of social and economic issues. Due to these problems, organizations like Fair Trade USA are determined to supply these workers and fair conditions. Thesis: By the purchase of certified fair trade products and goods, workers and farmers are provided with more abundant, safe, and healthier lives. II. Body a. Topic Sentence: The purchase of certified fair trade products allows consumers to support the education of children from under developed countries. b. evidence/specific quote/right down why it supports topic a. Farmers and workers who are not protected by fair trade organizations such as Fair Trade International, often compensate poor and unfair wages by pulling their children out of schools (Fair Trade International). i. Connection- In order for farmers and workers to have their products be fair trade certified, children must be enrolled in schools. By supporting Fair Trade organization through the purchase of fair trade products, consumers are thus helping in the elimination of child labor and promoting the general welfare of children through education. c. Education is not the only things the public aids through the purchase of fair trade certified products. It is only one portion of the positive impact of the use of fair trade on the international market III. Body a. Topic Sentence: For every Fair Trade certified product purchased, gender equality for workers and farmers are ensured. b. Evidence: 60-80 percent of global food is produced by women (FAO). Evidence: Members of Fair Trade organizations are not allowed to discriminate on the basis of gender or marital status, and also have rules protecting women such as set maternity leave, rules forbidding sexual harassment, and not testing for pregnancy (Fair Trade International) i. Connection- Women play a crucial role in feeding the world. Fair Trade organizations acknowledge the importance and fundamental rights of women, and work to ensure equality for all people. Therefore, by purchasing fair trade products, consumers are allowing the further expansion of gender equality on a global scale. IV. Body a. Topic Sentence: When farmers and workers are certified free trade producers, they are able to break the cycle of poverty. b. Evidence: Fair Trade organizations set a minimum price per pound on goods in order to protect producers from unfair competition prices (Fair Trade Foundation). i. Connection: Free trade eliminates tariffs and regulations, which means there is less money going to payments of the people making the products. This can mean that many farmers and workers are very unpaid, and in underdeveloped countries, this is promoting the cycle of poverty. c. Evidence: Fairtrade improves access to agriculture services like organic training and premium markers (Fair Trade Foundation) i. Connection: As a result of training, farmers are able to improve their crops and sell better and to premium markets. This puts more money in their pockets. III. Conclusion a. Unlike Free trade, the use of Fair Trade policies on the international market creates safe, fair, and healthy working conditions for all producers. Organizations that enforce fair trade certification ensure fair wages, proper training, gender equality, and child education. For every purchase of a fair trade certified product, consumers are directly helping the hands of the many people responsible for creating the product. In order for fair trade organizations like Fair Trade USA to continue to promote the welfare of those in underdeveloped worker, make sure you are checking for the Fair Trade Certified logo on your products. By doing so, you can help children get out of labor and back into the classroom, allow gender equality in working, and promote the end of the poverty cycle. up to consumers to support Fair Trade, and as easy as looking for the logo.