Yohance Haynes Professor Phillips Composition 1102 April, 16th, 2017 Uninformed Audience There are a lot of things that go unnoticed when humans are occupied in their daily routines. One of those things is a healthier fast food menu. This unnoticed factor is the highest among the or They do not worry about fast food menus because they simply do not shop there. and Burger King are all foreign words to the health conscious American. But today there will be a light shined on this subject. Unhealthy foods on menus are causing sickness and weight issues all over the country. The facts are not put in front of customers to know what is really happening to them. And there is an entire group of people that are not informed on the issue. If the health conscious group is educated, engaged and called to action, then there can be a change in the fast food issue. There are many benefits that can be obtained by this group stepping in. They can make a difference and push for healthier options on the menus. Pushing for healthier choices on fast food menus benefits the health conscious community by informing them, giving them more accessible healthy foods, and less temptation to break their diets. Fast food companies want to sell their produce at any cost. Their goal is to make as many sales as possible and get the product out. But in doing this, they leave out key information on the food they are selling. So many customers are mislead and fall victim to the unhealthy foods. For example, according to The Health Promotion Journal least some nutrition information was available in 66% of et al, 2011). A lot of information is being held out to the common consumer about what they are eating. The health conscious community is even more unaware of the real facts behind the foods. Results from a study found that less information was available in signatory chains of the self-regulatory marketing et al, 2011 ). So in areas of higher quality, there was even less information about the unhealthy menus. Areas where there are more likely to be health stores and healthy consumers, there was little to no information on fast food menus. It seems as if they want to keep the healthy community in the dark. The foods that are being served on these menus are harmful and the companies know it. As a group you must educate yourselves and push to bring healthy to the menu. Getting involved in this fast food issue takes drive. You have to want to resolve the problem for your own personal reasons. But first you must know why you are doing it. There are many reasons why you should get behind the wheel of this operation. Living a healthy lifestyle has its challenges. Like finding places to get healthy and nutritious foods. Many of you have to go out of your way to find a whole foods, or organic supermarket. This is a hassle that makes your lifestyle even harder. But if you put your mind into putting healthy foods on the menu your life becomes a lot easier. You can go to your nearest fast food restaurant and grab a healthy salad or fresh fruit. This convenience will only enhance your lifestyle and make your diet easier. Also, a big setback is temptation. Sweet and greasy pleasures make it hard sometimes when they sit on every corner. This temptation can be very strong, Self-regulation plays a key role in many domains in our life, from maintaining a healthy diet to being productive at (Milyavskaya et al, 2015 ). This strong temptation can be the reason for your break of diet. This can easily be avoided if you engage yourselves in pressing for healthier foods on fast food menus. The temptation will disappear further enhancing your healthy lifestyle. A lot of factors come into play when you are talking about healthy lifestyles. Dealing with strict diets and workouts can be a hassle. You need extra obstacles getting in your way of success. These obstacles are called fast food chains. And these chains are causing unnecessary problems in your way of life. Understanding that your might think this is an area that most likely concern you. But it does, and you can make a difference. Speaking of making a difference, you should try and make one yourselves. The healthy conscious community needs to come out as a whole and tackle this issue. Together you can acquire the right tools to make this work. Healthy foods and healthy choices. This action can expand your way of life and your childrens way of life. The kids our the future and right now they are losing to these same unhealthy foods. For example, total of 63% of children ordered from menus, 8% of whom ordered healthier (Chansukree & Rungjindarat, 2016 ). This move could help save your children from the influences of fast food. This can help lead them and many others into a healthier direction. All it takes is for you guys to step up and make a change in this kind of lifestyle. It can easily be done you just have to make a choice on if you are willing to act. The facts are all laid in front of you. The benefits and the easier life are all at your fingertips. Signing petitions can be a way to help pass this along. Getting people to boycott the fast food restaurants until healthier alternatives are made. This group has the power and resources to make things happen. You can show others that are not as fit another way of life. Show them that being healthy is a great benefit to themselves and their family. Be someone to start something great. In conclusion, this act by the healthy community can jumpstart something very big in our country. The first step of being educated is needed for you to get started. Then you must be engaged and really willing to make a stand. Then you have to take action and make it happen. Facts have been laid down for you to make a difference. But it is up to you to make it happen. Work Cited Chansukree, Pananda and Nitinai Rungjindarat. Research Article: Social Cognitive Determinants of Healthy Eating Behaviors in Late Adolescents: A Gender  Journal of Nutrition Education and vol. 49, 01 Mar. 2017, pp. 204-210.e1. doi:10.1016/j.jneb.2016.10.019 Ginn, Alison, et al. Mapping Access to Community-Developed Healthy Food Baskets Including Cost and  Education vol. 75, no. 8, Dec. 2016, pp. 911-924. Milyavskaya, Marina, et al. Saying to Temptation: Want-To Motivation Improves Self-Regulation by Reducing Temptation Rather Than by Increasing  of Personality and Social vol. 109, no. 4, Oct. 2015, pp. 677-693. doi:10.1037/pspp0000045. Wellard, Lyndal, et al. Fast Facts: The Availability and Accessibility of Nutrition Information in Fast Food  Health Promotion Journal of Australia: Official Journal of Australian Association of Health Promotion Professionals, vol. 22, no. 3, 2011, p. 184. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=edsihc& AN=077111477271442&site=eds-live.