Introduction Traveling to mars/This just colonizing Mars this is also the first step to expiring our solar system Explain what Mars One is who they are Donate toward Mars One Thesis: Mars One is not only a group who is planning on going to colonize mars but, moving the human race to the future and expand our future as the human race, while all plans are over a decade away from fully colonizing mars you can help on their venture by donating money to help fund setting up a colony, you can also help by spreading awareness by simply sharing their post on social media or telling friends about Mars One and their Mission. Educate the Audience Traveling to Mars as far off in the future as most people believe, granted it will take some time but most of the technology that we need is available. First step to traveling the solar system More about proving that we can do this, About mars Ones Plans and TimeLine on colonizing mars, Empower the audience to care In 1969 when we traveled to the moon and made it back the biggest obstacle we had to overcome was getting back to Earth. However, with colonizing mars we have to make it back to Earth; so now the difficulty will be setting up a colony. Argument that we are slowly destroying the planet, Call to action: Landed on the moon in 1969/Put up the ISS in 1998/ Now is the time to make the next step to mars Explain how they can Help While it may seem far of in the future now is the time to act, any force on a movement has a greater impact the earlier it occurs no matter how simple or complex the movement you make. Donating money to the cause Sharing social media Getting the word out to more people. Conclusion explained in explaining how they can Sum up why they should care, how they can help Works Cited. Mars One, www.mars-one.com/. Mars One Community Platform, community.mars-one.com/blog. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Cassiekelly. Say Only 10 Years Left to Save the EcoWatch, EcoWatch, 16 Apr. 2017, www.ecowatch.com/earth-deadline-climate-change- 1481a9202e-85986361. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. Cruddas, Sarah. One: important what you do before you CNN, Cable News Network, 18 Feb. 2015, www.cnn.com/2015/02/17/tech/mars-one-final-100/. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017.