1 Sandra Estrada Adam Phillips ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Women in Society Through the history of human beings, the position of women in the world has been changing, while the society is evolving and accepting the equality between men and women. Society it is still characterized by being sexist and segregating women considering them as objects that did not have any value were seeing frequently in society. Although women started to integrate, and serving in public positions, they were never considered completely equal to men. The world is full of many differences and similarities; there are ideals, languages, customs, cultures, governments, philosophies, armed conflicts, and several other things that can be equal for some people or completely different for other. However, women normally do not have a voice in the reality of the society, and have always been segregated. The segregation of women in society, has to change, and it has to change now. We are in the XXI century and men and women must be considered equal. Women are vulnerable in the actual society and should start working together for a better society rather than being one against the other. There are so many facts and data that demonstrates the inequality of the society, pictures and graphs that show the reality of the world. The world and the society should be a place where everyone is peaceful and respected, but unfortunately everyone is concentrated in its own benefit and its own life and ignoring the injustice and the realities. Some people may say that do not have a woman that they love, or simply do not care about the inequality of the society and about segregation of women. But this is a global problem, every person in this planet has or had a 2 mother once at a point of their life. That is the strongest relation any person can have with a woman; motherhood should be enough link with for a person to care about gender inequality. There are many examples, facts, charts, news and stories about the cruelty and inequality of gender injustice. A clear example of this global situation specifically in the United States could be demonstrated in the article written by Natalia Sianko National Family Violence Survey showed that 1 in 4 women in the United States will be physically or sexually assaulted by a partner at some point in her lifetime. Nearly 5 million violent victimizations are experienced by females over the age of 12 every (169). These kinds of studies are the perfect proof that we need organizations and foundations, that help women to work together as a whole, trying to make society as equal and as fair as possible. Women should be considered a vulnerable group of the society and everyone should be worried about this. It is very common to hear people talking about inequality, and mentioning facts that can sound very dramatic, some people affirm that men are better pay than women, that men are stronger than women or that a woman is more likely to be raped or physically assaulted. But all those facts, are true; and those kinds of things should stop happening immediately. Everyone should work together as a society and community, helping to make a better society. Work together to eliminate problems such as the analysis of unequal education made by The United Nations that proves that 2015, only half of the working-age women are in the labor force, compared to 77 percent of working-age (The Women 2015) Some men may claim that they have no daughters, nor wives, nor women they love in their lives. But gender inequality is a social problem, that goes beyond personal relationships. Gender inequality is a social problem that does not only affects adults, it also affects girls; and since kids are the future of our planet and our society every person should care even 3 more about it. As it is shown in an analysis made by UNICEF in 2014, estimated 31 million girls of primary school age and 32 million girls of lower secondary school age were out of school in (UNICEF). This is a number that has to decrease significantly if we as a community want a real improvement and change of the society. To make a change regarding gender inequality is very important to first analyze what gender is, to avoid any kind of misunderstanding of this social problem. As it is mentioned in the British study, Empowerment of Women and Girls, have to look beyond gender norms and examine roles and stereotypes as a wide set of practices that reflect the gendered nature of (Faith, Gender & Sexuality) those kinds of analysis are very important to create a rational solution of a social problematic such as gender inequality. It is always very important to define the problematic and analyze every detail of it, to find useful and smart solutions. Many different organizations, foundations, governments and countries are starting to protest against this social inequality, showing and demonstrating that men are equal to women, and that it is nothing that should be different between both genders. As was mentioned in the article published by the United Nations, increasing number of countries have adopted legislation providing maternity and paternity benefits, enabling workers to meet their responsibilities outside (The Women 2015) this is a clear example of one of the many strategies governments and countries are taking to protect women and change the inequality. In conclusion, everyone should work for a better society, human beings have gone through many events that have made society evolve and changed its reality. However, everyone should care about its own society and about the differences that still exist. Everyone should try to 4 help as much as possible and avoid any kind of segregation and inequality of the society. Gender inequality is something that has to stop especially, domestic violence and child abuse. 5 Works cited Faith, Gender & Sexuality: A  What are the consequences of gender inequality? Sexuality, Poverty and Law. N.p., n.d. Web. 13 Apr. 2017. education and gender  UNICEF. N.p., 23 July 2015. Web. 12 Apr. 2017. Sianko, Natallia. Gender Equality And Mental Health: On The  American Journal of Orthopsychiatry 81.2 (2011): 167-171. PsycARTICLES. Web. 29 Mar. 2017.  The National Domestic Violence Hotline. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Apr. 2017. The Women  United Nations. United Nations, n.d. Web. 12 Apr. 2017.