Emily Schlecker Professor Bennington ENC1102 16 April 2017 Getting Rid of Standardized Testing Did you know that 33% of US primary and secondary students have experienced test anxiety, it has gone up from 10 to 25% in the past couple of years (How high-stakes standardized testing is harming our mental health)? These are only some of the impacts that standardized testing can do to a child. Standardize test were created to help the school system better educate the students. By giving the teachers an overall understanding of what level of education the individual students have. But, it really causes students to have mental instabilities and sometimes physical harm from bullying. Is this what you want to put your children through, or your future children? Standardize test have created a divide in the school atmosphere that separates the classes by intellect level. Some students fall behind because lack of confidence they gained from not doing the best that could have been done on the exams. The exam are used to test what a child has learned throughout the school year. If the child did not pass the exam they are still allowed to move up a grade, but will begin to fall behind in their classes. Because of the Child Left Behind children are able to move up a grade in school, but still be left behind in their academic ability with having to learn new material on things they could pass in the grade before. The feeling a child in the situation must have is like being told to swim 30 meters, but not passing a swimming test. This is a major issue in many schools across the states for a few years now. With the lack of educational standards students are moving up in grades but their education level is lower, causing the students to feel left behind, or not as academically inclined. And with students feeling like they are less than other students, it causes the more educated students to feel more superior and make them bully the others. But bullying the only thing that these test can cause, they can also cause test anxiety. According to Parents Across America, 2013 peer-reviewed study found greater test anxiety about the NCLB assessment than about typical classroom tests, and that 25 percent of students studied reported severe psychological and physiological symptoms tied to the assessments (How high-stakes standardized testing is harming our mental health). Now would you want your child to be a part of this psychological and physiological increase? I know I would not. Children should be able to go to school and learn at the pace they need and tested on the material, or in a way that they can understand. Test anxiety is caused from a fear of failing, lack of preparation, and from poor test history (see www.adaa.org for more info). But what makes a student have these issues? Well that would be the high demand for high schools on standardized test. The teachers in the school system now a days focus more on the way for teaching how to take test and most of their class days are for testing, that students are beginning to lose the drive to go to school and learn the material. They being taught the material, but how to answer the test in the way the answer key wants them to. This situation has even bother parents, which has caused them to write letters to the President of their school, a school where learning was so much fun because students have test anxiety? It is a big burden for the kids and they have to study for the test which takes the fun out of learning. Some kids even make lots of mistakes that they normally make on other test during the year (Victoria Now this is only one of many parents that have voiced their concerns about standardized testing and the way the school system is becoming more robotic than a good learning atmosphere for children. With standardize test being a huge issue today, citizens have found even more flaws in the way the test work. Not only is the pressure to perform well an issue, but so is race and income. Studies have shown that the test seem to lean more in favor to certain races and economic groups (King, Should we get rid of standardized test in school). Most public schools are diverse in the ethnicity and with the economic standing for a family. Due to this diversity, it has come to the attention that standardize test show that students with lower scores are the ones with the lower income families. According to Noliwe M. Rooks, Virginia only 45% of black students in each school must pass standardized math tests while 68% of whites, and 82% of Asians must do the same Politically speaking I believe this is unfair to any student, that certain students are held to a higher standing than others, when they are a part of the same school/ school system. The system is fighting these allegations by stating; plans are not discriminatory because students who are the farthest behind must progress the most We may never know the true reasoning for these actions, there are too many theories and biased against and for the testing, you can just hope that your child is put in the best interest possible. Standardized testing has a handful of flaws, but there is some benefit the testing can provide. These test help teachers understand the level of education that their students are capable of. According to Melissa King, University says standardized testing provides teachers with a framework and guidance for lesson plans. This may benefit students because less time is wasted in the classroom This is all beneficial to the educator, but is it to the student being educated? It would all depend on how the school allows the teacher to teach the students. And for high level institutions the way the school system is, works for them. An example would be the Hoover Institute, Hoover Institution says standardized tests help prepare students for intellectually demanding careers, such as medicine and law (King, The pros of standardized testing are mainly for the educators, not so much the ones being educated. Now that you have heard from both sides of the argument, is this what would you want for your children? Children are supposed to be able to learn in a fun, safe, and supportive environment. But being forces to learn material that they can barely understand, but feel like they cannot ask questions without putting the class behind. thing all this research has shown us is that the issue lies with how we use these tests, not with the kids who take them (Rooks, This statement is what the education system needs to understand. When the school board realize how each student is different and learns at different paces, is when the system will become a better area for students to feel more comfortable. Schools should analyze the way in which students best comprehend the information taught to them throughout the year. Working on new ways to help students better there education is what the school boards first initiative needs to be, not just passing the students on to the next grade. Work Cited B., Victoria. Why We Should Get Rid of Standardized  Letters to the Next President. National Writing Project 2016, n.d. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. King, Melissa. Should We Get Rid of Standardized Tests in  Seattlepi. Hearst Seattle Media, LLC, n.d. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. Rooks, Noliwe M. Why Time to Get Rid of Standardized  Time. Time, 11 Oct. 2012. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. Smart Money: How High-stakes Financial Innovation Is Reshaping Our World--for the  Choice Reviews Online 53.01 (2015): n. pag. Http://www.fairtest.org/. Parentsacrossamerica.org. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. Test  Anxiety and Depression Association of America, ADAA. ADAA, n.d. Web. 15 Apr. 2017.