Sell 1 Vanessa Sell Professor Bennington ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Lack of Funding for Technology in Schools I. Introduction a. Department of Education i. Education is important to everyone. No matter where you want to go in life, you must have some sort of education. Whether these ideals are to be taught in school or at home, you must develop certain philosophes in order to be successful in this world. However, the most common form of relaying information is through technology. Almost all companies and businesses use computers to further their business. Now imagine how children feel when they go to school to get an education, yet, they receive the vital tools they need to excel in the future. Those vital tools, are introduction and understanding of technology. With the current threat of the lack of funding many schools face, this nightmare will become reality for many students. b. Non-engaged Stakeholder i. Large corporations like Target, Walmart, and such 1. https://corporate.target.com/article/2015/08/thanks-a-billion-csr- infographic Sell 2 2. Target has provided one billion dollars towards education programs 3. has provided over 8 million books, 87 million dollars in local grants to support field trips and the arts, and over 14 million (Target Corporate) 4. Target should care about this issue because they are already heavily involved in the education program and their needs, but they are blinded by the aspect that the children are missing out on the most important product of society, which is technology. 5. This is an important issue because with the help of Target they can reach many more children and transform their lives in an even greater way c. Target and Microsoft are combining forces to take the educations of our future generation and making it possible for them to excel and prosper within the technological world. They are creating a task force so that a percentage of funds raised from Targets initiatives can be brought in and put forth towards creating software that Microsoft can put towards education programs d. Call to Action: Donate money to Targets initiatives, and help support Microsoft e. Thesis: Technology is the forefront of every day society, so it should be implemented into schooling. With Target and help, children across the United States can have their educations furthered by the outreach of technology. Sell 3 II. Body Paragraphs a. Benefit of Technology i. Technology has only just recently developed, but it has been on a rapid increase in the daily usage of the everyday American since the mid (Computer History 1). Technology first started appearing in schools in the mid to late (Computer History 2). ii. opinion about the ability of tech to enhance learning is universal; 93 percent believe that interactive whiteboards enrich classroom education and 81 percent feel the same way about (MindShift) 1. Shows how the teachers feel about the technology, and why it should be considered so important iii. Technology makes everyday life easier, and it clearly plays an important role in society, but what makes it so important to the education of the future generation? b. Why Technology in Schools is so Important i. It is clear now, that technology is a major influence in modern times, and it will only continue its uphill climb. In order to ensure that we a prosperous future, we invest in the future generation? ii. Technology has grown and advanced in ways that no one thought was possible, and it did it in such a short amount of time. iii. Introducing technology at a young age, allows a student to grow and learn the basics, so that when their young creative minds are at the peak of Sell 4 perfection, they will be able to implement their ideals and use them for the advancement of society. iv. Technology also can benefit just about anyone, it considers that not everyone can learn in that one specific way. It allows outlets for many different options of learning. 1. Pros and Cons of Technology in the Classroom (Gulley) 2. Using this source because it provides the reader with information on why students value technology 3. It provides insight to how technology effects students c. Why the Non-Engaged Stakeholder Should Care i. Microsoft is a well-known company, it also plays an important role in the educations of students ii. Puts forth 86.5 million dollars towards education iii. Youthspark Program 1. is designed to help create educational and economic opportunities for children around the world, in 2012. According to the company, it has served 227 million young people since (Guardian) iv. With their influence, they could heavily change the way technology is brought about in education d. Call to Action Sell 5 i. Microsoft and Target team up to create a program that allows initiatives and already existing program, Youthspark, to create a program that initiates technology into school III. Conclusion a. Technology is the forefront of the future b. If technology is implemented then there is no telling where the world can go c. Technology allows us to create and further so much more. Once technology is implemented into everyday education, there is no limits as to what can be created. Sell 6 Works Cited Barseghian, Tina. Lack of Funding Creates Barrier to Using Tech in  MindShift. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Center, Microsoft News. ISTE and Microsoft collaborate to provide new school planning and professional learning  News Center. N.p., 28 June 2016. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Computers Timeline of Computer  Computer History Museum. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Gulley, Kathleen P. Pros and Cons of Technology in the  Diss. California State U, Sacramento, 2003. Abstract. Dr. Rosemary Papalewis, 2003. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Watson, Bruce. 10 companies spending millions on  The Guardian. Guardian News and Media, 14 Jan. 2015. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. We Did it! Target Gives $1 Billion for  Target Corporate. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.