Collins 1 Ashlyn Collins Ms. Ricketts ENC 1102-010 April 18, 2017 Migraine Awareness and Diagnosis While almost everyone can experience migraines, not everyone is plagued with having chronic migraines. I believe many can agree that having a migraine twice a year is much different from having five a week. In fact, many people know what a migraine truly entails, leaving many migraine sufferers unaware of the severity of their condition. One of the most prominent examples of migraine sufferers, and those around them, being unaware of the condition is a story of one of my family friends. A Friend of my son was experiencing many symptoms that were concerning his mother. The symptoms in which her son was suffering from were very confusing to his mother, family, and even his pediatric doctor. Almost every day he was experiencing an extreme amount of pain, he told his mother that he was unable to see, and when he could see his vision was weird with floating spots, he was constantly vomiting, loosing the ability to move his arms and legs, and even passing out from the pain. As one can imagine these would be very scary things to watch your child go though, now, imagine that your child is only four years old. His doctor is unable to help him, you are unable to help him, and it takes over a year for doctors to give you any answers. This is a reality that many migraine sufferers face, to fix this problem more awareness and education needs to be made about migraines along with improvements in the diagnosis process. Collins 2 One of the biggest issues when it comes to migraines is that the general public know the whole truth about what a sufferer can experience. There are two types of migraines, one with aura and one without. Aura is a variety of visual disturbances that usually come as a warning that a migraine is going to set in, aura can be experienced as many small floating white dots, a large blurry spot with white edges, black and white or even colored stripes in your field of vision, or a blurry spot that can float around in your field of vision and even take up all your sight, making you unable to see in one or both eyes. There are many other symptoms to migraines such as extreme disorientation where the room feels as though it spinning, oversensitivity, not only to light, but also oversensitivity to the things around you. A very strange sensation of being able to feel everything, such as a person reaching to tap you on the shoulder or the chair next to yours will take over. One of the scariest parts of getting migraines, besides the possibility of going blind, would be the loose of feeling, or even movement of one side of your body. These episodes can be so bad that the sufferer can easily mistake the migraine attack as a seizer if they are unaware of their condition. Now, on top of all of this one will experience intense pain, bad enough to cause you to pass out. The other major problem with migraines besides the public not knowing much about them is that the diagnosis process usually takes too long, leaving the migraine sufferer in pain for an unknown amount of time. But even receiving a diagnosis makes you one of the lucky ones as many people go undiagnosed or are given the wrong diagnosis. In a study conducted by the American Migraine Prevalence and Prevention (AMPP) found that 56% of respondents meeting the International Classification of Headache Disorders, 2 nd edition (ICHD-2) migraine criteria have ever received a Collins 3 migraine diagnosis from a health care (Lipton et al 203). Meaning that 44% of people who qualify as migraine sufferers are walking around undiagnosed. Another issue that arises is that because people really know what a migraine is they seek out help. Information arose from the longitudinal Chronic Migraine Epidemiology and Outcomes (CaMEO) showing that only 13.6% of migraine sufferers have talked to a specialist for not only treatment but also diagnosis of their migraines and even specialists in the field have only been able to properly diagnosis 36% of migraine sufferers (Lipton et al 204). If even specialists in the field are having a hard time properly identifying what patients have a headache condition then what is causing this problem? It seems that an issue has been found in the criteria in which use to diagnosis patients. In order to diagnose a patient the physician uses criteria based off of the ICHD yet it has been found that clinical decision support systems (CDSSs) is not able to discern between primary headaches and overlapping features (Yin et al 2). This is a problem because doctors are using inconclusive information to attempt to make a diagnosis. As in the example above it took almost a year of a toddler suffering daily until a proper diagnosis was made, I have even known cases to take over five years for the right diagnosis to be given and this is a big problem in the community of migraine sufferers. Although many people think the general public should be more aware of the effects of migraines others argue that not enough people suffer from the disease for it to be a public issue. This argument though is invalid because although not a very large amount of the population may suffer from migraines it is known as one of the twenty disabling (Chang and Rapport 9). Along with this it is one of the most common chronic conditions and it is present in about 10-28% of children and adolescents Collins 4 (Parisi et al 72). The condition affects about 12% of the Western Population and 80% of the patients who have this condition have their first attack before the age of 30 (Chang and Rapport 9). Not only are there a substantial amount of people suffering from this condition but like the child I previously spoke of, many are too young to deal with the burden of the condition on their own. In summary, the general public is not educated enough about migraines, this is a dangerous situation because of the detrimental effects that migraines can have on the sufferer. Many people can suffer from migraines without knowing what is really happening with their body. Can you imagine having a condition where the headaches are mistaken for seizers, or where the pain causes you to pass out, and lose all vision? Although education about the disease does not lessen the effects, knowledge about the condition can better prepare a sufferer and those around them for an attack. Collins 5 Work cited Marisa Chang, MD, Alan M. Rapoport, MD, Acute Treatment of Migraine Headache, Techniques in Regional Anesthesia and Pain Management, 2009, www.sciencedirect.com.exproxy.lib.usf.edu, accessed February 18, 2017 Richard B Lipton, Improving the Detection of Chronic Migraine: Development and Validation of Identify Chronic Migraine (ID-CM), International Headache Society, 2016, Journals.sagepub.com, accessed April 16, 2017 Ziming Yin, et al, A Clinical Decision Support System for the Diagnosis of Probable Migraine and Probable Tension-Type Headache Based on Case-Based Reasoning, The Journal of Headache and Pain, 2015, http://link-springer- com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu, accessed April 16. 2017 Pasquale Parisi et al. Headache and attention and hyperactivity disorder in children: Common Condition with complex relation and disabling consequenses, Epilepsy and Behavior, 2014, www.elsevier.com/locate/yebeh, accessed February 5, 2017.