Garcia 1 Raquel Garcia Sarah Roth ENC 1101 April 9, 2017 Drug Addiction: A Disease or A Choice? Most people have either met or heard about someone who suffers from drug addiction. In general, we tend to agree that the stories are somewhat similar in chronological order: a person is exposed to a drug (heroin, morphine, etc). Then the person develops an addiction or tolerance towards the drug, and progressively begins to consume more. At some point the person may seek to recover from addiction, and begins some type of treatment. Whether it is rehabilitation or prescribed lowered doses, the story ends with the person either relapsing or eventually overdosing. It is a sad truth, one that over 20 million Americans are victims of each year. According to the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Service Administration, the rate for relapsing on a drug like heroin places around 86-90%, which leaves little room for hope of recovery. Today as the numbers keep rising at staggering rates (particularly heroin), desperate measures are being taken to find new cures or methods of rehabilitation. However, the division of different ideas creates a gap that blocks any progress, as methods for recovery vary widely between perspectives. One of the most controversial discussions is whether drug addiction is a disease. While some organizations claim addiction is simply a choice; one should consider the drastic changes in an brain that are caused by drug intake. Addiction is a chronic disease that affects a control and willpower, despite harmful consequences. Garcia 2 When a person intakes a heroin for the first time, whether it was from injection, smoking or snorting, the heroin acts quickly in the body (DrugAbuse). As stated by the Center for Substance Abuse Research; when heroin is injected into a vein, the high will be most intense and felt almost immediately and the full effects will be experienced in less than 10 seconds. When snorted or smoked, the high takes longer to develop and will be less intense with the effects appearing between 10 and 15 minutes. A common misconception is that smoking or snorting heroin instead of injecting lowers the risks of addiction, but this is not the case. It does however lower risks of getting hepatitis and HIV/AIDS which are commonly correlated with the sharing of needles for heroin. The first high from heroin is typically the most intense, this is due to the body quickly developing tolerance to the drug. Due to such many first- time users find it difficult to stay away from the drug and end up in a phenomenon called the in which they attempt to intake more of the drug and in different ways to achieve that same feeling of the first high. When taking heroin, the supply of dopamine in the brain is heightened and overproduced. Dopamine is a natural molecular chemical found in the brain which allows us to experience feelings of pleasure and reward. Our brains are naturally wired to repeat life-decisions that are associated with pleasure or reward. This means that your brain will automatically checkmark heroin as a experience that brought you happiness and will subconsciously drive you to do it again. When someone takes heroin, the production of natural dopamine is multiplied by about 10 times, and overtime the brain stops producing dopamine. An addict depends on the drugs for dopamine, otherwise normal activities that would normally bring pleasure such as eating, being social and sexual activities become bland or A person who tries to quit drugs can experience severe withdrawals such as depression, anxiety, fatigue, and hallucinations. It is understandable why a drug addict has such a tough time Garcia 3 quitting the one things that makes them feel sane. According to the NIDA, drug addiction is medically recognized as a disease because changes the brain in fundamental ways, disturbing a normal hierarchy of needs and desires and substituting new priorities connected with procuring and using the In other words, the drastic changes that are caused to the brain are so potent that a person is unable to behave normally, and have limited willpower to quit the drug. NIDA states that resulting compulsive behaviors that override the ability to control impulses despite the consequences are similar to hallmarks of other mental In fact, many drug abusers are also diagnosed with mental disorders because the symptoms and effects in the brain are so similar. Drug addiction is also often compared to other chronic diseases such as asthma and diabetes. This is because chronic diseases have a cure, but could be treated and often go through some periods of relapse before reaching full health. Many people who believe addiction is a choice make the argument that the person chose to start using the drugs. This is true, however when a person chose to do drugs for the first time they addicted. After a person becomes addicted, they are characterized with disease when they have an inability to stop using drugs, even when though their to stop. Another common argument is that other chronic diseases such as asthma or diabetes were predisposed in the genes and therefore they had no control of becoming sick, whereas addicts suffer from predisposal to addiction until they made the conscious choice knowing the consequences. Though this is a good point, research has shown that 40% to 660% of addicts are attributed to genetics. Individuals who have suffered from addiction, bear children how are about 25% more likely to become addicted. Gender also plays a big role in attributes to addicts, where men are at higher risk of addiction at a 2 to 1 ratio. Those with mental disorders are extremely likely to become addicted because of their nature to want to the same Garcia 4 is true for children with ADHD who are not properly treated. Some studies show that there are individuals who may have tried some drugs yet did not become addicted, while other individuals were immediately addicted due to physiological factors. In conclusion, the recognition of addiction as a disease is a very debated topic due to its forthcoming as a choice. Addiction does start with the choice to intake substances, but rare to predict how each individual body responds and how quickly your body develops tolerance. Many other diseases such as heart disease, diabetes, and some forms of cancer also involve personal choices like extended sun exposure, diet and exercise. disease is what happens in the body as a result of those The disagreement on the nature of addiction has caused lags in progression; some people still believe that counseling and rehabilitating people by teaching them to because it is is the way to go, but in reality addiction is much more complex and continuous relapses must be taken into account before total independence from drugs. As more and more people begin to accept addiction as a disease, we can push forth to find new medications and rehabilitations that can allow addicts to surpass withdrawals and return to a normal healthy life. The belief that someone is making the continued choice to be an addict is not only unhelpful but erroneous, and should be cleared up for the benefit of all. Garcia 5 Works Cited Addiction As A . The National Center on Addiction and Substance Abuse. N.p., 2017. Web. 7 Apr. 2017. Drugs And The . Drugabuse.gov. N.p., 2017. Web. 7 Apr. 2017. Facts, Addiction et al. Addiction Is NOT A Brain Disease, It Is A Choice - The Clean Slate Addiction . The Clean Slate Addiction Site. N.p., 2017. Web. 7 Apr. 2017. Is Drug Addiction A Disease Or A . The Recovery Village Florida Drug Rehab Center. N.p., 2017. Web. 7 Apr. 2017. New Data Show Millions Of Americans With Alcohol And Drug Addiction Could Benefit From Health Care Reform - Partnership For Drug-Free Kids - Where Families Find . Partnership for Drug-Free Kids - Where Families Find Answers. N.p., 2017. Web. 7 Apr. 2017. Relapsing Back To Sobriety: Why People Relapse And How To Get Back To Sober Living . 12 Keys Rehab. N.p., 2017. Web. 7 Apr. 2017.