Son 1 Declan Son Instructor Kristen Collins ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Focus On the Road, Not the Buzz Split-second decisions made while driving can mean the difference between life or death. The choices to check social media, change the radio station, or even talking to passengers can influence the focus on the road and their surroundings. The most eminent threat to safety centers around substance abuse, specifically alcohol. As teenagers and young adults start drinking in college, the road takes a turn for the worse. Drivers under the influence are likely to sway side to side on the lanes, react slower to red lights or car in front of them, and see less of their surroundings. These effects can lead to head-on, rear-end, and side collisions. This issue should not be taken lightly as it can lead to life-changing injuries or deaths. Living with life-long regret and weight on shoulders is not worth the burdensome that one takes in exchange for a fun night. Although most people believe that they are capable of driving because they only took a few shots and do not feel the community should take all the precautions necessary to prevent car accidents from happening. Alcohol is a depressant; it produce a wide variety of effects, including impairing attention, perception and thought, prospective memory, and (Nadja Schreiber 203). All these skills are essential to driving. Attention to the road, light signals, road signs, and surroundings ensures the safety of the drivers and others in the vicinity. The mind unconsciously Son 2 calculate the distance and time to determine if passing as the light turns orange or yielding into the adjacent lane is a wise decision. Without a sense of perceptions, drivers would be rear-ending the cars in front of them and park in a disastrous manner. Depressants also tend to slow down the nervous system which decreases the reaction time and train of thoughts. This makes the road dangerous as they take longer to hit the brake or hesitate to make a turn. The lack of judgment is also the reason why intoxicated drivers end up behind the wheel. They lose awareness of their own capability and reduced control of their body when they get drunk. The overpowering effect of confidence from the psychological effect of alcohol also interferes with the decision to not drive. Sometimes, they may even lose track of how much they drank and believe that they are capable of driving because they still feel the When these measures add up, they are more than likely to end up in a car accident. The policymakers implemented suspensions, incarcerations and (de Figueiredo 1055) as penalties for driving under the influence (DUI) offenders in the United States. These details stay on the record permanently, which employers, service providers, and government officials can access. They put a taint in profile that makes them an unfavorable applicant. Trying to buy a house or open up a bank account becomes much harder because the record screams irresponsibility and untrustworthy. If the result of the course of actions lead to loss of child or lover, they would have to live with the regret for the rest of their lives. They would not be able to take back their action or put bandages on the wounds that they caused to the families and friends that they end up hurting indirectly. According to National Vital Statistics Reports, unintentional injuries (car accidents) is responsible for 39.7% of deaths for ages 10-24 in 2014. It is the leading cause of death in three Son 3 different age brackets: 1-9, 10-24, and 25-44. Alcohol may not be responsible for all the accidents but it can certainly be reduced if all drivers do not drive while intoxicated. If everyone make the simple, right decision to not take such reckless action of mixing alcohol with driving, nobody would have to go through the five stages of grief and have a difficult time patching the missing gap in their lives. This change is vital to reduce mortality rate and prolong life expectancy in younger age groups. Sure, alcohol can have positive effects like and having a good time, coping with negative emotions, and feeling less shy or worried in a social (Scheier 2105). But, it is possible to have the best of both worlds. Having one person from a group act as a designated driver (DD), someone who plans to not drink and drive others back home, can ensure the safe return of everyone. If carpooling is not a possibility, sleeping over at house and driving back home in the morning when all the alcohol is filtered out from the body is also a safe option. Calling Uber, Lyft, friends or family is also an alternative. Even if that friend or sibling would not want to hear their phone ring at 4 a.m., they would rather want their loved one or friend get home safe. In a worst case scenario where phone and wallet is lost, ask a policeman for a ride home. It is part of the department policy to provide such services in some cities. A lot of organizations and beer companies, such as MADD, Miller, and Coors, offer free ride services in certain areas Alternatives to Driving Drunk, How to Get a Free Ride With a large collection of choices, there should not be an excuse to drive back home while drunk. Even if you do not drink alcohol or use drugs, you can help make the community a safer place. Be the friend that offer to be a designated driver. Be the friend that they can trust to call you late at night. Spread your knowledge about the dangers of drunk driving to friends and Son 4 family and prevent it from happening. If someone you know say they are heavyweight and is already a couple shots in, take away their car keys. Even if they say they only feel and can still think clearly, do not take a chance and let them drive. Take a pledge to drive drug- and alcohol-free. Convince others to do the same. Plan out how to get back home safely before going to a party or social gathering. The fewer reckless drivers are on the road, the safer everyone can feel. The time it takes to come to a full halt after speeding 60 miles per hour (88 feet per second) is estimated to be 6.87 seconds, assuming the velocity is reduced 15 feet per second. In that time the car travels 302.28 feet. Being a few milliseconds late in pressing the brake could mean traveling several feet forward. If there was a stationary object, such as a building or a tree, only a few feet forward, it could have meant a fatal crash. If it was another car or pedestrian, the action also endangers innocent lives. Majority of drivers already know the consequences of driving under the influence. It could mean their car getting totaled, fines, license suspension, increased insurance cost, etc. At the heat of the moment, the immediate benefits of drinking seem to outweigh the repercussions. Especially when a stressful occasion recently occurred, the motive to drink gets stronger since alcohol brings relaxation, fun, and warmth. But as adults, it is necessary to think about the responsibility that comes with drinking and keeping actions accountable. Word Count: 1221 Son 5 Works Cited Alternatives to Driving Drunk, How to Get a Free Ride Drivers Rights. Online. 16 April 2017. Compo, Nadja Schreiber, et al. Witness Memory and Alcohol: The Effects of State-Dependent  & Human Behavior (American Psychological vol. 41, no. 2, Apr. 2017, pp. 202-215. 9 April 2017. de Figueiredo, Miguel F. P. THROW AWAY the KEY or THROW AWAY the JAIL? The Effect of Punishment on Recidivism and Social  State Law vol. 47, no. 4, Winter 2015, pp. 1017-1097. 9 April 2017. Sheets - Minimum Legal Drinking for Disease Control and Prevention. Online. 9 April 2017. Heron, Melonie. Leading Causes for Vital Statistics Reports, 65, no. 14, June 2016, pp. 1-94. 9 April 2017. Scheier, Lawrence M., et al. Cognitive Predictors of Alcohol Involvement and Alcohol Consumption-Related Consequences in a Sample of Drunk-Driving  Substance Use & vol. 43, no. 14, Dec. 2008, pp. 2089-2115. 9 April 2017.