Xu 1 CongXu Professor ENC 1102 15 th April 2017 Globalization impact on Language Diversity Globalization has given human lives a comfortable and a more simplified way of living on Earth as compared to our grandparent generations. It has influenced politic, economic and cultural aspects as the world gets smaller and more connected across the globe thus giving everyone the ability to buy a product from China when a person lives in Africa. However, globalization is also encouraging individuals who speaks multiples languages to stay more connected till the point in revitalizing their endangered languages. According to Mark Turin, it is estimated by linguists that the world will only be left with 6,500 languages and more than half will no longer be practical use by the end of this century. In addition, language is part of an element which defines a identity; English speakers are often classified as upper class with educated background whereas a person speaking a minority might be identified as lower class with poor or no education background. Hence, language is deeply rooted within a cultural and social context and if language dies so does a social identity and culture as language is used to maintain and convey. The government, citizens and education bureaus should find methods to preserve endangered language as the loss of language diversity will cause a significance lose in future generations. Xu 2 According to BBC, Why we must save dying just over a century ago 400 languages are disappearing which means about one every three months going extinct. Linguists has estimated more than half of the world remaining 6,500 languages will soon become extinct by the end of this century and this is all driven by how society has accepted globalization and forsaken their roots. Today, the top 10 languages claim more than half of the population and majority of the people do not realize the after affect ones these endangered languages are gone forever .Language is a part of us from the very day we came onto Earth, from being a primary vehicle of communication, to reflecting both personality of an individual and the culture of a society and languages gives the possibility in growing and transmission of culture, and the effective functioning of control within a social group (IJELLH). Therefore language may have a more complexity on Earth then just communication and education purposes. An American linguist, Suzanne Romaine elaborated on the inverse relationship between numbers of languages in contract with the size of population; 80% of the people speak 75 languages and about 3800 minor languages are spoken by only 0.13% of the population (118). Additionally, all these statistics and data are not available to the knowledge or people are not educated enough to know the danger of language loss and how important it is for human beings and the future generations. As language is a key driver in conveying culture it is crucial for people to know how this endangered tongues will never be able to be rebirth as a language dies so does its culture. Take for instance, in Cherokee language was born from thousands of years ago where people spent their time living in the southern Appalachia Mountains and Cherokee words exist from objects such as berries, stem and toadstool in region. Therefore in Cherokee culture there is no word for only will see you and there is no words for am But there is a Xu 3 special expression on its own, a way humans express behavior and emotions which the same in the English language. As stated by Tom Belt in BBC, language, the culture itself might teeter, or even disappear. we are to survive, to continue and exits as people with a distinct and unique culture, we must have Nonetheless, languages is a way of interpreting the world and no languages collide with one another. In references back to the Cherokee and English, it is interpreted through verbs whereas in English it is noun-based, thus those verbs serve an ability to conjugate multitude ways based on who they are acting upon. And depending on suffix; speakers have a way to convey whether a noun is a toward/away from them or upstream/ downstream which is far more precise way in expressing with the world than in English. Although minority languages such as Cherokee are simple it has a more complex grammatical systems that goes beyond the scope in English. Hence, reasons that are showing obvious degradation just from 1 language; Cherokee has impact the cycle of its culture has got linguists scrambling document and archive endangered languages from going extinct. Such efforts includes; recordings, dictionaries, translating oral stories and etc. Although some may argue that such languages are not going to be spoken and they are no worth the time and money to be preserved, however this efforts could be use in museums artefacts for the future generations. With such preservation shown to the public, it may change the minds of people towards endangered language and they could learn to appreciate what was once there is forever gone. On the other hand, the government and education bureau can take part as Penn claims that children have a way of learning second language quicker than one realizes. As a child expose to multiple languages at a young age has easier time remembering and processing information, owing to their ability to absorb information (unconsciously) due to their brain chemistry. As human get older they tend to have difficult Xu 4 learning a new language because human tend to associate words with their meanings whereas younger children have less complex information to digest. Government has the power to in fracture language policy as in Malayisa, the people born there are known to have an average of 3 languages an individual can speak which is Bahasa Melayu native language), English (which is taught in international schools) , and Mandarin as a number of population are Chinese and they take pride in where their ancestors come from which is from China so having their children learn Chinese is not an option. People in that country speaks multiple Chinese dialect which often heard in places like China. And Bahasa Melayu is only used in Malaysia but the government makes it a priority for that to be a primary language in the education system and a second language if taught in an international schools. This is 1 way the government can play which can help preserves an endangered language from disappearing. In conclusion, globalization is dominating this world and it will not change anytime soon but at the same time minor languages are facing extinction if nothing is to be done. As mention, linguistic diversity caters more than communication itself as culture and religion has their own functions too. They are many ways to preserve a language from disappearing if the public is being educated on the benefit and the roots languages plays, people will have a better understanding and contribute in helping this issues from getting worse than it already is. It is better late than never trying to keep what the ancestors left behind in this world. Xu 5 Work Cited Globalization Helps Preserve Endangered  Globalization Helps Preserve Endangered Languages YaleGlobal Online. Yale Global Online, 03 Dec. 2013. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Nuwer, Rachel. BBC - Future - Languages: Why we must save dying  BBC News. BBC, 6 June 2014. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Role of Language In Human  Avada Classic. IJELLH, 04 Apr. 2017. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Romaine, Suzanne. Preserving Endangered  Language and Linguistics Compass (2007): 9 Mar. 2007. Web. 20 Nov. 2016. SiOWfa14 Science in Our World: Certainty and  SiOWfa14 Science in Our World Certainty and Cont. N.p., Fall 2014. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.