Al Maamari 1 Mohammed Al Maamari Professor Collins ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Lung Cancer Is A Leading Killer Smoking has continued to be an extreme threat to public health. Moreover, smoking has many types like cigars and smokeless tobacco, using these types causes various health issues and diseases. Smoking is harmful to every organ in human bodies and it causes different types of cancers such as, lung cancer, which is the most one caused by smoking and it is the leading cause of cancer death, as well as, mouth cancer, throat cancer, and kidney cancer. In addition, 22% of United States adults who are between 18 to 24 are current smokers (Seo 1). During the period between 1965 and 1990, the percentage of adult smokers in the United States has decreased. However, there has been no change since then, and this shows the critical situation that we reached (Hecht 1). For instance, it has been detected that the rates of secondhand smoking, which is smoking from others cigars, and passive smoking, which is breathing others tobacco smoke, over United States citizens have raised. There have been many cases detected about the danger of smoking in the United States or worldwide. For example, studies have shown that lung cancer kills more than one million people around the world (1). Lung Cancer is one of the leading causes that drive to cancer death for both men and women in the United States and the whole world since it causes 9 out of 10 cancer deaths (Blahd 1), therefore, people should make a difference by being educated about the dangers of smoking and helping smokers Al Maamari 2 to quit since there have been many alternatives found that can be used instead of smoking cigarettes. Lung cancer is mostly caused by smoking according to studies. It is not only special for men, it also affects women. Cigarettes contain cancer-cause chemicals, so the defense system of human body is going to be harmed if the person gets used to these cigarettes. As lung cancer gets worse, different symptoms are going to appear such as hard cough, chest pain, and shortness of breath. The Preventive Services Task Force of the United States recommends that smokers who are aged between 55 to 80 to get checked by a CT scan every year since this technology may pick up early cancers (Blahd 4). There are two types of lung cancer, small cell cancer and non-small cell cancer, the first one is considered more aggressive and dangerous because it quickly spreads to the other parts of the body. Moreover, it is rare in non-smokers because it is tied strongly to cigarettes use. The non-small cell cancer is less dangerous since it is more common and grows slowly, and this type is responsible for almost 85% of lung cancers. Many people are wondering about what are the possible solutions that can be done in order to help smokers to quit. Quitting smoking could be a challenge for smokers since nicotine is a component of cigars and it considered a factor that forms habit, and habits are hard to break. Once nicotine is inhaled, it goes into the bloodstream and then it stimulates the brain, therefore, the person gets addicted to it (Kenny 1). Nicotine Replacement Therapy (NRT) is a way to help smokers to quit smoking. There are many alternatives that can be used to get nicotine in the bloodstream without smoking such as gums, patches, inhalators, tablets and sprays (1). These products are offered in different pharmacies and outlets. There are special instructions to use Al Maamari 3 these nicotine replacements, so smokers should take advice from doctors and stop smoking clinics. NRT increased the rate of succeeded smokers to quit by 70%, studies showed that 17 out of 100 persons successfully stopped smoking (2). Moreover, all of that is not enough, if a smoker has the real desire to quit smoking, he should take some further actions such as list the reasons that push him to quit. Furthermore, he should tell his relatives and beloved ones about his intentions since relatives always give support and effective motivations. The American Lung Association is a voluntary health organization that was founded in 1904 by contributions from individual donors, foundations, and government (American Lung Association). The main purpose of this organization is to save lives by improving and ensuring the health knowledge to the public through the programs that are held by this organization. According to the American Lung Association main website, the association focuses on five vital goals: defeat lung cancer, improve breathing air, reduce the burden of lung diseases on individuals and their families, eliminate the diseases caused by tobacco and related products and finally they try to accelerate and enhance the effectiveness of their efforts. The American Lung Association spend much effort in providing different opportunities for people to advocate and volunteer. Lung Action Network is a program established by the American Lung Association. It gives the opportunity to people to be advocates for policies that save lives and improve lung health and prevent lung diseases. By becoming advocates, people are going to lend their voices to the efforts that are done to reduce the effects of lung diseases. Once a person signs up to the Lung Action Network, he will receive offers and opportunities to contact the federal and state officials about the vital lung diseases issues. Al Maamari 4 Since volunteering plays a vital role in every society, the American Lung Association has offered volunteering opportunities. The association welcomes everyone who has the passion to become involved and engaged in their mission. Another program is Better Breathers Club, this program is launched by this association in order to offer support groups for individuals. This program helps individuals to learn better ways to deal with lung diseases and gives them the tools to live with the best quality. This program gives individuals the opportunity to share their experiences and talk to others who understand them in order to give them a positive impact. Better Breathers Club has many branches in each state, there are about 10 branches in Florida. In conclusion, studies shown that smoking is very harmful to a very far extent. It was detected that smoking is the cause of lung cancer which is the leading driver to cancer deaths among both men and women around the world. There were no changes and actions taken since a long time, and this led to a huge and critical problem that affects every society. Therefore, everyone should consider this time to be a change point and make a difference. There are many ways invented to help smokers to quit such as NRT. In addition, non-smokers also should educate themselves about the risk the threat their societies. There are many organizations and people who want to make a difference and have the passion to have healthy lives, and the American Lung Association is a great example of these organizations. They did, and are doing much effort to save lives and improve the public health, and defeat lung cancer. They offered programs such as Lung Action Network that offers volunteering and advocacy opportunities for people. Therefore, with all this network of the ways to stop spreading this danger, we all should take an action and make a difference. Word count: 1208 word Al Maamari 5 Work Cited Blahd, William. A Visual Guide to Lung  (2016): 1-20. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. <http://www.webmd.com/lung-cancer/ss/slideshow-lung-cancer-overview>. Hecht, Stephen. Tobacco Smoke Carcinogens and Lung Cancer  of the National Cancer 91.14 (1999): n. pag. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. <https://academic.oup.com/jnci/article/91/14/1194/2549271/Tobacco-Smoke-Carcinogen s-and-Lung-Cancer>. Lung  Lung N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Seo, Dong, Jonathan Macy, Mohammed Torabi, and Susan Middlestdt. The effect of a smoke-free campus policy on college smoking behaviors and  Direct (2011): Web.