Tardonia 1 Savannah Tardonia Professor Collins ENC1102 16 April 17 The Necessity of a Work Ethic Think about all your time, blood, sweat, and tears you pour into your job, school work, or extracurricular activities. Just try to estimate in your head approximately how many hours a day you pour your heart and soul into those activities. Think about how many hours per week that consumes you. The dedication and responsibility you slave to achieve what you do. It does not matter if it is school, your job, or a simple task but dedicating yourself to what you do represents your character and who you are as a person. Having a work ethic means doing this, working hard for what you want and setting goals to keep you on track to achieve them. Even if you fail sometimes, an individual with a work ethic gets back up continually and re-evaluates the situation in order to those instances to be used for them to grow and learn from. Yet, the lack of this desire and penetration that inculcates a work ethic runs parallel with a sense of entitlement. I was raised on the basis that no one owes you anything and that if you set your mind to anything you can achieve it. I am blessed to say that I was raised in a household where my parents tried to instill those beliefs in me and I understand that not everyone has had that opportunity but I feel as though it should be common sense that life is what one makes of it. Therefore, if no one owes you anything, neither does the government. Think of our founding fathers that birthed our nation. They defied the odds and beat the super power in order to form our great nation. We study their historical actions because they proved by having a work ethic and knowing that one individual is not better than any other individual. They wanted a democracy so that the people themselves could Tardonia 2 make a change and create their own voice within the government. Therefore, participating in government can be done through a variety of outlets, such as voting, paying taxes, and attending government meetings within their own local government. Whereas, each citizen is responsible for paying their own fair share of income tax which goes toward relieving the deficit, providing welfare programs, and other funded projects. What our nation needs simply put is a reality check. According to Forbes.com in October of 2015, while concluding how many American households will not be paying federal income tax during the coming year that it is 45.3 percent, nearly 5 percentage points higher than our 2013 estimate of 40.4 That is almost half of our nation that will not be paying income tax and more than half of our country in employed. As of December 2016, the unemployment rate of the US is 4.7%, which translates to approximately 14.9 million people (U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics). Currently there are only 123,470,000 citizens working full time, while there are 242,470,820 adults live in the USA (Reference, Statista). The working people of America are the people who pay for programs like social security, disability, and other welfare programs. The United States has 80 active Welfare programs, many of which could probably be combined. For the fiscal year of 2016 there was approximately billion spent on welfare per usgovernmentspending.com. This was ranked as the 5 th most expensive section of the budget. Think about the amount of money each individual sends in to go toward the government annually. I am all about helping the less fortunate but I have an issue with the generational dependence that welfare programs have created. It happens every day where people sit on their couch doing nothing but waiting for a check while the rest of us are out in the real world busting our tails to pay our bills and put food on the table for our families. I am aware that people often go through fiscal and physical emergencies or get laid off and are unable to find work right way but I believe that each Tardonia 3 program should have a limit of when you would have to find a job by. They should also should have to provide proof within a certain amount of time that they are attempting to apply or search for a job. I agree we should help out the struggling people of our nation but once again no one owes anyone anything. Your internal will should make you want to strive to be better and desire to provide for family. It is not fair to the hard working members of society to fight to make ends meet, while generations of people live off of welfare. Since the day we are born, we watch our parents in order to emulate how we should act as people. We are all raised different ways but no child should be taught they the world should be handed to them on a silver platter despite how much money is in their bank account. The people of our nation need to increase their accountability by monitoring their own actions and realizing that how they choose to treat the economy still effects the rest of us. Citizens need to be held further accountable for actively participating in government and paying their taxes. If everyone or at least 75% of people were to pay taxes, imagine how much faster we could recover from the debt our country is drowning in. Even if we never fully recover from the hole we are currently in, think about the fact that if more people were to pay their taxes, then the rest of our taxes would decrease. This transcends to further allow the government to decrease the necessity of government welfare programs only to transcend into a decrease of poverty levels, as discussed earlier in relation to the genetic fallacy. With more people putting money into and investing domestically there would be more stimulation within our own economy and would produce further growth in comparison to all of the business we generate instead overseas. The lack of active taxpayers and their desire to actively do their duty to participate in government may think me not paying my income taxes this month make a difference in the and right it probably will not but when you calculate in thousands Tardonia 4 of people thinking that same thing it creates an epidemic. At the end of the day, having a work ethic and demonstrating desire and resilience will get one further than someone sitting on their couch waiting for a check. Granted at this point in life as a college students, we enjoy taking breaks and being lazy for a little and watching Netflix but at the end of the day it is always so much more rewarding to feel accomplished by actively participating in class and other activities, in comparison to binge watching 6 episodes of a TV show and wondering where the rest of day went. We all play a role in how our government functions, so do job as a citizen and work hard and pay your taxes. The government will be there if it comes down to necessity but feed the generational dependence that society and the welfare can feed individuals to believe. Tardonia 5 Works Cited * All Products Require an Annual Contract. Prices Do Not Include Sales Tax (New York Residents Only). U.S. Full-time Employees: December 2016, Unadjusted  Statista. N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Beltway, Business In the. New Estimates Of How Many Households Pay No Federal Income  Forbes. Forbes Magazine, 06 Oct. 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Notice: Data Not  U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017.