Painting by Diego Rivera Depicting the Dulles Brothers in Guatemala Dirty Tricks To explain some of tricks of the CIA over the years, careful looks into the directors of the Agency as well as the projects the Agency has undertaken can to shed light upon covert actions, as well as the motives of a close knit group of individuals consisting of intelligence and wall street/banking backgrounds. The best place to start learning about the CIA would be examining the actions of the intelligence community just before the creation of the CIA. One of the Last programs undertaken by the Office of Strategic Services, the CIAs precursor agency was operation (Watkins 2014). This operation consisted of importing german scientists, most of them being war criminals, to the united states in order to learn their knowledge. This importation would be crucial in the learning of nazi propaganda techniques as well as mind control experimentation (Watkins 2014). However it is perhaps the other actions of Allen Dulles which have stained the Agencies reputation and alerted the public to a deeper pattern among Agency activity. The Monetary reasons behind regime change do not go unnoticed and many keen historians and other influential figures have picked up upon such activity however it is often the case that criticism amounts to too little too late. The cost of human life as a result of the interests of the war profiteering wall street bankers, arms dealers, and other special interest groups should be at the forefront of every Americans mind. This awareness is necessary in order to keep the government and those who control it through monetary influence in check. This can be accomplished through exercising our rights to be informed citizens, to criticize existing power structures that may no longer serve the interest of the American people. Enter Allen Dulles, Son of a US diplomat, a wall street lawyer, O.S.S. veteran and Longest standing director of the CIA. Before becoming director of the CIA, in fact before the Agency even existed Allen Dulles was a wall street lawyer. One of his clients was wall street executive and weapons contractor Prescott Bush, father of George Bush Sr who in addition to being president was also a director of the CIA. Prescott Bush was director of Brown Brothers & Harriman, a bank which was turned over to the state under the trading with the enemy act due to holding nazi money (Campbell 2004). After his time as a lawyer as well as a stint in the office of strategic services Allen Dulles became Head of the CIA, At the same time brother John Dulles, became Secretary of State. As such, the stage was set for a power grab by the Dulles brothers and their wall street affiliates. In 1953 Irans oil was 100% owned by British petroleum, however a nationalist uprising threatened this as a man named Mossadeq was appointed leader of Iran (Deghan 2013). Mossadeq planned to turn control of the oil over to the people of his country. A joint CIA and MI6 (British intelligence agency) operation codenamed TPAJAX was was then hatched and Mossadeq was overthrown (Deghan 2013). This would not be the last time the CIA would covertly act for monetary gain of the power elite. Only a year later in 1954 this time in Guatemala Jacobo Arbenz was coming to power who promised to give farm land to the people instead of the united fruit company who used the area to farm bananas. Naturally, wishing to protect his and his friends financial security, being on the board of directors, Dulles hatched a plan to overthrow the government of Guatemala. First the CIA placed operatives on the ground to train domestic anti-communist rebel groups. Then an orchestrated media plan was hatched which involved the planting of a weapons cache which was to be blamed on the Russians. This sparked nation wide outrage and led to the instating of a Dictator which was friendly to the CIA and the Dulles United Fruit Company (Schlesinger 2011). The Destabilization of Guatemala also ended up being used by Che Guevara as motivation to rebel, painting the reality of blowback from covert missions (Baggins 1999). The Exploits of the CIA do not only venture into the world of public relations but also have an interesting foray into the mind. After world war 2 with the beginning of the cold war, with the field of psychiatry beginning to develop the CIA turned its rights to mind control, feeding off of some of the nazi scientists imported work, the CIA began a large scale domestic program that involved voluntary and involuntary experimentation on human subjects in order to understand how the mind works and how to manipulate it. The Mind control experiments of the CIA consisted of many programs and sub programs. Among the programs was the CIA funded expedition of Gordon Wasson, a banker who brought magic mushrooms to western culture after taking them in Mexico (SubProject53 1956). Additionally prostitutes were hired to give LSD to clients to study their response through one way glass in a operation known as Operation midnight climax (Eddy 2015). Another program headed by Dr Donald Cameron at a montreal mental hospital involved combined LSD and Barbituate drug stupors with Elector shock therapy at up to 40 times normal levels. This was done to wipe the patients mental capabilities, after which the patient was put into insulin or barbiturate comas for months at a time and played brainwashing tapes, causing many victims to lose the ability to speak or use the bathroom without help (Peter C. 1984). During this time a biochemical weapons scientist named Frank Olson was stationed at fort Dietrich working on drugs to enhance interrogation as well as biological weapons such as anthrax. Olson was given LSD by his colleagues at the CIA without his consent. Olson later confided in his wife that he was having second thoughts about his job, saying to her made a terrible (33:30 Codename: Artichoke). Within months Olson was pushed out of a hotel room window he was staying in with another CIA operative; While the government has acknowledged they dosed Olson with LSD (Watkins 2014) they have not claimed responsibility for death choosing to label it a despite independent medical examinations claiming he was pushed (Codename: Artichoke). Not Willing to stop his power grab Allen Dulles had some more tricks up his sleeve for the American people before being fired over the bay of pigs by Kennedy. Allen Dulles and the CIA initiated an operation known as operation mockingbird (Church Committee). The purpose of this program was to infiltrate US media organizations in order to allow the planting of news stories to serve the interests both domestic and abroad. The implications of such a shadowy agency holding power over the media outlets of the country gave the CIA carte blanche over the psyche of the American people. A power which the CIA to some degree still yields to this day, although not in any official capacity as a committee known as the church committee investigated the CIA and caused an official announcement to be made as to the ceasing of the programs. A push towards voluntary press cooperation was then made by the CIA. The talent of creating fake news is one of the strong suits. Former President and director of the CIA before that George Bush Sr. gave the united states an interesting look into how the fake news feeds into American policy. In 1990 US public relations firm Hill and Knowlton hired the daughter of the US ambassador to Kuwait to go before congress and tell them a made up story about Iranian soldiers throwing babies from incubators and stealing the incubators (Goodman 2003). This story was used as pretext for getting congressional approval for the gulf war. Additionally Bushes son George Bush was told by the CIA that an informant code named had warned them that Saddam had mobile chemical weapons labs that were creating WMDs (Prados 2007). This was later found out to be a false allegation which led to an invasion. However Allen Dulles and company had one final plan before being thrown out of office by Kennedy. An operation known as Northwoods. Operation Northwoods consisted of a CIA and Joint Chief of staff plan to drum up domestic support for an invasion of cuba. Among the list of suggested plans was the Exploding of an US airliner in order to blame the cuba government to justify invasion. Another plan suggested using controlled protests outside of a military based coupled with shelling the base with mortars in order to drum up public support for an invasion. Lastly domestic terrorist attacks carried out on cuban refugees were suggested. These attacks were to be carried out by CIA operatives and blamed on the Communists (Northwoods). Thankfully none of these operations were ever allowed to happen. However OP 40 a group of cuban rebels that were carrying out subversive operations within cuba at the behest of the CIA did end up invading the Bay of Pigs. This invasion made the president Kennedy furious where he is quoted as saying will splinter the CIA into a thousand pieces and scatter it into the Intelligence work is a complex and multi faceted thing which oqccaiosnally leads itself to false information be it to impose some agenda or be it a legitimate case of mistaken information. Unfortunately all to often the ability of Intelligence agencies to abuse their positions to control the narrative occurs. Many times it is because someone somewhere stands to make a substantial profit off of the action. It is imperative that citizens inform themselves on world affairs and become in tune with foreign relations in order to maintain a society which will not as easily succumb to the will of the power elite. Action must be taken by journalists and individuals to speak out and discuss real and perceived issues so that we may be able to slow or impede the blood thirsty war profiteering which has plagued the globe for centuries. In the words of comedian George Carlin does not need to be a formal conspiracy for interests to The super wealthy know what benefits them, and all too often it is the common man who must suffer as a result. Works Cited: Cutter, Paul of the Cols War: Allen wikileaks.org, https://wikileaks.org/ Northwoods, Operation for the Secretary of Defense: Justification for the Invasion of NSA, http://nsarchive.gwu.edu/news/20010430/northwoods.pdf Prados, John Documents and Key Participants Show the Importance of Phony Intelligence in the Origins of the Iraq NSA, http://nsarchive.gwu.edu/NSAEBB/ NSAEBB234/index.htm Goodman, Amy Debate on One of the Most Frequently Cited Justifications for the 1991 Persian Gulf War: Did PR Firm Hill & Knowlton Invent the Story of Iraqi Soldiers Pulling Kuwaiti Babies From https://www.democracynow.org/2003/12/2/ Church Committee, Mockingbird, CIA Media Control Congressional Testimony, https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cDCfTIapds0 Peter, c Montreals House of Montreal Gazette jan 21 1984, https:// news.google.com/newspapers? id=B4oxAAAAIBAJ&sjid=iaUFAAAAIBAJ&pg=1416%2C93013 Eddy, Cheryl. CIA Once Ran Brothels and Dosed Unsuspecting Customers With Gizmodo. http://io9.gizmodo.com/the-cia-once-ran-brothels-and-dosed-unsuspecting- custom-1687016854 Sub Project 58. http://documents.theblackvault.com/documents/mkultra/ Brian Baggins Revolutionary Speech by Che Guevara, https:// www.marxists.org/archive/guevara/1960/08/19.htm Schlesinger, Stephen. of Guatemalas NYTimes 2011 http://www.nytimes.com/ 2011/06/04/opinion/04schlesinger.html Deghan, Saeed admits role in 1953 Iranian The Guardian, 2013. https:// www.theguardian.com/world/2013/aug/19/cia-admits-role-1953-iranian-coup Campbell, Duncan. grandfather helped rise to power The Guardian, 2004. https://www.theguardian.com/world/2004/sep/25/usa.secondworldwar Watkins, Jay. Paperclip: The Secret Intelligence Program to Bring Nazi Scientists to https://www.cia.gov, 2014. https://www.cia.gov/library/center-for-the-study-of- intelligence/csi-publications/csi-studies/studies/vol-58-no-3/operation-paperclip-the-secret- intelligence-program-to-bring-nazi-scientists-to-america.html