Mohammed Al-Shukaili Ms. Kristen Collins ENC 1102 4/12/2017 Ban the Burning Fossil Fuels Fossil fills are the most used power source around the world in the present time. However, the over burning of fossil fuel create a real threat to both the humanity and the environment. Fossil fuels emissions are nitrogen dioxide, sulfur dioxide, carbon dioxide, and carbon monoxide, which consider as the main source of air pollution. Nobody in this earth denies the fact that nitrogen dioxide, Sulphur dioxide and carbon monoxide is contaminate and destroy, and the main source of all these substances is fossil fuels. Fossil fuels causes many a variety of problems. The number one danger of burning fossil fuel is being one of the common cause of death. However, this is only one of many different risks that the world need to cares about. Some of the fossil fuels threats are quick while others happen over a long term of time, for example, climate change. For all these reasons, the world should find a way to stop the over burning of fossil fuel by replacing it with another clean and renewable source of energy. I believe young individual are the group that can solve this problem, and they are responsible to find a way so the world survive from the danger of fossil fuel. They have the obligation since they are more aware of their activities towards nature than anyone else and they are more should be aware that consuming fossil fuel and using it as a main source of energy makes it a real threat to the nature. As states in we Still Need Nuclear Ernest, amount of dangerous chemicals such as carbon dioxide, heavy metals and nitrogen oxides will be released after burning fossil fuels for obtaining 22). At the point the material are radiated to the climate, they create a real danger to the environment since they prompt numerous issues such as acid rain. Acid rain is extremely dangerous in light of the fact that it impact directly on human health destroy forest, streams, structures and any natural thing on the planet. air contamination, that produced by the use of fossil fuels, contribute in the expansion of global warming issues. Climate change is an important phenomenon that the world has been challenging this time. It is considered as a direct threat to the conserved mission, Communities and economies. As states by Frank a nuclear researchers who has many innovations in the nuclear field in his article Big Plans For Small Nuclear he states warming will result in more frequent hot days and fewer cool days, with the greatest war ming occurring over land. Longer, more intense heat waves will become more common. Storms, floods, and droughts will generally be more severe as precipitation patterns ( Frank 31). These impacts of burning fossil fuel lead to damage and destroy our planet, not only that, but it also affect the human as well. Moreover, increasing world temperature will lead to sink many of neutral islands around the world and destroy their habitats. Consequently, with a specific end goal to decrease the danger from this risky phenomenon, the world ought to diminish the discharge of gases into the environment and that by quit burning fossil energizes. Youngsters ought to be worried with this issue and attempt to decrease it, in light of the fact that it make them lose their lives. According to the article Nuclear Power but Make it by Narendra pollution is a major environment related health threat to children and a risk factor for both acute and chronic respiratory disease. The most common respiratory illnesses and infections include allergies and asthma, as well as more serious problems, such as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and lung (Narendra 42). issues are truly risky and will make youth care and focus about their lives and prepared to contribute and roll out an In addition, young people should be aware of the risk from utilizing fossil powers because the outflow gasses make damage of numerous creatures in the world. As states in the article, Problem with Fossil by Pye oil can harm living things because its chemical constituents are 3). Oil can likewise cover some little types of fish or spineless creatures and coat plumes, decreasing birds capacity to keep up their body temperatures control. In this manner, when youngsters know all these dangers they should promptly begin to help the planet to be spared and free from all different source of pollution. In the wake of understand the danger and the results from using fossil fuel, what can young people do in order to contribute in solving the issue?. In fact, many solution youthful can accomplish. First, in their home they should utilize vitality proficient lights; and switch off lights, PCs, and electronic apparatuses when not being used. Furthermore, they ought driving their own autos and begin utilizing general transportation, biking and walking if possible. This will not only reduce the emission of fossil fuel, but it also will help maintain their health and keep them fit, Also, they ought to be mindful so as not to spill fuel when filling their auto up. At long last, they ought to reduce the measure of bundling that they buy and the measure of family waste they create in light of the fact that the procedure of assembling bundling discharges unsafe emanations into the environment. These little things can decrease the air contamination, which protect the earth from fossil damages. In conclusion, Fossil fuels emissions are nitrogen dioxide, sulfur dioxide, carbon dioxide, and carbon monoxide consider a main source of air pollution. These material can destroy the living beings on the earth. For these reasons, the world must stop using these material and find other sources that are friendly to the environment. In this manner, the world government must quit blazing these material and discover clean and renewable sources . It is young duty to change since they have the full capacity to do as such. If they show no awareness, then many human, animals and plants going to die. Work Cited Moniz, Ernest. Why we still need nuclear power: making clean energy safe and  Foreign Affairs (2011): 83-94. Web. 4 Apr 2017 Frank . A Big Plans For Small Nuclear  Small nuclear power reactors - World Nuclear Association. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Bhandari, Narendra. Nuclear but Make it Vikalpa: The Journal for Decision Makers;Apr-Jun2011, Vol. 36 Issue 2, p101. Web. 14 April 2017