Subhi Quneibi Ms. Kristen Collins ENC 1102 16 April 2017 The Internet is Not a Luxury There exists the idea that all of humanity was created equal. This stands true whether a person believes in a god or not. It is part of a human rights as directly stated by numerous government foundations. Take for example the United States Constitution or more specifically the Bill of Rights, which was created exclusively to grant the American people rights. Thomas Jefferson stated; hold these truths to be self-evident: that all men are created equal; that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable rights; that among these are life, liberty, and the pursuit of This brings up the question as to why many of the ideas considered public today require so much just to access. More specifically, the Internet which is used by almost the entire world is, to a degree, severely restricted. There exists the idea that the Internet, which already requires a fair amount of financial assets to access, should be evolved or as many refer to it, devolved. There was a plan composed by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) Chairman Tom Wheeler in 2014 that would restrict the internet much more than it currently is. The idea was that through this plan, Internet providers could in a sense discriminate against the users. The discrimination would be composed of primarily to phases. In order for a person to access a certain website or even a specific feature, they would have to pay. This, in a sense, works like a padlock; it keeps out everyone who have its key. The key is public, but only accessible through paid transactions. Thus, it creates a sense of prioritization, based on the amount a person spends. This to idea was to be added to whatever charges the person was paying to access the internet. It existed as a basic subscription with a premium upgrade, like many of the websites, video games, or applications that exist on the web. The plan seemed so outrageous to the public that millions of people voiced their candid and blunt opinions, the unified call to action in turn resulted in refutal of the plan. The plan itself just disappear, instead it was modified from adding stress upon internet users to protecting them from companies who sought to take advantage of them. This revised plan, dubbed the Net Neutrality laws, had a huge amount of support and was approved in February of 2015. The idea of Net Neutrality is that internet users are guaranteed their online rights to freely roam the web. It holds back the Internet Service Providers (ISPs) like AT&T and Verizon who would otherwise limit most activity on the internet. as your phone company decide who you can call and what you say on that call, your ISP be concerned with the content you view or post (Freepress). President Obama had distinctively made it clear that Internet is not a luxury, it is a at the time (Olanoff). This implied that Net Neutrality is, in a sense, the same as the Constitution or the Bill of Rights, as it protects human rights online. is no free expression when you have to pay extra to stand on the soap (Thor Benson). The idea is established and has a huge amount of support from the public, yet it also faces a great deal of opposition, one that has since been silenced. The Net Neutrality laws now reface a new threat, one larger than anticipated, with President Trump in office. The newly elected president had recently picked a fresh chairman for the FCC, one who of course shares the same political party preference (Kang). Ajit Pai now sits at the top of the federal commission with his robust hatred towards the Net Neutrality laws. As with all innovative ideas serving the public, there are those who oppose for the sake of monetary assets. Pai is indeed part of that opposition, believing need to fire up the weed whacker and remove those rules that are holding back investment, innovation and job (Puzzanghera). This certainly runs an extensive risk to the public, taking away the laws that once protected them for financial gains. In fact, Mignon Clyburn, one of the three sitting members of the FCC, warned that such an action will bring harm to the consumers as than working to close the digital divide, this action widens the (Kang). It is quite clear that the laws were put into place to protect consumers and keeping them should be the only solution. Thankfully the democratic party promises to fight any legislation that may attempt to remove or break down the Net Neutrality rules, but that may not be enough. With the rules that were placed to keep the internet free, open, and equal now at risk it is important to act fast. If these rules do reach an end it will only harm us, the consumers. If we attempt to pursue the preserving of these laws then who will? The companies that make money off of it? Certainly not. The American Library Association also believes the internet is of all peoples to seek and receive information from all points of view without (Todaro). Even our public libraries stand for the freedom and fairness Net Neutrality brings us, as it as an of our and to our There are plenty of ways you can help you could, sign plenty of petitions through the internet, advocate locally and notify your senators, or even join an organization to join the fight. Save the Internet, is such an organization, aiming to keep Net Neutrality alive by joining millions of Americans together. Those millions of people use the internet in society, whether it is a phone, computer, TV, or even fridge and so far, it has been a seemingly smooth experience. Though that definitely the case if fast lanes and upgrades come to the scene, which is something they definitely want to see, and something you want to see. Help out and save the internet for once and all because it is not a luxury, it is a necessity. Works Cited Copps, Michael. privacy law is about more than selling Chicago Tribune, Chicago Tribune, 19 Apr. 2017, www.chicagotribune.com/news/opinion/commentary/ct- net-neutrality-open-internet-fcc-perspec-0420-20170419-story.html. Accessed 20 Apr. 2017. Kang, Cecilia. F.C.C. Pick Quickly Targets Net Neutrality The New York Times, The New York Times, 5 Feb. 2017, www.nytimes.com/2017/02/05/technology/trumps-fcc-quickly-targets-net-neutrality- Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. Olanoff, Drew. Obama: Internet Is Not A Luxury, It Is A TechCrunch, TechCrunch, 15 July 2015, www.techcrunch.com/2015/07/15/internet-for- everyone/. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. Freepress. Neutrality: What You Need to Know Free Press, www.freepress.net/net- neutrality-what-you-need-know-now. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. Puzzanghera, Jim. names new FCC chairman: Ajit Pai, who wants to take a to net Los Angeles Times, Los Angeles Times, 23 Jan. 2017, www.latimes.com/business/la-fi-pai-fcc-chairman-20170123-story.html. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. Todaro, Julie. neutrality: libraries stand for freedom and TheHill, TheHill, 19 Apr. 2017, www.thehill.com/blogs/congress-blog/politics/329393-net- neutrality-americas-libraries-stand-for-freedom-and-fairness. Accessed 20 Apr. 2017.