Running head: ANIMAL TESTING yang 1 Name: Weidong Yang Ms. Kristen Collins ENC 1102 April 17, 2017 Animal Testing Animal testing is an issue of concern for many civic, scientific, scholarly and animal humane organizations. There is a vibrant ongoing debate about the practice of animal testing with every side of the argument presenting their ideas with a far-reaching and convincing gravity why we should reason as they do. While the debate receives a split vote, it is necessary to delve into the issue from a balanced point of view and determine the real pros and cons that are involved with animal testing. The medical and pharmaceutical society improves their understanding of diseases and syndromes as well as conducts new treatment trials by making trials and tests on animals. In recent years, different quarters have questioned the manner in which animal research is conducted and reported. These two sentiments have formed the core through which the ongoing debate on the reasons for and against animal testing have developed over the recent years. The group of people who are in support of animal testing argues that the practice has enabled further development in several lifesaving treatment options for both animals and humans. Opponents of animal testing should become aware of the fact that there exist no alternative methods in researching a complete organism and that in animal testing, strict regulations do prevent any mistreatments of animals in laboratories Scientists collaborate ANIMAL TESTING yang 2 to reduce the number of animals needed for breast cancer , 2017). To, this rationale, opponents in animal testing have claimed that the idea of testing animals is cruel and inhumane. The group advocates for alternative methods in performing drug trials as humans and animals are very different in genetic makeup (Doke & Dhawale, 2015). The opponents cite the difference in genetic makeup between humans and animals as an important point in their discussion and this they say leads to the production of irrelevant results. These claims are however unsubstantiated, and one of the most widely used animals in testing is the rat, and this one has close to 90 percent similarity of genetic makeup to man. Personnel who are authorized to conduct testing on animals understand that results from the animals do greatly influence and inform the planning of newer animal research as well as research with human participants. Such personnel, therefore, ensure that there is accurate and complete reporting of animal research as this is essential in the reduction of any harm during clinical trials to the animals and other human participants. This is usually of utmost necessity to secure funding for further experimentation from the government and other non-governmental entities. Complete and accurate recording of experimental results also reduces unnecessary human research. An ongoing debate that borders on reproducibility crisis and publication bias has set the tone in stricter rules in animal research leading to the adoption of stricter measures that help in increasing value and reduction of waste in animal research Evaluation of scientific rigor in animal , 2017). There is, however, a controversial debate on whether registries should publish a detailed list of all ongoing animal studies similar to those that exists in clinical trials. ANIMAL TESTING yang 3 To establish Animal Study Registries (ASRs) calls for an understanding of the relevant knowledge about such registries as well as conflicting stakeholder interest. Recently, an interview was conducted in the open access journal PLOS Biology and presented a structured account in a hundred and thirty issues and arguments around the potentiality involved in implementing (ASRs). Stakeholder groups in the documented issues agreed that ASRs have the potential to improve quality and ensure refinement in animal studies in several ways while allowing the number of animals tested to reduce in number in further inefficient duplication of effort and results. Members and stakeholders, however, did show concern on the effect this effort would have in intellectual property theft and plagiarism as well as the creation of higher administrative burden in regulating and controlling access to the ASRs. As the debate on the effect of creating ASRs goes on, controversial arguments have developed on whether the creation of the ASRs could in effect reduce or increase creativity in animal research. Creativity could be minimized as companies and stakeholders highlight issues of intellectual property rights and theft. On the other hand, the creation of ASRs could spur creativity as the ASRs would be a platform to share test results that could augment the development of other partners in their animal research progress and testing. During the interview, it was revealed that creation of the said ASRs could also do away with a set of government measures that restrict animal testing due to incomplete information offered by the industry in animal testing. Crucial measures in regards to implementing the ASRs include the setting of confidentiality timeframes in accessing of prospectively registered animal studies. Other facilitators in this effort will include a ANIMAL TESTING yang 4 harmonized reporting requirements across the setup ASRs, journal submissions, ethics reviews and laboratory log books. Proponents of animal testing believe that comprehensive information gathered in the study and implementation of ASRs will help in balancing the ongoing debate on animal testing and facilitate the process of enacting policy and legislature on an evidence based research. ASRs databases will make the discussion space in the pros and cons of animal testing to be more balanced and objective as it will bring to the discussion floor the latest in perspectives, facts, and studies on the true effects of animal testing. Castigators of animal testing have published several rebuttals that are in response to the core question, should animals be taken in for commercial and scientific  some of the facts that they have cited in building their case has been the fact that an estimated 95 percent of animals that are used in experiments do not receive any protection and are not covered by the Animal Welfare Act. According to them, reptiles, fish, birds and rats used for research are not covered in the United States by this Act. While this may essentially be true, the opponent forgets and refuse to take into account the several various changes that have been made in the last few decades in ensuring that such animals taken in for research and testing receive fair treatment. Opponents of animal testing have taken a stand in practically opposing and disposing of all attempts to make the industry safer for animals Research will examine whether other methods can replace animal , 2017). These members have been unhelpfully critical and have not helped in tapping the synergy that could be expected by forging ahead in resolving the issues facing animal testing by forging a united front. The ANIMAL TESTING yang 5 United States government is progressively enacting legislations in animal protection and stricter rules that call for enabled protection of animals that are going through medical and commercial testing, the industry is, therefore, developing a more positive outlook and the welfare of animals has greatly improved. In the United States alone, over 21 million animals are used in commercial drug and clinical testing. In 2011, a poll was conducted, and over 1,000 biomedical scientists were contacted by science journal Nature. Of the respondents, 90% affirmed that use of animals in research is essential (Grignard et.al., 2015). The affirmative response by the consenting scientists was backed by data and fa. Some of the facts given by the scientist included that animals like chimpanzees share 99% similarity of their DNAs with humans while mice come in a second closer at 95 percent. Castigators of animal testing have over- represented the data and findings on animal testing and therefore created a wrong impression on the status of the industry. This is a wrong impression that needs to be corrected. As an example, only two countries, the United States and Gabon are known to allow experimentation on chimpanzees. The underscore, however, is that animal testing needs to be supported in a controlled manner to ensure that there is development of drugs and clinical methods that allow for more successful intervention in patients and therefore enabling health. ANIMAL TESTING yang 6 References Doke, S. K., & Dhawale, S. C. (2015). Alternatives to animal testing: A review. Saudi Pharmaceutical Journal, 23(3), 223-229. Evaluation of scientific rigor in animal research. (2017). Phys.org. Retrieved 17 April 2017, from https://phys.org/news/2016-12-scientific-rigor-animal.html Grignard, E., Fotaki, N., Taylor, R., Box, K., & McAllister, M. (2015). Evaluation of in vitro tests to reduce animal testing in drug toxicology studies. Pharmsci, 2015. Research will examine whether other methods can replace animal testing. (2017). Phys.org. Retrieved 17 April 2017, from https://phys.org/news/2017-03-methods- animal.html Scientists collaborate to reduce number of animals needed for breast cancer research. (2017). Phys.org. Retrieved 17 April 2017, from https://phys.org/news/2017-01- scientists-collaborate-animals-breast-cancer.html