Zhenwei Li Ms. Collins ENC 1102 027 M/W 2:00-3:15 pm 15 April 2017 Take Actions Today on Global Warming Global warming, or climate change, has become one of the most discussed and severe issues in the world. The term refers to the gradual heating of the earth surface, ocean, and atmosphere. Specifically, average temperature has raised by 0.8 Celsius over the past one century and will continue to rise, according to the record of Environmental Protection Agency, about 1 to 6 Celsius over the next 100 years (LiveScience). In fact, 97 percent of climate scientists have come to agreement that the rate of global warming trends occurring right now is not natural, but is primarily the result of human activity (NASA). Carbon dioxide (CO2), a greenhouse gas that is mainly responsible for the raising temperature of earth, is the most generated among all wastes from human activity. Although such climate change happens over a long period of time, the effects of it, such as sea level rise and unstable weather, are already visible in many places of the world, with the most obvious among coastal areas. As the negative influence of global warming on climate becomes more and more noticeable, immediate actions from both governments and individuals of all nations are needed to protect the earth. Global warming has and will continue to have huge impact on weather, human prosperity, animals and plants, and thus it is a problem that everyone should be concerned about. The most obvious impact, sea level rise, is seen on coastal areas. According to Environmental Defense Fund, the raising average temperature has caused cryosphere, the frozen water including snowpack, glaciers, sea and freshwater ice, to rapidly melt. Not only it caused the sea level to rise, but also it makes the ocean darker from the melted sea ice, heating the ocean at an even faster rate due to its higher efficiency of absorbing sunlight (WDF). Weathers events, such as hurricanes and storms, has also become more extreme as heatwaves are getting more frequent worldwide. Furthermore, carbon dioxide emission has made ocean 40 percent more acidic than it used to be, a chemistry change that makes the water more acidic, dissolving the shells of sea (WDF). Clean water is actually a very limited resources that everyone needs. As global warming will decrease the availability of those already rare resources, all nations should take responsibility and try their best to lower CO2 emission and slow down climate change. Human prosperity is largely endangered due to climate change. Global warming is the number one threat to the agriculture today. Food productivity is tightly connected to the amount and timing of rainfall each year. However, as climate pattern, affected by increasingly warming atmosphere, becomes more and more unpredictable, farm yield is slowly being reduced. In fact, warmer air can also affect human health in a negative way, as EDF argues on Climate effects plunder the planet, warmer atmosphere increases the formation of Warmer freshwater makes it easier for disease-causing agents (such as bacteria) to grow and contaminate drinking (EDF). Coastal areas are directly affected by climate change. Islands, such as the Bahamas and Maldives, are particularly at risk of being submerged by the rising ocean. In fact, global warming will have impact on anywhere on the earth. Thus all human should care about and put effort in slowing down this disaster. Natural habitats are vastly changing, putting some animals and plants at risk of extinction. As sea ice melts, mammals, such as polar bears and penguin, are losing their homes. According to National Geographic News, polar bear was listed as threatened species in 2008. Underwater sea lives are also affected by global warming. Bleaching of the great barrier in Australia is a great example for this point. As greenhouse gas level largely increases in the atmosphere, ocean has been the main force that absorbs those extra CO2, lowering its ph level on a large scale. As a result, reefs are killed by acidic sea water. Homes of many other species, such as shell fish and crabs, are now destroyed. Humans should take responsibility in making saving their habitats because humans have made them inhospitable. The disappointing fact is that global warming cannot be prevented. In other words, it is too late and earth temperature will continue to rise no matter what. The good news is that it can been slowed down. Many solutions to achieve such purpose have been suggested. According to investigations, in USA power plants are the biggest source of carbon dioxide pollution. One of the most significant ways, as EDF suggests, is to limit power plant pollution. On article 10 climate solutions that will help us fight back, EDF argues, major step: Clean Power Plan puts national standards in place, for the first time ever. Renewable energy and energy efficiency are key (EDF). Ending fossil fuel subsidies is the first and the most essential step that is necessary in order to limit power plant pollution and convert to clean energy economy. EDF explains, out subsidies would be a victory in the fight against climate change, and considered critical to shifting the world to a clean energy (EDF). Another solution is to cut off deadly soot. Soot, mostly seen in traditional household, are commonly used as stove fuel and home heater. Although soot was commonly used, it can actually be extremely deadly when being inhaled. Not only it causes numerous diseases, but also it has harms the climate in a negative way, as EPA reports, primary component of soot is black carbon, which harms the climate by directly absorbing light and reducing the reflectivity of snow and ice Panel on Climate (EDF). Since energy resource is the main concern of getting rid of traditional power plants, new energy technologies play a big among all solutions. Although there are still arguments going o between renewable energy and nuclear energy, the common goal is to replace the current power plants that burn fossil fuel. However, installing nuclear power plants requires highly advanced technologies that most countries possess. As warming temperature grows faster and faster, unleashing clean renewable energy, such as wind and solar, seems to be the fastest and most affordable solution, as EDF argues its newly published article What will it take to cut global climate pollution, despite an administration in Washington determined to ignore this dangerous threat, the era of smartphones and touch screens, the U.S. electricity industry is struggling to effectively harness new energy innovations and resources, including wind and (EDF). Besides those physical and logical solutions, raising awareness among people is another vital way of saving the earth more efficiently. According to a new study published in Nature Climate Change, Carbon Brief indicates, rates in much of North America and Europe were well over 90% of respondents. Japan comes top with 99% of the population aware of climate change, with the US (98%) and Finland (98%) following closely (CarbonBrief). In contrast, awareness rates in developing countries, such as Egypt and Philippines, are way lower than those of developed counties, with average rate below 40 percent (CarbonBrief). We only have one earth and it is increasingly becoming inhabitable. wait till too late. There is no downside that I can think of to become a responsible consumer. You can offer you help in many ways, namely spreading the message and raise the awareness of people you know, installing solar energy system in your household, getting involved in organizations such as EDF and EPA, even turning off lights when you use them, etc. Join the movement today, put in action, and become a savior of the climate! Work Cited 10 climate solutions that will help us fight  Environmental Defense Fund. N.p., n.d. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. Bradford, Alina. What Is Global  LiveScience. Purch, 15 Dec. 2014. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. Global survey: Where in the world is most and least aware of climate  Carbon Brief. N.p., 05 May 2016. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. UK., WWF. 10 reasons why we should all care about climate  WWF UK Blog. N.p., 06 Sept. 2016. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. Climate effects plunder the  Environmental Defense Fund. N.p., n.d. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. National Geographic. National Geographic Society, n.d. Web. 17 Apr. 2017.