AbdulRahim AL Busaidi Ms. Collins ENC1102 April 8, 2016 Homelessness is a major issue that is occurring in the United States of America. It has negative effects on the society, environment, and homeless people themselves. Many homeless children grow up to be criminals or unsuccessful (Taylor 67). Therefore, it is necessary to find proper solutions to prevent people from growing up on the streets. If the community leaders work together, more effective actions will occur to prevent homelessness. In 2014, studies indicated that almost 700,000 people were found homeless in the United States (Taylor 69). People cannot just ignore this issue while homeless children are being affected and starting to build their path to a miserable life. Homeless children go through mental health problems because of the environment surrounding them. It can affect their academic performance, social life and mental development. This is an issue that the society needs to fix, and it is the responsibility to make sure that all people are treated equally. Although some people think that homelessness is not the responsibility, the most effective way to end homelessness is by donating. Considering this issue, it was important to include a stakeholder that has serious interests in ending National Coalition for the Homeless, also known as The NCH, is a not-for-profit small company. This company is a national network of people who are currently experiencing or who have experienced homelessness, and they have been working for almost 30 years (Projects - National Coalition for the Homeless para. 1). They have been working really hard to prevent and end homelessness. In addition, they call for civil rights and equality in order to protect homeless families. Their programs are set to assist the homeless for education or healthcare. They are located in Miami, Houston, and New York. As they mention on their official website, National Coalition for the Homeless offers four educational programs that enable groups and individuals to learn firsthand from someone who has experienced homelessness. From sharing personal narratives to explaining effective advocacy practices, these individuals are the true experts on homelessness and they always deliver memorable (Projects - National Coalition for the Homeless para. 3). However, it is clear that the main goal is to educate homeless people. They believe that if they give proper education, the homeless people will find their ways out of the streets. In other words, education is the path for a bright and pleasant future. The words of Jamie Taylor, one of the staff members, supports this idea when he says, most important factors influencing preschool enrollment are housing stability, social networks and attitudes about preschool order to reduce the negative impacts of homelessness, homeless people should immediately be moved out of the streets and get placed in their own apartments/shelters. The National Coalition for the Homeless is an organization made in order to accomplish this mission. According to Stephanie Hinton families reported not feeling as and in their environment as compared to housed (459). If homeless families experience feelings like stress, depression, or lack of confidence, how are they going to be productive in the society? Lack of confidence stops individuals from participating in the society positively. Homelessness effects destroy the person gradually which then leads him to a failure life causing unwanted behaviors such as, drug abuse or even committing suicide. However, one of the solutions that can be beneficial is public housing. These are houses and apartments to be built by the The National Coalition for the Homeless that accept homeless citizens. Just how Ilan Harpaz- Rotem said that is clearly a powerful environmental stressor, and in children it may also affect their primary (168) this means that by providing proper housing for homeless children, their parents will help them settle and build their life successfully. Public housing will be supervised by The National Coalition for the Homeless. This organization will make sure that the housing provides every possible help to make homeless people feel settled and fortunate. In addition, the words of Jamie Taylor supports my idea when he says most important factors influencing preschool enrollment are housing stability, social networks and attitudes about preschool (322). Therefore, if homeless children receive proper guidance by growing up in an academic public housing, they will be able to achieve well in people can reduce the effects of homelessness by donating money, food, or clothes to homeless people who are forced to live the street life. In addition, the words of Christina Wisehart should be taken wisely when she said factors push people into living on the street. Acknowledging these can help facilitate the end of homelessness in (488). When taking the factors that made people homeless into consideration, people will be motivated and encouraged to help in reducing homelessness. It is important for everyone to interact with one another for the faith of ending homelessness. Donating to homeless people will reduce their need of money. James Petrovich said that a single dollar in your wallet or some loose change in your pocket, any contribution can (316). If each person helped by donating a dollar, it will sum up to thousands or millions of dollars depending on the city, and as a result, many contributions can help homeless children to develop in appropriate conditions which will then lead to their success. Therefore, donating to homeless people means a lot to them as it helps building their future again towards a better in all, homelessness is a serious issue that we all should be aware of. Innocent people are getting affected and people are dying from poverty caused by homelessness. Out of all the ways homeless people can be helped, it is almost a crime not being a part of this supporting group. Remember whether it is a dollar or ten, any contribution can change a homeless life. John Fantuzzo said money is so insignificant to the giver, but so incredibly significant to the (959), meaning that homeless people will feel so grateful and thankful when one of us try to help. Imagine their feelings when they know that the whole society is trying to change the way they live. Out of humanity, it is important for us to feel bad for homeless people and then create an immediate change of the way they live. The National Coalition for the Homeless provides a proper educational system but needs the help of people by donating money, or by volunteering to work in the organization. Finally, I encourage everyone to help reduce homelessness in any way to build a new generation that gives equal opportunities to all children in the Works cited Fantuzzo, John, and Staci Perlman. The Unique Impact of Out-of-Home Placement and The Mediating Effects of Child Maltreatment and Homelessness on Early School  Children and Youth Services Review 29.7 (2007): 941- 60. ScienceDirect. Web. 24 March 26.2017 Harpaz-Rotem, Ilan, Robert A. Rosenheck, and Rani Desai. Assessing the Effects of Maternal Symptoms and Homelessness on the Mental Health Problems in their  Child and Adolescent Mental Health 14.4 (2009): 168-74. Academic Search Premier. Web. 24 March. 2017. Hinton, Stephanie, and Darlinda Cassel. Exploring the Lived Experiences of Homeless Families with Young  Early Childhood Education Journal 41.6 (2013): 457-63. Academic Search Premier. Web. 25 March. 2017. Petrovich, James C. and Courtney Cronley. in the Heart of Texas: A Phenomenological Exploration of Unsheltered American Journal of Orthopsychiatry 85.4 (2015): 315-23. PsycARTICLES. Web. 12 Feb 2017. Taylor, Jamie, Britton Gibson, and Kate Hurd. Parental Preschool Choices and Challenges When Young Children and their Families Experience  Children and Youth Services Review 56.1 (2015): 68-75. ScienceDirect. Web. 24 Feb. 2017.