Xiong 1 Xin Xiong ENC 1102 4/16/2017 Smog and Haze in China In the modern world, the struggle between taking care of the environment by avoiding pollution and economic development continues unabated. This is more apparent in one of the fastest growing economies on earth, the Republic of China. While many acknowledge that it has a smog and haze issue, many also acknowledge that the country needs the industries so as to provide employment to its billions of people and work towards securing the first world status that the country and its citizens crave. The fight between environmental protection and economic development in China is apparent through the struggle between the opposing viewpoints of the All-China Federation of Industry and Commerce (ACFIC) which advocates for more industrialization, and the Greenpeace organization that engages in environmental advocacy. While the All-China Federation of Industry and Commerce (ACFIC) and Greenpeace have different ideas on the balance between industries, economic grown and the protection of the environment, they can find common ground For Greenpeace, there is only one planet, and as such, the misuse of the planet by environmentally degrading it is not only wrong but also not viable for the long-term survival of human beings (Greenpeace East Asia). As such Greenpeace contends that the Chinese government should do all, it can so as to reduce pollution which is endemic in parts of China (Greenpeace East Asia). Greenpeace argues that China is one of the most polluted countries on the planet and as such, it ought to find ways to control the endemic air pollution not only for itself and its citizens but because it also affects the rest of the world (Greenpeace East Asia). On Xiong 2 the other hand, the All-China Federation of Industry and Commerce (ACFIC) realizes that as much as pollution continues to be a large issue in China, unemployment, and poverty would present bigger problems. As such, it advocates for the support of businesses that help to provide employment to many of the people in China. The two groups can come into an agreement on the issue in several ways chief which would be the acknowledgment by Greenpeace that industries in China are essential for the livelihoods of many people, and the All-China Federation of Industry and Commerce (ACFIC) acknowledging that the environment is as important as the jobs. The first way to do this is to recognize that pollution in China is a dangerous trend and one that ought to be restricted for the sustainable success of the state. One has to note that in a situation such as where some cities have such a high level of smog and smog that it causes illnesses in the very workers that the All-China Federation of Industry and Commerce seek to protect (Greenpeace East Asia). As such, the workers end up spending significant amounts of the income they make in the search for the medication that on pollution-induced diseases that come from the very industries that they the ACFIC seeks to protect while some may even die (Levine). As such, it would be prudent for the ACFIC to acknowledge that it is in the interests of the workers whom they strive to protect to have less polluted, less smoky and less smoggy skies over cities in China. The second way for the two bodies to act together is through the application of joint civic education, through the media and other means, of the people in China to adopt the industries that do not pollute the environment leading to haze and smog the type that the country is experiencing. The merging of the agenda of the two organizations would be a boon for all the stakeholders. The civic education in stakeholder forums in the media would ensure that all the parties in the country have information on the need to both conserve the environment and Xiong 3 preserve jobs which is possible as the government has now allowed reporting on air pollution (Wong). In this case, the two bodies can work to demonstrate to the factory owners that it is in their best interests to control the pollution they emit in their factories in both the short and the long-term (Wong). The forums could be on issues as diverse as alternative energy rather than oil and coal which produces the smoke and others. It is also possible for the two stakeholders to work together to approach and convince the government to ensure that there is less air pollution in the country through the application of policies that encourage cleaner manufacturing. Chinese leaders have been on record as noting that the air pollution in the country leads to a poor image of the country among the international community (Wong). From this perspective, it seems that the government would be willing to act on initiatives that ensure that there is less smog in its cities (Greenpeace East Asia. The Solutions to Air Pollution in China). Consequently, the two organizations could approach the government with proposals on how to promote clean energy and cleaner industries, as this would lead to clearer skies (Greenpeace East Asia. The Solutions to Air Pollution in China). Some of the proposals they could provide for the government include requesting the government to subsidize the cleaner energy for the industries and homes, such as wind power while imposing a carbon tax on the energy sources that are likely to pollute the air such as coal Greenpeace East Asia The Solutions to Air Pollution in The subsidies would ensure that businesses do not suffer for the adoption of cleaner energy, and continue to be competitive in the international market. If two organizations at the opposite ends of the spectrum on the economic growth versus environmental pollution issue were to approach the government on this matter, it is possible that the government would be willing to listen and act on the issue. Xiong 4 Lastly, the two organization could work together in support of small family or community owned industries that would assist in the reduction of pollution. While Greenpeace could lobby the government to close down the heavy pollutants, this could result in huge unemployment that would lead to a lot of resentment of the policy and the organizations (Levine). Instead, their support of the smaller enterprises would assist in the reduction of environmental pollution (Levine). The smaller businesses, which would consume less energy and less human resources, would produce fewer pollutants. Moreover, these modest industries would assist in the employment sphere by keeping large numbers of people self-employed and even employing others (ACFIC). Moreover, with the knowledge on pollution that would come with such, the companies would be enlightened on the need to make voluntary donations to Greenpeace that will keep its fight for environmental protection all over the world going. In conclusion, while the All-China Federation of Industry and Commerce (ACFIC) and Greenpeace have different ideas on balance between industries, economic grown and the protection of the environment, they can find common ground. The acknowledgment by ACFIC that the very people it seeks to protect from being jobless will suffer the consequences of air pollution by spending their income looking for medication for lung and other issues can help in this regard. Greenpeace can also acknowledge that cleaner air but with no jobs would lead to poverty for the people employed in the industries. The two bodies can then engage in joint civic education so as to sensitize the industries on the need for cleaner energy. Secondly, the two organizations could also work together to ask the government to encourage policies that would lead to cleaner manufacturing such as incentivizing cleaner energy prospects while taxing the coal. Lastly, the two organizations can also assist in the formation of smaller industries that are likely to use more energy and human resource-efficient policies leading to less pollution. Xiong 5 Works Cited ACFIC. Introduction-All-China Federation of Industry &  2017, Accessed 17 Apr. 2017. Greenpeace East Asia. The Problems of Air Pollution in China. Greenpeace East  2017, www.greenpeace.org/eastasia/campaigns/air-pollution/problems/. Accessed 17 Apr. 2017. Greenpeace East Asia. The Solutions to Air Pollution in Greenpeace East Asia. 2017, www.greenpeace.org/eastasia/campaigns/air-pollution/solutions/. Accessed 17 Apr. 2017. Levine, Dan. Study Links Polluted Air in China to 1.6 Million Deaths a  The New York Times, 19 Aug. 2015, www.nytimes.com/2015/08/14/world/asia/study-links-polluted- air-in-china-to-1-6-million-deaths-a-year.html. Accessed 17 Apr. 2017. Wong, Edward. China Lets Media Report on Air Pollution The New York Times, 14 Jan. 2013, www.nytimes.com/2013/01/15/world/asia/china-allows-media-to-report- alarming-air-pollution-crisis.html. Accessed 17 Apr. 2017.