Joshua Daya Ms. Collins ENC 1102 12 April 2017 The Problems with The Death Penalty The topic of the death penalty has been one of the many talked-about issues of today. Controversy is always linked to an issue as serious as death. Numerous factors are played into cases that deal with the death penalty. Morality is used when discussing about this topic as sides debate whether this can be a viable option for punishment in court cases, etc. People must understand what is occurring with this issue in current times. Some people just advocate on something or vote for an issue that they know too much about. This cannot work for the death penalty. The death penalty has over time and the public must be educated on the situation. People should also understand that the death penalty presents more problems than other alternatives for capital punishment on defendants in court cases. Therefore, the death penalty is wrong and should be abolished not only nationwide in the US but on a worldwide scale. The death penalty causes several problems for everyone involved. Societal problems, financial problems, and personal problems can all be created through the usage of the death penalty. These can be fixed though through the usage of the current resources such as organizations against the death penalty. Starting off with societal problems, the death penalty leads to many of these. The death penalty affects all aspects of society. This includes the public up to higher authority in a community such as the mayors. When it comes to court cases, the higher authority figures such as the judges are the ones that can create the problems. Jack Greenberg makes a good point about this problem in his scholarly article titled the American System of Capital In his article, he highlights the US justice system as one of the many sources of problems that come from dealing with the issue of the death penalty. Judges are found to the cases that they are dealing with that have a possibility of the death penalty (Greenberg). Unfortunately, these actions done by the judges confidence in the fairness of the death penalty (Greenberg). These kinds of action harm what the public generally believes is to be one of the fairest institutions of the US. Most of the people here in the US need to be aware that this happens more than they think and that they need to advocate to stop these actions from ever occurring again. Another huge societal problem that is affiliated with the death penalty is the controversy with race. There seems to be a racial bias towards African Americans when it comes to court cases and their verdicts. This problem adds on to the fact that there are flaws in the justice system when they deal with the death penalty. According to an article titled Case Against the Death on aclu.org, 1930 and the end of 1996, 4220 prisoners were executed in the United States; more than half (53%) were There is also an odd divide when it comes to the statistics of likeliness of African Americans getting murdered. Young African Americans are much more likely to be murdered than when compared to young white men. These kinds of divisions between races in dealing with the death penalty need to be brought up and discussed. They are unacceptable and it is a big source of future conflicts between people outside of court cases. Continuing with the problems that the death penalty brings; the death penalty brings large financial problems for different parts of a court case. There is an article titled penalty by The California Innocence Project. They discussed the financial problems that California ran themselves into due to the usage of the death penalty as an option for capital punishment. Since 1978, their spending for the death penalty executions have totaled to around $4 billion. This makes it $300 million for each of the 13 people that were executed during this period. This is such a huge disparity of financial costs when compared to the costs of placing those same people to a sentence to life without any possibility of parole. According to the same article, it would cost $200,000-$300,000 to sentence them to life without parole. This should get people to wonder why do courts not take this decision more often as it costs exponentially less to do so. The same desired effects are still there as life without parole brings that deterrent effect but with the added plus of its reduced costs when compared to the costs of the death penalty. By using life without parole, the community can focus its resources on essential functions of society such as education and mental health treatment (Amnesty USA). Another problem that the death penalty brings deals with the public on a personal level. To many, the death penalty is a major violation of rights as a human being. There is a scholarly article written by Hugo Adam Bedau that discusses the death penalty and rights against it. He writes punishment is cruel and death penalty violates the constitutional guarantee of equal The death penalty takes away the rights that every American citizen is entitled to so it is a huge problem that something in the American system like the death penalty contradicts with a protection provided in the constitution. The article Case Against the Death by American Civil Liberties Union discusses those constitutional problems. Like Bedau the article states that punishment is cruel and The article then discusses that capital punishment goes back to the more crude and primitive days which makes sense. The usage of something as barbaric as executions can be dated to unfortunate times such as when slavery was such an essential part to society. The US is the only developed country that does this and the US needs to change this notorious fact. This gives a negative image of the US and shows that the US is fine with a contradiction to their own morals and values. This is an important situation to tend to and more people need to advocate against the death penalty. Furthermore, the constitution discusses race and that capital punishment does not follow the constitutional right that there is protection for all at an equal level. No one race should have an advantage over the other. Everyone that is an American citizen should be protected by the US constitution. Despite these major and multiple problems brought to light through the implementation of the death penalty, there are solutions. It is very beneficial to the public now that there are already many organizations that are fighting against the death penalty. One of those organizations is Amnesty International. This is an organization that has been showing advertisements to the public advocating against the death penalty. Their actions for the organization are based on the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and stick to their values and tactics of research, action, and advocacy. People have to just join an organization to get their voice out there. They can take actions in their own local communities and speak out about this problem especially if the death penalty is still used in that area. The people have an important tool that they can use and that is themselves. People can make a difference as a group, they just need to act and speak out for what is right. Works Cited Bedau, Hugo. Case Against the Death aclu.org. aclu.org, 2012. Web. 12 April 2017. Penalty Amnesty USA. Amnestyusa.org, 2017. Web. 12 April 2017 Penalty California Innocence Project. californiainnocenceproject.org, 2016. Web. 12 April 2017. Greenberg, Jack. the American System of Capital Harvard Law Review, 99. 7 (1986): n.pag. Web. 12 April 2017. Amnesty International, 2017. http://www.amnestyusa.org/about-us/our-mission Accessed 12 April 2017