Cohen 1 Brian Cohen Instructor Dubois ENC1102 April 16 th , 2017 Majority of people have been to a major coffee shop, such as Starbucks or even big retail stores such as Target, that have extensive screening to be eligible for employment. On top of big retail stores local such as mom and pop coffee shops, hedge shops, and small restaurants, all seem to be in the norm of society (UNODC). Most people especially in first world countries tend to neglect that the teenage girl or boy behind that coffee stand might be a modern-day slave (UNODC). Human trafficking is a form of modern day slavery exploiting a person and illegally transporting them for commercial labor usage or sexual manipulation (Polaris Project). A major issue with human trafficking, is that people especially in first world countries are in denial, that such crime happens right in front of their faces and they have no way of telling. In order to bring light to this dark area, it is essential to create public awareness of human trafficking and those who it affects, and properly generate funds through donations to help those organizations such as law enforcement and non-profits such as For that can rescue those in the industry. Other students in the Tampa area here at USF, have recognized this crime and push forward to ending the industry as Tampa is the largest destination for traffickers in all of Florida, by establishing a civil leader club called Free the Bay on BullSync. One main reason for human trafficking is to take advantage of the forced labor aspect. Victims are usually offered false promises of a better life and well pay, but once they reach their Cohen 2 their identities are stripped from them and are forced to work for survival in foreign locations (Federal Buerau of Investigations). The journey to the location is rather dangerous due to its legality and need to hide it, once they arrive at their new they are exposed to extremely low pay and unfair work which degrades the person and can be reference and seen like slave work (Federal Buerau of Investigations). Most nations around the world have accepted child labor but under strict supervision and strategic laws to keep children safe and not to be taken advantage of. This being the reason more nations are jumping on board of increasing child labor laws (Homeland Security). Traffickers see this as a golden ticket as children are plentiful and easy for manipulation in terms of production (Homeland Security). Children are often obtained by kidnapping, threatening them, and even promising them safety from areas that have been devastated by war. Victims that are dragged into the industry typically lose many of their freedoms hence entitling the name modern day slaves (Winterdyk). Victims are subject to physical and psychological harm preventing them from going out and bettering themselves keeping them in the industry (Sobel). Victims in the industry are often tricked from the beginning that law enforcement will make things worse for them in the sense of possible deportation or harm. Traffickers deny children any form of education access to keep them illiterate and ensure that they stay dependent on them as the traffickers. Despite the forced labor, the industry continues to get worse as some victims funneled into the labor aspect but are forced into sexual exploitation. Women and children who are trafficked for the reasoning of sex slaves drastically have negative health effects, ultimately resulting in life threating illness and injuries (UNODC). There are multiple repercussions that are associated with sexual violence in victims in the human trafficking industry such as depression, suicide, broken bones, drug dependency, and disease (Winterdyk). In addition to the Cohen 3 physiological abuse, victims in the industry damage their reproductive systems. Victims are typically 100 times more likely to be exposed to some form of a sexually transmitted diseases including HIV and AIDs. Traffickers will also take into their own hands if their victims become pregnant and operate botched abortions and or deliveries. As victims in the industry fear the consequences if they are found in the industry they almost never take advantage of social services that will benefit them. In addition to victims who were trafficked due to debt reasons they may not be able to afford any health care. Due to victims being so highly restricted to healthcare, they are prone to multiple diseases and illness forming such as untreated infections, infertility and chronic pelvis inflammation. With over 40 million people living with HIV amongst the entire world there is a direct correlation between trafficked woman and children and HIV rates (UNODC). When a victim is trafficked their rates drastically increases of contracting HIV because most of the time they given a choice to engage in sex work and they are forced. In addition to rape and sexual assault, forced unprotected sex, victims in the industry are commonly injected with drugs to alter their state and increases obedience to who they are trafficked by (Rigby). Victims when they are exposed to surgeries and or operations, by non-professional medical staff, they can receive unfiltered and diseased blood donations. This also makes victims a walking gravestone for themselves and others because they know their own medical status. As stated before most victims in the industry lack and are prevented from an education. It is thought that victims are uneducated on STDs especially HIV and protentional treatment. Ultimately victims who are pulled into the trafficking industry are at highly pre-exposed chance of contracting HIV. Overall, human trafficking is an international heinous crime that is obvious it happens everywhere even when you personally see it. Students here at the University of South Cohen 4 Florida have started an organization called the Free the Bay, that focuses on eliminating and supporting survivors of the industry to push forward to abolish it. As students, you can verbally spread the awareness the of Human trafficking. Education is key as people lack the education on the subject especially when it is happening all around them. A student can also go to all local fundraising events that promote public education and properly allocate funds to law enforcement agencies that focus in investigating trafficking rings and ensuring the safety of victims. Conclusively, human trafficking is an international crime that happens in 1 st ,2 nd , and 3 rd world countries no one is excluded from the exploitation from modern day slavery. Human trafficking is inclusive to forced labor, kidnapping children, and detrimental health affects to the victims and others. It is prominent if that a population can make a change if supported with proper education systems in place leading to awareness to this crime just like something like theft. This is whys students have established Free the Bay, because they know the power of knowledge and awareness. You ultimately can change the life of many, promote awareness. Cohen 5 Works Cited Federal Buerau of Investigations. Human Trafficking/Involuntary Servitude. n.d. <https://www.fbi.gov/investigate/civil-rights/human-trafficking>. Homeland Security. What Is Human Trafficking? n.d. <https://www.dhs.gov/blue- campaign/what-human-trafficking>. Polaris Project. Human Trafficking. n.d. <https://polarisproject.org/human-trafficking>. Rigby, Paul. Human trafficking : the complexities of exploitation. Edinburgh : Edinburgh University Press, 2017. Book. Sobel, Amy. Pope Francis Calls for Action to Combat Human Trafficking. 1 January 2015. <http://www.humanrightsfirst.org/press-release/pope-francis-calls-action-combat-human- trafficking>. UNODC. Human Trafficking. n.d. <https://www.unodc.org/unodc/en/human-trafficking/what-is- human-trafficking.html>. Winterdyk, John. Human Trafficking : Exploring the International Nature, Concerns, and Complexities. Hoboken : CRC Press, 2011. Book.