Benjamin 1 Laurie-Ann Benjamin Instructor Du Bois April 16, 2017 Physician Assisted Suicide: A Dignifying Act Although deemed to be taboo, physician assisted suicide is an end of life option available to fatally ill persons in certain parts of the United States. However, this option is not easy to come by. Currently, physician assisted suicide, also known as Death with Dignity, is only legal in six states, Colorado, Washington, Vermont, Montana, Oregon, and New Mexico (procon.org). Other states, such as Texas, consider it to be murder and refuse to legalize this end of life option. Brittany Maynard is a popular advocate for death with dignity. In a perfect world, Brittany Maynard would have been a 29-year-old newlywed looking forward to a long life with her husband and future children. In reality, Brittany Maynard was a 29-year-old newlywed with 6 months to live. She was diagnosed with stage 4 glioblastoma, a condition where malignant tumors develop in the brain (tabers.com). After her diagnosis, she and her family moved from California to Oregon in pursuit of death with dignity. When asked why she made the decision to end her life, Brittany explained that it was imperative that she controlled her own death and not be claimed by the disease (A New Video For My Friends, youtube.com). In order to go public with her story Brittany partnered with Compassions & Choices where they both advocated for the legalization of death with dignity in all states. Although Brittany has passed, her husband and family still partner with Compassion & Choices in hopes that death with dignity will be legal in all the states. Benjamin 2 Compassion & Choices is an organization that advocates for every patient to have the right to death with dignity. Compassion & Choices aims to and implement medical aid in dying to allow mentally capable adults in their final weeks or months of a terminal disease to advance the time of death and end unbearable ( Compassionsandchoicesorg). The organization places all the attention on the patient and their needs. The patient is also armed with information and necessary resources about this decision. Deciding to end your life is not an easy decision and definitely is not a decision that should be rushed. Patients meet with an end of life consultant to explore all available options from palliative care to end of life. Death with Dignity empowers those who chose to use this option. It allows patients to choose their departure date and the circumstances surrounding this date. Brittany date was November 1 st , 2015. Her husband, Dan Diaz, disclosed intimate details of her passing on Where are They Now. The morning of November 1 st , started with her having a mild seizure. After recovering, she and her husband went on their usual hike with their dogs. When they returned, Brittany informed everyone that it was her time. While preparing the medicine, she asked everyone to recall their favorite memories that involved her. She later invited everyone to her room, where she drank the medicine and died in the arms of her husband. When asked about her death, husband said that it was the most peaceful thing he had ever seen. Shortly after drinking the medicine, Brittany fell asleep where she passed peacefully. This peaceful passing is one of the many reasons terminally ill patients request death with dignity. Staying alive means continued doctor visits and treatments that will have no effect due to the nature of the disease. Many patients want to relieve their family of the financial stress as well from the emotional stress that comes with their impending death. Some prefer to just get their death over with. Benjamin 3 Many people disagree with death by dignity. It seems gruesome and inhumane. Maggie Karner also suffers with stage 4 glioblastoma and fully opposes the legalization of death with dignity. In a youtube video, she states that she has the same cancer as Brittany and that was not (End of life- Physician Assisted Suicide , youtube.com). She also says that physician assisted suicide plays on the vulnerability of terminally ill patients by making death look more appealing than living. Maggie Karner has legitimate concerns. She says that it exposes vulnerable patients to death through abuse. The world is not perfect and physician assisted suicide being used as a form of abuse is a possibility but there are many restrictions in place to combat this. Patients seeking death with dignity must meet independently with two physicians that both declare that the patient has less than six months to live. The patient must also consult with a mental physician to declare that they are mentally competent to make such a decision (procon.org) Another person who openly disagreed with Brittany decision was Pope Francis. He referenced physician assisted suicide to be sin against God, The (CBS this morning, Youtube.com). Another senior Vatican stated that dignity has nothing to do with end life early. He even referenced the entire concept as an (CBS this morning, Youtube. Com). The Vatican sees this as going against God who is a miracle worker in the Christian religion. Christianity preaches about believing in faith. By choosing to end her life, Brittany did not have faith in God to do his work. Death with dignity should be legal in all the states. It is an end of life option. The patient does not have to choose this if they do not wish to end their life. Like any social issue, death with dignity has those who agree and disagree with it and it is important to respect opinion. However, people who go through with their decision to end their life should not be Benjamin 4 looked down upon. This is not an easy one. The patient must weigh the pros and cons of ending their life and also handle the emotions of their loved ones. At the end of the day, the decision lies in the hands and they should be respected no matter what they choose. Benjamin 5 Works Cited BobEnyart. Karner On End of Life State-Assisted YouTube. YouTube, 5 Oct. 2016. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. CBSThisMorning. mother delivers sharp response to Vatican Criticism. YouTube. YouTube, 16 Mar. 2015. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. CompassionChoices. A New Video for my  YouTube. YouTube, 29 Oct. 2014. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. OWN. Brittany Husband Shares Intimate Details of Her Final Day Where Are They Now  YouTube. YouTube, 14 Oct. 2014. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. State-by-State Guide to Physician-Assisted Suicide - Euthanasia -  Should Euthanasia or Physician-assisted Suicide Be Legal? N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.