Arroyave 1 Ivan Arroyave Sarah Roth 17 April 2017 Steroids Since the beginning of time, our opinions and beliefs are constantly challenged by opposition from people who believe differently. And when it comes to steroids, this is exactly the case. Most steroid usage is done by non- competitive athletes for cosmetic reason, around 80% of steroid users are your regular guys in them gym who work 9-5 jobs just looking to get a six pack. But for those competing Steroid usage can be tracked back to the first Olympic games 776BC. A substance used to give you superhero powers and give a person Greek like physiques. The only issue? They are a controlled substance. A schedule III drug, categorized with drugs such as LSD. Steroids should not be illegal, It Is merely just a recreational drug. Laws pertaining to steroids vary from state to state, but do not overrule the most recent federal controlled Substances Act of 2004 passed to disengage the use of steroid use in the United States. But statistics will go to show this prevented steroid use, as we see the numbers rise as steroids gain popularity across the nation. Bodybuilding specifically is one of the many reasons for this trend, as it is becoming more main stream people are looking up to bodybuilders and want to look just like them. So, as steroids become more assessable and people see that its truly not dangerous if taken properly, more people are taking steroids without any consequences. So, lawmakers Arroyave 2 should take this into consideration and stop wasting money on anti-steroid propaganda and make a push to make them legal. Even as anti-steroid propaganda continues to flood mainstream media, laws such as the Anabolic Steroid Control Act of 1990 get passed, and the World Anti-Doping Agency (1990) is created. As sport committees and agency continue to stricken their policies against steroids, over time the popularity of steroids have instead continued to improve. As we see with any substance, when prohibition occurs, the demand increases and it becomes easily assessable in the black market. And we can see a change from the early when steroid usage could only be found in a couple underground gyms by hardcore bodybuilder/ powerlifters and your occasional baseball player looking for an edge. Now a steroid usage can be seen at your local YMCA gym. With more than 20 million people admitting to using steroids today compared to 1/5 that number back in the early The fact is that the illegibility and propaganda against steroids regressed its use, and instead making them illegal has only led to an increase in the underground market where it can be more dangerous to purchase from but is a risk users are willing to take. To influence the opinion of the public, the government and media has continued to instigate steroid hysteria. Many times, claiming that when used you are guaranteed one of the many side effects including heart attacks, liver damage, strokes, infertility etc. But what they forgot to mention is that steroids are used and prescribed to many patients dealing with ranges of Arroyave 3 medical illnesses and conditions. Anabolic steroids allow your body to hold in more nitrogen with is vital to the production of protein and are essential for muscle growth and recovery like growth hormones. Steroids work by increasing the amount of testosterone your body produces, steroids cause your body to stop depending on its own production of testosterone. So, if you start steroids and stop without a proper post cycle which allows your body to get back to its normal testosterone level, you can leave your body in a state of shock and not resume proper testosterone levels which can have a negative impact on your health. So, to say that steroids are completely safe to take would be untrue, but like any substance readily available to the public, if taken improperly, there can be negative side effects and should be completely avoided by certain groups of people to include children. Steroid usage with teenager and children can stun muscle growth and effect mental development. But even so, many challenge the idea that steroids are dangerous. The internet is filled with blogs and YouTube videos doing just this, and in fact can be a bit difficult finding someone who has used or is using properly to speak negatively on this issue. A perfect example is Rich Piana, a 46 six-year-old bodybuilder who has been using steroids for 30 years and advocates for safe steroid use. Stating that when proper research is conducted and taken the correct way, steroids will have no negative side effect. In conclusion, steroids are safe, and it not a health epidemic media and government are trying to make it out to be. Contrary to the information that anti steroid advocates have been spreading through media and propaganda. Steroids are safe! Steroid usage has not been proven to cause long negative long term side effects. We can look at dozens of examples within the bodybuilding community who are 50 plus years of age and some even continue to use Arroyave 4 without any negative consequences. One of the most famous being Arnold Schaweneger, who used steroids for many years during his prime is in perfect health conditions and is a bodybuilding legend. So, when used properly it can in fact be a productive drug even used in medical field to treat patients. To this day, there has never been a single death in history attributed only to steroids. Another false rumor is that, steroid usage has become prevalent with teenage kids and is becoming a health epidemic. The average steroid users are males, 25-35 years of age, several studies have concluded. And while the use of steroids has increased, the number of people who make up our population on them are still only around 1%. So, to say a national health crisis is short of an exaggeration. To make them illegal just seem right. A family man who works out 5 days a week, keeps a strict diet and cares about his physique can be tried in court with the same charges as a LSD drug dealer. Absurbed? I believe so. take back our rights for gains and change this anti steroid stigma. And make them legal. References  American Brain Tumor Association. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Dowshen, Steven.  Kids Health. The Nemours Foundation, Oct. 2013. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. McDougall, Christopher. Steroid Use: Know the  Health. N.p., 7 Dec. 2007. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Steroids  Steroidal.com. N.p., n.d. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. Arroyave 5 Science behind Performance Enhancing Drugs  Bone Talks. N.p., 09 Aug. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Prohibited  World Anti-Doping Agency. N.p., 22 Feb. 2017. Web. 23 Apr. 2017. Kicman, A. T. Pharmacology of anabolic  British Journal of Pharmacology. Nature Publishing Group, June 2008. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. Murphy Mike Murphy, Mike. Steroids: Safe Or  Bodybuilding.com. N.p., 01 Mar. 2003. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. Has the Steroid Scare come Full  MA Labs. N.p., 18 Dec. 2016. Web. 23 Apr. 2017.