AL-Malki1 Salma AL-Malki Prof. Sarah Roth ENC 1101 9 April 2017 Gender Inequality in the Workplace Gender inequality in the workplace is closely associates with the employment discrimination, which takes place when an adverse treatment of the workers is based on race, religion, age, gender, nationality, disability, origin, etc. In such circumstances, people are treated differently depending on the gender. Gender or sexual discrimination is a form of employment discrimination and it is illegal to discriminate a person based on their background during the hiring process, promotion, job training, compensation, privilege employment, etc. This paper will examine the peculiar features of the gender inequality in the workplaces that still takes place with the focus on economic discrimination towards women. The economic discrimination is expressed by the meaning of the statistical difference in the annual salary earned by men and women. phenomenon is called gender wage gap, gender earnings gap, gender pay gap, or male-female income difference. The difference is measured as the ratio of female to male median yearly earnings among full-time, year-round workers. The female-to-male median yearly earnings ratio was 0.77 in 2011, meaning females earned 77 percent of what their male counterparts were paid, a gap of 23 (Kelsey, 2). There is a theory that disregard the gender pay gap and advocates that females earns less due to the choices that they are making, such as focusing on raising children, less education, qualifying AL-Malki2 for lower paying job positions, etc. Nevertheless, this theory has little connection with the reality as the figures mentioned above speak for themselves and there are a numerous examples when women achieved better results than males in the same field and such examples are not rare. The harsh corporate world in the US and worldwide is not an easy path for women and it reflect gender equality. are still underrepresented in virtually any sphere, especially in the positions of senior level Many people assume this is because women are leaving companies at higher rates than men or due to difficulties balancing work and family. However, our analysis tells a more complex story: women face greater barriers to advancement and a steeper path to senior (McKinsey&Company, 3). The companies still need to invest into making the corporate pipeline more tolerant to women, so they can realize their full potential and contribute to both the flourishment of the company which they work for and their professional life. It was proved by the research that women are quitting the job at the same or lower rate as men, and females occupying senior level and C-suite positions are 20 percent less likely to leave as opposed to their male colleagues. (McKinsey&Company, 6). Furthermore, females are less likely to get promoted than males with the same level of qualification and experience, which signifies about the barriers that the women face along their career growth. A distinct tendency of facing obstacles by women on the path to senior leadership that still progresses worldwide was recorded. The share of women occupying senior level positions varies across the spheres, while the share of men in senior management is distributed evenly across all the fields. Moreover, the total number of females drops faster at each level as their position progresses from the managerial role to an SVP- and C-suite-level, while the total number of males drops much slower. Women are well-represented in the middle management AL-Malki3 levels, which might be a sign of a fairly steady level of progression and imprivemant along the career pipeline. Nevertheless, the high level of underrepresentation of females in senior management prevents them from progressing to the VP and SVP levels and occupy the top spots in the company. The first line and middle-level positions are equally distributed between the two genders and both shares the same ambitions for promotion. The tendency changes in senior management as the women at this level are less eager to get promoted than men, especially towards the top executive level. At the same time, both males and females share their concerns about the life-work balance and stress. Women often reply that their number one issue is stress, while their male counterparts indicate the balance between the private and professional life to be a top problem. It is also interesting to note that the parents of both sexes express their desire to get promoted to the top management level, which signifies about the fact that parenthood has a positive impact on an self-confidence and eagerness to grow professionally regardless of the gender. These findings point to another interesting but not so positive fact the career development path to top leadership is disproportionately stressful for females. Another fact that was discovered by McKinsey&Company is that women of color are even more ambitious in getting a promotion than their white male and female colleagues: average, they are 43 percent more interested in becoming a top executive than white women and 16 percent more interested than white (McKinsey&Company, 12). Nevertheless, the majority of women still perceive the work biased against them, which is often confirmed by men during informal conversations. Such perception is not unreasonable as females often feel that the employers give a preference to their male colleagues of the same caliber and having the same experience when making promotional decisions. It might be not documented anywhere openly, but the feeling of being discriminated is distinct and evident. AL-Malki4 Gender diversity should be an integral component and the advantage of the companies that focuses at being on the top list and demonstrating the highest performance. Therefore, changing the culture in the workplace in order to provide women with enough room for professional developmenst should be imperative. There are several strategies to achieve a gender equality and diversity in the workplace. First of all, the companies should keep track of the key metrics of the gender distribution in terms of promotion, performance evaluation, employee behaviors and attitudes, financial remuneration, etc. to spot the key problem on time. Second, it is vital importance to demonstrate that gender diversity is among the top organizational priorities by correspondent statements in the corporate policy, attitudes, organization of thematic events o this matter, etc. Third of all, gender bias should be identified and stopped at the early stages. Fourth of all, it might be worth reconsidering the complex organization of work to meet the needs of both genders. Fifth of all, a level playing field should be created, where both genders would have an equal access to the same opportunities and benefits offered by the company. To conclude, it is worth mentioning that gender inequality in the work placement should be recognized. Moreover, this paper demonstrates that this phenomenon can be stopped and should be replaced with gender diversity, the strategy from which everybody in the corporate world will benefit. AL-Malki5 Works Cited Centre for workplace Leadership. Workplace Gender and Equality Strategy Project Final  N.p., n.d. Web. 10 Apr. 2017. <https://www.bing.com/cr?IG=0B07406B680F4814B4DAC04BBFC7C552&CID=20 8QgPllV5gMmzrK8dMzT0&v=1&r=https%3a%2f%2fwww.wgea.gov.au%2fsites%2f Kelsey, Ch L. Gender inequality: Empowering  Journal of Legal Issues and Cases in Business (n.d.): 1-7. Www.aabri.com. Web. 9 Apr. 2017. McKinsey&Company. Women in the  Http://wit.berkeley.edu. N.p., 2015. Web. 9 Mar. 2017. <http://wit.berkeley.edu/docs/Women-in-the-Workplace-2015.pdf>. Parcheta, N., B. A. Kaifi, and N. M. Khanfar. Gender Inequality in the Workforce: A Human Resource Management  Journal of Business Studies Quarterly 4.3 (2013): 240-47. 2013. Web. 8 Apr. 2017. <http://jbsq.org/wp-