Sibori 1 Kristen Sibori Angelica Aranda Comp II 17 April 2016 A Smoke free World On January 4, 2016 USF joined the fight against cigarettes and became a tobacco free campus, with the hopes that USF students will stop smoking. Unfortunately both student and staff are still smoking in former smoking designated areas, or now hidden somewhere. This is to the mere fact that about 80%-90% of smokers have a nicotine addiction (smoke free). It takes time and patience for them to be able to quit smoking and even then they have terrible withdrawals from the nicotine. To help combat such withdrawals the Center for Disease Control (CDC) offers over 10 resources in addition to the use to Nicotine patches to help an individual quit. But that is not a solution if anything just a replacement, which is why the battle against smoking should start with you. As a smoker one should take action and analyze all the forms in which one can quit , from attending seminar to calling any of the hotlines provide by CDC .In addition encourage others to join their quit program. This way they will realize that the road to quitting is in their hands. To become educated on the matter they must start by analyzing any of the seminars provided by CDC. A great amount of cigarette companies rely on advertisement to hook people into smoking, CDC provides a seminar that allows you to deeply analyze the message behind those ads. For example, since World War II cigarette companies have been trying to get women to smoke (health literacy) as of today 15.3% of the women population smokes (lung), clear sign that they have succeeded over time . By knowing the primary focus of cigarette companies one Sibori 2 can take action and not let themselves be a victim of them. Cigarette companies spend billions of billions of dollars advertising each year to hook the average citizen, focusing on the insecurities of individuals and targeting them. The only form of action that can be taken against these ads is by analyzing them, knowing the real meaning behind them and committing to not being one more statistic in the increasing number of smokers across the world. Start your education today by just simply attending the Friday seminars at the Tampa convention center in the Green Theater at 6pm. For those that already smoke take a look at the packaging of cigarettes it contains bright colors and alluring letters, notice that you have already been hooked? Therefore taking the ugliness away from smoking and concealing it in a cute little package. Smokers can take matter into their own hands not just attending the seminar but also logging onto their website and looking up the difference between certain packages and their targeted audience . Some packages are made to target men and others are made to target women, when one find the specific company that is targeting them one should google them. For example since the 1920s there has been an increase in the number of women who smoke due to feminine like packaging (cdc). By knowing the hypocrisy which every cigarette company stands by and attending the seminar the individual is one step closer to quitting. be that person that falls for such advertising tactics and intervene the companies tries by educating yourself in the many forms of advertisement companies will use to hook just about anybody. Before the semester ends attend at least one Seminar at the Tampa Convention Center in order to receive the guidance and help those who are interested in quitting need. Another way is by visiting non-profit websites such as A Smoke Free  that contains detailed breakdowns of each upcoming seminar as well as a personalized calendar on when to star quitting Sibori 3 .Furthermore the website contains all the tools necessary in the path towards quitting. Even nowadays companies such as Phillip Morris International is moving into a smoke free world, by becoming the corner stone of E-Cigarettes on the market. Their goal is to eliminate second hand smoking something that affects smoker and nonsmokers. In other words not only are quitters saving themselves they are saving all those around them affected by the second had smoking. CDC also provides seminars for nonsmokers affected by second hand smokers, whether a relative or a colleague, the seminar is provides the tools to stop smokers from smoking near you. According to CDC smoke exposure contributes to approximately 41,000 deaths among nonsmoking adults and 400 deaths in infants each year. Secondhand smoke causes stroke, lung cancer, and coronary heart disease in An alarming number that is , let yourself become one more statistic take action into your own hands and attend the seminars. Another way to take action is by passing along the information, create a web at USF were people help others educate themselves on the matter. Start by creating a website and distributing fliers across campus, the passage of information is the greatest link we have as human beings. Talk it out!! To win the fight against smoking people need to go around sharing what they just learned, to help students and staff who still smoke across campus. In addition. for those that smoke CDC offers insurance policy workers, primary doctors, hotline specialist, and former smokers at the hand of every Seminar. Each professional gets a one to one personalized quitting plan, whether is setting up an appointment with a primary doctor to analyze the state the smokers body is or an appointment with their insurance to look into medication to help quitting. The Seminars is their best bet towards quitting, if the smoker is interested in quitting for their family , the seminars also have counselors to help guide family member on helping their beloved one to quit. Sibori 4 By becoming educated on the matter, those who smoke will have a greater chance of quitting and those who never have never will. None smokers shy away from the opportunity of learning about the tactics of cigarette companies, because the chances of knowing someone close that smokes are high. As for those that do smoke quitting is always an option, start by attending the different Seminar smokers have taken the first step towards quitting. The simple task of taking action and learning the harms of smoking and the ways tobacco companies will still sell cigarette to people is the first step in the battle against smoking. Educate and Empower yourself with the knowledge that will help you and others. Sibori 5 Work Cited Highlights: Marketing Cigarettes to  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 27 July 15. Web. 17 Apr. 2016. Sibori, Kristen. Beat the  Mysite-1. CDC, 9 Apr. 2017. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. Secondhand  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 22 Feb. 2017. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. Tobacco Industry  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 2015. Web. 17 Apr. 2016. Women and Tobacco  American Lung Association. Web. 17 Apr. 2016.