Quirk 1 Travis Quirk Ms. Bianca Hernandez ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Reforming the Background Check System for Gun Ownership Gun control is one of the most controversial issues affecting the United States today. More, and more often there are shootings and massacres such as Columbine in 1999, Sandy Hook in 2012, the Tuscon movie theatre shooting in 2011, and San Bernardino in 2015 just to name a few. Everyone has heard the slogan: guns kill people, people kill people. But often times that brings forth the question how did these people get the guns in the first place, and how can we prevent future incidents like this from happening? The best way to decrease the amount of gun violence, and preserve the rights of American citizens is to urge congress to put a better system in place that closes the loopholes in the current background check system, and requires background checks to be done on all gun purchases in all states. right of the people to keep and bear Arms, shall not be Const. Am. 2). This is the second amendment to the United States Constitution. It is one of the rights that Americans hold most dear. It is not likely or legal for the government to ban guns entirely. Michael Dimmock the president of the pew research center said in an interview that a ban on handguns get nearly enough support in congress, he called the idea that congress would pass a handgun ban (Dimmock). Currently a ban on handguns is not an option. The next best option in this situation is to control who has guns with background checks. Too many massacres have happened because people had access to guns that they had no business using. Quirk 2 There are two main reasons that people should not be allowed to own a gun. The first reason is if they have been convicted of a violent crime, any crime involving a weapon, or have a history of carrying any type of weapon, in a place or manner that is illegal. The second reason is if a person has a mental illness that causes them to be irrational, or unstable, even if the disorder is well controlled with medication. Natasha Tracy, an award winning writer that has been living with bipolar disorder for 18 years said is the unfortunate truth that many mental illness patients take their medication at one time or another...and also unfortunate is the fact that when a person with a mental illness refuses to take their medication they almost inexorably get sicker. People with bipolar disorder, for example, often become manic and then wind themselves up hurting themselves or someone In most states the current background check system is completely inadequate. The reason for this is because of its biggest, and most famous loophole gun show While gun dealers are required to run background checks on most gun sales, gun shows give private sellers an opportunity to sell or trade guns. Private sellers are not licensed, or certified in anyway to sell guns, they are just regular citizens that want to sell or trade their guns, and as a result of this they could not run a background check even if they wanted to. Some states have passed laws to remedy this problem. states and the District of Columbia require background checks for some private firearms sales. Seven of these states require background checks for all gun purchases, while four states require background checks for only handgun purchases. Eight of these states: Illinois, Iowa, Hawaii, Michigan, Massachusetts, New Jersey, Nebraska and North Carolina prohibit private gun dealers from transactions with individuals without licenses or permits, both of which require background checks. Private firearms purchases in Florida are subject to background checks in some jurisdictions but not across the entire state. There are no Quirk 3 laws regulating private firearms sales at gun shows in the remaining 33 (Barrett). Says Ben Garrett a journalist, and newspaper editor that frequently reports on gun rights issues. In a hypothetical situation a criminal could simply drive to one of the 33 states that do not have any background check laws for guns shows, and buy a gun. The only action that needs to be taken for a criminal to get a gun in the US is for them to take an hour or two drive to another state, walk into a gun show, and drive home. This system just makes it too easy for a criminal to get a gun, and puts everyone in danger. Another issue with the current background check system is something called a The current system is called the National Criminal Instant Background Check System, or (NICS) (not to be confused with NCIS), and is under the FBI. Since the background checks are supposed to be instant, when an instant decision cannot be made the NICS has three days to make the decision. When a decision still cannot be made in three days something called a can happen. This allows the dealer to sell the gun to the buyer without a completed background check, and without notifying the FBI. Given this a common occurrence it still does happen, and can have public safety implications when it does. April 2015, Dylann Roof legally purchased a glock handgun in such a transaction after a cascade of clerical errors delayed his background check. Roof was disqualified from gun ownership due to a drug charge. Two months later, he used the weapon to murder nine parishioners at a Charleston, South Carolina, and Mascia). However the is reversible. In the event of a the case examiner still has ninety days to make a final decision about whether or not the buyer should have been able to purchase the gun. In the event that the buyer was prohibited a retrieval order is sent to the Bureau of Alcohol Tobacco, and Firearms, and the gun can be retrieved. But this still puts guns in the hands of people who be Quirk 4 allowed to have them, even if it is only for a short time damage can still be done, the case of Dylann Roof for example. (Kohrman and Mascia). The background check system for gun ownership obviously has some major problems, and these problems need to be fixed in order to decrease incidents of gun violence. In order to fix these problems citizens must urge their congressional representatives to take action on reforming. The first reform should be to the gun show loophole. A policy should be made that every gun sale, no matter if it from a dealer, or private seller should have to undergo a background check. A convenient way to do this would be to have a background check system at gun shows to quickly, and easily perform background checks. The second reform should be to the policy. In the case that a three day deadline is not enough time for the to make a decision, the sale should not go through until the examiners have had enough time to make a definite decision on the result of a background check. In order to make the United States a safer place for years to come these actions must take place. They will keep guns out of the hands of people who are not able to use them responsibly, and keep them in the hands of citizens who follow the law, and are responsible enough to use them. Reforming the system in this way is the best way to make the country a safer place. Quirk 5 Work Cited Constitutional Topic: The Second  USConstitution.net. Accessed January 24, 2017 Garrett, Ben. What Is the Gun Show Loophole and Why Does It  ThoughtCo. N.p., 16 Oct. 2016. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Kohrman, Miles, and Jennifer Mascia. How a Federal Gun Background Check  The Trace. N.p., 14 Mar. 2017. Web. 16 Apr. 2017 Quirk 6 Pew: Partisan Divide On Gun Ownership, Bipartisan Support On Background  Weekend Edition Sunday, 19 June 2016. Literature Resource Center. Accessed 25 Jan. 2017. Tracy, Natasha. What to Do When Someone Refuses to Take Their Medication Treatment  Bipolar Burble Blog Natasha Tracy. N.p., 01 June 2013. Web. 16 Apr. 2017