Matthew Nelson Prof. Kat Modlin-Jackson Composition 1 4/8/17 Project 3: Intermediate Draft When it comes to the production of cars, does it really matter where they are made? Is there even a difference whether it was produced and put together in your backyard, or if it was produced hundreds to thousands of miles away in another country? Of course with most things people buy, not just with automobiles, we are always guilty of overlooking where the item was made, how made, and the whole process it goes through in general. This is not a huge problem that people overlook this, but it is important that you know that more behind it than just buying it from the retailer. more complicated than the company putting it together with all the parts being made in the same place, and just because a car is put together in America, mean the parts were produced there. For instance, according to Joseph S. Pete who works for NWI publishers, about 60-65% of the cars from various big brands are produced in North America, in Canada and the US (Pete). So in this paper I will introduce why I believe that the International production of cars and car parts in foreign markets is highly beneficial for every country engaged in the automotive trade through the creation of jobs, competition, and trade agreements. The employment of and ability to sustain workers is important in any industry, let alone in any type of profession. In the automotive manufacturing companies, the main goal is to build the cars as cheap, quick, and effective as they can. The biggest way they cut costs is by outsourcing jobs and their labor forces to other countries that lack the minimum wage requirements and labor laws that exist in the United States. Michael Thompson and Ali Merchant write in their article, and Economic Growth in the US Automotive Manufacturing about the fact that the battle for maximum revenue will always drive these companies in order to maximize profits and keep up with foreign countries (Thompson). However, just because these workers are paid less and have less rights, Annki Falck explains that these companies must treat the workers better in order to keep up the quality (Falck). Competition in the manufacturing industry sounds like it would be cutthroat and nonstop production to stay on the top, which, get me wrong, it is, but, it is really important for that exact reason. This battle for supremacy boosts the GDP of each country and more importantly the overall economy. Some might claim that the US need to compete with these countries and they have an opportunity to pull production out of these economies. However, this accurate because our economy relies heavily on other economies that hold ties with us, especially ones located fairly close. If their economy crashes, ours could be right behind it. According to Christopher Wilson, in his article the competiton with other countries keeps the United States on top of the industry and makes them push to expand or create more (Wilson). Trade agreements are crucial to companies who create products, such as automobiles, that require parts from different countries, which requires the shipping of parts back and forth. These huge companies outsource to other countries due to the cheaper wages they have to pay, which ultimately helps them reach their goal of maximum profit. With the usual hefty trade tariffs and taxes that are usually paid on imported and exported items, it can get really expensive even for these huge industries. With trade agreements like NAFTA, it makes it easier and cheaper to move these parts back for assembly. Recently, the biggest problem that has risen towards these agreements is the statement from newly elected Donald Trump in which he promised to raise the taxes and tariffs on items imported from foreign countries, hoping to force American companies to move production back to the US. However, this would be a very rigorous process that would prove to be almost impossible or very inefficient and cost effective. So the chances of forcing these multi-billion dollar companies to move their whole production, labor force, and factories to the United States, does not look very possible. Another counter-claim is why the United States, regardless of cheaper labor, would let smaller countries produce these parts to put into their cars. With the production or manufacturing of any kind in a country, the Gross Domestic Product rises which, in turn, boosts their economy for the better. Therefore, as I stated before, the United economy is directly affected by the countries it deals with. So if a smaller country that America deals with is having economic success, it will help the United States in the long run. This is another reason why competition is healthy and completely beneficial for both countries. In conclusion, it would be in the United best interest to stay connected with and keep production in the developing countries that also benefit from having it there. economy just in its own hands. It heavily relies on the success of the economies that it deals with. Outsourcing creates jobs for struggling countries, competition that demands the best from the whole industry, and trade agreements that keeps the cost down for the countries and the companies trying to maximize their profit. Works Cited Falck, Annki. Roland Ortengren, Dan Hogberg. influence of assembly ergonomics on product quality and productivity in car manufacturing- a cost-benefit Ergonomics is a lifestyle, 2008 Thompson, Michael F. Ali Arif Merchant. and Economic Growth in the U.S. Automotive Manufacturing Industry: Considering the Impact of American and Japanese Indiana Business Review, Vol. 85, No. 1, 2010, pp. 10-17 Childress, Vincent W. Impacts: Manufacturing and the Technology and Engineering Teacher, Vol.71, No. 5, Feb 2012, pp. 23-29. Toloken, Steve. helps Mexico grab auto Plastics News, Vol. 28, No. 2, 2016, pp.6 Wilson, Christopher Competiveness: The Mexican Issues in Science and Technology, Vol. 28, No. 4, 2012, pp. 27-30 NWI Times. The Times of Northwest Indiana, 1906, http://www.nwitimes.com/business/local/cars-made-here-but-with-a-lot-of-foreign- Accessed 1 Apr. 2017.