Obisanya 1 Adefemi Obisanya Professor Aranda April 4, 2017 ENC 1102 Project 3 Intermediate Draft People of America we need to make a stand and be a united front at this very moment. At this crucial juncture we as people need to figure out what we want to put our beliefs in: more eventual violence or a stronger stance on stricter policies. The world today is growing larger and larger by the day meaning we are interacting with very different people from different walks of life with very different agendas. Some of those agendas can be of evil and violence and endanger the livelihood of you or of the people you care most about. Other dangers can be in house issues as many parents carry firearms with young children in hope that it will protect and for good reason, but it inversely puts the child at risk of hurting themselves if they ever find it and play with it. With these very worrying and scary issues in mind, you have groups and organizations such as the Brady Campaign, my stakeholder, advocating for a better and safer future. As they lobby and press Congress for changes in it lawmaking, as they did when they got their bill passed, they are ultimately fighting for a safety America by reducing gun deaths in half by 2025. With these caring organizations caring about the well-being and safety of people across the country they will probably never see in their lifetime, why you do the same?There is a fight and a stand that Americans need to make for what they believe in, which should start by joining or starting a Brady Campaign chapter to promote safety and peace in our communities and households Obisanya 2 As we progress in our day to day lives and understand the things that are going on in our world all the way down into our communities, we learn and preach about safety and love. We all want that for our loved ones and communities to exist in a peaceful environment without anything endangering our well-being, however it always be the case. In the beautiful country of America, we live around people who own guns (some people multiple) whether it is licensed or illegal and have the power and ability to make poor decisions with those tools and wreak havoc in our communities. There is an estimate to be about 270 million to 310 million firearms in the United States of America in 2013, which theoretically can be a gun for every adult male, adult female and child in the US alone (pewresearch.com). check the fact that are important: With 300 million guns being in the US, there appears to be around 11 million guns produced every year (NPR.com). It is estimated that 309 people are killed due to gun violence everyday, while an astounding 112,695 people every year are shot due to murder, assaults, suicides, or suicides attempt (Brady Campaign.com). With these many guns and these stats alone, who can keep track of all these firearms? The same can be said of crazed individuals with bad intentions. With so many firearms in the US, the ability to acquire a firearm be that difficult which can lead to these powerful weapons falling into the wrong hands. Examples can be seen from mass shootings such as the Orlando Nightclub shooting (2016), San Bernardino shooting (2015), Charlestown Church shooting (2015), and finally the Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting (2012). All of these mass shootings involved individuals with hate and bad intentions in mind and heart while also taking advantage of the accessibility of guns around them. Dylann Roof, the assailant in the Charlestown Church shooting was said to be able to purchase his gun because in the Obisanya 3 background-check (WashingtonPost.com). This evil spirited man misused his second amendment right and decided to take the lives of innocent blacks to incite a race war and destroy the peace of mind and safety of others. If these innocent people or even Dlyann Roof were your relatives, you want to make a change and push for stronger and stricter gun laws that can help take the destructive weapons out of the hands of these awful criminals? The other narrative that many Americans believe is that if you own a gun in the house, then it will therefore protect you and your family and provide you all the security and peace of mind in the world. While that is true and obviously bearing rights to arm is everyone second amendment especially in the case where its purpose is to protect a person family, it should be noted that is a double edged sword. Not everyone in the households knows the true weight and power of a gun, which could grow into larger future problems. Younglings can find or new and begin to play with it which can most likely lead to tragic, tragic consequences for the child. Teens can get a hold of it and try to use the weapon as a scare tactic against bullies whereas it can backfire and also turn out into a tragic event ending with a unnecessary death happening. These things do happen in the world, that the same thing that caring parents hope would protect their loved ones and little is the same thing that kills them. It is important for Americans to begin to start paying attention to these issues and taking more notice into them. Thankfully the number of guns in household has been on the decline as only 1 in 3 households have guns in them as it appears people are beginning to understand the realities of guns. As more and more people begin to understand the realities of gun, there has to be a change and action that comes along with it to better build and protect future. With that Obisanya 4 being said, Americans need to wake up and make change rather than sit back and allow more disasters unravel in our nation and communities and there is ways to create change. The Brady mission is to better educate people on the realities and dangers of guns while cutting the number of gun deaths in half by 2025 (Brady Campaign.com). The Brady Campaign has a three driven campaigns that will implement more background checks to keep guns out of dangerous hands, halting bad illegal gun dealers and their operations, while finally beginning to divulge in a national conversation about firearms and shifting the social norms that many apply to guns (Brady Campaign.com).By simply joining forces with the Brady Campaign, Americans can be able to get off the sidelines and rather sideline senseless gun violence and start to make impacts at the lowest level which will eventually make its way to the national level. Americans can start taking classes on guns and successfully know the ins and outs to them and better know how to use one and hide one if they were ever put in the situation where they absolutely have to use it. Americans can join establish Brady Campaign chapters or better yet create new Brady Campaign chapter in their neighborhoods and immediately preach to everyone the urgency of stopping gun violence. There is always more that Americans can do to make everything around them better and safer for us, so why not answer the call and join the beginning of the end of senseless, unnecessary gun violence in the United States of America? Obisanya 5 Work Cited 1. Campaign to Prevent Gun  Brady Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Brady Campaign, n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. 2. DeSilver, Drew. A minority of Americans own guns, but just how many is  Research N.p., 03 June 2013. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. 3. Horsley, Scott. Guns In America, By The  NPR, 05 Jan. 2016. Web. 16 Apr. 2017 4. Nakashima, Ellen. FBI: Breakdown in background check system allowed Dylann Roof to buy  Washington WP Company, 10 July 2015. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.