Schmitt 1 Hayden T. Schmitt Ms. Angelica Aranda ENC 1102-033 21 April 2017 Vaccination: Facts and Fables Vaccination has been a medical tool since ancient times in human history. Edward Jenner introduced the modern sense of vaccination in 1770 when he discovered that introducing cowpox to patients would create immunity to patients from smallpox after observing that the milkmaids who had been exposed to cowpox were not getting smallpox (History of Vaccines, Pg. 1). Since then many diseases have been either contained or even eradicated thanks to mass distribution of lifesaving vaccines. Despite this lifesaving advancement in medicine, many diseases have been popping up in several first world countries that have long been only concerning in third world nations without access to vaccinations for diseases like Measles, Mumps and Rubella. This phenomenon is largely thanks to discredited researcher Dr. Andrew Wakefield and former playboy model and actor Jenny McCarthy who spearheaded allegations that vaccines cause autism in children. In order to reverse the rising child death rates, children must be vaccinated for the diseases that are killing them. It is a responsibility to become informed about the importance of vaccines, and to utilize that knowledge by going to the clinic and following a vaccination schedule for their child. After the hysteria caused by Andrew Wakefield, measles, which was nonexistent in America and many first world countries until then, made resurgence. In 1988 Wakefield was published in the Lancet Medical Journal concerning his research that autism may be induced in Schmitt 2 children by vaccines (The Time, Pg. 1). These finding were later found to be false and his research filled with bias due to financial conflicts, meaning he had personal financial stake in his findings. This, coupled with several interview with former playboy model and actor Jenny McCarthy, who claimed to see the change in her son to having autism due to the injection of vaccines, caused a movement of people known as to refuse the normal vaccine injections for their children. Her son later allegedly recovered from his autism, which likely indicates that he was misdiagnosed with autism, and instead had Landau-Kleffner syndrome as conjectured by neurologist Dr. Daniel Ruben (Leftbrainrightbrain, Pg. 1). The conclusion to draw here being that Jenny son never had autism, and her refusing vaccines did not cure what he never had, and instead put him at risk for life threatening diseases. These stories in combination with extensive media attention have created the hysteria around vaccines that has put thousands of children in the hospital from contracting formerly nonexistent diseases in the US. It has clouded the truth so much, that it is very hard to find good concise information about the topic, without running into anecdotes that make you question what is right and wrong about vaccinating. Getting to the truth is a matter of knowing where to look to get to sources that the average parent can understand and make decisions with. These types of stories have cluttered the Internet with conflicting information regarding vaccines. It may be difficult to make a decision about vaccinating children, so finding good information on the topic is important. Vaccines have been used in medicine since ancient times, but the modern sense of vaccination was introduced during the smallpox outbreak in 1770. Edward Jenner discovered the method of introducing the related and non-harmful cowpox to humans to give them immunity to smallpox, the disease that killed hundreds of millions of people over several centuries of human history according to BBC reporter Colette Flight (BBC, Schmitt 3 Pg. 1). According to Dr. Katharina Simon, a PhD and researcher at Oxford in the field of immunology, humans are most vulnerable at birth and late in life when their immune system is weakest (Simon, Pg. 2). After birth it strengthens as the child matures and in old age it begins to weaken making these ages most susceptible to viral and bacterial diseases. A common propaganda tactic from anti-vaxxers shows a disturbing picture depicting a baby as a pincushion for syringes showing all the vaccines a child is forced to get in the first 2 years of life. Children are highly susceptible to disease at that age making the vaccines necessary to prevent them from getting diseases like whooping cough, measles, mumps and rubella. These diseases would mostly be just be miserable for an adult, but can often lead to death in a young child, which is why vaccinating them early is so important for their health. By vaccinating your child, you can prevent these types of diseases, and the emotionally agony of losing a child. Set them up to have the best chance for survival, and those around them. The more people who are vaccinating the less capable a disease is of spreading and affecting the population. There are several ways to become more informed about this topic. Medical journals are difficult to read through and often only address a very small part of the overall topic you are trying to learn about, and getting a masters in immunology is asking a bit much of the average parent. The Internet and the doctor are the two best sources in gaining information about vaccines. Organizations like the CDC, and most university public health department webpages have good, peer reviewed, factual, and helpful information concerning vaccination. Doctors are also helpful, since they have spent often a decade more than the average college graduate learning about medicine, especially specialists in immunology when it comes to vaccinating. Trusting a one scientifically discredited researcher or a former playboy model seems absurd when you could instead put trust in and entire scientific community who check each others facts, Schmitt 4 and rerun each others experiments to make sure their finding are accurate and free of bias unlike the findings of Dr. Wakefield. As a parent it is important to safeguard your child from harm, and that includes the harm of preventable diseases by vaccinating. You can do this by scheduling an appointment at your local vaccination center speak with a doctor or nurse about getting your child up to date on their vaccinations. This will allow them to not only stay disease free, but also be able to go to any school, apply for any job and travel where they wish without being rejected for not being vaccinated or killed by a disease they might contract. When visiting the vaccination center they will inform you about the vaccine and temporary affects it may have, set up a schedule of vaccines your child will need to receive, as they grow older. You can ask any questions you may have there and either get the accurate answers that you seek, or be directed to a reliable source that can answer your question, with the assurance that the answer is backed by decades of research, experience and cross-examination. By vaccinating your child, you run no risk of autism and prevent your child from life-threatening diseases. As with everything, there are small inherent risks. Any time you puncture the skin there is a risk of infection, but easier to treat and infection with some antibiotics than to deal with the agony of not being able to breath when a child has whooping cough and possibly dies. Even if autism could be passed to a child by vaccines, which it cannot accord any reputable research on the topic, it would be better to have a child with a social disorder than a dead child. Do not be irresponsible with the wellbeing of your life, get informed by reaching out to informational resources about vaccinating, and make the decision that could save their life. Schmitt 5 Work Cited Measles Legacy of Disgraced  The Times & The Sunday Times. N.p., n.d. Web. 20 Apr. 2017. <https://www.thetimes.co.uk/article/measles-legacy-of-disgraced-doctor- b5vvq3rd5mc>.  Timeline History of Vaccines. N.p., n.d. Web. 20 Apr. 2017. <https://www.historyofvaccines.org/timeline>. Jenny McCarthy Setting the Record It Suits  Left Brain Right Brain. N.p., 05 Jan. 2014. Web. 21 Apr. 2017. <https://leftbrainrightbrain.co.uk/2014/01/06/jenny- mccarthy-setting-the-record-straight-when-it-suits-her/>. BBC - History - British History in Depth: Smallpox: Eradicating the  BBC News. BBC, n.d. Web. 21 Apr. 2017. Simon, A. Katharina, Georg A. Hollander, and Andrew McMichael. Evolution of the Immune System in Humans from Infancy to Old  Proceedings of the Royal Society B: Biological Sciences. The Royal Society, 22 Dec. 2015. Web. 21 Apr. 2017. <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4707740/>.