Rodriguez 1 Genevieve Rodriguez Professor Aranda ENC 1102-033 11, April 2017 Save the Sea Turtles Sea turtles are a beautiful creature that can be found along the Florida coastline. They are a gentle species and tend to eat anything that looks like their favorite meal. A floating plastic bag could look like a jellyfish to a leatherback sea turtle much like a plastic green water bottle can look like lettuce to a green sea turtle. The Sea Turtle Hospital in Marathon Florida has a mission to end this confusion with sea turtles mistaking trash for food. The Sea turtle Hospital says is nearly impossible for a turtle to break-down synthetic material once it is ingested, and very often it will cause an intestinal blockage, called an condition will usually lead to Every third Saturday of the month this will be a beach cleanup open to everyone in Florida! There is a sign up linked to The Sea Turtle website where people can sign up to clean local beaches. This one small act can greatly impact the whole ocean. With the help of the Florida coast line residents, there can be an end to a polluted ocean. How many people have seen the video about a straw being stuck in a sea nose? It is one of the most heartbreaking things to witness to see an amazing animal be in such pain. In a recent article by Robyn Albritton states that are consistently on the top 10 lists for marine debris collected every year during the International Coastal This is something that we use every day and every day straws are being discarded into the trash and eventually gets into our oceans to get stuck in sea noses and intestines. This is an item that does not need Rodriguez 2 to be on our beaches. When spring break comes around beaches get even more polluted. In Miami they have invested in putting trash cans every 200 feet on all of their beaches. This is something can happen all on the coast of Florida. According to the See Turtle foundation of thousands of sea turtles, whales, and other marine mammals, and more than 1 million seabirds die each year from ocean pollution and ingestion or entanglement in marine (page 1) This is completely preventable and the only cause of this massive murder of sea turtles and other marine life is humans. The only ones who can stop it are humans. The first step will be a beach cleanup every third Saturday of the month. This will decrease the amount of trash on our beaches as well as the amount of trash that ends up in the ocean. This can help not only the marine life but the tourist industry and any students who need volunteer hours. It is a fun and effective way to help clean the Florida coast! The Sea Turtle Hospital in Marathon, Florida has been a huge contributor to the rescue and rehabilitation of sea turtles. They have outreach classes that educate people about the diet of a sea turtle, the environment the sea turtles live in, and nesting. (http://www.turtlehospital.org/outreach-virtualclassroom/) This is a fantastic way for people to learn more and find out other ways to help. In their You Can section on their website it states marine life that was caught within standards are able to remain sustainable. They advise to reduce, reuse, and recycle. It is just so easy to forget about trash once you are done using it. Make sure you are separating items that are able to be recycled from those that are not. A lot of the time litter gets to the ocean from landfills and suburban yards. (http://www.seeturtles.org/ocean-plastic/) Where trash ends up is something that is so forgotten about in everyday life. If the Florida population becomes more aware about where our trash goes the oceans can last just a bit longer. If everyone just picked up a piece of trash every time they Rodriguez 3 saw one the world would be a cleaner place. Two men did do this exact thing. They walked from Mexico to the British Columbia Canada boarder and picked up anything from mattresses to cigarette butts. They wanted to make sure the trash get into some place where it They did it to keep the outdoors as beautiful as it should be. One of the men Seth said was a habit I wanted to share, and influence other values. We want to have trash all along our scenic (http://www.independent.co.uk) Rodriguez 4 Work Cited Vooght, Clare. Two Friends Walked from Mexico to Canada and Picked up Every Piece of Rubbish They Saw along the  The Independent. Independent Digital News and Media, 26 Dec. 2016. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. The Turtle Hospital. Rescue, Rehab, Release. N.p., n.d. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. SEE Turtles. N.p., n.d. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. Your Spring Break Partying Could Be Ruining the  USA Today. Gannett Satellite Information Network, 23 Mar. 2017. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Skip a Straw Save a  Sailors for the Sea. N.p., 08 Mar. 2017. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.