Ridley 1 Student Jenifer Paquette ENC 1101 13 April 2017 The effects of child abuse on mental health is a hard statistic to measure accurately leaving this topic of research open to many counterarguments and criticism. There is no way to really get hard statistical evidence seeing how most experiments are conducted by simply using surveys or interviews then drawing the results to diagnose these subjects with some sort of mental or physical illness. However, it is hard to argue with how many experts got such comparable results by using this technique of just surveying and interviewing their subjects. Each source used similar methods when conducting their research. For example, B.E Molnar and Rosana Norman both conducted similar experiments where subjects were either interviewed or completed a survey and their physical signs were observed to look for any obvious signs of health effects. These studies were conducted over ten years apart and both used the same method and found similar results. Molnar found that there were about 14 signs of mental health effects on his subjects including social anxiety, mood swings, and risky sexual behavior. Norman also found similar mental health effects in her research including social anxiety, higher chance of risky behavior, and more prone to substance abuse. A counter claim that could be made would be that these signs could be from something else and do not necessarily apply to the fact they were abused as a child. While this may be true in some cases seeing how it is hard to gauge a life from when they were a child to a grown adult, the Ridley 2 interviews and surveys cover these bases to ensure that other factors are not what is causing the change in mental health. When it comes to social anxiety, this is the most common mental health effect of those who were abused according to all the experiments that have been studied. It is hard to argue with a unanimous conclusion from many qualified researchers that social anxiety is the most common. However, when it comes to other effects such as more prone to drug abuse and engaging in risky sexual behavior, one could argue this an effect of being abused as a child. This may be true in some cases but Allan Horwitz covered this possible counter very well. Horwitz basically said that when it comes to substance abuse and engaging in risky behavior, these issues mostly stem from traumas that have occurred in that life leading them down this path. What he did was look at his surveys and into their past and if he found that there was no other sign of a major trauma in their life besides being abused as a child, it is safe to assume this trauma accumulated all through their childhood and manifested into mental effects such as risky behavior and substance abuse as adults. Furthermore, to add to the credibility of these experiments there are detailed statistics associated with the research as well as these experiments were conducted with a control group. Valerie Edwards conducted her research by exposing her subjects to forms of abuse then having them complete a 36-item short-form health survey to assess their current mental health status. She found that of the respondents who reported any form of child abuse, over 34 percent reported multiple forms of abuse. She also found that the more forms of abuse these subjects had been exposed to, the lower their mental health score was on the assessment. She conducted this experiment with 8,667 subjects to make sure she had that control group and that any information she gathered was accurate. One could make the counter argument that methods like this are Ridley 3 outdated where researchers rely on surveys and assessments to gauge mental health. However, to ensure the best results and that her information was credible, Edwards provided not only a large data range by testing over 8,000 people but she also provided hard statistics based off her assessments and the fact she had a control group made this experiment even more credible. Many counter arguments could be made when it comes to effects on mental health. For starters, there is no hard evidence that one can measure using technology. Since most experiments rely on surveys and assessing physical and mental state by looking at them or interviewing that person, there is really no way to gather information such as if this person was sexually abused they have a 33% higher chance of abusing their own children. This is for the simple fact that, when it comes to measuring effects of child abuse on adults, that person is grown up and much older and who knows what could have happened in their life in the many years after they were abused. Researchers try their best to control this by asking if any other traumas have occurred in the life but it is still impossible to account for every little thing that could happen in decades of time. For example, one of the prevalent effects on mental health was substance abuse. This could include drugs or alcohol or anything that allows the person to escape from reality. This is impossible to gauge as an effect of being abused as a child because for all the researchers know they been at a party and a friend gave them a drug to try to and they got hooked. It could have nothing to do with being abused as a child. When these researchers state there is a higher chance it just means that when they conducted their experiments a large amount of the subjects that were abused were using some form of substance or engaging in risky behavior and that this was associated with their abuse. Also, any percentages are based solely off the researchers test group. It is near impossible to Ridley 4 come up with a global percentage that states effect is this much higher in anyone who was abused as a because people could respond differently. This is a very sensitive topic and these effects could very well be side effects of the abuse as a child. Unfortunately, it is very easy to present counter arguments since this is a very hard statistic to measure. Ridley 5 Work Cited Edwards, Valerie. Relationship Between Multiple Forms of Childhood Maltreatment and Adult Mental Health in Community Respondents: Results From the Adverse Childhood Experiences  Relationship Between Multiple Forms of Childhood Maltreatment and Adult Mental Health in Community Respondents: Results From the Adverse Childhood Experiences Study American Journal of Psychiatry. N.p., 01 Aug. 2003. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Herrenkohl, Todd. Developmental Impacts of Child Abuse and Neglect Related to Adult Mental Health, Substance Use, and Physical  Journal of Family Violence 28 (2013): 191199. Web. 04 Feb. 2017. Horwitz, Allan. The Impact of Childhood Abuse and Neglect on Adult Mental Health: A Prospective  Journal of Health and Social Behavior 42 (2001): 184-201. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Molnar, B. E. Child sexual abuse and subsequent psychopathology: results from the National Comorbidity  American Journal of Public Health. U.S. National Library of Medicine, May 2001. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Ridley 6 Norman, Rosana. The Long-Term Health Consequences of Child Physical Abuse, Emotional Abuse, and Neglect: A Systematic Review and  The Long-Term Health Consequences of Child Physical Abuse, Emotional Abuse, and Neglect: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis. PLOS Medicine, 27 Nov. 2012. Web. 04 Feb. 2017. Wang, Ching-Tung. Estimated Cost of Child Abuse and Neglect in the United Prevent Child Abuse America, Sept. 2007. Web. 19 Feb. 2017.