Student 1 Student Dr. Jenifer Paquette ENC 101 04-16-2017 Solar Energy There is one thing that cannot be hidden and it is the massive growth of technology in recent years. This means that there has been an evolution in the world and daily life has changed. For instance the same thing has happened to electrical power, as there have been new innovations to develop new types of energy. One of these innovations is solar energy, which is energy produced by sunlight. Although solar energy is not yet used and developed as much as non-renewable energy, solar energy eventually will become the energy of the future because it is renewable and provides benefits for the environment. There is so many pollution in the world, that scientists have realized it is time for a quick change in the energy industry. Finding new mechanisms that produce clean energy and taking them to every single place on earth is the major priority nowadays. As technology as evolved solar energy has also grown, in fact, there are so many projects already completed around the world transporting clean energy to many families. The ecologist Katherine Ellison published an article named Solar Power: The future looks bright. One of the counterarguments presented on the article says, power is too It is true, solar energy can be really expensive and that is one reason it is mostly performed in developed countries. But because continuing with the regular energy mechanisms can be a very fatal problem, there are so many efforts to find an effective Student 2 low-cost way of adapting solar energy. According to the famous magazine Forbes, billionaires like Bill Gates, Mark Zuckerberg and Jeff Bezos recently invested part of their fortune on clean energy projects with focus on solar power. All these efforts combined with researches and studies at different places in the world will be very helpful to make solar power the energy of the future. If solar energy is taken everywhere and adapted at a high scale the production and services prices will for sure go down as they have already compared to previous years. In her article Katherine argues that, power was growing at a rate of 25%. According to surveys, large majorities of Americans said they not only want more solar power, but would pay more for Of course people want a change on the market if technology can make things simpler. It is better to invest more money on something that can benefit people in the future, rather than pay a cheap price and be highly affected with several consequences. Things were much different in the past because a group of people that controlled the whole market want to see a new idea of energy developed because their monopoly could be interfered by this. Having the control of the largest banks, oil companies, and energy industries it was way too hard for someone who wanted to come with a new project or development, as it was indirectly stopped by them. They should now support this new cause if they want to get affected by the pollution issues, enjoy the benefits of that clean energy have and more if they want to join the $10 billion annual market. Solar energy is so natural, that only 1-hour of sunlight is enough to cover the energy demand in the world. It can provide benefits and a clean standard to the environment. Various scientists on a recent study say that, power provide health, environmental and climate benefits by displacing conventional generators and therefore Student 3 reducing emissions of carbon dioxide and criteria air pollutants, which include sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, and fine particulate matter (Kyle Siler-Evans, Lima Azevedo, M. Granger Morgan and Jay Apt, 11768). Basically these scientists are mentioning that by using solar power the emission of many air pollutants would be reduced having a great impact on the environment, climate and health. This would generate a better life not only for humans but for animals and plants as well. If all the air pollutants emissions were extremely reduced there be global warming, several diseases, climate changes and ice melting. Stopping these things from happening would give people hope because the average life expectation will increase everywhere. Imagine seeing China or India fueled by clean energy, this will actually be very beneficial for all those people currently affected by the pollution issues. In fact, according to a team of environmentalist, 2012 an increase in large-scale solar power plants were built around the world, including the construction of the Golmud Solar Park in China that has an installed capacity of 200 megawatts and Gujarat Solar Park that has a combined installed capacity of 605 (Greentumble). These kinds of news are very satisfactory because it lets people know that the growth of solar power is real and that the effort to stop pollution is too. Some people say that solar power is only for developed countries because developing ones are not yet ready to deal with the technology of it. This is not a strong claim because in order to have solar power in one country the average citizen have really have to deal with the technology. For this reason, there are experts on field that can be in charge of power plants and work every day in the supervision of them. In an extreme case, those very poor countries that are very limited in all aspects, there is the hope that some world organizations can bring the structure to Student 4 them and even prepare them for any circumstances once the system is well developed. The scientist Michael E. Mackay published his work on solar energy, highlighting the importance of it. He mentions energy is extremely important because fossil fuels resources will last on order of no more than 100-300 years; yet burning them generates human made carbon dioxide which is responsible for changes in the earth such as global warming and arctic ice Scientist Michael is not only mentioning the importance of solar energy but also the consequences of not implementing it as the major way of getting energy. In his research his also points out some incredible statistics like, concentration has reached a level of approximately 50% above that of the last 800,000 years and this has only happened in the last 100 years. Solar energy technologies can help to mitigate CO2 generation and must be Looking at the numbers it is terrifying to know that pollution is dominating the world and that continuing with the same systems we could be seeing a collapse in the upcoming years. As the world faces pollution problems and everyone might be in danger, clean energy should be now taken to the highest level to help the entire population. In fact, there has been an expansion of solar energy as well as wind energy globally including Asia, America, and Europe as the highest leaders of the technology. It is expected that in the coming years solar energy take the energy industry in a totally high and different capacity becoming the energy of the future. In conclusion, over the years solar energy has been part of a very massive discussion all over the world. This argument matters within a larger context because solar energy has become a very strong electrical power benefiting not only the environment but humanity as well. While solar power is still on development and studies, many efforts Student 5 show that it will become the energy of the future not only because of the recent growth but also for the need to establish a well-formed clean system for pollution purposes. Work Cited Ellison, Katherine. Power: The Future Looks Frontiers in Ecology and the Environment, vol. 4, no. 8, 2006, pp. 16 April. 2017 Barber, James. Solar Philosophical Transactions: Mathematical, Physical and Engineering Sciences, vol. 365, no. 1853, 2007, pp. 5 Mar. 2017 Mackay, Michael E. Solar Energy: An Introduction. : Oxford University Press, 2015-06- 01. Oxford Scholarship Online. 2015-08-20. 5 Mar. 2017 Siler-Evans, Kyle, et al. Variations in the Health, Environmental, and Climate Benefits of Wind and Solar Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America, vol. 110, no. 29, 2013, pp. 11773. 16 April. 2017 How Was Solar Energy  Greentumble - Together to Support Awareness & Conservation Activities. N.p., 12 Dec. 2015. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.