Tillman 1 Tillman, Simone ENC 1102, Section Bianca Hernandez 16 April 2017 The Problem With Sex in the United States There is no question in mind that sexual education must change. The United States has been stuck in a limbo between not teaching students anything and having uneducated teachers awkwardly bumbling through some sloppy attempt at convincing students to be safe. The biggest difference in how people think sex education should be taught is between those who support abstinence-only programs versus those who support comprehensive sexual education. The people who uphold the abstinence-only programs usually do so for religious or moral reason, however there is strong evidence proving how inefficient and unproductive this style of teaching is. The Government Reform Committee reviewed the 13 most commonly used abstinence-only curriculums in 2012 and concluded that, of the curricula were accurate but that 11 others, used by 69 organizations in 25 states, contained unproven assertions, subjective conclusions, or outright falsehoods regarding reproductive health, gender traits, and when life (The Truth About Abstinence-Only Programs). Comprehensive sexual education is the exact opposite in terms of lessons. Even though there are many versions of this, there is a strict outline for this particular style of sexuality education. It is outlined as: Tillman 2 A planned, sequential K-12 curriculum that is part of a comprehensive school health education approach which addresses age-appropriate physical, mental, emotional and social dimensions of human include a variety of topics including anatomy, physiology, families, personal safety, healthy relationships, pregnancy and birth, sexually transmitted diseases including HIV, contraceptives, sexual orientation, pregnancy options, media literacy and more. It should be medically accurate. Qualified, trained teachers should provide sexuality education (Definition of Comprehensive Sex Education) Comprehensive sexual education encompasses everything that a student could know on the subject while making it a requirement that the information be medically accurate and the teachers be qualified. This program works to erase the stigma placed on sex so that students can actually make safe and educated decisions when it comes to anything sexuality related. Organizations that support this sex education style treat the subject like any other course in school. They believe that students should be given the facts of the matter because sexual education can be just as important as any other core class at school. Currently, every state has different policies and requirements on what can or cannot be taught on sexual education, and every school chooses their version that fits those stipulations. That means that there are hundreds of different versions of sexual education being taught currently. Essentially no kid has the same level of knowledge on the matter. Only 25 states and the District of Colombia (DoC), as of April 1, 2017 require sex education. Of the 34 states and the DoC that require HIV education (not excluding those that require no other education on STDs), only 13 require the information to be medically accurate. Only 28 states and the DoC require any information on coerced sex of which 21 states and the DoC are required to teach Tillman 3 any form of avoiding coerced sex. (Sex and HIV Education). This does not even cover half of all the shocking facts about what is actually being taught in each state. There are states that require talk of certain aspects, but in a negative way. None of this is acceptable. The way that policymakers and older Americans have outlined these curricula is extremely problematic and wrong, from a medical point of view and a moral point of view. The argument that talking too much about sex could promote students to participate more in dangerous sexual activities has proven to be faulty. In fact, plenty of studies have shown that the US, despite their tight-lipped teaching systems, has one of the worst sexual education systems in relation to most advanced countries. According to the Advocates for Youth organization, the US has about 3 times the teen pregnancies in comparison to Germany and France, the percentage of the adult population that has been diagnosed with HIV or AIDS is six times greater than in Germany, three times greater than in the Netherlands, and one-and-a- half times greater than in France, and the US has the lowest reported use of male condoms, female condoms, and female contraception (Feijoo). The things that separate the US from these countries is that those countries do not have such a strong stigma against sex in their culture especially among teenagers and that their governments all have pragmatic governmental policies in regards to sexual education. The US has been using tax money to give to states that agree to making abstinence-only programs. In fact, in a review of state policies about sex education funding, SIECUS found that, 1996 and federal Fiscal Year 2010, Congress funneled a total of over one-and-a-half billion tax-payer dollars into abstinence-only-until-marriage (A History of Federal Funding for Abstinence-Only-Until-Marriage Programs) In 2010 and 2011, the government has funded these programs with $50 million a year. This funding was through two abstinence Tillman 4 organizations and does not include any money from the federal government allocated for the support of community-based outreach for separate abstinence-only organizations. There is no funding available for comprehensive sexual education. The federal government, by definition, is bribing the states to enact policies for abstinence-only programs in their schools. It is obviously apparent that the US is not approaching the topic of sexual education correctly. Therefore, it is up to Americans today to fight to get a proper sexual education system. The right kind of education has proved time and time again in other countries to have a lasting impact in the amount of teenage pregnancies, the amount of HIV and STIs cases, and even on the mental well-being of students. time for Americans to stop getting embarrassed about sex and to stop trying to hide facts from teenagers. One cannot expect a whole generation to change when they are given only a fraction and in some cases, none of the truth. The majority of Americans agree with adding to their sexual education programs, but it takes more than just an opinion to change a nation-wide system this broken. Americans need to step up and do something. SIECUS accepts donations and use the money to spread their program from school to school. Teachers can do their best to learn all they can before teaching any sexual education class. Parents can talk with their kids about sex and stop making the subject an embarrassing topic around the house. The Advocates for Youth run several campaigns that allow anyone to join and volunteer through. Planned Parenthood and a plethora of other organizations offer up-to- date medically accurate information, and available for everyone. worse than confidently passing on incorrect information, so everyone should do their best to stay updated. Anyone can write a letter or email, or even call, their local mayor to tell them the reasons why comprehensive sexual education is an important factor for students in the United States. Ask them to not take the funding for abstinence programs and ask them to also advocate for Tillman 5 comprehensive sexual education. The problem right now is that a lot of people agree, but no one is doing anything. In fact, in a study done by the National Public Radio, the Kaiser Family Foundation, and the Kennedy School of Government, 67% of parents responded that they would rather have, money [that the government gives schools for abstinence should be used to fund more comprehensive sex education (Blendon et. al). So if more people get up and start actively advocating and donating and educating themselves, then the United States is going to have a huge change in sexual education policy. Tillman 6 Works Cited History of Federal Funding for Abstinence-Only-Until-Marriage SIECUS, http://www.siecus.org/index.cfm?fuseaction=page.viewpage&pageid=1340&nodeid=1. Accessed April 2017. Blendon, Robert et. Al. Sex education in America: General  2004, http://www.npr.org/programs/morning/features/2004/jan/kaiserpoll/publicfinal.pdf. Accessed April 2017. of Comprehensive Sex FoSE: Future of Sex Ed, http://www.futureofsexed.org/definition.html. Accessed April 2017. Feijoo, Ammie. Sexual Health in Europe and the Advocates for Youth: Rights. Respect. Responsibility, March 2011, http://www.advocatesforyouth.org/publications/419-adolescent-sexual-health-in-europe- and-the-us. Accessed April 2017. Sex and HIV . Guttmacher Institute, www.guttmacher.org/state-policy/explore/sex- and-hiv-education. Accessed Feb. 2017. Truth About Abstinence-Only Advocates for Youth: Rights. Respect. Responsibility. http://www.advocatesforyouth.org/publications/publications-a-z/409-the- truth-about-abstinence-only-programs. Accessed April 2017.