Pavly Sharoupim Kristin Gocinski ENC 1102.910 21 April 2017 Phones have become a very personalized belonging of every person. It contains all of the sensitive data such as locations, passwords, credit and debit cards, photos, videos, contacts, and much more. Since, personalized according to our needs, expected to be considered as private belongings that be looked into without proper permissions. Moreover, this information expected, or supposed, to be sent to anyone, or perhaps any group. The hard truth is that this information is actually being sent to anonymous groups of people and for different agendas. A study conducted by Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Carnegie Mellon University concluded that applications that we might use daily actually send sensitive data such as personal information and locations to third-party websites without the permission (Zang et al.). However, popular internet industries such as Google can help minimize, or even stop, the impact on our devices and violations to privacies that to contemporary technological developments, is almost constantly on the line of (Georgieva). Although applications can get deep into our phones, including mine, which I prefer, and steal our own sensitive information, Google can help raise awareness of this issue and educate users how to spot these applications, know wat information they can acquire, and stop them. This way, Google can help protect our own privacies and help eliminate any doubts or concerns about its eavesdropping programs being installed on computers (Gibbs). As mentioned previously, a research conducted by Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Carnegie Mellon University concluded that applications such as Viber, Groupon, MyFitnessPal, Expedia, Priceline, Pinterest, and others send sensitive information to third-party websites, usually advertising agencies, in order to define your interests and show the consumer related ads that they might have interest in. However, other sites might use this information to blackmail the consumer (Zang et al.). I find this fact interesting as I might be a victim of unconsented privacy violation that might result in any types of harm. A company that may be interested in raising awareness about privacy and security is Google. Although Google might be only known for its search engine, also covers areas such as business, privacy, e-mail services, cloud services, and YouTube. 3.5 billion search queries are processed everyday by Google (Google Search), making it one of the most visited websites in the world. Google takes data protection very seriously since (Google). Although Google is very serious about privacy, its loyalty has become a matter of debate following Edward revelations about the National Security privacy violating programs and their accessibility to domains (Edward). Launching a campaign that raises awareness against privacy violations may be helpful to inform and educate a large amount of audience and strengthen its position against the doubters. Its strong influence on lives can be a reason for any of its messages to be ubiquitous around the world in a short amount of time. Since consumers aim for privacy and Google aims to protect privacies, they can both work together to help educate the largest possible amount of population. To help spread the message worldwide, Google has to engage with its users in a world- wide scale. Launching local and electronic campaigns will make it possible to reach a wide audience. For local campaigns, they can set up minimal stages around selected parts of any country and engage with the surrounding population personally in order to be able to show and simulate the required procedures to secure oneself from the violations. They can set up keynotes where audiences can attend or watch online as a representor summarizes the conflict in hand and the procedures that can be taken in order to stop those violations. This technique, called word of mouth or WOM, is shown to be effective in raising social awareness as the number of informed individuals increases (Shariatpanahi et al.). As for electronic campaigns, they can launch online tutorials where they simulate various ways of protecting one phone. They can also change their Google logos with one that includes rhetorical appeals to convince the user to educate themselves and start learning how to protect oneself from the violations. They could create their own application that includes tutorials and privacy ratings for applications as they did with the Indian government when raising awareness against internet safety (Government). If Google plans to reach as much audience as possible, they should go force talking with people and indicate their seriousness about that issue on their own website. They have to stop all hacking attacks before Google workers or Google database gets compromised by hackers whom had the time and resources to find backdoors or ways to bypass any privacies or encryptions. Phones have become essential for every person, whether for business purposes or just for fun. However, the technology packed into that average display makes it easy for applications to send sensitive data to third-party anonymous websites without your permission. As a heavy phone user, disturbing to know that someone might have my own information without my knowledge and/or permission. However, I may know how to protect myself, but do others know how? Google, the widely-known-search-engine-that-does-other-stuff, can help educate its audience about the sensitive data being sent from their phones and how they can stop it from happening. They can help on both local and electronic grounds: local by setting up stands in any country where they talking about the conflict and how to solve it and by setting up keynotes where audiences can attend and other audiences can stream online as a representor simulates the ways in which an audience can protect their selves, and electronically through online tutorials and applications that include tutorials and scores for widely used yet suspicious applications. This way Google can help ensure privacy across all devices and prove its loyalty to their audience from any accusations (Gibbs). Works Cited Snowden: Leaks that Exposed US Spy BBC, 17 January 2014, http://www.bbc.com/news/world-us-canada-23123964. Accessed 21 April 2017. Georgieva, Ilina. The Right to Privacy under Fire Foreign Surveillance under the NSA and the GCHQ and Its Compatibility with Art. 17 ICCPR and Art. 8 ECHR. Utrecht Journal of International and European Law. 31(80), p.104-130 Gibbs, Samuel. Eavesdropping Tool Installed on Computers Without TheGuardan, https://www.theguardian.com/technology/2015/jun/23/google- eavesdropping-tool-installed-computers-without-permission. Accessed 21 April 2017. Privacy Why Data Protection Google, https://privacy.google.com/#. Accessed 21 April 2017. Search Statistics Internet Live Internet Live Stats, http://www.internetlivestats.com/google-search-statistics/. Accessed 21 March 2017. Partners Google for Consumer Awareness on Internet ETTech, 8 April 2017, http://tech.economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/internet/government-partners- google-for-consumer-awareness-on-internet-safety/58075602. Accessed 21 April 2017. Shariatpanahi, Seyad Peyman; Jafari, Afshin; Sadeghipour, Maryam; Azadeh-Fard, Nasibeh; Majizadeh-a, Keivan; Farahmand, Leila; Ansari, Alireza Madjid. the Effectiveness of Disease Awareness Programs: Evidence from Google Trends Data for the World Awareness ScienceDirect, 1 April 2017, http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S073658531730014X. Accessed 21 April 2017. Zang, Jinyan; Dummit, Krysta; Graves, James; Lisker, Paul; Sweeney, Latanya. Knows What About Me? A Survey of Behind the Scenes Personal Data Sharing to Third Parties by Mobile TechScience. http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:nRUUKzOShNUJ:techscience.o rg/a/2015103001/+&cd=2&hl=en&ct=clnk&gl=us. Accessed 21 April 2017