Tribble 1 Justyce Tribble Professor Gill ENC1102 April 16, 2017 Project 3: Intermediate Draft So what is climate change and animal agriculture? Climate change is by definition a change in global or regional climate patterns and is attributed largely to the increased levels of atmospheric carbon dioxide produced by the use of fossil fuels. The topic of climate change has been a popular one within the United States whether it is discussed between environmentalists, economists, and even between citizens. Although climate change is often only linked with the use of fossil fuels being the cause of it, many people fail to realize that there is a larger culprit and that is animal agriculture and factory farming. Animal agriculture is the practice of breeding animals for the production of animal products and for recreational purposes. Animal agriculture is the grain and water used to feed the animals before they are slaughtered while factory farming is the actual slaughtering of the animals. In order to help fight climate change is essential that people learn the truth about the meat and dairy industry, and establish a vegan lifestyle that will not only benefit the animals and our health, but it will also benefit our environment. According to Christopher Hyner in his journal named A Leading Cause of Everything: One Industry That Is Destroying Our Planet and Our Ability to Thrive on It, he states that the continued demand for and reliance on animal products is the one issue that is at the heart of all global change, deforestation, ocean dead zones, species extinction, fisheries depletion, world hunger, food safety, heart disease, diabetes, osteoporosis, and the list goes on Tribble 2 (Hyner). It is important that people who consume animal products learn the real harm it does not only to human health and the animals, but also the harm animal agriculture does to the environment. Addressing these problems seems to be an easy task until it is learned that the meat and dairy industry pay companies to keep the truth out of the public eye. The meat and dairy industries feed the public lies while also not revealing the whole truth about what really is going into the animal products and the environment. In journal it states that according to the United States Department of Agriculture, global animal agriculture accounts for about 30 percent of greenhouse gas emissions into the environment (Hyner). It has been found that about 18 percent of global greenhouse gas emissions is can be directly attributed to the livestock production of animal agriculture (Hyner). Animal agriculture emissions are only going to increase with the demand for the consumption of animal products; animal agriculture contributes to about an 80 percent increase of global greenhouse gas emissions (Hyner). With this information, it is evident that animal agriculture is the leading factor in the effects of climate change globally. Tribble 3 Works Cited Hyner, Christopher. https://journals.law.stanford.edu/stanford-environmental-law-journal- elj/blog/leading-cause-everything-one-industry-destroying-our-planet-and-our-ability-thrive-it. 25 October 2015. 16 April 2017.