Jeffrey Hoang Instructor DuBois English Composition II 4/16/17 Torture as Interrogation Method In the United States, the presence of security has greatly increased in airports, borders, and any major public events ever since the tragic terrorist attack of September 11, 2001. The safety of its citizens is the U.S priority to maintain even if it means torturing someone to ensure the safety of others. To some, torture could be seen as inhuman and wrong, but to others it is an effective method of getting answers at crucial times. The CIA has been secretly torturing detainees during their interrogations and word recently got out about it to the public. Organizations such as the Human Rights Watch greatly oppose the CIA because of this and want to put an end to the use of torture as an interrogation method and to bring those who engage in those acts to justice (HRW). Not only do the CIA torture their detainees, some would abuse them which then could lead to fatal injuries or even death. But under certain circumstances, the use of torture can be useful. In the case of a terrorist threat or attack, torture could be used to hasten the process of interrogation to get answers quickly from the detainee. If innocent people lives are at stake, a simple interrogation techniques might not be the right decision because it can be time consuming. The use of torture as an interrogation method should be only use under certain circumstances (such as terrorist attacks or threats) and/or should be monitored by a group of people to make sure that the CIA will not be abusing their detainees. To allow this to happen, a petition must be signed with enough signature for the CIA to put this into action. In order for the CIA to be allowed to use torture methods on their detainees during interrogation is when it is either being monitored by someone or during a time where crucial information is needed because of a terrorist threat or attack. There have been cases where CIA agents abused the detainees by going too far in their torture session and caused the deaths for some. A man by the name of Gul Rahman was shackled to the wall of his cell in November of 2002 wearing nothing but a sweatshirt. He was suspected to be have ties with al-Qaida and its Afghan allies, and the CIA decided to torture him by 48 hours of sleep deprivation, auditory overload, total darkness, isolation, a cold shower and rough treatment (Ackerman). It was said that Rahman was uncooperative after he received these torture methods. He was then found dead the next day after being tortured and that according to a CIA autopsy, Rahman died most likely from hypothermia because when he was uncooperative, all of his clothes was removed and forced to sit on the concrete floor with nothing on. The CIA did not get any answers from this man and then they had to deal with the fact that someone died because of this. No CIA officials was disciplined nor charged for the death of Rahman. There is no need for to use these torture methods to the point where the detainees are fighting to keep themselves alive. Torture techniques should be used only under certain situations where innocent lives are at stake either of a terrorist threat or attack and crucial information is needed. It should also be monitored by a group of people so that the CIA agents end torturing the detainees to death. These torture methods could lead to the deaths of the detainees but while this is the case, basic interrogation methods could be very time consuming. In under certain situations, basic interrogation methods will not do any justice because it can be very time consuming. The investigator would first begin the process by a factual or behavior analysis interview. A factual analysis is described as inductive approach where each individual suspect is evaluated with respect to specific observations relating to the (Orlando). And a behavior analysis is described as non-accusatory question and answer session, involving both standard investigative questions and questions to elicit behavior symptoms of truth or deception from the person being (Orlando). When the investigator is reasonably certain that the suspect is involved with the issue, is when the interrogation techniques begin. But questioning the detainee could be a waste of time because either they decided not to speak or they could just be giving a false confession. In cases where there are terrorist threats/ attack and a suspect is in custody, basic interrogation methods could end up being a waste of time. When crucial information is needed and limited on time, CIA officials should act quickly and go to using the Interrogation (EITs). Many of which would consider it as torture. Organizations such as the Human Rights Watch view that torture is wrong as a whole and should not be done on anyone no matter who there are. They are committed to pressing government authorities to act to prevent torture, as well as bringing those who engage in torture to (HRW). But when innocent lives are at stake, it would be different. If there was a bomb threat where hundreds of innocent people lives were at risk, and someone was in custody had information about it, questioning them could do the officials no justice. The detainee could be uncooperative and by the time officials finish questioning the suspect, the bomb could have gone off already. That is when they should go to the EITs. Although torturing someone is viewed as inhuman and wrong, it should only be done at crucial times. The Human Rights Watch and other for human rights groups should be tolerant of this because it could help prevent deaths of innocents. If these enhanced interrogation techniques (torture) were to be used on detainees, it should be at least monitored to make sure that no abuses will occur. In order for this to happen, a petition signed so that the issue would be looked into consideration. Having a person or a group monitor these EITs would ensure that the detainees would not be abused and having reports of people dying from these methods would dramatically decrease. Even though torture is viewed as morally wrong, it should be taken into consideration that if crucial information is needed and time is a factor, then torture should be a form of interrogation that is used to get answers from the detainees. The petition will help both sides of the party in a way. The CIA will only be allowed to use torture as an interrogation method only under certain circumstances. While the people who are against torture will get the benefactor that these torture methods will be monitored to ensure that no one will be abused from it and it would be only used under certain situations. Overall, the CIA should be allowed to use their enhanced interrogation techniques (torture) only under certain situations where innocent lives are at stake because of terrorist threat or terrorist attacks. It should also be monitored to ensure that the detainees will not be abused by these officials to the point where they are fighting to stay alive. Sign this petition so that these abuses on the detainees will no longer happen and that the enhanced interrogation techniques will only be used at a time of need where innocent lives are at stake. References Ackerman, Spencer. Shocking cases in CIA report reveal an American torture program in  The Guardian. Guardian News and Media, 09 Dec. 2014. Web. 18 Apr. 2017. Orlando, James. Interrogation  INTERROGATION TECHNIQUES. N.p., n.d. Web. 18 Apr. 2017.  Human Rights Watch. Human Rights Watch, 2012. Web. 18 Apr. 2017.