Ragoobar 1 Selena Ragoobar L.E. (Lisa) DuBois ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Project 3 Intermediate Draft Over the years obesity has become an alarming issue for all individuals in The United States. Obesity is a condition in which the body accumulates an abnormally excessive amount of body fat. Many individuals know the appearance of what obesity looks like but many are misinformed about the causes and effects of obesity, as well as how to prevent or treat obesity. Obesity is a major risk factor for cardiovascular disease which is the leading cause of death in America. Obesity is an issue that should concern all individuals in the United States and should be taken seriously in terms of prevention and treatment. According to the article, it states that, is a condition in which the body carried excessive and unhealthy amounts of fat tissue, leading the individual to weigh in excess of 20 percent more than his or her ideal (DeAngelo). In comparison to ideal weight 20 percent more is drastic in terms of health risks that come along with such excessive weight. Some health risks include cardiovascular disease, depression, diabetes, musculoskeletal disorders such as osteoarthritis, and some cancers. DeAngelo states that, disease has social, cultural, genetic, metabolic, behavioral, and psychological (DeAngelo). Many individuals who are obese endure stigmas and discrimination in social and work settings. The most common misconception about obesity is that an individual becomes obese due to their high intake of food and lack of exercise alone, but that is not always true. Genetics plays a role in Ragoobar 2 obesity as well. DeAngelo states that, factors appear to be important in determining the presence or absence of obesity. Body weight tends to be similar in close relatives, especially in identical twins, who share the same genetic makeup. The extent to which genetic factors affect food intake, hunger levels, activity level, or metabolic processes is not (DeAngelo). However, healthy eating and exercise can counteract these genetic-related obesity risks. Obesity should be a more recognized and more concerning issue than what Americans portray it to be today. According to the book Cultural and Biocultural by Alexandra A. Brewis, when she is describing the several scholars at Arizona State University she They note that the health effects of obesity are not as grave as the government and public health science claim, so that what should probably be framed as a personal issue has been demonized as a sociopolitical one through stigmatization of Obesity is being undermined as a disease that is not as important than other diseases, however she later states how childhood obesity can lead to an obese generation. obesity tends to predict an elevated risk of obesity in adulthood, and childhood obesity rates are much higher now than they were when overweight adults were themselves children. Furthermore, since obese adults compared to not obese adults tend to raise children at greater risk of obesity, there may be an additional generational effect that has not fully emerged (Brewis). Brewis is describing a generational effects that could possibly emerge when poor eating habits and unhealthy lifestyle habits are passed down from generation to generation. Not only can this country face major health risks in the future but also major economic loss due to obesity. According to Brewis, she states, Otherwise, the potentially massive health and economic costs of obesity threaten to engulf entire national economies and reduce quality of Ragoobar 3 life in the years ahead (Popkin According to this statement obesity threatens the future of Americans a lot more than individuals chose to believe. Brewis later states, government and nongovernmental agencies and foundations (including Centers for Disease Control and the World Health Organization) agree. They classify obesity as one of the major global public health challenges today and are investing increasingly large amounts of money into alleviating (Brewis). Obesity must be recognized and action must be taken to help prevent as well as treat this disease. The most effective and common way to prevent and treat obesity is to live out a healthy lifestyle which includes, a healthy diet, exercise, as well as an efficient amount of sleep. The goal to losing weight is to decrease the intake of amount of calories and increase the expenditure of calories. This can be achieved with a low-calorie diet, but unfortunately for some individuals low-calorie diets can be difficult. However, an alternative is to exercise. According to the article by DeAngelo, pound of fat contains energy equal to about 3,500 calories. If an obese person expends 350 extra calories each day by walking briskly for one hour, it will take ten days for this activity to result in the loss of one pound. In a year, this increased calorie expenditure would result in a thirty-six-pound weight This can be a start for obese individuals who are looking for a long term plan to lose weight. DeAngelo also states that, vigorous exercise, such as running, swimming, or calisthenics, would lead to more rapid weight loss, but it might not be advisable for every person because of the increased prevalence of certain health problems in obese individuals, such as heart disease, hypertension, and musculoskeletal disorders. For this reason, any exercise program that involves vigorous physical activity should be undertaken following medical (DeAngelo). Major risk factors Ragoobar 4 for individuals with obesity are non-insulin-dependent diabetes, hypertension, and cardiovascular disease and manifestations of these disease commonly improve or disappear if the individual succeeds in losing weight. Americans should be further educated on proper eating habits as well as a healthier lifestyle. Obesity can be a tough disease to deal with but it can be prevented and treated. It has become a more pressing and important issue that should be treated and prevented for the sake of future generations to come. More education of proper eating habits as well as healthier lifestyle should be implemented to create a healthier America. Individuals who are overweight and obese that want to lose weight should evaluate their diet and lifestyle and consult with a medical advisor to help initiate their modifications to a healthier lifestyle and diet. Ragoobar 5 Works Cited Brewis, Alexandra A. Obesity. [Electronic : Cultural and Biocultural Perspectives. New Brunswick, N.J. : Rutgers University Press, c2011. (Baltimore, Md. : Project MUSE, 2015), 2011. Studies in medical anthropology. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ca Brunt, Ardith R. and Yeong S. Rhee. Obesity and Lifestyle in U.S. College Students Related to Living  Appetite, vol. 51, no. 3, Nov. 2008, pp. 615-621. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.appet.2008.04.019. Dour, Colleen A., et al. Process Evaluation of Project Webhealth: A Nondieting Web-Based Intervention for Obesity Prevention in College  Journal of Nutrition Education & Behavior, vol. 45, no. 4, Jul/Aug2013, pp. 288-295. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=sp DeAngelo, LeAnna, PhD, et al.  Medical Guide (Online Edition), January. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direc =true&db=ers&AN=89093493&site=eds-live.