Henry Trent Instructor Gill ENC 1102 4 April 2017 Death Penalty Capital punishment is legally killing someone as punishment for crime. It is also known as the death penalty. In the United States it is the most severe punishment that court system can sentence. It is the ultimate punishment, and therefore it is only in certain cases. For example, it is primarily used in cases of first degree murder, or in other words, murder that is planned out. Capital punishment has been used within the United States since the founding of this country however, in recent years its use has begun to lessen. People are beginning to see it as a backwards practice. This is made clear because people have begun voting against its use. Although still legal on a federal level, many states no longer use capital punishment. There are several organizations dedicated to putting an end to the practice of capital punishment such as Amnesty International as well as the Democratic Party. Both oppose it because they believe it infringes on our most basic human rights. There are few ways to rid American society of such a dreadful practice. The simplest being education, educate the public on the misconceptions and probable illegality of it on both a national and international scale. The education of society should lead to public disapproval and eventual abolition of capital punishment in American Society. Throughout the world the use of the death penalty has slowly been waning however, it is still prevalent in the United States. On a federal level the death penalty is still in use, federal crimes that are punishable by death are homicide, large scale drug trafficking, and espionage (Mallicoat). Although the death penalty is still legal for federal crimes, it is beginning to lose hold amongst the states. The federal government gives U.S. states the right to chose whether or not to use the death penalty. With that choice, eighteen have chosen to abolish its use within their borders (Mallicoat). Many who support the use of the death penalty do so because, they are told that it is an effective deterrent. Meaning people chose not to murder people out of fear of the death penalty. However, according to Brian Frost, a published author in the field of criminal law, states that the death penalty has little effect in deterring people from committing murder (Frost 938). In addition many who oppose the death penalty claim the same level of deterrence can be through life in prison without possibility of parole. Another common misconception about the death penalty is that it is cheaper to put someone to death than it is to sentence them to to life in prison. However, in actuality it is far less expensive to keep someone alive in prison. This is made evident by Russell Covey in his article on the death penalty. In which he states that, North Carolina could potentially save $11 million by abolishing the death penalty (Covey 1116). Murder is the ultimate crime in our society however, the court system in the United States can legally sentence someone to die by the hand of the State. Not only is this immoral, it is unconstitutional, and infringes on our most basic human right. The democratic party in the United States is an organization that continuously struggles against the death penalty. As it says in their party platform application of the death penalty is arbitrary and (Democratic Platform). The democratic party sees it as unjust because goes against the eighth amendment of the Constitution, because the death penalty is seen as a form of cruel and unusual punishment. Another organization that opposes it is Amnesty International. Amnesty International is a Non-governmental organization with the goal of protecting human rights, as stated in their mission statement vision is of a world in which every person enjoys all of the human rights enshrined in the Universal Declaration of Human (Amnesty Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR) is a document that lists the most basic human rights that all governments should respect. One of which states that all people a entitled to life (Universal Declaration of Human Rights). United States is in violation of the human right to life as long as they continue to have a legal death penalty. The Death penalty is a long standing practice in the United States. However, many people and organizations have begun to strive for its abolition. However, there is only one possible way for its total abolition. All of the people and organizations must reach out to everyone and educate them on the facts and misconceptions about the death penalty. Once the general population is educated on the problems with capital punishment they can vote to abolish capital punishment in the United States. Although, capital punishment is inhumane there needs to be some form of punishment in place for those who commit atrocities, such as premeditated murder. A very popular and possible alternative is replacing capital punishment with life in prison without possibility of parole. As already stated the deterrent factor, although small is equal for both forms of punishment. In addition, it is also considerably cheaper to imprison someone for life rather than sentencing and carrying out the death penalty. lastly the abolition of the death penalty would lead to a fairer and more just America. This is due to the fact that the country would no longer be breaking its own laws, under the eighth amendment, and no longer be defining international law, under the UDHR. The death penalty is an antiquated, and barbaric practice. However, it is deeply rooted in the American justice system, as well as American Society. Although, much of the American society is in support of the death penalty, most do not know the facts regarding this issue. This leads many misconceptions regarding the benefits of having a society where crimes are punishable by death. Also known to few, is that the death penalty could very well be unconstitutional, and is explicitly violates human rights. Works Cited Covey, Russell D. DEATH IN PRISON: THE RIGHT DEATH PENALTY  Georgia State Law 28.4 (2012): 1085-122. libraries Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Democratic Party Platform  N.p., 21 July 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Frost, Brian . Symposium on Current Death Penalty Issues: Capital Punishment and Deterrence: Conflicting  of Criminal Law and 74 (1983): 972. libraries Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Mallicoat, Stacy L. Capital  Press (2016): n. pag. Libraries Web. 12 Apr. 2017. The United Nations Human Rights. Universal Declaration of Human  The United Nations, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.