Griman 1 Christopher Griman Mrs. Tisdale ENC 1101 30 April 2017 The Question of Police Accountability in U.S. Society In 2016, 228 people of color were shot and killed by police officers (Williams). However statistically only forty-one officers have been charged for their crimes of police brutality in the past seven years (Elinson). The system of law enforcement has been corrupted over time; some argue that this is because police departments are not training their officers efficiently. Whilst many believe police accountability measures are in place, evidence of the police targeting individuals proves otherwise. This relates to the corruption of government officials, and theories such as the rotten-apple theory and the two-trigger finger theory. For the last one hundred and fifty years, police institutions have been protecting citizens in the United States. Their job description authorizes and obliges police officers to use force, as it is often fundamental for persecuting criminals. However, the excessive use of force has led to police officers largely contributing to the death toll in the United States, especially in cases where the individuals involved are unarmed. The issue of race is also emphasized in cases of police brutality, as those often targeted by white police officers are African American. Author Judson Jeffries reflects on the issue of race in relation to police brutality: number of incidents of white police use of excessive force against black men have seemingly shown little sign of (Jeffries). However, whilst this brutality is publicized in the media, and although law enforcement officials are Griman 2 aware that there are many officers involved in incidents of misconduct, those in charge do not act appropriately in these situations. This is due to the tight relationship between police officers and government officials, who overlook such incidents like excessive force or improper tactics. People of color, being the most targeted racial group, have retaliated against the excessive force used on their community through mass movement groups such as the Black Lives Matter movement. However, in an attempt to justify the hate crimes being committed against African Americans, government employed physiologists have developed the rotten apple theory: psychological explanation which places the blame for incidents of misconduct on a few misguided (Lersch). Theories providing psychological explanations for why African Americans are among those more targeted have also emerged. This comes in the form of Jeffries The theory argues that each police officer has a finger on the trigger of their weapon depending on if the accused perpetrator is African American or white; where the officer is more likely to fire on sight if the accused were a person of color than if the person were white. The analysis concluded in the discovered that white police officers were seven times more likely to kill African Americans than whites; this number increased to nine times more by the 1980s. Although there is statistical and physical evidence that the police are targeting individuals through the use of excessive force, the government is refusing to make changes to police departments to end brutality. Instead it is argued that the system cannot be updated until serious issues such as poverty, and unemployment are fixed. However, the main concern of the public is that police agencies are not training their officers Griman 3 efficiently. Due to consistent backlash from citizens, governments have agreed with the implementation of programs. However, although they have settled with the establishment, many governments still do not support the programs and constantly over look them as after a crisis is resolved, the program is rendered useless and usually dissolved due to lack of support. The program empowers individual citizens to influence law enforcement agencies to maintain professional standards by complaining on issues that need to be addressed within the department. Although the United States government constantly fails to address the issue of police brutality as the misconduct has become institutionalized within law enforcement agencies, characters like Jeffries and Kami Chavis Simmons have provided evidence and solutions to the problems. Simmons explains, that although it is important to have governmental support and local entities must play a more active role in implementing institutional reform of these agencies, and they must have the flexibility to develop locally tailored police accountability (Simmons). The need for police accountability in the United States has dramatically increased since the numbers of hate crimes committed by officers against the black community has been amplified. The brutality has led to the development of theories, both to justify; in the case of the rotten apple theory; and provide evidence; in the case of the two-trigger finger theory. However, the brutality has been met with backlash from the black lives matter movement and civilian oversight programs. Although governments want to blame the excessive force of police officers on a few unsound individuals in order to avoid redesigning the whole law enforcement agency program, it is corrupt and immoral to not Griman 4 address the current hate crimes in American society, especially when they are at the hands of government officials. Griman 5 Works Cited Elinson, Zusha, and Joe Palazzolo. Police Rarely Criminally Charged for On-Duty  The Wall Street Journal. Dow Jones & Company, 24 Nov. 2014. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. Jeffries, Judson L. Police Brutality Of Black Men And The Destruction Of The African- American  Negro Educational Review 52.4 (2001): 115-130. Education Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Kelling, George L., Robert Wasserman, and Hubert Williams. Police Accountability and ii Community  Pers[ectives on Policing. US Department of Justice, Nov. 1988. Web. 9 Apr. 2017. Lersch, Kim Michelle, and Tom Mieczkowski. Violent Police Behavior: Past, Present, And Future Research  Aggression And Violent Behavior 10. (2005): 552-568. ScienceDirect. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Simmons, Kami Chavis. Cooperative Federalism And Police Reform: Using Congressional Spending Power To Promote Police  Alabama Law Review 62.2 (2011): 351-403. Index to Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Williams, Janice. Police Shooting Statistics 2016: Were More Blacks And Hispanics Killed By Cops This Year Than In  International Business Times. N.p., 30 Dec. 2016. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. Considering Police Body  Harvard Law Review 128.6 (2015): 1794-1817. Business Source Premier. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. (H.W. Wilson). Web. 12 Feb. 2017.