1 Martinez Lorena Martinez Emil Smith ENC 1101 S15 April 24, 2017 Argument of Subjecting Children to Second-Hand Exposure and Effects The effects of Second Hand Smoke (SHS) have just recently sparked interest among the public. A decade ago there was very little research conducted on the effects of SHS as first hand smoke was still very much accepted. With research being conducted on first hand effects and the dangers it caused in adults, questions rose regarding exposure to the smoke. Interest regarding SHS and its effect on children grew, and research began to be conducted. A decade later, research has presented that second-hand smoke causes serious and harmful respiratory issues which can in turn be fatal to the children exposed. Despite SHS finally been recognized and taken seriously by the medical community and the public, there are still others who negate and strongly argue against this. They are either against legislations of smoking around children or believe in the dangers tobacco smoke exposure has on children. Despite these individuals having their own opinion, preventing children from as much SHS exposure possible is necessary in order to provide them with a higher quality of life. As of 2006 the Center for Disease and Control(CDC) has recognized that SHS causes serious health problems in children. Their research has illustrated that children who are exposed to SHS due to their parents being smokers have more frequent bronchitis and pneumonia, as well as lungs that grow less in size compared to children that exposed to SHS Effects of Secondhand 2017). They have also officially as of 2017 recognized middle ear disease, lower respiratory illness, impaired lung function and sudden infant death syndrome as 2 Martinez official health consequences of exposure to SHS in children Effects of Secondhand 2017). Having a large government organization such as the CDC educate the public on the negative health effects that SHS can cause on children gives legitimacy on how real and dangerous SHS is. In 2003 Sophia Chan published her research on Exposure to Second-Hand the research studied the effectiveness of health education regarding second-hand smoke in Hong Kong, China. During her studies she discovered over 300, 000 children under 18 months had died earlier that year directly due to SHS (Chan 2003). In her article she continued to say how preventing exposure among children could go on to reduce the rate of respiratory infection and lung cancer, as well as the deaths caused by these negative health effects. Her research illustrated just how dangerous SHS exposure can be to children and how important it is to protect them from the harm it can have on their health. Zubair conducted a longitudinal study from 2000-2010 on how smoke-free home and workplace policies effect children, especially those with conditions that involve the respiratory tract. Households that went smoke-free had a 20-50 percent reduction in second-hand smoke effects in their children (Kabir 2010). While workplaces with smoke-free policies also demonstrated a reduction in second-hand smoke effects in children as well as adults (Kabir 2010). Healthcare facilities showed a decrease in the amount of pre-term birth risks due to less pregnant women being exposed and there was a reduction of hospital visits due to asthma. His research concluded that implementing these policies in facilities, at home, and in a general public setting, reduced the effects that children have by limiting their exposure to tobacco smoke. This validates that limiting SHS exposure decreases the negative health effects that children face. 3 Martinez In 2017 Christopher Roberts conducted a survey to assess public knowledge of SHS. Out of the 310 participants in the survey 98.1% believed that smoking could be detrimental to the health, while only 86% believed that continuously smoking inside the same room or car as a child could be a cause for asthma (Roberts 2017). These survey results signify how despite the scientific research conducted in the past decade proving the negative health effects of SHS; the general public has yet to widely accept some of the effects correlating with secondhand smoke exposure in particular, with some being strongly opposed to it. In 2015 the UK finalized a ban prohibiting anyone inside a car to smoke while children were inside. Despite medical professionals all in agreeance as to how beneficial it would be to health, it still took 5 years for the ban to pass. In a UK article regarding the ban Mary Fogarty interviewed medical professionals and campaign directors. Naomi Horne a lead Lung Cancer Nurse at Vale University Health Board said are more vulnerable and susceptible to the pollutants associated with second-hand smoke, and within the confined space of a car this can be (Fogarty 2015). These pollutants include toxic, and poisonous chemicals such as carbon monoxide, benzene, lead, arsenic, ammonia, formaldehyde and hydrogen cyanide (Guarnella, Debbie, et al.,editors, 2017) . Jason Lester an MD in Oncology stated an adult is able to decide whether or not to smoke, children exposed to passive smoking do not have that (Fogarty 2015). With all the medical professionals on board the ban difficult to understand why anyone would be opposed to protecting health. Teresa Gonclaves, the Press Campaign Officer at the British Lung Foundation, directed the campaign to pass the ban. Gonclaves explained how many of those opposed found the legislation to be too radical and passing such legislation would be an infringement on personal liberties and 4 Martinez therefor be enforced by police officers (Fogarty 2015) This concern for personal liberties is what caused so much resistance towards the ban passing. Infringing on personal liberties are a great concern as it restricts an freedom, however children also have rights and liberties and those far exceeds an adult. Children are subjected to authority figures as they have a large say in the environment around them. Weather the child feels discomfort from smokes exposure or not, they are restricted to their judgement and actions. So even if this discomfort is expressed the parent has the ultimate decision on if they should stop or remove themselves or the child from the situation. Passing this legislation removes a judgement from the equation and allows children to not be subjected to a toxic environment no matter their belief or opinion on the matter. The legislation backs up importance of preventing SHS exposure in children and as a result has protected many children from experiencing the negative effects SHS causes. 5 Martinez Works Cited Chan, Sophia, and Tai Hing Lam. Preventing Exposure To Second-Hand  Seminars In Oncology Nursing 19.(2003): 284-290. ScienceDirect. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Fogarty, Mary. U.K. Bans Smoking In Cars With  Oncology Times 37.19 (2015): 28. Supplemental Index. Web. 4 Feb. 2017. Guarnella, Debbie, et al., editors. Chemicals in Tobacco American Cancer Society, American Cancer Society, 12 Mar. 2017, www.cancer.org/cancer/cancer- causes/tobacco-and-cancer/carcinogens-found-in-tobacco-products.html. Accessed 24 Apr. 2017. Kabir, Zubair, et al. Effect of Smoke-Free Home and Workplace Policies on Second-Hand Smoke Exposure Levels in Children: An Evidence  Pediatric Health, no. 4, 2010, p. 391. Roberts, Christopher, Grace Wagler, and Michele M. Carr. Article: Environmental Tobacco Smoke: Public Perception Of Risks Of Exposing Children To Second- And Third-Hand Tobacco  Journal Of Pediatric Health Care 31.(2017): e7-e13. ScienceDirect. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Effects of Secondhand Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 11 Jan. 2017, Accessed 24 Apr. 2017.