Bachkaniwala 1 Shivam Bachkaniwala Ashley Tisdale ENC 1101 April 9, 2017 Climate change and the effects of global warming Climate change is a phenomenon in which the surface temperatures on earth increase to dangerous levels. Climate patterns play a crucial role in shaping the natural ecosystems and the human economies and cultures that depend on them. Most scientists believe that the main cause of this is excess consumption of fossil fuels by humans. These greenhouse gases which are emitted then trap the heat within the atmosphere which totally disrupts the balance in the ecosystem. Activities such as deforestation, mining, and water pollution also contribute to this drastic change in climate. Even a small deviation in the surface temperature could have calamitous consequences. According to research, heat trapping gases have warmed the earth resulting in rising sea levels, melting of the poles, increase in rainfall, and more extreme heat events. Scientists predict that these trends will continue or even worsen over the coming years if there is no significant reduction in the emission of greenhouse gases. But scientists are unable to implement any changes due to the challenges they face in the political world where people deny that climate change is real despite strong contrary evidence and scientific consensus. Despite denial in the political world, over the years the conversation surrounding the validity of climate change has taken a turn as there is more awareness among the people. In 2006, there was not much discussion about this topic and media devoted little coverage to the topic. There was no sense of urgency among the people and they were not Bachkaniwala 2 convinced enough to act. Fast forward to 2008, people still actually care about the topic even though there was photographic evidence to support most of the theories. From 2012 till now, the media has started covering this topic more and overall awareness about climate change and its severity has increased. The need for action is being emphasized every year so that this crisis can be averted. Politics played a huge role in downplaying the importance of the matter. Many politicians use false rhetoric to undermine the public support which is then perpetuated with the help of conservative media and bloggers who use phrases like in order to rationalize their actions. Climate change denial is most extensively practiced in The United States. With the election of Donald Trump as the president who is strong non-believer of climate change and believes that it is a hoax. He also recently signed an executive order to sweep away Obama era climate regulations claiming to usher in a new era of energy production. This lifts all the emission laws which prevented coal companies from releasing dangerous amounts of greenhouse gases. He thinks the concept of global warming was created by the Chinese in order to compete with US manufacturers. Moreover, Donald Trump has been very unpredictable about this issue as sometime he thinks climate change is real and sometimes not. But still, climate change awareness has increased a lot over the years. According to a study, consumers are spending more than 3 billion dollars a year to tackle climate change. People are buying more energy efficient appliances, solar panels, mini wind turbines, and have also started using public transport more. This shows that the people are ready to take action. This sends a strong message that the government should also cooperate in order to counter this problem. Sales of energy efficient appliances have increases significantly, while expenditure on the use of renewable energy has also went up. Solar panels used in houses has also increased. Two third of the consumers admitted to considering environmental impacts Bachkaniwala 3 when making purchases. Organizations like UNESCO also contribute to the cause by adopting national policies to meet the challenges on risks of climate change danger and global warming. They also give education on the ethics of freshwater use and precautionary measures which enables the youth to take into account the environment in their daily lives and also help spread societal awareness for preserving the environment. It also studies the social impacts of climate change and encourages the exchange of expertise of sharing new practices. Its objectives include sustainable use of natural resources and focus on participation of young people and also planting trees to reduce pollution. Other campaigns like R.A.C.E.S. is dedicated to implementing location adaptation strategies by inviting families to participate and practice emission saving behavior at home. Hence, due to various climate change awareness campaigns, the conversation about climate change has changed from its validity to what should be done to tackle it. Work cited: 1. Botkin, Daniel B., et al. Forecasting the effects of global warming on  Bioscience 57.3 (2007): 227-236. 2. Costello, Anthony, et al. Managing the health effects of climate  The Lancet 373.9676 (2009): 1693-1733. 3. Piao, Shilong, et al. The impacts of climate change on water resources and agriculture in  Nature 467.7311 (2010): 43-51. 4. Wentz, Frank J., et al. How much more rain will global warming  Science 317.5835 (2007): 233-235.