Amjad Al-Toky Ashley Tisdale ENC1101 3/1/2017 Cell Phones On Youth There is a clear correlation between the rise in the number of people owning a cell phone and the number of people that are addicted to their phone. Clearly, as the number of people that purchase cell phone rise, the number of people getting addicted to the cell phone rises too. Smart phone companies have been successful in designing a phone that is fairly easy to the user. This as well increases the chances of people purchasing a smartphone and as well increases the chances in getting addicted. There is clear rise of smartphones addicts overtime, since the launch of the IPhone in 2007 smartphones have become a constant presence in our daily lives. to a recent Gallup report, 81 percent of American smartphone owners keep their device with them nearly all the time and they just carry it around. 72 percent of the respondents claim to check their smartphone at least once an hour, most of them several times. Especially young Americans can hardly keep their eyes away from their phone screen. 22 percent of 18- to 29-year-olds glimpse at their phone every few minutes and another 51 percent do so several times an The availability of the smart phone has definitely increases over the years. In the beginning iPhone was the dominant smartphone company in the industry, later on we see different companies in the industry trying to place their mark, such as Samsung, Blackberry, LG and others. This wide range of choices gives the consumers the flexibility to choose what is best for them. With the wide range of choices and the easy way to use those smartphones, smartphones now can be used for academic purposes. In addition, its considered as a mini computer in your pocket! This the case before smartphones, back then, phones were only used for calls and text, and it used as much as it used today. In addition, there are many apps available that help people in their daily life, those apps are very beneficial in world. The diffusion and advancement of smartphones in our lives today helps us to sustain with social network online, and many people are taking advantage of the spread of technology. A matter of fact is that millennials are spending more time engaging with the people around the social media programs than the people who are physically there around them, definitely, engaging with people freely on social media platforms has changed overtime, this was not the case 15 years ago. CNBC stated that 54 percent of people experience FOMO if they did not check any social media platforms. FOMO is the (fear of missing out). The problem here is that most people extremely consume their time connecting with superficial connections online and less effort is put in into deeper real life conversations or relationships, much chatter, to little real In order to support my point Larry Rosen, a professor of psychology at California State University, Dominguez Hills, says technology is distracting us from our real-world relationships. Keith Hampton, who holds the Professorship in Communication and Public Policy at Rutgers School of Communication and Information, argues that technology is enriching those relationships and the rest of our social Interacting with the virtual world using social media platforms in no problem, he problem happens when your time and effort is mostly consumed in the use of the smartphones and social media than it being used in real life conversation that helps you grow mentally. Furthermore, getting addicted to the use of the smartphone and the social media platform massively affects the academic results of the student causing not only wasting time but as well, it easily distracts the student. On the other hand, we cannot deny that smartphones are very useful in our day-to-day basis. Since the evolution of smartphones, is literally available in our fingertips, we can google anything and most likely we will get the results we are looking for. There are different divergent of things that smartphones can be helpful not only to the youth but to any user of the smartphone. Smart phones help you arrange your calendar if your struggling in organizing your time both academically and personally, in addition, you can even take notes from the smartphone neglecting the usage of the traditional paper and pen. Smartphones as well helps you plan your day, by checking the weather forecast online you would know which outfit is more preferable to wear on that day. Smartphones help with reminders as well, keeping you informed with the tasks and errands you have to run. Books as well are available online instead of having to get the hard copy. Therefore, the ways in which the youth uses the phone has definitely changed overtime. Smart phones today play a huge role in our lives, and it has definitely changed overtime , we are privileged to have such technology available for us to us and we should not make it affect us negatively to the maximum extend such as addiction. We should respect such technology and use it to the maximum extend that benefits us positively. Respecting the fact that such technology was not available for our parents to us and we should make the best out of it. Kyung-seu and jae-Moo Lee. of smartphone addiction proneness of young children on problematic behaviors and emotional intelligence: Mediating self-assessment effects of parents using vol.20 jan 2017. 303-311 Maya Samantha, Nazir S.Hawi. Relationship Among Smartphone Addiction, stress, academic performance and satisfaction with Elsevier Ltd. April 2016. 321-325 Aljomma Sulaiman.S, AlQudah Mohammed.F, AlBursan Ismail, Bakheit Salaheldin, Abduljabar Adel.S addiction among university students in the light of some Elsevier Ltd. August 2016. 155-164 Oberst Ursala, Weggman Elissa, Stodt Benjamin, Bernd Mathiass, Chamaro Andres. consequences from heavy social networking in adolescents: The mediating role of fear of missing Elsevier Ltd. Feb 2010. 51-60.