Michael Hampton ENC 1101 Elizabeth Ricketts 30 April 2017 Homosexuality in Football If a gay player has the dream of pursuing a football career, it would be advised that the player not come out to the organization or public because throughout the history of the NFL, it is known that gay players do not have a chance to make an NFL roster. Although other major league organizations may accept gay players, the NFL tends to believe in their own rights and not do the same. In the history of the NFL, there have been only 6 players who announced their sexuality after they retired. Even fewer people were known to be gay while playing because they feared being harassed by teammates and coaches, as well as being released from the team. To prove this point, stories like Michael Sam and Connor Mertens are examples of how the NFL is homophobic and should be more accepting. Michael Sam, who attended the University of Missouri, was an All-American and SouthEastern Conference defensive player of the year by his senior year in college. According to Michael Sam announced he was gay he was chosen by the seventh round in the NFL draft by the St. Louis Rams, but was expected to be drafted in the second or third round. Though drafted by the Rams, he was cut before even playing in his first NFL game and was also waived by the Dallas Cowboys. In article, Michael Sam stated think if I never would have came out, never would have said those words out to the public, I would still be currently in the NFL. But because of me saying those words, I think it could have played a huge part in my current A player like Michael Sam has to hide his sexuality just so he can stay on an NFL roster. Connor Mertens was a placekicker at the University of Willamette. Earlier in the year, Mertens came out that he is bisexual and has a boyfriend to his teammates and coaches. Connor was the first active college football player to publicly come out about his sexuality. He felt as if it was best for him to have a team meeting and tell his fellow teammates and coaches that he was bisexual and had a boyfriend. Surprisingly, in disbelief his teammates and coaches accepted the fact that he was bisexual and they did not have a problem with that. They still treated him as one of his brothers. The fact of the matter is Connor Mertens plays college football not professional. If Connor were to announce that he was gay to his teammates and coaches in the NFL, the organization would have found a way to get rid of him. In one article it was stated that No mens American pro-sports league has had more former players come out publicly as gay than the In the history of the NFL, the league is known for not accepting gay players. The NFL is no home to gay players. The reason being is why former players announced they are gay after they retire. Although Connor Mertens afraid to come out to his team as being bisexual, he stated always been the football community that sacred me the most when thought about coming These are real life situations that actually took place whether in college or the NFL. Being a gay football player can really change life. Accepting a gay player can be beneficial for the NFL in two ways. First by accepting a gay player into their league shows the NFL is willing to give anyone a chance and it shows they support the LGBT community who could also become fans of the NFL. Secondly, the gay player can be really good like Michael Sam and benefit the team with his talent. However, some people would say that gay players do not deserve to play in the NFL. Some reasons include they are considered to be feminine and players in the league will not be comfortable around them. Football is a hard contact sport which in some opinions gays can not handle to play because they are too soft and girly. Further, players in the league may not be comfortable around gay players. As Jack Burkman stated are losing our decency as a Consequently he asked parents of America to your son being forced to shower with a gay man. a horrifying prospect for every mom in the country. What in the world has this nation come If the organization and team were more understanding of the gay player then an issue like showering together would not be a problem because everyone would know that they do not have anything to be uncomfortable about. Being gay does not mean that person is going to touch or stare at someone in the showers; they are just normal people there ready to contribute to the team. Though Michael Sam had a great senior season in college, his announcement of him being gay and kissing his boyfriend ruined his football career. Connor Mertens may have been the first active gay college football player who was fortunate enough be accepted by his teammates and coaches, but it would not have happened if he was playing in the league. The history of the NFL has proven their organization is not home or welcomed to gay players. A way to change this would be for the league to judge a player off his performance only and not because of his sexuality. First step into doing this is for society to change their perspective in general to be more accepting. Work Cited Florio, Mike. plans to introduce bill aimed at banning gay NFL players . . . NBC Sports, 24 Feb. 2014, profootballtalk.nbcsports.com/2014/02/24/lobbyist-plans-to-introduce-bill-aimed-at-bann ing-gay-nfl-players-seriously/. Accessed 26 Apr. 2017. Gibbs, Lindsay. Sam Says Coming Out As Gay Played A In NFL Teams Not Signing ThinkProgress, 23 Sept. 2016, thinkprogress.org/michael-sam-says-coming-out-as-gay-played-a-huge-part-in-nfl-teams- not-signing-him-4cf478530e5f#.cxhgs3wsn. Accessed 12 Feb 2017. Liberatore, Wendy. First openly gay NFL player shares  9 Feb. 2017, www.timesunion.com/sports/article/First-openly-gay-NFL-player-shares-story-10916280 .php. Accessed 26 Apr. 2017. Zeigler, Cyd. Mertens came out to his college football team. Now he comes out SB Nation, SBNation,28 Jan 2014 Accessed 1 April 2017.