Saleem 1 Usama Saleem Mrs. Penuliar ENC 1102 16 April 2017 The Harm Caused by Standardized Tests. Standardized testing has become an integral part of modern education in America. Students now take important tests like the FCAT in Florida starting from elementary school. Of all the tests that the students take throughout their school years, the American College Test (ACT) and the Standardized Aptitude Test (SAT) are arguably the most important tests a student will have to take, since these tests have a significant impact on a college application. It is worth noting that these tests ultimately affect the quality of education these students receive in schools. Many people would believe that an emphasis on standardized tests would encourage teachers to improve their quality of teaching and compel students to study harder which would ultimately lead to a better standard of education. However, standardized tests have a number of negative impacts on the quality of education students receive. A lot of emphasis is laid on things that are not extremely important in real lives or even college education. That includes knowledge of intricate English grammar rules and extensive vocabulary, things that are crucial for doing well on the SAT and ACT. Our association Test Reform is a non-profit organization dedicated to ending the misuse of standardized tests in the American education system. Our mission includes educating the public about the negative implications of standardized testing, engaging them with our goal of eliminating these drawbacks, and giving them opportunities to make their mark in Saleem 2 this endeavour by being able to donate to our cause, attending our public events, and signing our petition for educational reforms. When it comes to learning and teaching, standardized tests have a strong control over the curriculum taught in many schools. Many schools end up tailoring their curriculum specifically to help students excel in tests like the SAT or ACT. As a result, subjects like Arts, Humanities, and Second Languages are often ignored. The exclusion of these subjects results in lack of character building and grooming among students. This issue was discussed in a policy brief drawn by the National Council of Teachers of English and directed by Anne Ruggles Gere, the former president of NCTE, with assistance from other members of the board. The brief says that tests limit student learning because they focus only on cognitive dimensions, ignoring many other qualities that are essential to student (Gere, et. al 2). The brief classifies these qualities as conscientiousness, perseverance, and (Gere, et. al 2). As a result, many students end up struggling in their practical lives due to lack of these important skills. Standardized tests also impact the effectiveness of teachers in giving instructions in classroom. As stated by Gere and others in their policy review, administration of standardized tests causes teachers to take up additional responsibilities dedicated to the administration of tests. These responsibilities include organizing, and analyzing data associated with tests, grouping and regrouping students according to test performance, developing vertical articulation of the curriculum to align with tests , coordinating assignments, based on test scores, to remedial (Gere, et. al 1). Gere and others say that one study found that teachers have to dedicate between 60 and 110 hours to these tasks (1). These 60 to 110 hours are usually taken Saleem 3 from the instructional time, which means that they are ultimately left with a shorter time period where they actually teach in a classroom. Thus the quality of education in these classrooms suffers. Many students are often at a severe disadvantage at taking tests compared to other students. According to Fairtest, another organization formed to end the misuse of standardized tests, the students who usually end up struggling on tests attend poorly funded schools with a shortage of competent teachers and a lack of good books. Fairtest says that: Many students do not have a fair opportunity to learn the material on the test because they attend poorly-funded schools with large class sizes, too many teachers without subject area certification, and inadequate books, libraries, laboratories, computers and other facilities. These students are usually from low-income families, and many also suffer problems with housing, nutrition or health care. High-stakes tests punish them for things they cannot control. These are some of the reasons for which standardized tests are not the most fair way of measuring the intellect of students, since some students have access to far better resources than others. One of the most important impacts of high-stakes standardized testing is its effect on the self-esteem of students who are not able to perform well on these tests. In an online article titled Epidemic: Standardized Testing & Self Raymond A. Brown, the Dean of admissions at Texas Christian University, discusses the harmful impacts of standardized tests on a self esteem. Brown considers himself to be a proponent of the SAT and ACT, saying that SAT and ACT represent some of the best of what our society offers in norming exams. Saleem 4 However, he feels that due to the increasing stakes for admissions in best universities, emphasis on the SAT and ACT is escalating dramatically. Brown emphasizes in the article that and are only the beginning of what should be a thoughtful He says that standardized tests are only one piece of a giant puzzle, and unfortunately they are the most celebrated one. This point is also elaborated in a book written by Alfie Kohn titled case against standardized testing: raising the scores, ruining the Alfie Kohn has a Masters Degree in social sciences from the esteemed University of Chicago and has written many books on standardized testing. Kohn says that standardized tests including the SATs and ACTs are very effective as predictors of future academic performance, even in the freshman year of college, much less as predictors of professional (4). These tests ultimately end up harming the morale of Both Brown and Kohn support the argument that there are numerous qualities in a student which make them unique that standardized tests cannot measure. The pressure and mental stress due to these exams eventually has detrimental effects on the health of students and teachers. In an article titled Tests: Making Our Students and Teachers published on US News, Dr. Elaine Cox, an M.D at the Riley Hospital for Children in Indiana University, elaborated the negative effects of standardized testing on students and teachers. She says that: Increased pressure on students has resulted in more Encouraged not to miss testing days, children may come to school ill and not at their full ability for successful performance. Multiple cases of children being moved to tears or vomiting are widely shared by educators. loss of self-esteem secondary to poor performance and lifelong mental blocks can be seen in individual children. Saleem 5 Cox also mentions that teachers and parents go through similar issues due to excessive testing. She emphasizes that the mental and physical health of students, parents, and teachers is a far greater priority that high test scores, reinforcing the idea that standardized tests are not worth sacrificing your well-being. Test Reform has partnered up with other organizations like Fairtest and Testing Resistance in the struggle against standardized tests. Our mission is not to completely eliminate standardized tests from the American education system but to ensure that they are not overly exploited and mishandled in ways that can potentially harm the students. We want the general public to be engaged with us in our endeavour and support our cause. Currently Test Reform is a small organization consisting of around twenty dedicated members. However, our alliance with other organizations lends strength to our cause. We gladly accept donations from the general public, whatever amount sounds reasonable to the donor. Since Test Reform, Fairtest, and Testing Resistance are non-government organizations, all our funding comes from endowments through our benefactors and the general public. We hope that people understand the gravity of the issue we are campaigning against. Every cent that they lend to our organization and our allies will help us advance our agenda of ending the damage caused by standardized tests with regard to our beloved children and dedicated, hardworking teachers. We also want people to attend the various events including public forums and demonstrations organized by our alliance. It is critical for us to show our strength and let the test administrators know that we are a force to be reckoned with. The test administrators need to know that there are people out there who will hold them accountable for their mishandling of the testing system. Furthermore, we want people to sign a petition drafted by our alliance which calls for Collegeboard to revise the K-12 education Saleem 6 system. Our schools need to lay more emphasis on performance based assessments including group projects and presentation in their curriculum. Instead of obsessing over test scores, students will be able to learn practical skills like public speaking and teamwork, skills that would actually benefit them in their professional and personal lives. We want as many people to sign this petition as possible, since we want Collegeboard to know that it is not just our organization that cares about this issue. By taking part in all these actions, you will be able to make your mark in the struggle against the malice caused by standardized testing. Without a doubt, standardized testing is an extremely important part of modern education system. Although standardized testing is linked to many negative implications for modern education, currently there is no definitive substitute for these exams. Hence the best we can do is to ensure that standardized tests are not conducted in ways that can potentially have devastating effects on our education. Join hands with Test Reform and our allies to fight the misuse of standardized tests in modern education! Saleem 7 Works Cited Cox, Ellaine. Tests: Making Our Students and Teachers News, November 2016. Brown, Raymond A. Epidemic: Standardized Testing and Self of Distinction, Accessed 15 April 2016. Gere, Anne Ruggles; Gibson, Gall; Hammond, James; Knutson, Anna; McCarty, Ryan; Parsons, Molly, Parsons; Tacke, Elizabeth; Tucker, Bonnie. Standardized Tests Shape and Limit-Student Council of Teachers of English. Standardized Testing Damages Accessed 14 April 2017. Kohn, Alfie. case against standardized testing: raising the scores, ruining the schools. Portsmouth, NH, 2000.