Sam Dreiling ENC 1101.011 Mrs. Jubalee Penuliar April 16, 2017 Adopt! Shop! There are many positive, health benefits of having a pet such as lowering blood pressure and cholesterol, decreasing stress, improving mood, and strengthening immune system (Gekas). Whether the family is looking for a member that has paws, wings, claws, hoofs, or scales, there are many rescues and shelters locally that have the perfect fit for a loving, forever home. Every year, an estimated three million adoptable animals are euthanized because shelters and rescues do not have enough space to house all of the incoming, homeless animals Adopt, ). With this number rising each year, many people when looking to add a new family member choose breeders and puppy mills because of the negative stigma attached to getting a In fact, there are many benefits to adopting animals from a shelter. Many people believe that shelters and rescues house only vicious and unwanted dogs, unknowing that shelter and rescue animals typically undergo behavioral and health assessments when brought in before they are put up for adoption Adopt, ). When adopting an animal, not only is it saving the life, it opens up a spot for another animal to have a second chance at a better life. Adopting an animal is a more cost effective than buying from a breeder as well as a way to take a stand on putting an end to puppy mills Local rescues and shelters have many amazing animals waiting right now looking for their forever homes. Adopting an animal saves at least two lives because it opens another spot for an animal to be taken in with hopes of it also finding its forever home. Each year, between six and eight million animals go through shelters and rescues, while a little less than half of those animals are put down due to not having enough space Most shelters and rescues are trying to lower the number of homeless pets by spaying and neutering almost every animal that passes through their facilities. This helps control the population of stray or homeless animals and reduces the number of animals that have to be euthanized because they cannot find homes. The top reason many families have to surrender their pets is because they are moving or have issues with their landlords. When these animals come to a shelter or rescue, they are already the perfect family pets All animals that come through shelters or rescues go through a behavioral assessment. They determine the behavioral characteristics and can find the perfect fit for a home. The behavioral assessment can tell potential adopters if the animal will do well with children, has a problem with other animals of similar and different species, requires any special attention or lifestyle, and any other important details when adding a new pet into home For example, if an animal is just a juvenile and has an excessive amount of energy, the animal should be placed with a family that is very active instead of elderly couple whose lifestyle will not allow the animal to be successful in their home. When adopting an animal from a rescue or shelter, adopters have a choice of age, size, gender, and breed that they feel will best fit their homes and expectations when bringing a pet home to be apart of their family Buying an animal from a breeder or pet store can easily cost hundreds or thousands of dollars and that is just for the animal itself while not including the cost of vaccinations, spay/neutering, micro chipping, or veterinarian check-ups Many shelters and rescues have veterinarian staff on hand and every animal is medically assessed when they come through the doors. Not everyone is able to adopt. However, there are other ways to help animal rescues and shelters. Shelters are usually funded and run by the government, whereas rescues run mainly off of donations and volunteers. Both of them are always in need of volunteers and donations Many shelters need volunteers to care for the husbandry needs of an animal, however they need people with other skills such as marketing and event planning Many shelters have events to bring adoptable animals out into the public in order to help animals find their forever family. Rescues and shelters use marketing and event planning teams to get the news out for a large public turnout for adoptions and donations. To keep adoption fees low and give the best care for animals, rescues and shelters depend a great deal on donations (Watson). They always appreciate money donations, but also are extremely grateful for donations of pet and cleaning supplies like toys, beds, cat litter, animal food, towels, bleach, leashes, and collars Another way to help shelters and rescues is to become a foster parent. Foster parents open up spaces for more homeless animals. Many animals that need to be put in foster care are often too young to be adopted, still learning how to live in a household setting, or going through medical treatment that requires special medical attention (Watson). Becoming a foster parent also give future potential pet owners an idea of what goes into caring for an animal. Shelters and rescues are always in need of a helping hand and are grateful for any services they receive. When someone is looking to add a new member of their family, whether they have paws, wings, claws, hoofs, or scales, checking out local shelters and rescues is the best option. There are many animals that need forever, loving homes and shelters and rescues have many animals that could be the perfect fit for the next potential adopting family. Works Cited Adopt,  Dog Files. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Adopting from an Animal Shelter or Rescue  The Humane Society of the United States. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Gekas, Alexandra. 10 Health Benefits of Owning a  Day. N.p., 05 Mar. 2015. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Jankiewicz, Eric, and Emilie Plesset. Why You Should Adopt a Shelter  Clear the Shelters. N.p., 14 Apr. 2017. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Say No to Puppy Mills: Opt to  Your next Canine  RedRover. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Seven Surprising Ways to Donate to Your Local  Petfinder. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Top Reasons to Adopt a  The Humane Society of the United States. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Watson, C.D. How You Can Help Animal Shelters &  Petful. N.p., 02 July 2016. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN AN ANIMAL SHELTER AND ANIMAL  Animal Shelter Vs. Rescue Pets Plus Us. N.p., 16 Nov. 2014. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.