Mateo Knight ENC1102.910 17 April 2017 Plastic Beaches Coastal beaches. These serene, peaceful, relaxing places are admired by most for the natural beauty they hold. The warm powdery sand, beautiful crashing water, and sound of the screeching seagulls are just a few of the things that makes these places so enjoyable. Unfortunately, with the constant population growth and the constant need for urbanization, humans have subsequently had a negative impact on the environment, due to pollution. The consequences of pollution are limitless and realistically cannot all be addressed. However, when discussing the pollution of the ocean specifically, there are differences people can make on the individual level to reduce the overall impact humans have on beaches and marine life. In an effort to save the marine life and overall health of oceans worldwide, PETA (People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals) needs to take action in the issue of marine pollution. As a result of becoming involved in the issue of marine pollution, PETA would help save the environment of marine life, further advocating for the proper treatment of animals. PETA is the largest platform for animal activism so they need to educate the public on the harm of marine pollution. The impact that humans have on the ocean and its life is quite alarming, and it is in the best interest of the people to cut down the amount of garbage that enters the environment. To begin, water is essential to sustain life on Earth, and even though the planet is nearly seventy-five percent water, approximately one percent of all of the water is potable. This means that one percent is available for drinking, agriculture, and the million other things clean water is needed for (Isikwue). As of now, there is not a cost efficient way to make proper use of the remaining water on the planet, and until that time, it is in the best interest of humans to preserve that vital one percent for survival. Further, by contaminating the ocean, people are damaging the living environment of marine life. Nearly 1 billion people rely on sea food as their primary source of protein, which means those people are directly affected by marine pollution to some degree Therefore, by decreasing the amount of pollution released into the ocean, there will be preservation of potable water as well as the environment of marine life. PETA is a worldwide organization that advocates for animal rights. They provide public education on animal rights largely through the use of media campaigns in which: focuses its attention on the four areas in which the largest numbers of animals suffer the most intensely for the longest periods of time: in the food industry, in the clothing trade, in laboratories, and in the entertainment industry. (About platform is large, as it is the largest animal rights organization. This influence is felt internationally, as PETA conducts protest campaigns with as many as 6 million followers (About EPA). PETA can significantly benefit as an organization through engagement with the issue of ocean pollution. Not only would PETA be increasing the overall reach of the organization by expanding its focus to marine pollution, they will also significantly reinforce their original mission statement of protecting animals. PETA as an organization will grow, simply through the expansion of its focus because the issue of ocean pollution is not discussed as widely as animal cruelty, although there is a direct correlation. Thus, by incorporating water pollution into the mission, PETA can use its international platform to bring this issue to the attention of many. Another way PETA will benefit by becoming engaged with the issue of ocean pollution is that in this action, they would reinforce the original mission of the organization, protecting animals. The ocean is home to thousands of species of plants and animals. Unfortunately, the majority of the products humans use are not properly disposed of, resulting in the eight million metric tons of plastic waste that is put into the ocean from land yearly (Benson). Plastic is difficult to dispose of properly, especially in such large amounts, which is why the ocean is the plastic garbage disposal. The issue with this is plastic marine life through consumption and/or of marine life, some of which PETA already has regulations on some of the effected species (Microplastic The issue of excessive human pollution into the ocean can overlap with mission so easily, it is in the best interest of the organization to become engaged. By expanding the overall mission to include the problem of ocean pollution, PETA can become engaged with the issue. PETA needs to incorporate the topic of marine pollution in their media campaigns, public education programs, and legislations. PETA has extremely emotional media campaigns regarding animal cruelty, so by using that same method to appeal to their audience, they can influence decisions regarding consumption and proper disposal of goods such as plastic. Further, any forms of education for the public pertaining to animal cruelty needs to also include the large impact that garbage in the ocean has on the marine life. Also, any legislations regarding animal cruelty, need to include some further protection for marine life. There are plenty of obvious reasons why PETA needs to become engaged with ocean pollution. The organization will grow significantly through the expansion of its mission, and expansion will further reinforce the current mission of PETA, to advocate for animal rights. And if for no other reason, engagement in this topic is necessary to protect the natural beauty of coastline beaches. Works Cited PETA, PETA, www.peta.org/about-peta/. Accessed 17 Apr. 2017. Benson, Maggy Hunter. Ocean Trash Plaguing Our  Ocean Portal. National Museum of Natural History, 23 Aug. 2016. Web. 11 Apr. 2017. https://ocean.si.edu/ocean-collaborators/maggy-hunter-benson Isikwue, Martins O. Design and Construction of an Affordable Potable Water Treatment Unit for Domestic Usage. Department of Agricultural and Environmental Engineering, University of Agriculture, Makurdi, Sept. 2015, eds.a.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?vid=9&sid=8040036a- 3424-4e66-8c1b-8432d54528f4%40sessionmgr4009&hid=4213. Accessed 17 Apr. 2017. Kataoka, Tomoya. of Beach Cleanup Effects Using Linear System Direct, Marine Pollution Bulletin, 7 Jan. 2015, www.sciencedirect.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/science/article/pii/S0025326X14008273. Accessed 17 Apr. 2017. Pollution of the Beaches of Guanabara Bay, Southeast Science Direct, Ocean & Coastal Managementt, Aug. 2016, www.sciencedirect.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/science/article/pii/S096456911630059X. Accessed 17 Apr. 2017. Billion People Depend on Seafood as Their Primary Protein Small Planet Institute, Small Planet Institute, 27 May 2015, smallplanet.org/content/one-billion- people-depend-seafood-their-primary-protein-source. Accessed 17 Apr. 2017. Weis, Judith S. Pollution : What Everyone Needs to Know. ProQuest Ebook Central, Oxford University Press, 2015, ebookcentral-proquest- com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/lib/usf/reader.action?docID=1814984&ppg=4. Accessed 17 Apr. 2017.