Ntukogu 1 Ofordili Ntukogu ENC 1102 Kristen Gocinski April 21, 2017 Do Something About Gun Control Over the past couple of years there has been numerous gun control proposals in congress, yet all of them have failed. This shows that gun control is one of the most popular and dividing issues in American culture. The reason gun control is a relevant issue now is because of the massive amounts of gun violence in America each year. America has the highest rate of gun homicides among developing countries. Mass shootings like the one at the Pulse nightclub and Sandy Hook elementary school get massive news coverage. These mass shootings keep forcing the issue of gun control back into the national spotlight. Organizations like the Brady Campaign are dedicated to reducing gun violence in America, the Brady Campaign thinks that limiting the gun purchasing industry will be the best way to reduce gun violence. However, many organizations should have taken a stance on gun control have not. An organization that should be invested in the gun control issue is the Living Cities Organization. The Living Cities Organization is dedicated to bettering the lives of low income families in the cities. If the Living Cities Organization gets involved in gun control and sides with the Brady Campaign, gun violence will go down and that will help the quality of city life. To reduce gun violence in America the sale of guns needs to be more limited. Guns are very easy to access and that has contributed to the large amounts of gun violence in the United States. In most situations background checks are necessary to purchase guns. However, there are Ntukogu 2 certain places where people purchase guns without background checks, like gun shows and online gun dealers. A private gun seller posted an ad on armlist.com and ended up selling it to a man in Canada. The man he sold it to did not have to proceed through any background checks while going through the purchase. The man later went to Chicago and killed a woman that he met online (Daniels). article features another example where a seller put a gun ad online and required a license and a proof of legal ability to own firearms. The individual only provided the drivers license, but only verbally assured the seller that they could own firearms. These types of loopholes make guns to easy to access and in turn leads to gun violence. Proof of this is in article where she states that easy access to guns has increased the rate of gun-related suicide deaths (Wahowiak). Gun suicide deaths has increased by 13% from 2007 to 2013. These facts are proof that guns are too accessible now, the Brady approach to reducing gun violence involves incorporating new background checks on all gun purchases. These new background checks would make guns less accessible to people who would could endanger themselves or others. The Living Cities Organization is dedicated to improving the quality of life of low- income families in the cities. The Living Cities Organization was founded in 1991 and is a collaboration between 22 of the largest foundations and financial institutions. They help communities build homes, stores, and schools. In their brief existence, they have invested almost 1 billion into American cities. Living Cities states that their mission is to, the collective power of philanthropy and financial institutions to improve the lives of low-income people and the cities where they (livingcities). And they state their values are collaboration, innovation, leadership, and impact. The Living Cities Organization stresses that they are not just Ntukogu 3 a group of investors, they also have a board of directors and four standing committees where they discuss how to better the cities under their care. If the Living Cities Organization gets sides with the Brady Campaign on gun control than gun violence in the cities will go down. The Living Cities Organization focuses on low-income families that live in the cities. One of the most important problems in most cities is gun violence. Prominent cities where gun violence is a problem like, Chicago, St Louis, Detroit, and Oakland are the same cities where the Living Cities Organization focuses a lot of their time and money on. For low-income families living in those cities gun violence is a very real problem and any reduction to gun violence could greatly help them. If the Brady Campaign can get the support of a huge organization like the Living Cities Organization, they may be able to implement their new background checks. If the new Brady Background checks get implemented guns will be less accessible to the individuals that have no business using them. And in turn will help reduce gun violence. The Brady Campaign is interested in gun violence, while the Living Cities organization is interested in the concerns of low-income families in the cities. Both organizations fundamental goals are to help people so, the Living Cities organization should get involved in gun control to reduce the gun violence in the cities that they trying to help. The Living Cities Organization should get involved in gun control by putting pressure on legislators. For changes in gun control to occur it must go through congress to become a law. That is why it is necessary for the Living Cities Organization to put pressure on legislators, it is estimated around 90% of the US population is in favor of new background checks (Devi 224). The problem is the legislators they are voting in to office are not voting yes on the new gun proposals. The Living Cities Organization should also donate to the Brady Campaign, because Ntukogu 4 all donations to the Brady Campaign help them get their message across. Also, the Living Cities Organization can educate the city families that they work with about the dangers of guns and gun violence. The Living Cities Organization needs to do support the Brady Campaign on gun violence because if they gun violence will continue to ravage the families in the cities that they are trying to better. Gun violence has been a problem in America for far too long. The U.S leads developed countries in gun deaths by an astronomical margin, and that number needs to go down. Making guns harder to access is the most obvious way to reduce the massive amounts of gun violence in America. The Brady campaign has already been trying to reduce gun violence but with the help of other organizations like the Living Cities Organization real changes can be made in the gun violence issue in the cities. These two huge organizations can put the pressure on the legislators in congress and make them pass the laws that would enable new background checks on guns. If nothing happens than there will be more failed gun proposals and mass shootings on the news. Works Cited Devi, Sharmila. The Long Road To Gun Control In  Lancet 388 North American Edition.10041, 2016, pp 224-225. CINAHL. Accessed. 30 January. 2017. Stell, LK. The Production Of Criminal Violence In America: Is Strict Gun Control The  Journal Of Law, Medicine & Ethics 32.1, 2004, 38-46. Accessed. 30 January. 2017. Wahowiak, Lindsey. Brady Campaign: Guns Linked to Increase in Suicide  The Health, no. 9, 2015, p. 7. EBSCOhost, DANIELS, ANN. The Online Gun Marketplace and the Dangerous Loophole in the National Instant Background Check  The John Marshall Journal of Information Technology and Privacy Law, vol. 30, 01 July 2014, p. 757 Bouffard, Jeffrey A., et al. How Many More Guns?: Estimating the Effect of Allowing Licensed Concealed Handguns on a College  Journal of Interpersonal Violence, vol. 27, no. 2, Jan. 2012, pp. 316-343 Who We  Living Cities. N.p., n.d. Web. 21 Apr. 2017.