Amjad Al-Toky Amjad Al-Toky Ashley Tisdale ENC 1101 4/6/2017 Cell Phone Addiction The demand for cellphones had definitely increased over the years and will continue to increase. Global technology and its changes play a vital role in each life. In fact, the current trend of the community is to follow and adapt to the changes in the field of technology. Cell phones are the hit of the century. However some people today view cell phones as a necessity, a need such as air or water, neglecting the fact that it is just a want, a desire. As cell phones have dramatically increases in the recent years, reports on cell phone addiction did too, stating that not only the youth are the target of the cell phones, but as well all categories of the society. Yes, youth are more inclined towards using mobile phones for activities other than communication, however, that does not mean that they are the only single category in society that are addicted to the cell phones and adults are not. Cell phone addiction can be described as problematic malfunctional use of the cell phone, such as having financial, career, family and as well social problems caused by the over use of the phone and as well using the mobile phone as a way of avoiding real problems. However when it comes to addiction people are more focused on the youth, as if they are the only category of the society that uses cell phones. I truly believe that regardless the age of the person, any consumer who uses the cell phone is prone and inclined to be a cell phone addict. When I came to think about why people tend to enforce the thought of cell phone addiction to mostly the youth, I came to the conclusion that it is caused by the actions and reactions of the youth. As youth being young adult not every action they make is right and not every step they make is the right one too, they are more inclined to be the problem of a cause. Therefore the older category of the society knowing that, they place more focus in the youth and the upcoming generation. Another reason as to why when it comes to cell phone addiction it is mostly assumed as youth oriented is that the cell phone is the most common tool and technology in their generation therefore it is mostly used. The recent outburst of androids, iPhones and other smart phones has contributed people to use the internet on the go and as well at any moment. physcGuides.com stated that 90% of adult own a cell phone. This may not be a problem however some adults develop an addiction to their mobile devices. Proof that adults as well are prone and inclined to be addicted is that they tend to perform certain actions that influence them in a certain way. Those actions may include using their cell phones in meetings and are usually distracted, texting or calling Amjad Al-Toky while driving, using their cell phones in the bathroom, reading the news from an application on the cell phone rather than reading it from a news paper and as well some adults might develop a feeling that the cell phone is ringing when its actually not. This states that youth are not the only category in the society that can get addicted to the cell phone. Those habits do not suddenly happen, however, they develop by time, the more time you consume using your cell phone the more you develop bad habits related to your phone, at the end as a result, you become addicted to your phone. Cell phone addiction seems to have changed daily habits too. Smart phones has become a huge part on our daily life and routines. Ofcom has revealed that nearly half of the adults using cell phones admitted that they are completely hooked to their devices. It has also revealed that although the majority of adults be seen without their smartphones, they were quick to admit to the damaging impact social media can have on social situations. Over 55% of adults come to think that it is unacceptable to pick up your phone alongside your knife and fork however they still find themselves repeating the same habit. 48% of adults admit that they use their smartphones during their weekends or holidays to work or send emails. Those statistics clearly show that most adults are overly attached to their cell phones. On the other hand those adults need to admit that they are addicted to their smartphones so they can work towards spending less time using the phone and spending more time physically engaging with people. Furthermore, it is argued that are not actually addicted to their smartphones, they just use it because it is an important factor of technology that we use in our daily life. In my opinion I think that this is not true, I think people are addicted, they either recognize it or the want to admit it. Proof of this is that some people cannot stand a day without using their phone, and panic when their phone runs out of charge. In conclusion I would say that youth and adults are both prone and inclined to the addiction of cellphones and the stereotype that the youth are the only category in society who are addicted to their cell phone is wrong in fact, it should end. Every user of the cellphone who uses the technology in an unbalanced or an unhinged way could result to negative effects on him and as well the people who surround him. Adults are in danger as much as youths are, surprisingly, there are restriction in the use of alcohol and drugs, but there is no restrictions in the use of smart phones whereas all of these product are addictive and can cause mental, physical and as well social problems in the society we live in. restrictions should be made soon. Kyung-seu and jae-Moo Lee. of smartphone addiction proneness of young children on problematic behaviors and emotional intelligence: Mediating self-assessment effects of parents using vol.20 jan 2017. 303-311 Maya Samantha, Nazir S.Hawi. Relationship Among Smartphone Addiction, stress, academic performance and satisfaction with Elsevier Ltd. April 2016. 321-325 Aljomma Sulaiman.S, AlQudah Mohammed.F, AlBursan Ismail, Bakheit Salaheldin, Abduljabar Adel.S addiction among university students in the light of some Elsevier Ltd. August 2016. 155-164 Amjad Al-Toky Oberst Ursala, Weggman Elissa, Stodt Benjamin, Bernd Mathiass, Chamaro Andres. consequences from heavy social networking in adolescents: The mediating role of fear of missing Elsevier Ltd. Feb 2010. 51-60. Zhitomirsky-geffet, Mayyan. generational analysis of predictive factors of addictive behavior in smartphone Elsevier Ltd. November 2012. 682-693. Elhai John.D, Dvorak Robert, Levine Jason.D, Hall Brian. role of stress and motivation in problematic smartphone use among college Elsevier Science. Jan 1 2011. 251-259.