Humphreys 1 Lucelle Humphreys ENC 1102 Instructor Dubois 16 April 2017 Change for Mental Illness Mental illness is one of the leading health issues in America yet people are so unaware about it. Millions of Americans suffer from mental illnesses every year. Insurance for mental health treatment is inadequate, treatment costs are high and options are limited. There is a stigma around mental illnesses that causes people to look negatively at those who suffer. In order to improve the lives of people afflicted with mental disease and illness, the general population of the United States needs to be educated about it and be taught the common symptoms of these illnesses. People also need to stop stigmatizing people who are suffering and sympathize with them instead, while looking for ways to assist. According to The National Alliance on Mental Illness, NAMI, Health Facts in fact sheet, million American adults live with a serious mental illness in a given (NAMI). There are about 250 million citizens in the United States and that is 1 in 25 adults. With this many people suffering on a daily basis access to treatment should be more readily available. According to Health Facts Children and Teens, of youth ages 13-18 live with a mental health the average delay between onset of symptoms and intervention is 8-10 (NAMI). This may be a result of children, parents and others being unaware of the illnesses. This also may be a result of treatment being so expensive for these conditions or insurance being so hard to obtain. This is why it is important for the general population of Americans to be educated about these ailments and common symptoms. Humphreys 2 Access to mental health treatment is slim and expensive when it is available. According to Mental Health America, MHA, of adults with a disability were not able to see a doctor due to (MHA). It is unfortunate that 87% of adults have to go without treatment for illnesses that can be so debilitating. Some of these illnesses make it impossible for a person to work. This means that not only is the person unable to make a living but now they have their serious, sometimes debilitating, illnesses treated. When people are treated for their illnesses not able to get the treatment they (MHA). This is due to multiple reasons including; lack of proper physicians, lack of insurance and lack of available treatment. It is unacceptable that with the advancement in medicine and technology that we have in world, that there more treatments available that actually succeed. Access to proper and affordable health care is something that is lacking for those experiencing the effects of mental health in their lives. There is also a big stigma surrounding mental illnesses and those who suffer from them. According to Dr.Gram health stigma can be divided into two distinct types; social stigma is characterized be prejudicial attitudes and discriminating behavior directed towards individuals with mental health problems as a result of the psychiatric label they have been given. In contrast, perceived stigma or self-stigma is the internalizing by the mental health sufferer of their perceptions of (Dr.Gram). Many people with mental illnesses have stigma directed towards them by family and peers. A large cause of these preconceived notions is due to many Americans being uneducated about the ailments. People throughout history have been treated in an unfavorable way thus creating an overall negative attitude towards the subject. This began long ago in the days when research and Humphreys 3 understanding of the various types of illnesses was minimal to nonexistent. It also helpful that the media tends to shed a negative light on the topic. Though, media coverage has been getting better at including positive things about mental health sufferers, it still focuses primarily on the negative things that those sufferers do. Everyone should care about mental illness because it impacts so many people. Even if you personally experience the effects of mental illnesses someone around you may feel those impacts. Mental illness does not care who it affects and can be caused by different things such as genetics, infections and brain defects or injuries (The Kim Foundation). It is common that the first signs of these illnesses show up in childhood and early adolescence. Just as with many other illnesses or injuries, the sooner the proper treatment begins the better. Early identification and treatment is something that would propagate with increased common knowledge of mental illnesses. It is important that everyone gets educated about common mental illnesses and their symptoms. If knowledge about these ailments were more commonplace, than many people who are unaware of their illness could be diagnosed or advised to seek diagnosis. To get information about mental illnesses visit nami.org or mentalhealthamerica.net. Another thing that would decrease the impact of this topic is increased access to health care and insurance. There are people working every day to advocate for mental health patients. These people strive to increase accessibility to health care, reduce costs of quality treatment and increase insurance for individuals seeking treatment. To help increase quality mental illness healthcare you can donate to these organizations or speak out about mental illnesses. That easiest thing that anyone can do to reduce the effects of this topic is to reduce their own stigma towards those people with these Humphreys 4 illnesses. In most cases it is actually beneficial for people to talk about their illness. It is so simple to just be understanding and empathetic towards those suffering. Mental illnesses are something that are not commonly talked about and thus carry negative views with them. The general population of Americans are not well educated about this. A large number of American children and adults suffer from some sort of mental illness and the quality and accessibility to health care needs to be increased for these individuals. Illnesses that impacts this many people should be something more commonly talked about, without stigma and prejudice. Humphreys 5 Works Cited Dr.Davey, Graham. Health and Psychology Today. Accesses 14 April 2017. https://www.psychologytoday.com/blog/why-we-worry/201308/mental-health-stigma Health Facts Children and National Alliance on Mental Health. Accessed 14 April 2017. http://www.nami.org/NAMI/media/NAMI-Media/Infographics/Children- MH-Facts-NAMI.pdf Health Facts in National Alliance on Mental Health. Accessed 15 April 2017. http://www.nami.org/NAMI/media/NAMI-Media/Infographics/GeneralMHFacts.pdf Health in America-Access to Care Mental Health America. Accessed 14 April 2017. http://www.mentalhealthamerica.net/issues/mental-health-america-access-care-data Mental Illnesses The Kim Foundation. Accessed 15 April 2017.