Project 3 Intermediate draft Caleb Scott 4/16/2017 Over the years many Americans have considered the elimination of the penny. Imagine a penniless society. All the empty piggy banks and coin jars, not to mention you would never have the good luck of finding one heads up on the side of the street. Besides the reasons above the elimination of the penny is tricky because of the economical impact as well. It would be a very risky move to eliminate the penny because everything would be rounded to the nickel. This would increase the costs of goods because stores would always make sure that prices round up which would cause what has been described as a by Raymond E Lombra. Lombra went in front of congress on behalf of the penny to defend it and was successful based on the information that he presented. In the late the American people were calling for the removal of the penny from their currency system. They claimed that it was time to retire this old form of currency and also wanted to make a dollar coin to replace the dollar bill. An organization under the name of Americans for common sense sent Raymond E Lombra before the senate to speak on their behalf. Raymond made an amazing argument that day that is still used to this day. Besides the possibly dismissable sentimental reasons he brought forth the possibility of a rounding tax. Raymonds claim was that with the elimination of the penny everything would be rounded to the nickel and businesses would abuse this. If companies were to price their products so that the prices rounded up lower income households would be hit hard. The dangers of eliminating the penny be taken lightly and the senate understood this and voted against removing the penny. Again in 1994 the idea of removing the penny from circulation still appealed to some individuals even though the ideas obvious dangers have been brought into the light. New Republics article brings the same problems back into the light to shut down the idea once more. This goes to show that the danger of this rounding tax is no laughing matter. At this point the Senate still feel confident enough to risk removing the penny from circulation. A more recent publication by Amy Livingston provides a strong argument for the elimination of the penny. She begins by stating that it cost more than a penny to make a penny,1.7 cents per penny to be precise. Livingston also points out the environmental concerns related to transporting pennies and resources to and from mints. The last of her concerns lie with the time consumed by pennies. For example receiving change from a transaction It make take an employee a few seconds longer to tender your change because of pennies. At first glance she makes many great points that could cause you to consider the abolition of the penny, but under closer examination these problems as serious as they seem. First pennies are used many times before falling out of circulation. The fact that it cost more than a penny to produce one is not a problem because you get far more than a 0.01$ value out of it. Second when it comes to transportation everything is bad for the environment. The only way to prevent environmental problems would be to stop the burning of oil which is key to industry as we know it today. Lastly there is not enough data on how long it takes the average employee to tender change for the last part of her argument to be viable. Every transaction is different and so is every employee so impossible to measure how much time would be saved if any. In conclusion important that every American understand the risks associated with removing the penny from circulation. The limitless possibilities may be unsettling but everyone should be educated on this topic. When Americans complain about pennies they should think first about the risk of a recession or a crumbling economy. Second they need to consider all of the history associated with the coin and how the only coin bearing image. Lastly Americans need to keep in mind that in the past the idea was shot down for a reason. The danger in removing the penny from circulation is real and Americans even consider the idea of following through with it.