Rory Sullivan ENC 1102 L.E. DuBois 4/15/17 Climate Change is Not a Chinese Hoax 2016 it became stunningly clear that we are warming the climate and there are dire said John Sutter, a CNN correspondent (CNN 2016). However obvious it is now, 2016 was not the first year which scientists have recognized the danger of global warming. In 1992 the United Nations introduced and signed the Nations Framework Convention On Climate which would mark the beginning in the international race for eliminating (Mitchell 2014). The treaty was created because of increase in atmospheric carbon dioxide over the last half-century, which was almost twice the naturally occurring rate for the last one hundred and fifty thousand years (NASA 2015). Even with the massive amount of information and decades of evidence supporting human activity accelerating climate change, today only 53% of Americans believe humans have caused the global temperature to spike (Marlon et al. 2017). Lacking in consensus, public policy and progress will not move forward to tackle the problem which 97% of register scientists agree upon (NASA 2017). The universal understanding of the problem is vital for humanity to realize the devastation and crippling features of a future without checking climate change. Countries will be flooded, starved, scorched, or poisoned by the rising temperatures and increased atmospheric carbon. Overall global warming and our involvement should be recognized because of its expected impact on our cities, societies, and species as a whole. Global temperatures fluctuate and are generally different based on the region and landscape of the given area. However over the past century the average temperature has risen two degrees Celsius (NASA 2017). This temperature difference may not seem like a drastic difference, but will hold serious consequences. In addition, the extra atmospheric carbon dioxide will have violent effects in aquatic life. In the 1980s the popular opinion on climate change was radical and held a strong minority in the scientific field, at the time only 36% of Americans believed in climate change (Marlon et al. 2017). The beginning of the massive amount of greenhouse gas emissions began with the industrial revolution and need for fuel, added onto by the agriculture revolution (Abrahamson 1989). These periods of change brought about advances in our society, but also held an invisible price tag. The new man-produced greenhouse gasses such as; carbon dioxide, methane, and nitrous oxide were and falsely represented in (Abrahamson 1989). The term greenhouse gas refers to the atmospheric behavior, trapping the heat energy from the sun in the atmosphere (NASA 2017). Although, the amount of greenhouse gas emissions have exponentially increased over the century since the industrial revolution. Even with the statistical information on the atmosphere, many people currently do not believe in global warming or our part of the problem. Skeptics cite the increase in arctic ice or the normality of the levels of atmospheric carbon dioxide to be reasons of doubt for the climate change argument (Goldenberg 1990). However, these claims like most within the anti-climate change are not stable. The arctic ice, as seen from satellites, is currently increasing is an area in the Northern Hemisphere by one square mile each year (NASA 2017). Taken without skepticism, this claim would eradicate the idea about ice caps are but the ice seen from the perspective of a satellite does not portray the true story. The ice seen by space is often less than twenty feet thick and created by the melting of the mile-thick ice sheets which use to dominate the Arctic Circle (NASA 2017). There is no doubt in its existence, with many of the hottest recorded years falling into the past decade (CNN 2016). Although images of melting ice and a thicker sky may not be enough to truly make a person understand the size and impact of climate change, it does give an understanding of the problem which society faces. Although Global Warming directly affects the atmosphere and the climate it certainly has indirect effects on humanity. As mentioned before, climate change leads to the melting of the ice caps in the Arctic Circle, this is an example of its direct influence on the environment. An indirect effect of climate change would be the resulting rise in sea levels and the damage done to coastal civilizations. Data recorded estimates that 39-41% of the entire population lives within one hundred kilometers from a coastline, within the United States that statistic is equivalent to 39% (Robert 1995). This statistic is important because combined with satellite geological measurements, it can be concluded that less than ten meters of sea level rise would put 35% of the population underwater (NASA 2017). In other words, more than two billion people will need to migrate from their devastated countries and cities (Robert 1995). Diasporas induced by climate change are already occurring in cities such as Venice and island countries like the Maldives (Hoffmann 2007). The city of Venice requires little to no rain in order to overflow its already full canals, and the Maldives have experienced a mass emigration after multiple cities have been consistently flooded and destroyed (Hoffmann 2007). Unfortunately, the immediate sea level rise is virtually unchangeable, with an expected sea level rise of three meters by 2075 (NASA 2017), however future increases in the volume can be prevented by the managing climate change. This is not the only problem which plagues the future, climate change can be linked to famine, drought, and mass extinction. The increased surface temperature of the Earth has led many scientists to conclude that places in the middle east and Sahara desert will be unhabitable to almost all life (Botkin 2007). Although places will be habitable, areas with dry seasons are expected to experience longer droughts and more intense heat. Living in landlocked countries along the equator will be near impossible, and 7% of the human population lives in areas which qualify for expected droughts (Robert 1995). Again the potential of climate change will put hundreds of millions in need of relocation or they will experience mass starvation. Famine is also related to the droughts caused by global warming, because the temperature increase will leave less of the soil arable (Botkin 2007). The people who are left untouched, by the ocean or heat, will be faced with food shortages and huge demand for arable land. Finally the environment will be devastated by the changes in the atmosphere. The destruction can already be witnessed by the of the Great Barrier Reef, which was caused by the increased acidity (CNN 2016). This change in acidity is linked to the increase in carbon dioxide in the atmosphere, which is absorbed by the water and becomes carbonic acid (Botkin 2007). While people face mass migrations, animals are no different. Over the past two decades thousands of species were forced to irregularly migrate to more suitable places (Botkin 2007). Besides migration, animals are simply going to extinct. Human activity has pushed the natural limits of ecosystems by deforestation and hunting, killing out hundreds of species (Abrahamson 1989). However climate change could out-do efforts and eradicate entire ecosystems in specific regions (Botkin 2007). Humanity and the species alike will have to face the problem of sea level rise, famine, drought, and mass extinction if we do nothing. Although the size and possible destruction caused by climate change are immense, it is a maintainable problem. The root of the problem is our use of fossil fuels in almost all parts of our lives. Petroleum is found in candies, plastics, food, and gasoline, making it almost impossible to completely eclipse from our lives (Chu 2012). However over the past decade more awareness of the climate change problem has created thousands of organizations standing for eco-friendly initiatives and production, bringing a demand for renewable energy and products (Wright 2012). Currently the U.S. employs one million more people through renewable energy and green products than the fossil fuel industry (U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics 2013). This sizeable difference indicates a change in the economic behavior of the United States, however the political atmosphere is much different. President Donald Trump has said concept of Global Warming was created by and for the Chinese in order to make the U.S. (Trump 2012). This is a deviation from the Obama administration, and could be disastrous if the regulations on carbon emissions are removed. However the climate change problem is not lost, it can be slowed and maintained. Many routes exist such as new energy sources and rerouting money toward renewable energy. The true solution to climate change begins at educating the population of the problem, with an understanding of climate change people will be more prepared and willing to tackle our global warming problem. Protesting, contacting a congressman, researching, and being aware of our impact on the planet will lead to a future with minor temperature rise and naturally occurring sea rise. Without the help of humanity, this era of life on Earth is in jeopardy. Work Cited Abrahamson, Dante E. The Challenge of Global Warming. Covelo: Island, 1989. Print. Botkin, Daniel B., Henrik Saxe, Miguel B. Richard Betts, Richard H. W. Bradshaw, Tomas Cedhagen, Peter Chesson, Terry P. Dawson, Julie R. Etterson, Daniel P. Faith, Simon Ferrier, Antoine Guisan, Anja Skjoldborg Hansen, David W. Hilbert, Craig Loehle, Chris Margules, Mark New, Matthew J. Sobel, and David R. B. Stockwell. Forecasting the Effects of Global Warming on  BioScience. Oxford University Press, 01 Mar. 2007. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Chu, Steven, and Arun Majumdar. Opportunities and Challenges for a Sustainable Energy  Nature News. Nature Publishing Group, 15 Aug. 2012. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Global  Global Climate Change. Ed. Holly Shaftel and Laura Tenebaum. NASA, 10 Apr. 2017. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Scientific consensus: climate is Global Climate Change. Ed. Holly Shaftel and Laura Tenebaum. NASA, 10 Apr. 2017. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Goldenberg, James. How to Stop Global  Technology Review (1990): n. pag. Print. Green Goods and Services News  U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, 19 Mar. 2013. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Hoffmann, Justin. The Maldives and Rising Sea  The Maldives and Rising Sea Levels. ICE, 9 May 2007. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Mitchell, Ronald B. IEA Database  IEA Database Home International Environmental Agreements (IEA) Database Project. University of Oregon, 2 May 2014. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Marlon, Jennifer, Peter Howe, Matto Mildenberger, and Anthony Leiserowitz. Yale Climate Opinion Maps - U.S.  Yale Program on Climate Change Communication. Yale University, 2 Feb. 2017. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Robert, Nicholas J. Coastal Megacities and Climate Change. London: Kluwer Academic, 1995. Print. Trump, Donald (realdonaldtrump). concept of Global Warming was created by and for the Chinese in order to make the U.S. 6 November 2012, 2:15 PM. Tweet. U.S. Energy and Employment Report. Rep. Washington: U.S. Department of Labor, 2017. Print. Wright, Joshua. A Broader Look at Fossil Fuels Jobs  Emsi. N.p., 16 Mar. 2012. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. 2016: The Hottest Year on Record. Perf. John Sutter. 2016: The Hottest Year on Record. CNN, 29 Dec. 2016. Web. 15 Apr. 2017.