Solano 1 Ariana Solano L.E. DuBois Composition 2 April 16 2017 Take Action Against Sweatshops Every piece of clothing comes from somewhere but many people do not know where that somewhere is. A cheap way for companies to sell clothing is by using sweatshop like factories. These kind of factory have long shifts with low pay wages. This prevents families in the developing countries to get out of poverty and fully support their families. People work to pay for housing, clothes, food, and have to be able to support a family. With such low wages in garment factories it becomes harder and harder to be able to have that support. Not only are those conditions bad but hundreds of workers get injured per year and some even die. USF students buy clothes which can come from anywhere. Many people do not know which brands support what kind of industries. By encouraging USF students to find out which brands support fair labor it can help them choose to shops at these stores. Not only can students choose to shop at stores that steer clear of sweatshop factories but they can create or sign petition to show their protest against unfair labor laws. By educating USF students and encouraging them to alter their shopping methods we can give power to companies who strive to empower people in developing countries. While many people are familiar with the term sweatshops and have an idea of what it means, many people are unaware of how these kind of factories impact our daily lives. The US Department of Labor defines sweatshops as factories that violate one or more labor laws. Labor laws have anything to do regarding wages, child labor, working hours, and benefits. While the lifestyle of people living in 3rd world countries relatively does not directly affect the students of Solano 2 USF, it affects the clothing and items used by the students. By purchasing items supplied from sweatshops it is showing support for all the negative attributes the sweatshop industry holds. People argue how the US minim wage is far below a livable point yet in developing countries a typically monthly factory worker wage would be around 31$ US dollars (Do Something). In Bangladesh around 3.5 million people work in sweatshop type garment factories. This makes up almost 80% of the contras export revenue (War on Want). Not only are around 1.68 million children between the ages of 5-14 working in these types of factories but most of the employees are women. Since this is the case some factory employers even force women to take both control and regular pregnancy tests to avoid maternity leaves (Do Something). While America may have stronger labor laws and regulation this does not mean sweatshops do not exist. There are still hundreds of factories around America providing unfair wage pay, shifts, and benefits. Workers in both factories in the US and in developing countries can have up to 16 hour shifts almost 7 days a week. Not only is that mentally bad for a person but it is also physically bad. It takes a toll on the overall quality of life. Not only have thousands of factory workers in developing countries been injured but there has been numerous fatalities. People loss their lives to supply an industry fueled by cheap exports. One of the most well known tragedy took place on april 24 2013 in Bangladesh. Within 90 seconds the 8 story Rana Plaza garment factory collapsed killing over 1000 people and wounding more (The Guardian). People who work it these kinds of settings have no other job option, regardless of how unfair they seem. The use of sweatshops in third world countries should be a concern to the students of USF. Many of the stores that use sweatshop labor can even be found near campus. By purchasing produces from these store students not only support the store use of those factories but the whole Solano 3 industry itself. One store that is very accessible to USF students would be the Walmart on Fletcher. Clothing products sold at Wal-Mart were found in the Rana Plaza factory. Other big name clothing stores like H&M, Forever 21, Gap, Victoria Secret use labor from sweatshops (Reese). Many people agree that the use of sweatshops is a negative thing but many people are unaware of just how many brands use them. Even though many popular brands do use sweatshops other brands use companies like Fair Trade. Fair trades mission is to help people struggling in poverty and give them empowerment. By shopping at brands like American Apparel, Patagonia, Lush, and L.L Bean student are support companies like Fair trades. Even though the usage of sweatshop type factories is such a big thing one individual can make an impact in changing this. There are many ways USF students can get involved with the fight against sweatshops. First students can decide not to shop and support companies that use such labor. This will benefit stores that are sweatshop free, helping the factory workers in 3rd world countries. By supporting stores that use fair trade students directly support fair wages and working conditions. Often the quality of products made through fair trade companies is better. This is because they are not using cheaper material that can be found in sweatshops. Fair trade companies improve the housing, healthcare, and schools for the families who are employed by fair trade (Resource Network). If students can not give up their favorite brands there is other ways for change. Petitions can be signed showing that the people do care about this issue. Students can look up certain petitions or if they do not find one they were looking for they can create their own. Lastly students can show USF that they want to be sweatshop free. Almost every student on campus has at least one USF tshirt. By signing a petition for a college campus to change its apparel to be Solano 4 made in fair labor condition, not only does this encourage the school to switch over but promotions other schools in the area to do the same. Do Something has create a petition called the Whitey this is a petition that protests for students college appear to be made ethically and it fair labor laws (Do Something). Students have numerous way to become involved in the fight against unfair labor laws. Even the simplest of actions like signing a petition can go a long way. In conclusion by educating USF students and encouraging them to alter their shopping methods we can give power to companies who strive to empower people in developing countries. People deserve a fair wage and health benefits regardless of the job they have. No one should become injured or even die over cheap clothing. By supporting business that use fair trade companies it shows direct support for the people and shows that USF students stand with them in the fight against unjust labor laws. Solano 5 Works Cited 12 Ethical And Sweatshop-Free Brands That Actually Want To  Gurl.com. N.p., 29 Feb. 2016. Web. 12 Apr. 2017. Do Something. 11 Facts About  DoSomething.org Volunteer for Social Change. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Apr. 2017. Do Something . Tighty Whitey  DoSomething.org Volunteer for Social Change Volunteer for Social Change. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Apr. 2017. Fair  Fair Trade USA. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Apr. 2017. Hoskins, Tansy. Reliving the Rana Plaza factory collapse: a history of cities in 50 buildings, day  The Guardian. Guardian News and Media, 23 Apr. 2015. Web. 12 Apr. 2017. War On Want. Sweatshops in  War On Want. N.p., 23 June 2015. Web. 12 Apr. 2017.