Zamorano 1 Student Jenifer Paquette March 16, 2017 English Language and Composition I Why The Arts Should Stay in Schools When schools need to pick a program to cut funding for, the arts are always at the top of the list. Most people believe it to be a waste of time and state funding, some schools do not even make an effort to fit it into a schedule. They see it as not an important aspect to a school experience. This cannot be any farther from the truth. The arts are very important in a life and should receive the proper funding needed to run a respectable program. The following reasons are just a few benefits art programs can give to students with the proper funding. First of all , students who participate in the arts tend to do better academically in school. In studies done by the Australian Research Council , they found that short term memory music training can positively affect verbal intelligence and changes in functional brain plasticity during an executive function task (Sudmalis 7). In the article Foreword: Exploding Parameters and an Expanded Embrace: A Proposal for the Arts in Education in the Twenty-First Century , the author Steve Seidel is proposing to expand the arts program in rural areas. Schools in rural areas tend to have a lower GPA average than independent and suburban schools. Art programs in rural areas are basically none existent because of funding. When budget cuts are made, the art programs are the first to suffer. Seidel believes that by introducing a stronger arts program , it will help bring up rural average GPA based on pass studies that indicated it would. Zamorano 2 The arts serve as an outlet for students. School can be very stressful for students , and sometimes without a way of releasing all the stress and anxiety a student keeps locked in , it can lead to bad outcomes like depression or cause a student to act out. In the article titled Expanding the Vision of Self: Why the Arts Matter, we are introduced to a student named Ronald. Ronald was always getting into fights at school and the odds of him graduating middle school were slim to none. That is , until Ronald discovered his love for the Arts in singing. Singing served as outlet , his GPA went up and he stopped having fights at school. Without Ronald finding his passion in singing , he probably would have never graduated from middle school and possibly would of dropped out. The arts have the power to change people by letting them express themselves in a safe place so they can release stress and anxiety from their minds. With out it , students would not have a safe place in school to express themselves release all those pent up emotions. The arts also help the development into a good young adult. In the journal The Role of Arts Participation in Academic and Nonacademic Outcomes: A Longitudinal Study of School, Home, and Community Factors , a study was conducted regarding the benefits the arts have on children. Some of what the researchers found is that the arts help with identity- related development and is helpful for self-esteem and the arts may also have something to do with self-determination. These characteristics are key to a development ; without self- esteem and self-determination , a student may not be as insistent in getting into a good school , getting a good job and following their dreams. Of course there are some studies that do not see the benefits the arts have on students. In the article An Ode to Joy or the Sounds of Silence? An Exploration of Arts Education Policy in Australian Primary Schools , instead of discussing benefits of the arts , the author discussed how Zamorano 3 there was not much difference between students who did participate in the arts and those who did not. Budget is also an issue when it comes to keeping the arts in schools. It could be argued that other programs ,like athletics that keep students in shape , should receive more funding than the arts because of their benefits . But the arts have a lot to offer to students that other programs do not . In conclusion, the arts deserve their place in a schedule with the proper funding to maintain a respectable program. Helping students maintain a good GPA , have a safe place to express themselves and have an outlet to release pent up emotions , and developing useful characteristics that a student needs in the outside world are just a few benefits that the arts have to offer to students if it remains in schools with the proper funding. Saving money by cutting corners in the arts programs is not worth the risk of students missing out on all the benefits these programs can give them. Zamorano 4 Works Cited Martin, Andrew J., Marianne Mansour, Michael Anderson, Robyn Gibson, Gregory A. D. Liem, and David Sudmalis. The role of arts participation in academic and nonacademic outcomes: A longitudinal study of school, home, and community  Journal of Educational Psychology 105.3 (2013): 709-27. Web. Miksza, Peter. Arts Education Advocacy: The Relative Effects of School-Level Influences on Resources for Arts  Arts Education Policy Review 114.1 (2013): 25-32. Web. David Sudmalis. Student, home, and school socio-demographic factors: links to school, home,and community arts  The Australian Educational Researcher 43.2 (2016): 221-44. Web. Russell-Bowie, Deirdre. An Ode to Joy or the Sounds of Silence? An Exploration of Arts Education Policy in Australian Primary  Arts Education Policy Review 112.4 (2011): 163-73. Web. Nathan, Linda. Expanding the Vision of Self: Why the Arts  Harvard Educational Review 83.1 (2013): 47-53. Web. Seidel, Steve. Foreword: Exploding Parameters and an Expanded Embrace: A Proposal for the Arts in Education in the Twenty-First  Harvard Educational Review 83.1 Zamorano 5 (2013): 1-4. Web.