Goubrial 1 Mariam Goubrial Janie Gill ENC1102 16 April 2017 The Mass Incarceration on the Use of Drugs In June 1971, President Richard Nixon had declared the official on Today, this proposal has been taken into questioning. Millions of severely addicted individuals have been thrown behind bars without the special treatment they need to recover from addiction. The war on drugs has been a debated issue for years now, and organizations such as the Drug Policy Alliance have been battling to put these drug laws to a halt. There have been many resolutions proposed by many organizations to approach a new and beneficial way to replace current drug policies. In order to stop mass criminalization, awareness must be brought to the issue. Contacting your local government official, signing a petition, or even getting involved with organizations like Drug Policy Alliance can make a massive difference in the way the government is handling this issue. According to the Drug Policy Alliance, the United States makes up less than 5% of the population but makes up 25% of the prisoners. (Drug Policy Alliance) It must be taken into consideration that with these millions of individuals in prison, those same individuals will have a tremendously difficult time finding a job, ineligibility to many benefits such as student loans and financial aid, and may even sometimes lead to deportation. Drug Policy Alliance states that, for a drug law violation is not only meted out by the criminal Goubrial 2 justice system, but is perpetuated by policies denying child custody, voting rights, employment, business loans, trade licensing, student aid and even public housing and other public (Drug Policy Alliance) So in other words, the 2.3 million in prison and the 5 million under criminal justice observation will experience these unfortunate consequences after spending lengthy sentence times in a correctional facility. Not only do they experience this, but some may also still utilize the drug they were incarcerated for while in prison. According to The Center for Prisoner Health and Human Rights, half of prison and jail inmates meet DSM-IV criteria for substance abuse or dependence, and significant percentages of state and federal prisoners committed the act they are incarcerated for while under the influence of (The Center for Prisoner Health and Human Rights) This statistic is proof that current correctional facilities do not give imprisoned addicts the aid they need to recover, but actually is much more dangerous for them. Sharing of syringes in prison is very common and makes prisoners exceedingly prone to diseases such as HIV/AIDS and Hepatitis C. These diseases co-occur with the mental illness of addiction, making life in prison extremely dangerous and difficult for prisoners. With that said, it is estimated that only of incarcerated individuals in need of substance abuse treatment receive it in jail or (The Center for Prisoner Health and Human Rights) The rest of the 89% of prisoners that are in need of treatment are denied it. So why does this all matter? Current drug policies violate basic human rights laws such as being denied medical treatment for serious illnesses like addiction. Not only this, but often times law enforcement use dangerous tactics to search for drugs. The Drug Policy Alliance states that of the most dangerous drug law enforcement tactics is the routine use of paramilitary-style SWAT raids to search in nonviolent drug cases, often for Goubrial 3 simple (Drug Policy Alliance) But law enforcement is not to blame. The law enforcement and court systems are only doing their jobs. The critical issue is within the policies themselves. The policies we have implemented in our government today look at as a moral issue. In the book Our Drug Laws Have Failed: A Judicial Indictment Of War On by James Gray, he states that policy approaches drug use and abuse as a moral issue: Drugs are evil, and if you take them, you are evil, and we will punish (James 6) Although these policies are still implemented, many organizations and researchers are discovering new approaches to resolve the issue of mass incarceration and the bigger issue of addiction. One of these solutions is the drug treatment court. It is a series of rehabilitation services given to the prisoner on a specific period of time. Based on the article You Do It? Applying Structural Ritualization Theory to Drug Treatment Courts Christina Lanier and Kristen E. Devall, the authors conducted a study based on how the structural ritualization theory helps understand how drug treatment courts actually affect the individual. The study concluded that . .findings provide strong evidence that the DTC program process does in fact work to disrupt old rituals through the threat of imprisonment as leverage, the imposition of sanctions and rewards. . ., facilitating the disassociation with old habits, environments, and friends, as well as the use of medical detox and rehabilitation (Lanier and Devall) The drug treatment courts have indeed spread throughout the country over the past few years. According to the The drug treatment court as a form of restorative justice Andrew Fulkerson, he states that growth of drug courts has been tremendous, from a single Miami court in 1989 to over 1100 courts in operation and 500 more courts in planning by (Fulkerson 264) This comes to show that Goubrial 4 there is an efficient way to approach drug addiction without involving the negativities of criminalization. In order to reform the current drug policies, awareness must be brought to the issue. The society must be educated on such matter and take into reasoning that millions of lives are ruined and currently being ruined due to the harsh drug laws implemented in the American government. Organizations such as the Drug Policy Alliance serve to combat mass incarceration on drug use and help those who are suffering from these drug laws. On their website, the have many resources for civilians to use whether if they want to donate and support their organization or learn more about the war on drugs, etc. Other ways the war on drugs can be put to a halt is if local government officials have a massive amount of their civilians petition these policies. Contacting your local government official and letting your voice be heard can make a huge difference for millions of lives. We must take into consideration that these prisoners are not prisoners of a correctional facility, but prisoners to addiction. We must give them a chance to recover instead of abandoning them in a jail cell, allowing them to suffer from mental and physical withdrawals. In order to give them the chance they deserve, we must be heard. Goubrial 5 Works Cited Fulkerson, Andrew. The Drug Treatment Court as a Form of Restorative  Contemporary Justice vol. 12, no. 3, Sept. 2009, pp. 253-267. doi:10.1080/10282580903105772. Gray, James. Our Drug Laws Have Failed : A Judicial Indictment of the War on Philadelphia : Temple University Press, 2010., 2010. ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx ?direct=true&db=cat00847a&AN=usflc.034769498&site=eds-live. Guiding Drug Law Reform &  Policy N.p., n.d. Web. 18 Apr. 2017. Incarceration, Substance Abuse, and  Center for Prisoner Health and Human N.p., n.d. Web. 18 Apr. 2017. Lanier, Christina, and Kristen E. Devall. You Do It? Applying Structural Ritualization Theory to Drug Treatment  of Drug 47.2 (2017): 289-308. Web.