Byrd 1 Meghan Byrd Janie Gill ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Intermediate Draft Nearly everyone in world uses electricity and power in one way or another. Even though energy is a necessity and helps a lot of people, the use of most tradition power sources comes at a cost. Many non-renewable energy sources emit a tremendous amount of pollutants into the environment, such as greenhouse gases and particulate matter. One way to help reduce such harmful pollutants is to use alternative energy sources, such as solar power. With solar power, collecting power can be done with very few pollution sources. Harnessing solar power, or any other form of alternative/renewable energy is one step closer in the fight to help the environment. Some of the first instances of solar power came to be as early as 1839. This is when scientists discovered the photovoltaic effect, which is how most solar panels create their energy. The effect is when a specific material, when exposed to solar radiation, creates voltage. Following this discovery, in 1883, the first solar arrays were used on a rooftop to produce energy. This leads the way into modern solar energy production. In 1954 the modern photovoltaic cell was created, which leads into the first bill that was passed in 1974 that declared solar energy as a viable solution to the future energy crisis. Continuing on, in 1977, the Solar Energy Research Institution was created to help further efforts in solar technology in order to help advance solar technology. There are now many different grants and credits in place for people to harness solar energy. These serve as incentive for more people to work towards using Byrd 2 cleaner energy to try to alleviate some of the damage that has already been done to the ecosystems on earth. Solar energy is among the cleanest sources of renewable energy options. There are essentially no sources of pollution that come from the solar panels themselves. The only pollution comes from the transportation of the panels in large trucks. This brings a good outlook for lowering emitted pollution levels because this is such an important factor in looking for alternative energy sources. If there is not a lowered pollution level, then what is the point of using such sources? Another thing to think about when using alternative energy is how abundant a source of energy is. With traditional energy, such as goal and natural gas, there is a limited amount of it that can be harnessed. This is the reason why they are sources, because once they run out, there is not any more. The sun is an excellent source of energy since it comes up every day. Also, scientist predict that the sun will not die out for almost another 5 billion years, which gives access to this kind of energy for a very long time. One goal in gaining access to alternative energy is that it should be able to last for a long period of time, which solar power accomplishes. Another goal for alternative energy should be that it has multiple uses. Solar energy can be used to provide light, heat and distill water, and works at domestic, commercial, and industrial levels of production. This means that solar power can be used for a wide variety of people in many different places. One thing that makes solar power a good alternate is that there are two methods of energy creation: active and passive. Active solar production involves using the electric equipment to convert solar radiation into electricity to be used in real time. This can be utilized in photovoltaic cells, solar heating and cooling, and concentrating the solar power. The other method, passive, involves collecting the solar energy and, instead of using it in real time, storing it in large batteries to be used at a later time. This Byrd 3 energy can be used during the night time, when there is bad weather or a more cloudy day, or if there are any difficulties with the solar panels themselves. There are many reasons why someone should switch to clean energy, like solar. Some of these reasons might be the fact that it is renewable energy. Solar energy will not run out and can be harnessed and used just about anywhere on the planet. The energy can be harnessed just about every day of the year. Some might wonder what happens on a cloudy or stormy day. This just means that there will be less energy collected. Solar energy and radiation will still penetrate the clouds and hit the panels, there will just be less of this energy. This should not cause any problems, especially is one uses the batteries to store energy. Another reason that solar energy helps the consumer is that solar energy costs less. Not only can it significantly lower monthly bills, but when excess energy is collected it is rewarded with a bonus pay. The maintenance factor of solar panels is another good aspect of them. It does not take much for the solar panels to be cleaned or repaired. They only have to be cleaned a couple times a year and the parts that need to be replaced only need to be done every 5-10 years.