luosang 1 Immigration And Technology ZhuoGe,LuoSang Khawaja,Anastasia ENC1101 17/04/2017 Introduction Immigration has risen to become a highly discussed topic especially from the time European Union countries made an agreement to welcome in a number of Syrian refugees to each of the nations depending on their optimal abilities. With Germany leading the pack, an influx of Syrian refugees escaping from their deadly conflict at home found the much-needed hospitality in Europe. However, the United States, on the other hand, seemed to hold a totally different perspective on how to deal with Immigrants. The 2016 presidential campaigns witnessed Immigration as a key talking point, especially between the Democratic and Republican candidates. The winning candidate, Donald Trump, issued out an anti-immigrant policy which cited immigrants to be the key cause of violence and terrorism in the United States. Generally, the policy was meant to disbar immigrants or refugees to entering the United States. Technological developments have been a massive venture over the past decades in the United States. This has majorly been achieved due to the brilliance of immigrants that move into the country for job opportunities, shelter or education (Ostrand). Thesis statement: This paper will address the positive impact of immigration in the United States so as to discourage rising negative perspectives from individuals that are not of the same opinion of supporting immigrants. Point 1 A majority of immigrants to the United States are normally young people who seek to pursue higher education and improve their intellect levels. This is the reason behind the diversification in terms of race in most of the American universities today. This determined young male and female individuals eventually end up graduating with high honors which inspire and compel most companies to offer employment to them. Such opportunities inspire the immigrant graduates to become innovative individuals especially in the area of technology. Evidence Statistical data from most of the universities in the United States indicate that a majority of the fields that are technical and practical oriented are largely dominated by foreigners from India and China. Most immigrants have been indicated to pursue STEM courses with a recent 2009 statistical data pointing out that about 27% of the degrees awarded in the STEM subjects were directed to them. Traditionally, STEM subjects have been known to be the backbone of innovation in most societies. Industrially developed countries have repeatedly shown their interests in investing in STEM and practical oriented courses as an effort to spark up innovation which should eventually lead to technological advancement (Peri). Point 2 Furthermore, immigrants in the United States have achieved enormous technological success with amazing ideas that have led to worldwide adoption. They have ventured into the establishment of startup companies and winning Nobel Peace Prize Awards that celebrate new inventions. This has significantly encouraged more immigrants to seize opportunities and create employment which economically benefits the United States. Evidence Current evidence and statistics compiled from the Nobel Peace Prize Award committee point out to the fact that about 25% of Nobel Laureates who are based in the country have been immigrants. This period ranges from the contemporary to the mid-19 th century. The same immigrants have also been known to have found new companies that have not only contributed to economic development but also giving jobs to millions of Americans while at the same time contributing to revolutionizing of the technological world. An example is Google where one of its co-founders Sergey Brin, is an immigrant from the former Soviet Union. The impact of Google, a search engine is well known all across the United States and the world over. Jeff Bezos, also an immigrant with her mother from Mexico, is behind the Amazon success in as far as electronic commerce is concerned. With Amazon, the necessity of doing business by traveling to the premises had been bridged. Steve Jobs, the inventor, and entrepreneur behind Apple had immigrant roots. The company through its electronics development and sales has obviously been a major cog in the technological advancements witnessed in the world especially in the smartphones world (Wattles). Counterargument Individuals of the American descent are known to be naturally innovative, industrious and enterprising people. It would be inappropriate to direct all the credits of technological advancement to immigrants. Most Americans have been successful in ensuring that they set the world to new heights of technology without immigrants having a hand in it. It is this innovative nature of Americans that is usually transferred to the immigrants that live in the United States and not the other way around. Evidence Ever since the birth and inception of the United States as a nation, the American constitution has continued to uphold the spirit of hard work. It is as a result of this tradition that innovations and other revolutionizing breakthroughs have been achieved. The American civil war was instrumental in the advancements that are seen in the world of medicine today such as the use of hospitals, triaging of patients amongst others. Come the First and Second World War, massive innovation in communication, military, industrial and medical sectors were witnessed. This simply means that American people are industrious and innovative by nature and whether with or without input, the same technological developments witnessed today could have still been realized. It is also majorly due to the enabling environment that is created and steered by the American government and institutions that immigrants are able to thrive on in their adoption of innovation from the American rich culture. Conclusion The United States has traditionally been made up of a large proportion of immigrant population. The American whites are of European descent that came starting from the 16 th century while the American black population arrived in the country from Africa courtesy of the Trans-Atlantic Slave Trade. Moreover, the Native Americans, which comprise of Red Indians, make a small minority percentage of the American population. Basing on this, it is quite clear that most innovations were engineered by immigrants in the United States. However, the only significant issue is not about who made the innovation but rather the amount of contribution that the technological innovations have had to the society. Immigrants have positively contributed to the advancements not only in technology, but also to the other economical spheres of the United States as an economy. It is hence important that the efforts of each individual, regardless of their country of origin, is recognized and appreciated without any forms of discrimination. It is necessary that the United States uphold its principle of being the land of opportunities and let the continued efforts of technological advancement by immigrants on the American soil. It is wrong for a few tainted negative images about immigrants to be used as an overall perception of their conduct, personality or nature as human beings in our societies. References Ostrand, Nicole. The Syrian Refugee Crisis: A Comparison of Responses by Germany, Sweden, the United Kingdom, and the United  Journal of Migration and Human Security (2015). Peri, Giovanni. The Economic Benefits of Immigration. 2015. <http://clas.berkeley.edu/research/immigration-economic-benefits-immigration>. Wattles, Jackie. These companies exist if it for immigrants. 30 January 2017. <http://money.cnn.com/2017/01/29/technology/companies-immigrant- founders/>.