Yi 1 Thomas Yi Professor Sabah Uddin ENC 1101 April 6, 2017 Legal Drinking Age For decades, the legal drinking age being lowered or remaining the same has been a national debate. However, it seems as if the debate is over. The results of the drinking age being 21 when compared to 18 is so astounding that even the college presidents that once thought that the drinking age law was a failure, is now positive that the drinking age should remain at 21. John McCardell (former President of MiddleBury college in Vermont) writes in 2004, It is astonishing that college students have thus far acquiesced in so egregious an abridgment of the age of majority. This law is an abysmal This is McCardell, a college president back then who founded in 2007, a non-profit group where students and adults alike can become educated in alcohol usage. This groups alcohol education program was made in order to obviously educate the college students but the idea was, if the students are educated at an earlier time on the dangers of alcohol or how to drink carefully, the amount of caught for DUI or DUI and potentially killing other people, will go down. When the stats for DUI or DUI related accidents for college students go down, the drinking age will be lowered to 18. Now it is 2017 and not long from 2007 did McCardell find out that his program did not work out as he had planned. A final verdict on whether or not the drinking age being lowered to 18 or not was made. points to a 2002 study that shows Canada saw a reduction in drunken driving fatalities similar to that of the United States after the 1984 law was passed, but without lowering drinking Yi 2 age, which is 18 or 19, depending on the In a news article from U.S.News, the article speaks for the majority of America that higher drinking age saves lives. It is statistically proven that the amount of DUI and DUI accidents, from before 1984 all the way to present time, has decreased. If the U.S. did happen to reverse its stance on the drinking age law, a similar situation to that of New Zealand may happen. In 1999, New Zealand lowered the drinking age from 20 to 18 and immediately saw the increase in alcohol related accidents. Majority of the accidents happened to individuals aged 16 to 19. Many college presidents are turning their backs on the debate for the drinking age to be lowered. In fact, many college presidents are pushing forward with banning hard alcohol from the campus. an effort to address student misconduct, the president of Dartmouth College in Hanover, N.H. announced last month that hard alcohol would be banned on The president of Dartmouth college is just one of the many college presidents in the U.S. that have decided to ban alcohol from campus. Before 1984, the U.S. did not have one set law for the drinking age. Every state had different drinking ages. states lowered their drinking ages to 18, 19 or 20 during the Vietnam War era, and subsequently reversed them after they saw increases in alcohol-related traffic incidents. Still, some states had lower drinking ages and underage individuals often would cross state lines to drink legally, the report with that being an experience to learn from, strong support from Mothers Against Drunk Driving, the National Parent Teacher Association and other groups, Congress in 1984 passed a law that gave states a financial incentive to adopt a higher drinking age. Otherwise, they risked losing a percentage of highway the U.S. finally decides to have a firm stance on the drinking age. Regardless of failing to lowering the drinking age, McCardell and other college presidents still pleaded legislators to lower the age in 2008. Yi 3 Ultimately, there is always going to be several students/underage individuals who plan to drink no matter what the consequences are. It is in a way, their way of rebelling against the law. The fact of the matter is; Europe has worse problems than the U.S. thanks to their lower drinking age, it is certainly evident now that time has passed since 1984. Therefore, with the drinking age remaining at 21, alcohol related accidents will never increase. Yi 4 Works Cited - Bidwell, Allie. Study: The Debate Is Over - Higher Drinking Age Saves  U.S. News & World Report. U.S. News & World Report, 24 Feb. 2014. Web. 07 Apr. 2017. - Dickerman, Kenneth. You Must Be 21 to  The New York Times. The New York Times, 09 Feb. 2015. Web. 07 Apr. 2017. - Daniloff, Caleb. Drinking: 18 vs. 21 BU Today Boston  BU Today. BOSTON UNIVERSITY, 21 Oct. 2010. Web. 07 Apr. 2017. - CBSNews. The Debate On Lowering The Drinking  CBS News. CBS Interactive, 22 Feb. 2009. Web. 07 Apr. 2017.