Choi 1 Jimin Choi Anastasia J. Khawaja ENC 1101 14 April 2017 Obvious dangerous firearms Gun control has been happened since a long time ago in the us as well as other countr ies. Shooting gun is very common phenomenon for someone who use a gun. Even if someone has individual serious reason or whatever they have, it be justified regardless any other proper reasons, shooting gun is totally inappropriate action. From some people who use the gun control or people who use gun control, they would say that gun control is useless in many ways. Basically, even though they already knew about how to control the gun, the pro blem of gun has been happening constantly every single moment. That mean is that gun contr ol is almost useless way of thinking for everyone. Also, they said that gun is inevitably necess ary thing for someone if they face to urgent situation. In other words, this gun control issue c ould be very sensitive topic in many ways. Eventually, using gun could protect them from so meone who try to kill by using gun. Life, it is one of the most important reason between any other priorities from some people. For instance, we can solve the problem as lo ng as someone is still alive. However, someone will be end up with death, then nobo dy can figure something out for him anymore. Basically, using gun will be banned fo r everywhere in the world. All in all, shooting gun is totally unreasonable. The reason why priority is safe. Banning gun would lead to positive consequences such as other effective finding laws, culture from someone. Also, other reasons of gun should be c Choi 2 ontrolled because it has a lot of negative effects such as increasing murder value, cre epy mood in society in many ways. However, some people think gun as safe reason by their own reason. But, the society will be better as long as we use the firea rms at all in the society. Firearms is literally public enemy of the society. It will lea ds to evil of the society. The only thing for sure is that firearms bring about s afety world. Nowadays, Iraq has been starting firearms like tremendous dangerous weapon for experiment. Because of this, a lot of people died and Iraq face to national crisis. After Donald Trump heard about this problem, American authority decided to shoot the missile from the U.S to Iraq. By now, Iraq was attacked form America and they has been damaged. Basically, using firearms bring about terrible result in the world. a difference a decade makes!... some 5,000 chemical shells have been discovered over the years in Iraq by U.S. or U.S.-trained Iraqi (1 Laurie). This author points out their Iraq is actually keeping their weapon secretly when some emergency happening begin again. If they stop this nuclear experiment, the war will be started again constantly in the future and even right now as well. Once again, firearms cause only dangerous and harmful problem as long as they keep using firearms for purpose of abuse. Eventually, innocent people who do any other fault are getting damaged from other country where has the purpose out of sense for everyone. As a result, all of people must stop using firearms regardless of any other reason. The reason is that some people who have any other fault have been died. Moreover, it can be related to other problems which have been issued especially nowadays. have great confidence that China will properly deal with North Korea. If they are unable to do so, the U.S., with its allies, will! (Donald Trump). President Donald Trump Choi 3 told that China authorities must control and manage the situation of North Korea regarding nuclear problem nowadays. However, China do anything for solving this problem. Why America government is sensitive that North Korea is making tremendous dangerous nuclear weapon for threat of all of countries in the world. Basically, they want to prove it to them regarding their own power in terms of nuclear power. After this, President Donald Trump did caution them whom are North Korea and China about stopping ridiculous action constantly. However, North Korea totally have been ignoring his saying. Even China doing any clever solution and other alternatives to mediate North Korea at all. This issue should be very important in the world. Basically, all people must pay attention to this political issue. The reason is that this problem is humanity issue. If we care about this problem at all, we find out the solution later on as well whenever we have the big crazy issue. As a result, only authority cares about this worldwide problem without any other opinions from nations in the U.S. Of course, the crucial decision could be decided by president. But, the only thing for sure is that got to escape from indifferent our way of thinking about crucial problems. Nowadays, almost broadcast handle this problem of North Korea in many ways. The nuclear problem must be connected all problems. When it comes to geographic feature, the nuclear which made from North Korea can attack almost portion of world. why almost people are very sensitive and people absolutely think this problem as out of sense in the world. Also, why every broadcast is focusing on the problem of North Korea regarding nuclear weapon. Firearm could be useful for some people based on protect. Because Donald Trump use missile against Iraq when it comes to maintaining peaceful world. From this happening, other countries like North Korea could be afraid and could be stopped by looking tremendous notice from Syria where has been attacked form America. But the most important thing is that it would Choi 4 not have been if some others start to use nuclear. Therefore, not using firearms can be solution. Of course, some countries have got to use the firearms when they face to crisis like inevitable problems. But firearm is generally just killing people based on their own way of thinking. And this happening is not general based on normal way of thinking. But this problem be solved as long as we just neglect this problem. why majority of people care about the issue of the firearms Overall, got to stop using firearms like gun, chemical weapon, missile like these things. Our future be having hope at all if countries in the world keep this situation of using firearms every single moment. If we think basis of the firearms, someone has been using gun unconditionally every moment whenever they face to big problems as issues on news, social media, or wherever someone can see easily. As a result, got to get set their mind as peaceful condition for everyone. As long as somebody start to use firearms, revenge by using firearms. Although they must compete or glance at others, they must use other method to solve their problems. Choi 5 Works Cited Fisher, Max. the Syrian Chemical Weapons Problem Is So Hard to Journal of Social Perspective, 13 April, 2017. Web. Outbrain. Is US really in North  FoxNews.com. N.p, 01 Web. 13 April, 2017.