Conner Cavin Anastasia J. Khawaja ENC 1101 April 16, 2017 How has gender equality changed throughout time, and has it gotten better or worse? Gender equality. Two small, yet very meaningful words. Gender, everybody is associated, everybody has this in common. Equality, this on the other hand, is what we all do not have in common. The argument of whether there is any sort of equality within genders has gone on for centuries. Some people believe that different genders deserve to be all equal. While others believe that all genders deserve the same treatment, respect, and view. Over the years, the view on gender equality has changed very drastically from where it used to be. It has gotten better at certain levels, but has gotten drastically worse at others. Many scholars have argued this topic for years. Have times changed or have they just become so normal that people even notice when it is right in front of them? Although times have changed and the view has gotten slightly better, most sources will all agree that the equality levels between men and women are drastically different. Times have certainly changed, but definitely not for the better. The thought of inequality has been pushed back and out of the minds of everyday people, up until recently, and it is time that we changed that thought. The idea of gender equality has been around for many, many years. The topic of whether or not there is equality between men and women has been talked about and argued all along the way. Author Stephanie Coontz reported that In 1963, most Americans did not yet believe that gender equality was possible or even  (Coontz). People in that day in age never even thought about the simple idea that men and women could even be considered equal. But as stated by Fiona Pape Over the past 80 years, a lot more has changed for women in many countries, especially in terms of employment rules, reproductive rights, and anti-harassment laws. suffrage marks a watershed moment for equality in many  (Pape). Time simply started to change, but the view stayed the exact same. Equality through gender became a conversation simply when women finally decided to speak out about the inequalities they faced, if women never would have spoken out, things would be the exact same. From the very beginning women were looked down upon, starting with the simple fact that they vote. As long as people could remember it was never even considered that women should be allowed to have a say in politics. Simple things like this became widely outspoken about when the Rights Movement took flight. During this time women all over started to actually talk about what they wanted and how they wanted to be treated. After this, all throughout time, women started to not take the inequality anymore and they started to change the way people treated, looked at, and thought about women. All of the things women did back then led to the way women live life today. Women changed the roles themselves. But, even though things have changed slightly, researchers have found that in world, women still have just as many struggles as they did back before things actually started to change. In society now some things have in fact gotten better, but in other ways things have only been normalized. These ways mainly being in the work force. Sofia Elwer notes that All over the world the labour market is strongly gender segregated, leaving women and men exposed to different work environments in different occupations (horizontal segregation) and hierarchical positions (vertical segregation), with consequences for and health  (Elwer). Men are still seen as more powerful and as what should be the head of a company. Women are still considered weak and not able to run a company. But most people would never even think that that is the case. People have become too used to men being in charge and men being the head of society, that it even cross their minds that women are nowhere to be seen in these positions. There are a lot of people still out there who believe women are inferior to men. But not everyone thinks this way. A lot of men and women are joining forces to fight these gender stereotypes, and to win equality in society. When looking into the future there really is no telling what road gender equality is going to take. Researchers are always publishing their opinions about how they think it is getting better or worse, but in reality the people of society are the only ones who can decide the path. Within the work force things seem to be getting better to others, but are still the exact same as before. Orit Gadiesh feels that Companies say they treat men and women equally but in reality, they  (Gadiesh). There are opinions flying all over the place. The future of gender equality and the inequality that women face every day lay in the hands of the people who are keeping it the way it is. In conclusion, gender equality has changed throughout the years, but the question of for better or for worse is still on the plate. There are researchers who believe that equality has taken a turn for the better and that society is a completely different way than before, but there are also the researchers who believe that life has just become normalized and that times are exactly the same. Times have certainly changed, but definitely not for the better. The thought of inequality has been pushed back and out of the minds of everyday people, up until recently, and it is time that we changed that thought. Equality can only be changed by the society that we live in, nothing else can fix it. Works Cited Coontz, Stephanie. Why Gender Equality  The New York Times. The New York Times, 16 Feb. 2013. Web. 26 Feb. 2017 Elwer, Sofia, Harryson, Lisa, Bolin, Malin, and Hammarstrom, Anne. Patterns of Gender Equality at Workplaces and Psychological  PLOS. Ed. Sten H. Vermund. N.p., 9 Jan. 2013. Web. 11 Feb. 2017. Gadiesh, Orit, and Coffman, Julie. Why Workplace Equality Initiatives Helping  Harvard Business Review. N.p., 5 Feb. 2010. Web. 11 Feb. 2017. Pape, Fiona. 80 moments that shaped the world:  80 moments that shaped the world: equality British Council. N.p., 03 Dec. 2014 . Web. 26 Feb. 2017.