!1 Alyssa Scheible Sabah Firoz Uddin ENC 1101 5 April 2017 Stress among college students is an issue on the rise. According to the Journal of Happiness & Well Being has been an alarming increase in stress levels among the college student Stress extends a consequential public health problem for many students due to the college environment generating numerous academic, social, and personal challenges. The pressures and demands on students have increased in some interesting ways: changing lifestyles and attitudes of students, modern technology, and the stress of wanting to have a job by the age of thirty. However, the question still remains, has stress among college students increased overtime? Ong, Bessie and K.C. Cheong. Sources of Stress among College Students--The Case of a Credit Transfer  College Student Journal, no. 4, 2009, p. 1279. Authors Bessie Ong and K.C. Cheong conduct a study that helps to identify the types of stressors experienced by students. They found that the top reported stressors were academic workload, having too many tests and quizzes, challenging courses, having high grades, and lecturer characteristics. The data that they collected was recorded, academic stressors ended up being at the top of their list, coming in at !2 63%, interpersonal came in at 17.5%, interpersonal was recorded at 13%, and environmental came in at 2.5%. Both authors report that like workload and too many tests are consistent with those reported by the American College Students over the past 15 This article was written back in the year 2009, increase of college student stressors had yet to be a problem yet. De Carvalho, Catharina F., et al. Locus of Control: Differences among College Stress  Individual Differences Research, vol. 7, no. 3, Sept. 2009, pp. 182-187. Moving onto another study conducted in the year 2009, this study was performed by a group of authors named Catharina De Carvalho, Bernadette Gadzella, Tracy Henley, and Steven Ball. The point of the study was to see how powerful the correlations were between the severe stress group scores, the powerful others, and the chance scales. Also to test out the differences between the mild and severe stress group on the chance scale. According to one of their sources, stress students experience in college may affect their academic performances, and many of them attribute their successes and failures to their experiences of internal and external In the discussion part of the study, they reported that data from the study showed a positive correlation between the severe stress level and Chance score of the These results were much higher when compared to the data results collected back in 1994. Still, the issue of stress among college students was not increasing yet. !3 Hasel, Kurosh Mohamadi, et al. Hardiness Training and Perceived Stress among College  Procedia - Social and Behavioral Sciences, vol. 30, no. 2nd World Conference on Psychology, Counselling and Guidance - 2011, 01 Jan. 2011, pp. 1354-1358. In this study, they investigated the development of a hardiness training program to determine whether perceived stress could be reduced and hardiness could be increased among college students. The experiment went on for 6 weeks. There was a change between the pretest and posttest scores. Results showed that hardiness was increased and perceived stress was decreased. from this study are consistent with other Meaning this is a common study because the issue of stress increase among students is so dramatic. They are starting to develop new programs to help get the increase of stress in college students decrease. In the year 2011, stress among college students had just started to increase dramatically. The Journal Of Happiness & Well-Being, 2014, 2(2), 132-144. A Study of Stress, Social Support, and Perceived Happiness among College Students (n.d.): n. pag. Web. My current source from 2014 was a study conducted by Keith King, Rebecca Vidourek, Ashley Merianos, and Meha Singh. study aimed to explore the relationship of happiness, stress, and emotional closeness to others to help move towards evidence-based practices for this population. Therefore, the primary !4 purpose of this study was to examine whether college perceived happiness differed based on stress, frequency of stress management techniques, and emotional closeness to others (social support). Results indicated that students are least happy about their situation, at work, and at numerous prevention efforts, the overall prevalence rates of stress have increased over time (Wallace, 2007). Various types of high stress, including daily stressors (Almeida, 2005) and major life events (Brown & Harris, 1989; Chappel, Suldo, & Ogg, 2014), have impact that may lead to negative psychological and physical health-related consequences among recent years, there has been an alarming increase in stress levels among the college student population (Pierceall & Keim, In the last three quotes provided, the increase in stress levels among college students has gotten to a point where professionals are concerned. College is becoming more and more stressful each and every year. Colleges are trying to advance classes to become Ivy League schools, making the curriculum much harder than it needs to be, giving students no personal time. The results from this study can be extremely helpful to professionals by helping them understand college students perceptions. These results are meant to help specialists in establishing adequate programs and campus efforts around the nation. Stress among college students is not a foreign issue, however the increase of stress among college students is a fairly new issue that professionals are worried about because of how fast the stress levels are skyrocketing. As you can see, in my older sources, stress among college students was normal, the stress of class work, tests, graduating and getting a degree. Although, the reason professionals are worried now is !5 because the loads of class work has gotten more extreme, tests and exams became harder, and most students have less time to themselves and feel they cant even sleep without risk of getting a bad grade or at worst, a degree. Professionals should be worried, stress can lead to many other psychological problems, especially when the stress is reoccurring persistently. Stress among college students is an issue that will continue to increase, sadly this is how it will be for a while. !6 Works Cited Ong, Bessie and K.C. Cheong. Sources of Stress among College Students--The Case of a Credit Transfer  College Student Journal, no. 4, 2009, p. 1279. De Carvalho, Catharina F., et al. Locus of Control: Differences among College Stress  Individual Differences Research, vol. 7, no. 3, Sept. 2009, pp. 182-187. Hasel, Kurosh Mohamadi, et al. Hardiness Training and Perceived Stress among College  Procedia - Social and Behavioral Sciences, vol. 30, no. 2nd World Conference on Psychology, Counselling and Guidance - 2011, 01 Jan. 2011, pp. 1354-1358. The Journal Of Happiness & Well-Being, 2014, 2(2), 132-144. A Study of Stress, Social Support, and Perceived Happiness among College Students (n.d.): n. pag. Web. !7