Herdomina Daundi ENC1101 Anastasia Khawaja The Life of the Factory Labor For decades factories have been extremely well in providing the society with their needs from primary to tertiary. However, behind this fast production of factories there are many workers who are suffering in the workplace which also play a critical impact in their lives; from the horrible working place, the increase of working hours (Zhang, 2015), to child labor (China Labor Watch, 2011). This issue has been there for many years even before factories can produce as much as they could today and also many things have been done by many people yet, in the recent days many laborers in China still have the same problem. Even though the government has passed laws to protect the working condition and the life of the factory labors, many workers in China still find it hard to express their legal rights, and therefore we need the government to pay more attention to the in the 21st century. Before the 21st century, because of lack of the government attention or what is said to be laissez-faire government where according to Dictionary.com it means that theory or system of government that upholds the autonomous character of the economic order, believing that government should intervene as little as possible in the direction of economic Therefore, many laborers could not express their rights because the government did not seemed care for how people run the factories. Supported by Sinclair, in his book the Jungle, he explained how the life of a factory labor was like. Sinclair, exposed the working conditions and also the houses for the workers which provided by the factory. Based on the information gathered by Roberts, the factory tried to maintain lower outcome to get big income which resulted in the low wages of the workers. As for the company to maintain higher profits for higher production, they also have to have a very low outcome which means decrease the wages of the factory laborers. As one of the biggest oart of the company, the workers have a main role on how to increase the income of the company (Zhang, 2015). Based on the data collected and linked by the researchers, the high number of working hours is one of the factor of the world branch of the company (Zhang, 2015). According to Roberts, the single women in China tend to have lower wages than any other workers. This factor is cause by probably education or their social life which believed to be the reason that they are still single. Also supported by Sinclair, these women mostly immigrants. Other than lower the wages of the laborers, the factory also made their employees to work for more than they supposed to (Zhang, 2015). These people were forced to work more so the company can branch out of China to increase their income, however these people were still treated the same way. From time to time, after seeing the laborers suffered many people have made the movement for the workers so they can express their legal rights. Even though the laborers were having a hard time at work and could not do a protest, many people actually came together to make a labor movement (McKormick, 2011). After the tragedy if the Triangle Shirt Factory fire, people have been furious and they have made labor movements so that these people can eventually have what they deserve. However, even after all these movements and laws that the government has passed all these times, The China Labor Watch still found many people being treated horrible. They found around hundreds of workers in seven automobile factories in China that still forced their workers to work extra hard and not paying then with the amount of money that they deserved. Even after all the fights that these laborers made they still cannot get their rights. Many people still struggled to feed their family. Therefore the government of China should have given more attention to the factories even though these factories actually have a big impact for the the country with their economy and also some political aspects. Citation  Dictionary.com. Dictionary.com, n.d. Web. McCormick, Marcia L. Consensus, Dissensus, and Enforcement: Legal Protection of Working Women from the Time of the Triangle Shirtwaist Factory Fire to  NYUJ Legis. & Pub. 14 (2011): 645 Gabriel, S.J. Zhang, Lu. Inside automobile factories: the politics of labor and worker  CHOICE: Current Reviews for Academic Libraries 2015: 1557. Literature Resource Center. Web. 11 Feb. 2017.