Williams 1 John Williams Dubois ENC 1102 12 April 2017 Project 3 Most college students are concerned with college life and trying to find the next frat party. However, there are a number of students who generally want to make the world a better place, so they become engaged in controversial issues and attempt to fix the negative aspects we have in our society. This happened a few years ago, when Southwestern University and other university gathered together to divest from African apartheid and eventually were successful. Ultimately, this proves the dedication of college kids have for a cause, so why not set their sights on zoological guidelines and wild conservation. Wildlife conservation is easily an overlooked subject and could benefit from much needed support. This profession is having a difficult time because they are constantly fighting an uphill battle against humans and the need for space and recreation. The greatest support these efforts receive is from zoo because zoos are major contributors to the conservation of wild (Zoo Support). The zoo career is not the most successful or well-paid job, so the majority of their support they give comes from money they get from their patrons. Therefore, I am encouraging these young individuals to try something new, stand up for a wonderful cause and go visit their local zoo. Animals in the wild are in for a rough time without the support from our every changing world. Many species are no longer here today and others are on their way there due to the presence of humans. The human population is multiplying every day and cultivating more of the planet, which is forcing several kinds of animals out of their environments. As their homes are being taken away they are forced to move to an entirely new habitat and usually without Williams 2 adequate resources. On the other hand, these wild animals must share their land with people and sometimes the humans carry a malicious intent. They are threatened by man-kind because they practice a sport known as hunting and are murdering these innocent animals for decoration, money, or fun. Many efforts are proving that is being slaughtered on an alarming scale by a new breed of criminal who kills wild animals illegally for money or and this is a pressing issue that people need to be enlighten upon (Hansen 1). That is why we need to stand up be an active voice for these innocent, defenseless creatures because without us they can be wiped off the face of our planet. Roughly there are about 100 animal species on the endangered animals list, so this means that about 100 species are close to extinction and would no longer exist in the world we know today (WWF). Just last year, eight animal species have dropped off the face of the planet and they will not be coming back because they are now extinct. And this is the whole mission behind these zoos. trying to promote animal preservation and preventing animals from going endangered and even extinct. To do this, they are collaborating with conservation efforts to support environment protection and educating the public about extinction issues. For effective change to be done, they need to allocate the funds from some place. A large portion of the proceeds zoos receive from their patrons when they purchase a ticket goes to these efforts. The news validates this because they stated a zoo in Idaho the funds from admissions fees a conservation (Kaufman). Conservation is the process of protecting environments and the animals that inhabitant them. The goal of these conservation efforts is to ensure that wildlife will be around for the many future generations to come and for them to recognize the importance that wildlife plays in their daily life. Zoos are extremely extravagant organizations because they are a mix of responsibilities; caring for animals, ensuring Williams 3 safety for visitors and staff, and maintain and they are still able to give back to the wildlife and donate funds to conservation programs (Tullis). The other percentage of the admissions fee goes to benefit things inside the park such as animal care, enclosures, and other features. The left-over money that does not go to preservation goes back to bettering the zoo, so they can receive more revenue. Zoos must constantly renovate and upgrade their enclosures and attractions to keep the public interested and wanting to come back. Without their support, the zoos would not be unable to operate, support preservation efforts and progress because the public is a crucial component in a zoos daily effort. For example, a Angeles zoo a new, six-acre enclosure for Asian displayed conservation efforts and the ways visitor helped the (Tullis). The profits from their guest getting into the park were able to provide the elephants with this enriching multi-million-dollar environment. Most of the zoos all around the world have designated a set of their profits to benefit the animals in the wild and to ensure they say around for many generations to come because many species are becoming endangered and are at risk for disappearing forever. This idea has become more of a pressing issue because of the amount of species that are going extinct evert year and there is little to no help fighting to stop these numbers. Recently, zoos have stepped up and dedicated a portion of the ticket sales to support preservation strives and expanding their enclosures to keep the public and the animals engaged. These proceeds are going to a great cause because with all the funding they have receive they have been able to repopulate and remove fifth teen animals from the endangered and extinct list (Animals). However, zoos can only do so much without the support of their patrons. Every time, someone pays to go to a zoo or just simply gives a donation, they are actively supporting animals in the wild. Since, college students Williams 4 are a tight-knit community, they could talk to their professors or classmates and arrange a day for them all to go. They could even setup an event on campus that informs their fellow students about conservation. All I am asking them to do is to put as much effort in this topic as they did a couple of years ago at Southwestern University. If this is a little too much, one could make a small donation to a program or simply do a little research about the different efforts and the possible steps one could take to help these certain causes. But any support they give is a step towards progress. Williams 5 Works Cited Animals That Are No Longer Endangered  CNN. Cable News Network, 14 May 2016. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Endangered Species  WWF. World Wildlife Fund, n.d. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Hansen, Kevin. CRIMES AGAINST THE  CRIMES AGAINST THE WILD: POACHING IN CALIFORNIA (1994): 1. MOUNTAIN LION FOUNDATION, July 1994. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Kaufman, Leslie. Zoos Raise Money for Faraway  The New York Times. The New York Times, 28 May 2012. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. Tullis, Paul. When You Walk Into a Zoo, Are You Helping Animals or Hurting  TakePart. N.p., 02 May 2014. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. Zoo  21st Century Tiger. N.p., n.d. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. Zoos Are Excellent Places to Inspire People to Care about  CEC Talks Nature Zoos Are Excellent Places to Inspire People to Care about Nature. N.p., n.d. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. Zoos Are Not Prisons. They Improve the Lives of  Time. Time, n.d. Web. 14 Apr. 2017.