Vasylenko 1 Artem Vasylenko L.E. DuBois ENC 1102 15 April 2017 Racism in Soccer Racism is one of the most serious and acute issues in our society nowadays. Many people are not aware that racism still exist in schools, colleges, workforces, military and anywhere else where live people with different skin color and origins. Sport is not at exception and the best example where racism exists the most is soccer. In this kind of sport, especially in Europe, each year notices a lot of cases of racism and disrespect towards players, manages and fans each year. According to Cleland & Cashmore (2014), in 2014 British Soccer Association admitted 1185 cases of racism and there are approximately 1500 which were not proved. Such issues like racism are social and it is very difficult to overcome them because it is partially personal and individual bad relation to other people because of their skin color and race origins. Racism harms soccer and does not allow to develop this sport and make it more interesting for people. This issue stops many people around the world from watching it because they do not want to see how fans call black players and throw bananas on the field. Racism is society problem which exists in sport and should be stopped by usual people in order to make our generation more respectful by understanding that it is our job to take a responsibility and start taking actions to overcome this issue. To begin with, soccer is a kind of sport in which take part a lot of players around the world. In Europe 35% of soccer players who play for professional teams and take part in national Vasylenko 2 leagues are from South America and Africa (Mourao & Reis, 2016). This statistics proves that many players who play in Europe have different skin color, language, religion and it makes them an aim of being a victim of racism from fans or other players. A lot of people around the world create or take part in special organizations in order to challenge racism and try to bring soccer on another level. Also, a lot of fans bring special banners with them where they put some anti-racists slogans and show them during the games. This problem bring a lot of people who wants to overcome it together because it is very acute nowadays. Soccer is sport number one in Europe and one of the most popular sports around the world and it is obvious that if racism is the problem number one in soccer, then it means that it is one of the most serious issues in sport in general. Many organizations like UEFA and FIFA which are very powerful stakeholders in the world of soccer, try to solve this issue too. Both of them have the aim of overcoming racism and they have noticeable progress in this process but they need a help from the public. UEFA representatives believe that without the help of usual people who are interested in soccer, they will not be able to solve this issue (Racism in Soccer, n.d.). Even such a powerful organization like UEFA does not see a solution for this problem if usual soccer fans do not want to help. Racism is one of the most serious issues in sport nowadays and all people who are interested in it should take responsibility on themselves and try to overcome this issue all together. Players, managers, club representatives and usual fans should realize that it is not possible to solve such problems by relying on organizations like UEFA or FIFA. Both of them are very powerful and have all needed force and power to ban players and even clubs from taking part in soccer leagues if they will notice act of racism. Such restrictions are very serious and will make people think seriously before showing disrespect towards other players but it does Vasylenko 3 not change the situation and does not solve it. If we want to bring soccer on another level and watch this game without any in it, then we should at least help such organizations like UEFA and FIFA by taking part in their program which is called No to The idea of this mission is to overcome racism and engage as much people as it possible who will help to solve this issue. All people who cares about the future of soccer and making our society better in general should take part in this organization now and start helping now. According to Santo (2015), sport is a part of a culture in each country and it is what makes countries unique and different from others. Soccer is not an exception because it is sport activity number one in European countries and in some of them it is even under control by government. Millions of people around the world watch soccer games and support their favorite teams but at the same time they witness acts of racism which does not allow to get satisfied fully. Racism ruins not only soccer, but is also ruins a part of a culture which is very important part of each country. It is much bigger issue than just soccer problem and that is the reason why all people should take part in it and be involved in the process of solving it. Only by all of us coming together and have one aim, we can overcome racism and be a good help for a such organizations like UEFA and FIFA. They are huge and very powerful but they are not able to change the culture. Only usual people can do it and influence the future of soccer and try to improve this kind of sport. If you are a usual fan of soccer who supports your favorite team - it means that you are involved in this game and you are a part of it. All problems which exist there partially relates to you and if you want your favorite game to be better, then you should take some actions and know how to do it. Each person who are interested in soccer is definitely aware about racism which exists there because there are a lot of cases of it and it happens frequently. Racism in Vasylenko 4 general is a sociable problem and it should be solved by society then. Usual people like we are should bring their own benefit and make some efforts in order to overcome it. The best thing what you can do is to join and program No to Each usual fan can be part of these organization and by doing this he or she will bring a lot of positive moments in this game. The most common what usual fans can do is to bring some anti-racists banners and show their opinion about this problem. Being a part of No to movement will give you an opportunity of bringing banners for the soccer games and you even will have a chance to be at a special part of the stadium. Also, you will be able to have a special meetings with club representatives and team players and share your opinion with them and maybe try to change their opinion about racism. There are a lot of players who could be racists just because a bad experience or they were victims of racism towards them but after listening to you they will change their relation to this topic. So, you would have a chance to talk to you favorite soccer player and maybe even change his opinion about some topics and help him to respect other players more. The purpose of this program is to be more than just a fan, you should play more important role for this game and even try to change it. If you will not do it then no one will do and if we want to change soccer and overcome such a serious issue like racism - we should take part in the No to program or just be one of those people who believe that they can improve things and prove that even small group of people can do something. If you do not want to be a part of big organization then you have a chance of trying to help by yourself. Create some groups in social media, start your own Youtube channel, try to create special events for fans and try to persuade them that racism is a big problem and it harms soccer a lot. Doing something, even not a lot is already better than doing nothing and if each of us will think that this problem Vasylenko 5 will be solved by itself then it will never be solved. Racism is a social issue and why we should start taking actions now and try to overcome it. To sum up, racism is a very serious issue nowadays and it still exists in all spheres of our life and sport is not at exception. The biggest problem which stops people and soccer organizations like FIFA and UEFA from solving this problem is that it is mostly social and it relates more to experience and life views. The only one way to solve it is to start from ourselves and try to be beneficial of soccer and rely on our efforts. There is nothing is our world that can not be solved, people can overcome any issue but it needs time and efforts. Racism is a very big problem nowadays and it harms soccer a lot, but if we will take responsibility on ourselves and will start doing something now - then we will have a bright future for soccer and will bring this game on a new level. Vasylenko 6 Works Cited Cleland, J., & Cashmore, E. (2014). Racism and British Football in the Twenty-First Century: The Existence of a Colour-Blind of Migration Studies. Racism in Sport. (2017). Retrieved from www.uefa.org. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. White, T. (2015). is rife in English football with over 350 incidents from the Premier League to grassroots since 2012, investigation Santo, R. (2015). the Culture: Journal of Adult Education. Mourao, Paulo Reis. Transfers, Team Efficiency and the Sports Cycle in the Most Valued European Soccer Leagues - Have European Soccer Teams Been Efficient in Trading Economics.