Delbecq 1 Paul Delbecq Anastasia Khawaja ENC1101 The Evolution of the Benefits of Martial Arts I. Martial arts is the system of combat practices that were originally created for self- defense, military, and law enforcement applications, as well as for spiritual and entertainment purposes (Neil 18). Nowadays, there are many martial arts schools available, in addition to numerous resources online. The rise of martial arts in combat is a reflection of the progress that our society has made based on efficiency, entertainment, and athleticism. With the change in social construction and principles, the present-day combat of martial arts resonates in rise. The new systemization of martial arts combats in the spheres of fitness, art competition, art performance are under global spotlight. The benefits of martial arts remained the same as it was before, however the focus of them has been drifted away from spirituality and discipline to efficiency of combat and athleticism during the last century. This evolution of martial art made a beneficial impact on the physical and psychological health of the performances. According to the book Arts for written by Jenifer Lawler, four decades ago martial arts teachers were more focused on teaching discipline and spiritual values through katas, forms and traditions. These forms were often a way to practice without any opponent. This was a problem, since practitioners have had no real experience when needed to use their skills to defend or to attack in the real life (Lawler 43). It is also good for the mind as it instills self-confidence, reinforces the personality, and develops strong values and disciplines to the martial artist. Moreover, it helps to strengthen the character and to maintain life in a more peaceful and stress-free manner. This was a problem since Delbecq 2 practitioners had no real experience when they needed to use their skills to defend or to attack in the real life. And it was again a problem because it had less physical impact as they were not doing competition or sparing sessions like nowadays. However, nowadays martial arts have a greater focus on the efficiency of combat and athleticism. As a result, the martial artists are healthier, both mentally and physically. Evidence Bruce Lee was the most athletic and efficient martial artist of his time; he still considered as the father of modern martial arts. He supported the idea that the martial arts of that time were very limited in terms of fighting in a real situation, because of the lack of sparing session and competition. Nowadays, martial arts have gone through positive changes in a positive way by improving efficiency of combat. Athleticism is more useful and important now than focusing on discipline of technique. It is often not applicable in real combat, so by focusing on athleticism rather than the spiritual aspect, artists automatically improved their physical and mental health just by pushing their body harder. According to the book, Jenifer Lawler said that the athletic skills have an impact on the mental and physical health and general well- being of a person. Nowadays, there are more cases of injury among martial artists than few decades ago. Due to the increase in competition and focus on efficiency of combat and physical application of martial arts in competitions and sparing sessions, one aspect of the sport these days is there are more cases of injury reported among the martial artists than ever before. These injuries do affect the body. As for example, if you get kicked on the leg or if you break your arm by falling. However, sometimes you can even get injured on the brain by multiple strikes in the head or knockouts by a powerful shot in the head. When somebody gets knockout, you have to recover for a long time before being able to fight again. Those injuries can then impact the Delbecq 3 martial artist in a negative way, both physically and mentally. This happens mostly during a competition or a sparing training: it is a form of training that consists of fighting with a partner, without trying to hurt the opponent. However, there is still risk of injuries. Evidence: back to point/evidence. Even though it has been proven that nowadays there are higher rates of injury than decades ago, sparing and competition are still the best way to truly enjoy the feeling of combat and adrenaline. Physical focus is better for the well being of the mind and soul. Martial arts have many health benefits, especially on cardiovascular health. It is a high-aerobic art that requires good stamina, so the practitioners will improve their stamina if they train regularly. As a result, it lowers their cholesterol and blood pressure. There are physical benefits of martial arts. According to the book Arts for written by Jenifer Lawler, martial arts also increases strength, because a martial artist has to use every muscle group in the body while improving balance, as it is the first thing you learn in order to have power in the strikes or to avoid take downs to not lose a fight. As a consequence, all the health benefits that martial arts provide, increases the energy of the practitioner (Lawler 64). According to the book Bruce Commentaries on the Martial Way martial arts also has great psychological impacts, such as improved self-confidence, because you learn how to keep your composure in different situations when you are sometimes physically in danger or just doing tasks that are difficult for you at first. But exercising is beneficial, especially as it increases muscle flexibility. Also, even getting injured once makes you learn how not to get injured again in a combat or sparing situation. why the saying goes, is the pillar of We learn from our mistakes. So even sustaining injuries can be beneficial in the long run, as it instills another kind of discipline which is patience and determination to get better. Doing sparing task and competition improves athleticism, whereas training results in efficiency of combat, the overall well-being greatly depends on discipline and spirituality. Even though martial arts nowadays Delbecq 4 poses a higher risk of injuries, the benefits of focusing on the physical aspect and efficiency of combat of the martial art triumphs the benefits in the long run. Eventhough spirituality and discipline are very important for martial artists, athleticism and efficiency are the most important factors for psychological and physical health. As it was cited in the paper, martial arts practioners are guaranteed personal safety, good mental and physical health. Delbecq 5 Work cited Horton, Neil. Japanese Martial Arts, Chichester: ePubDirect, 2005. eBook Collection (E (EBSCOhost). Web.29 Jan. 2017. Lawler, Jennifer. Martial arts for dummies. New York: Wiley Pub., 2003.Print Lee, Bruce, and John R. Little. Bruce Lee: Jeet Kune Do: Bruce Commentaries on the Martial Way: Editorial Paidotribo, 2007. Print. Thomas, Steve. Martial Arts as A Model for Nonviolence: Resisting Interpersonal Violence With Assertive Force. The Conrad Grebel Review 33 ;1 (2015) :72-91. ATLARELIGION Database with ATLASerials. Web 29 Jan. 2017 Lee, Bruce, and John R. Little. Striking thoughts: Bruce Wisdom for daily living. Boston: Tuttle Pub., 200. Print. living.Boston: Tuttle Pub., 200. Print. Ertonghen, Jikkemien, and Marc Theeboom. The Social-Psychological Outcomes Of Martial Arts Practise Among Youth: A  Journal Of Sports Science & Medicine 9.4 (2010): 528-537. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 11 Feb. 2017. Notes Transitions. Structure Point revwiew outline Fix sentence and spelling and plagiarism of my previuious paper especially on health benits and introduction is too long Evidence