Dalla Costa 1 Sarah Dalla Costa Andrew De Carion ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Labelling of Genetically Modified Foods GE foods or GMOs are plant or meat products that have had their DNA altered by the addition of genes from another species, which are often introduced to prevent spoilage, fight against pests and insects, and breed viral, pesticide, and antibiotic resistance (The Honest Company, INC.). For example, a tomato beetle resistance is due to a gene from a bacterium (Bacillus Thuringinesis), which is inserted into the genome, creating a protein that is poisonous to certain insects. It has been estimated that 70% of all processed foods in the USA contains at least one genetically modified ingredient (Genetic Science Learning Center). The question is; How many people are aware of this? In recent years, the topic of genetically modified food (GMO) has gotten much attention with non-profit organizations such as the Non-GMO project and multiple bloggers flooding the internet with articles and information about it, specifically about it in foods. Their main concern is that consumers are unaware of what they are eating and what may be hidden in their food. People should become more aware of what is in their food, know how to understand in their food and demand that their foods be honestly labelled. As it currently stands, the FDA does not require companies to label foods with genetically engineered or modified ingredients. Although there is no scientific proof that GM foods pose a hazard to humans, most developed nations do not consider GMOs to be safe and have significant restrictions or outright bans on the production and sale of GMOs. 64 countries Dalla Costa 2 around the world require the labelling of genetically modified foods, however it is not required in the US and Canada. Today most packaged foods contain ingredients derived from corn; being the number one GM food product used, 88% of the corn and corn bi-products are genetically modified, followed by soy, canola and sugar beet. There are many other products containing GMO, such as dairy from cows injected with hormones, honey and bee pollen that may have GM sources of pollen and food additives such as enzymes and artificial food dyes to name a few. (IRT). GMOs pose a health risk mainly because of its effects on allergies. soy allergies skyrocketed by 50% in the UK, soon after GM soy was introduced, and many people displayed allergy like symptoms when exposed to GM corn and cotton. GMOs may also make people allergic to non-GM foods, that they were not previously allergic to (IRT). In a study done on mice fed GM peas, they began displaying immune reactions to formerly harmless foods. (Prescott) People should be concerned about because they are not only potentially hazardous to human health but they are hazardous to the environment. More than 80% of all GMOs grown worldwide are engineered for herbicide tolerance, because of this, herbicide resistant organisms called and have emerged. They can only with more toxic poisons, which get into water ways and into the air causing a ripple effect of things ysuch as algal blooms and air pollution, which may lead to human harm indirectly. Secondly chemical pesticides and herbicides used in association with GMO crops (such as Roundup) are extremely toxic to non- target organisms such as bees and butterflies, who are essential in the pollination of other crops. Monarch butterflies are specifically at risk from GMO maize plants. Dalla Costa 3 With concerns to human health, Although there is no scientific proof that GM foods pose a hazard to humans, genetically modified foods have been linked to toxic and allergic reactions, sick, sterile, and dead livestock, and damage to virtually every organ studied in lab animals. Tests have been conducted on rats fed with GM potatoes suffered damage to their gastrointestinal track (Key), which shows there may have potential side effects on humans in the future. Knowing how to recognize and choose non-GMO and pesticide free foods, empowers The best suggested way to avoid eating foods containing non-gmo products is to choose organically certified grown foods and non-gmo labelled foods. USDA organic labels indicates that the food or other agricultural product has been produced through approved methods. The organic standards describe the specific requirements that must be verified by a USDA-accredited certifying agent before products can be labeled USDA organic (USDA). The other trusted label is the non-GMO signature butterfly; this non-profit organization is the only third-party verification party for non-GMO food and products. Third-party verification is the highest quality system when it comes to product labeling and certifications because it ensures thorough product evaluation. Companies must work with third party technical administrators to get their products verified. There are a few other indicators to look for when choosing vegetables. There are numerical codes on stickers on each fruit. These codes indicate the way the fruit was grown and handled, whether it was treated with pesticides, genetically modified, or grown organically. Four digit codes, typically beginning with a 3 or 4 indicates that your fruit was conventionally grown, this includes the use of some pesticides, and can be dealt with by simply washing the fruit. If the code on the sticker is five digits and begins with an 8, the fruit or vegetable has been genetically Dalla Costa 4 modified. The code consumers want to look for is a five-digit code beginning with a 9, this indicates that the food has been grown in accordance with USDA standards (Gonazlez). Some people may think that USDA organically labelled food may be out of their budget. All natural labels tend to be a bit cheaper, however the rules are a bit different as the term natural can have pesticides, antibiotics, growth hormones and some traces of GMO. Many websites also offer multiple ways to change lifestyle such as non-GMO product shopping lists and multiple phone applications allowing shoppers to scan the barcode of a product and get instant information about the ingredients and whether it has GMOs in them or not. The non-GMO project also provides thousands of recipes with non-GMO ingredients and many different ways to connect such as blogs and discussion boards. In conclusion consumers need to take control over what they are putting in to their bodies and need to understand what GMOs are about and how they can impact not only their health but also the wellbeing of the environment. Consumers also need to take action by buying labelled foods. Even if a small number of people begin rejecting unlabeled foods or brands that are known for having GMO products in their foods, GM ingredients will become a marketing liability for these cooperate giants, forcing them to change their ways. Dalla Costa 5 Works Cited Genetic Science Learning Center. Genetically Modified Foods. Retrieved. 15 July 2013. <http://learn.genetics.utah.edu/content/science/gmfoods/>. Gonazlez, Neil. The Hidden Meaning Behind Fruits & Vegetable Labels. 2015. <https://food- hacks.wonderhowto.com/how-to/decoding-produce-stickers-hidden-meaning-behind- fruit-vegetable-labels-0154570/>. IRT. GMOs in Food. n.d. <http://responsibletechnology.org/gmo-education/gmos-in-food/>. Key, Suzie. Genetically modified plants and human health. 2008. <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2408621/>. Prescott, V. E. Transgenic Expression of Bean r-Amylase Inhibitor in Peas Results in Altered Structure and  Journal of Agricultural Food Chemistry (2005). The Honest Company, INC. 2015. <https://blog.honest.com/understanding-gmos/#>. USDA. Oragnic Standards. n.d. <https://www.ams.usda.gov/grades-standards/organic- standards>. Dalla Costa 6