1 Mitchell ENC 1102 Professor Gill 4/16/2017 Climate Change The world we live in is a precious planet that is sensitive to the actions that humans commit. These actions can cause changes in our environment which you can see today. For instance the global temperature has been rising every so quickly since the beginning of the century. Nasa states, 10 warmest years in the 136-year record all have occurred since 2000, with the exception of This means that our average climate is changing. Climate change is a problem that we hope to see an end to soon. What is climate change? Climate change is the changing climate of the earth itself. Even though climate is always changing we recently have seen a rapid change in climate and environment that many think is linked to humans. Whether that to be through pollution or just extracting resources we have recently seen trends that lead to the idea we are primarily the ones causing such a rapid change in the climate. According to NASA, scientists say that humans can change climate too. People drive cars. People heat and cool their houses. People cook food. All those things take energy. One way we get energy is by burning coal, oil and gas. Burning these things puts gases into the air. The gases cause the air to heat up. This can change the climate of a place. It also can change From the pollution we are producing, you can see a rise in the average temperature on the earth over the past few decades. This average temperature increase can raise the ocean level by melting glaciers and it can cause serious problems such as flooding and eroding of the lands. 2 We must switch to an alternative source of energy in order to sustain the human population. This will help reduce the pollution from the fossil fuels we burn and create a less polluted environment to do so. Let me explain to you why time is of the essence to act now. We play a vital role in the world we live in and how it operates. Everyone needs to understand what we do to the earth and how it affects the climate and environment around us. We must care now because it will get to a certain point where we will not be able to do anything in the future. I assume everyone cares for their families and loved ones around us. So let me put some things into perspective of what the rapid climate change that is occurring is doing. Imagine if we did nothing to stop the climate from rapidly changing the way it is and our future generations of our family would be affected. We need to engage a movement in order for this not to happen. Climate change is causing the world to heat up which is causing the sea levels to rise. This can cause eroding of land and flooding which eventually if it is enough could destroy human populations in the future according to Greenpeace. I think that if we could get people in the world to start switching to other alternative cleaner sources we would see a promising future for the next generations that will share this precious earth. According to the Author Reijnders, Lucas who wrote the of Integrative Environmental are unconventional fuels that may serve as near term major replacements for conventional mineral oil and natural gas. These include fuels from oil shale and bitumen, liquid fuels from coal, methane from methane hydrates, biofuels and the secondary fuel Basically explaining throughout the passage how we can pick from other sources of energy to power our cars and other machines. We could pick from these and use particular energy sources for each 3 machine and object in order to make the most effective energy source used for each machine. So for example if a car works better with a certain source and a factory works better with a different source we could specialize cleaner sources for both so they can reach their peak effectivity. These are just some of the sources and ideas that we could use to flourish energy. We could try things like solar and expanding the field of solar energy in order for us to use clean energy. The solar market around the U.S is very weak and especially in florida. We are known as the sunshine state but we capitalize on the solar market. According to the Solar Energy Industries association, sunshine ranks third in the nation for rooftop solar potential, but all the way down at 12th for cumulative solar capacity Without a doubt Florida should be one of the main states to capitalize on the clean alternative energy. Other than solar in florida there are many other sources from windmills, dams, and even currents in the ocean! According to the Union of Concerned Scientists, energy generates electricity from sustainable sources like wind, solar, and geothermal power with little or no pollution or global warming Now that you know what can you do to help? I think there is a lot that is needed to be done in the search for a new energy but I also think that with the more people backing it the easier it becomes to help protect the future generations and the environment of the world. Many people and scientist believe that we could change the fuel sources we use to cleaner more abundant energy sources. I believe and so do many others that it will only change if we start a movement. Every person counts in the effort to do so because the only way we can change the public opinion on doing so and how big of a priority it is. If we can get changing to alternative energy to be a main concern of the public, 4 politicians will act to harness those peoples ideals thus changing the way we use energy through laws. They can also create subsidies and other ways of reducing the cost so you can benefit from having alternative power as well. We also need to start buying in the industry in order for the industries like solar and other sources to show growth so more money can be invested into these markets. Once people realize that they have the power to change the industry many will back the movements that we will create to do so. We need your help with climate change! Climate change is when the earth and its environment are changing. The climate is always changing but it has never been this drastic before. We see rises in temperatures slowly creeping up. Once they have risen too much there will be nothing in our power to stop the heat from rising and destroying our ice glacier and making the sea levels rise. According to Greenpeace, main cause of sea level rise today is global warming caused by human activity. This warming drives sea level rise in two main ways: by warming ocean water; as it warms, water expands, and taking up more space by melting land-based ice (glaciers and ice sheets), sending more water to our If we stop now we will see serious problems from climate change that we will not be able to fix on our own. I believe that if everyone takes action and joins a alternative energy group in their community like regional Greenpeace organizations we would see a less threatening future when it came to talking about the climate. The fate is in our hands will you create a good future or will you destroy a good future? 5 6 Work Cited: Greenpeace  N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Doyle, Julie. Picturing the clima (c) tic: Greenpeace and the representational politics of climate change  as 16.2 (2007): 129-150. Psuty, Norbert P. The Rising Tide: Global Warming and World Sea  no. 3, 1993, p. 172. ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=edsgao&AN=edsg cl.15266390&site=eds-live. Climate  N.p., n.d. Web. 20 Mar. 2017. Leggett, Jeremy. warming: the Greenpeace Oxford University Press, 1990. Dunbar, Brian. What Is Climate  NASA, 13 May 2015. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. 7 Sea levels are rising because of climate  N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Florida  N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Reijnders, Lucas. Fuels for the  of Integrative Environmental vol. 6, no. 4, Dec. 2009, p. 279. Clean  of Concerned N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. https://climate.nasa.gov/vital-signs/global-temperature/