Ajayi1 Hadijat Ajayi ENC 1101 9 April 2017 The Perfect Digital Society Mainstream trends are inevitable facets of society. Though many come and go quickly, leaving minor impressions on general social interactions, others remain prominent and influential. The rise of social media sites is one of the most popular trends of the current generation. Unlimited access to innumerable topics has developed into an average mindset for the everyday person. On a global scale, many have adjusted to the fast paced, rapidly random structure of the internet culture. Since the emergence of pioneer social media sites, such as Facebook, there are a variety of arguable benefits, but have also an increasing number of detrimental attributes. Social media was the opportunity for friends, and even strangers, to connect without the necessity of being face to face. Websites like Facebook and MySpace proved to be groundbreaking. Individuals were able to create the first digital reflection of themselves, through profile descriptions and personalization. Early studies of the Facebook site evaluate the use of the site across various demographic criteria. Two specific studies aimed questionnaires to the elderly community and an audience of college students and requested for their personal reflection about Facebook use. Data in both studies show positive correlation between an active use of Facebook, i.e. reading wall, posting on walls, posting pictures, etc., and a healthy level of personal expression and involvement within the community. Though the data results are superficially supportive of active Facebook members, the methodology of the study has potential to be highly flawed. Initially, the survey is only accessible to those who own Ajayi2 computers and who are actively using those computers. This results in data that is representative of the internet audience, rather than the general population. Those who are not actively on social sites or those who are not as technologically savvy are easily biased against in this form of observational study. The skewed audience also has severe potential to further skew the data results as they are asked to reflect on own feelings towards Facebook use, rather than asked to generalize their beliefs about Facebook and its influence on society. Not only does this methodology skew data results, it also contributes to a self-centered mindset. Soon after the penetration of social media into society, social networking and marketing followed closely behind. Social networking mirrors social media in that it uses the internet as the base to present User Generated Content, but is distinguished in its use, often in business or academic endeavors. Nevertheless, the impact of social networking is significant, yet clouded. The vast amount of traffic found on social media sites drew the immediate attention of business minds and marketing experts. Founders of sites such as LinkedIn, manipulated the structure of social media to push professional interests. For the first time, employers could pool potential candidates into a single database, having access to complete resumes, job or school experience, and often even pictures, while establishing their very first impression. Although, a virtual job fair does attest for efficiency, personal profiles on these sites are consistent with the User Generated Content found on general social media sites. Being said, professional profiles are just as, if not more susceptible to presenting biased or entirely false information in an effort to establish the best impression. Marketing within social media made a clear impact when short video ads first permeated YouTube. Viewers once only had to deal with the occasional buffering and ethical censorship of the site. The subjection of marketing altered the dynamic of the site, not only forcing users to Ajayi3 adjust to the new routine of YouTube binges, but it also created more competition when new, similar sites emerged. Marketing infiltration disrupted everyday media schedules but it also drilled specific images into a vast audience. Despite the number of ads, or how many times the same ad will play, the allure of social media is too strong, leaving participants subject to the ideas of the marketer. Global monopolies of search engines act similarly in influencing audiences, but at a much larger scale. In turn, the values of the marketers are magnified while local content is diminished. Though not all content presented through global search engines, such as Google, is negative or damning, it still takes away from the influence of the domestic values. Networking and marketing through the digital world was introduced and developed rapidly. Two decades ago, the internet was primitive, with very few developments compared to web. Now, the internet is advancing and expanding at a rate much faster than can be kept up with. Many legal cases have experienced controversy due to the influence of the or social role in a case, and the lack of ability to apply laws to unprecedented circumstances. Between the natural swiftness of a computer brain and the rapid development of a social society, internet hackers and engineers have been able to establish the Deep Web. The Deep Web, or Dark Web is the black market for the internet that avoids regulation through complicated coding and frequent maintenance. Users have access to unthinkable content that is typically filtered through social media regulations. In recent studies, researchers have begun to question the true advantages and disadvantages of social media use. Early data, as previously mentioned, show positive correlations between internet use and self-esteem or community involvement. However, studies in the late 2010s emerged in sophistication, revealing possible explanations as to why the correlation exists. One of the most striking is the opportunity for instant feedback from peers. Ajayi4 Good or bad, an immediate reaction allows users to define and solidify their opinion, but not without the influence of others. Although positive comments and encouraging assurance are regular on social media, critical feedback is perhaps more commonplace and in turn, leaves a more lasting impression the on the self-esteem. The need for the instantaneous attention delves into qualities that lead to narcissism and an addiction to social media. The content of social media and marketing images can also foster addictions that are fed by other facets of the internet, including the Deep Web. The internet and social media have established themselves as important members of the digital society. Current generations thrive on the tangible connection to a user miles, or minutes, away but are inadvertently subjected to negative influences from social sites. Most advantages of social media are based on biased self-reflections, much of the content is easily manipulated, and the development of the internet is far too rapid. Each of these elements affect the potential for a positive social society.