Feyas 1 Student Jenifer Paquette ENC 1101 16 April 2017 Adderall and Its Effects on the Human Body Adderall was created in 1996 and has been used ever since to treat diseases like Attention Deficit Disorder(ADD) and Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder(ADHD.) After the drugs introduction, it was not long before people began to abuse the drug by taking it without prescription or need. This problem was seen largely in college students and as time has gone by the abuse of Adderall on college campuses has inflated dramatically. Students rely on this drug to keep them focused and awake to study harder and longer for exams. (Moneer, 3) The problem is that Adderall is proven to be a highly addictive drug and one that inhibits creativity in people who do not need it. Through rigorous research one may find that numerous scholars have conducted research on addictive properties. Although the chemical make up is not the only thing addictive about the substance. In, to Osman Moneer states that people also become addicted to the outcome of taking Adderall. (Moneer 4) Adderall is known to keep people awake and focused for a lengthy period of time. To a tired college student or an overworked employee this may seem like a magic pill. The dilemma with this is that Adderall was not created for everyone to take, hence why one is supposed to have a prescription to take it. In Martha we Enhance Cognition with Adderall, do we Sacrafice Farah states that while creativity is not impaired, convergent tasks, such as being able to answer a yes or no question correctly, are impaired. (Farah 2) Feyas 2 views differed with other researchers like Moneer who believe that Adderall does indeed hinder creativity of those who take the drug without need. Side effects and addiction are not the only negative parts of Adderall usage among people who do not need it. An underground black market has been created for the selling of the drug. College campuses are a good place to find one of countless dealers, and when students were asked if they knew anyone who dealt Adderall or took Adderall without prescription one in three answered yes. (Smith 1) This black market is one that is typically ignored by administrators and never talked about. Students entering college are forced to take courses on alcohol and marijuana but no one ever talks about Adderall and the life altering effects it could have on a person. Students come in unaware of the dangers and hear all of this hype from older students who have used the magic pill to stay awake 48 hours and ace their finals and they get this idea in their head that everyone else is doing it, why they? Then in a blink of an eye they are sucked into the whirlpool and cannot seem to find a way out. If students were informed of the dangers of the drug, maybe there would be less illegal use of it. While some may argue that Adderall is not addictive, there have been a plethora of studies conducted to prove that it is addictive. Research has also proven that people may experience multiple other side effects such as headaches, body aches, shakes, etc. Overall, Adderall is a highly addictive, controlled substance that should remain controlled. People of all ages should be made aware of how addictive it is and what other side effects it may cause if taken when not prescribed. Feyas 3 Sources Cited: Farah, Martha J., et al. we enhance cognition with Adderall, do we sacrifice creativity? A preliminary Psychopharmacology, vol. 202, no. 1-3, 2008, pp. Moneer, Osman, et al. Addicted To  Columbia Undergraduate Science Journal 9. (2015): 8. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Smith, Kyle. Try This At  Suzlon Energy Limited SWOT Analysis 62.25 (2004): 87-88. OmniFile Full Text Mega (H.W. Wilson). Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Stolz, Stephanie. Abuse: Regulating the Academic Journal of Law and Education, vol. 41, no. 3, July 2012, pp.