Student 1 Student Jenifer Paquette ENC 1101 16 April 2017 Project 3 Intermediate draft As time has progress through human history, more humans have become more advance there are way more people that are technological savvy which has produce a large amount of people that are capable of playing videogames and when I state videogames this also goes for apps that are available on the phone humans need to consider the large amount of people that have no self-control when it comes to the hours that they play on these games. Video games have a demeaning effect to the physical and psychological health of a person that play videogames people need to be aware about the amount time they put into a game. Video games have been proven to cause negative health effects to those who play them, a lot of the people that play video games complain about eye strains there has a been a statistic that has formed because of the commonality of it Prolonged bouts of video gaming can also cause symptoms very similar to Computer Vision (Robert) What is computer vision syndrome these are all thee side effects that one receive from being on a monitor for too long side effects are headaches neck pain people also complain about having an eyestrain there has even product that have been created to minimize the damage of the eye strain. an eye strain at first this maybe seem minimal and it really affect people way too negatively. But those eyes strain later formed in to headaches that will keep occurring and have once a person is in a situation that can cause a amount of eye strains. These headaches just go away with ibuprofen they just occur once the eye is under too much pressure because of led screens, this is just a few of the negative effects there also other health effects like fatigue that occurs due to the body now being so much movement causing the person to be tired and Student 1 feel weak even though there not. Alright yes health effects may seem like they that bad the things is that people are willing to put up there body up just that they can play game people have a sense of self control anymore they play abnormal amounts of hour. And putting the body under this amount of strains will degrade their health. And I think not right to not inform people about what doing to themselves it can even be comparable to drug usage in a way because both itself- harm give people a new set of fixed priorities one which includes wasting real money for virtual items they make the user spend larger amount of money in that market. But all these health effects are bad yes, and people need to be aware that if they want to play video games they should set themselves some sort schedule which includes breaks into the mix. Furthermore, Video games can also cause of major psychology damage for example videos games can produce social Isolation in humans, it can also lead to humans to become way more aggressive than they really are. when people play way too many videos games they can lose a grip of about what going on around of them for example it has shown that videos game can cause people to isolate themselves from the outside world able to communicate in a virtual environment is a good thing but it should not outweigh everyday verbal communications with friends at face to face (Content Writer) People can now argue now that newer video games are a bit more social than those in the past and focus on more social aspect that make be true. But is the amount of social interaction you get the game the same to real life people seem to forget how rude people can be on these games or the large number of spikes of cyberbullying that occur now. in these virtual worlds people tend be harsher than ever and this come from personal experience I play online games a lot personally seen people be brutal to each other this occurs because no one has to face the real value of talking to someone face to face. now than people seem distance themselves from even the people in this virtual world because of this. So yes, you can make online friends but a lot of these friends compare to those friendships that you have in person also people when they isolate themselves and Student 1 become homeboy it makes them less prone to go out in public and interact with people video games have a demeaning effect on humans it make to function properly they are so warped into a virtual world that they desire only the world in the game. so yes, video games can be social but social in the world that place which is not the real world. In the end video game can isolate a person from the real world which is horrible video games have also been to stimulates players to be more prone to aggression because of the violent scene within in them and is true there been a formal study conducted by APA concluded that violent video game use has an effect on Psychological Association) They connected the connection in video games provoking violence in its consumers this is concerning people should be considering that such a common thing in people daily life can increase aggression it been state that it can make people more criminal but even any source of aggression can damage people lives in other way than just criminal In conclusion, we talk about how videogames have become way more prevalent in the world now due to the easier access to technology we talked about all the demeaning effects that video games have people the health effects which can be eye, headache and a increase in the chances of becoming way more seizures prone these all are volumizing by the amounts of hour the person plays on the other hand we also talked about the psychological effects that video games can have on humans. We talk about the increase in aggression and the social isolation that occurs because of video games. In the end I think that we have to have more awareness over about the amount of time that we play video games for. With a healthy amount of game play, we can solve this whole issue. People need to learn to ease down they need to take breaks gaming is okay but in moderation a lot of people seem forgot and important that excess hours are cut and set a healthier standard. Student 1 Works Cited Page Janssen, Ian. Original Article: Estimating Whether Replacing Time in Active Outdoor Play and Sedentary Video Games with Active Video Games Influences Mental  Journal of Adolescent Health, vol. 59, 01 Nov. 2016, pp. 517-522. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.jadohealth.2016.07.007. Greitemeyer, Tobias, et al. How to Ameliorate Negative Effects of Violent Video Games on Cooperation: Play It Cooperatively in a  Computers in Human Behavior, vol. 28, 01 July 2012, pp. 1465- 1470. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.chb.2012.03.009. Ferguson, Christopher J. Attitudes toward Video Games Vary as a Function of Age, Gender and Negative Beliefs about Youth: A Sociology of Media Research  Computers in Human Behavior, vol. 52, 01 Nov. 2015, pp. 379-386. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.chb.2015.06.016. Preidt, Robert. Video Games Linked to Aggression, Group  Consumer HealthDay. N.p., 18 Aug. 2015. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Impact of computer games on  Content Writer. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. APA Review Confirms Link Between Playing Violent Video Games and  American Psychological Association. American Psychological Association, 13 Aug. 2015. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.