Oliveira de Camargo 1 Student: Davi Oliveira de Camargo Instructor: Sarah Roth Class: Composition 1 Date: 04-09-2017 Title: Living in a Globalized World What are the effects of living in a globalized world? Is it changing the way people behave, interact or live their lives? One big aspect of how globalization has been affecting people is in the way we communicate with each other. It is possible to see this because of this new technology that has been on the rise for the last two decades: social media. It has been changing the way people see themselves and the world. According to the Pew Research Center, 74% of all Internet users engage in social media (Pew Research Center, 2014). It is safe to say that most people are engaging in some type of social media today. Akiko Fuse says in the article of social media and quality life of people who that even though it sounded impossible the whole idea of extended virtual interaction, in the last decade people have moved away from televisions, newspapers and radios in favor of the World Wide Web (Fuse 1). This instantly exchange of information from any part of the globe has had a negative effect, people have been losing their sense of identity. In Oliveira de Camargo 2 her article called and human , Buchan explains that with globalization and social media people have been losing their sense of ethnicity, locality, or nationhood (Buchan 5). Living in this connected world with a huge amount of instantly information going around all the time made people lose some of their sense of individuality. But not just in this sense that the rising of this new technology that came with globalization has been affecting people negatively but also in the way we communicate. It has been affecting directly interpersonal communication. Maura Keller in her article from 2013 called Media and Interpersonal explains that although people are becoming more social and interactive with each other because of social media, the way these interactions are happening has changed. Instead of meeting face-to-face people have been often interacting virtually through social media (Keller 10). Face-to-face interactions have been decreasing, and people do not feel as personally connected to someone through social media as they used to feel when communicating face-to-face. This has been creating each time weaker relationships (Keller 10). So even though people are indeed communicating more with the rising of globalization and social media, they are not necessarily building relationships as strongly (Keller 6). With the rise of new technologies such as social media in the last years, it is possible to see through studies that the relationships are becoming each time less intimate. Oliveira de Camargo 3 Keller explains that it is hard for people today to separate their virtual actions from their actual ones, that is why it is common now to see a couple on their phones during their first date (Keller 11). It got to a point where people are becoming addicted to technology and rather spend time on their phones interacting with others virtually than interacting face-to-face with people around them (Keller 11). Keller says that another negative aspect that social media and globalization has had in people nowadays is the overload of information. It is hard for people to absorb so much information that is coming from all directions all the time. Keller in her article says that fact, there has been some very early recent data suggesting that teens are perhaps pulling away from Facebook because just too much for them to (Keller 10). People are not ready to handle so much information as we now have in a globalized world. With overload of information, lost of sense of identity, less face-to-face interactions and weaker relationships it is no surprise that all of this has had a negative impact on people. The effect of those factors in the population can be seen in the numbers of the rise of depression in the last years. According to the article Depression really on The  written by Amit Amin in 2014, in 1987 only 10% people had no one to discuss important matters with and this number increased over the years, being that in 2004 about 25% of people had no one to discuss important matters with, that is an average of one out of four people. (Amin 3). A lot has changed from Oliveira de Camargo 4 1987 to 2004, those changes were mainly in the technology and the way people interacted with one another. The creation of cell phones, the internet and social media happened during those years. According to the National Ambulatory Medical Care Survey (NAMCS) the number of people diagnosed with depression from 1987 to 2004 has increased by 450% (Amin 4). Those are really scary numbers. The number of people diagnosed with depression has increased more than 4 times over the past decades, the same period of time that the way we communicate, interact and the way we see ourselves and the world changed. Even though there are a lot of studies and data pointing to the claim that globalization and new forms of technology such as social media has been affecting our lives negatively, there people who would argue the opposite. Akiko Fuse argues that people with anxiety claims that internet and social media helps them to communicate better, more accurately to who they are instead of communicating face-to-face. Since communicating through internet allows you to interact with someone without having to see this person, people with anxiety feel more comfortable communicating and interacting (Fuse 11). Although this is true, it is important to take in consideration that internet and social media are one of the reasons many people have anxiety in the first place. Brenda Lundy in her article social anxiety to interpersonal connectedness: Relationship building within face-to-face, phone and instant messaging says that studies have Oliveira de Camargo 5 shown that the levels of anxiety in someone are related to the type of communication (Lundy 8). With social media and internet today, people feel they do not necessarily need to interact face-to-face anymore and choose to settle for the virtual interaction instead. Living in a globalized world, with recently new technologies such as social media, has been changing the way people see themselves and other around them. People have been losing their sense of identity; building weaker relationships; and getting more stressed and depressed. It is important to address this topic before it gets worse and we live in a world where people are getting overwhelmed by information, lost completely their sense of identity, are depressed and know how to interact face-to-face anymore. The time to avoid this future to happen is now, and actions must be taken to create a better future for the next generations to come. Works Cited Buchan, Nancy R., Gianluca Grimalda, Rick Wilson, Marilynn Brewer, Enrique Fatas, and Margaret Foddy. Globalization and human  Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America. N.p., 21 Jan. 2009. Web. 15 Feb. 2017. Milanovic, Branko. we discern the Effect of Globalization on Income Distribution? Evidence from Household Budget  Center for Global Development . N.p., Aug. 2002. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Keller, Maura. Social Media and Interpersonal  Social Work Today. N.p., May & june 2013. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Amin, Amit. Is Depression really on The  Happier Human. N.p., 2014. Web. 16 Feb. 2017. Fuse, Akiko. Impact of social media and quality life of people who  Journal of Fluency 50 (2016): 59-71. Web. 9 Apr. 2017. Lundy, Brenda. From social anxiety to interpersonal connectedness: Relationship building within face-to-face, phone and instant messaging  Computers in Human Behavior (January 2016): 271-77. Web. 9 Apr. 2017.