Mihm 1 Mason Mihm Ms. Ashley Tisdale ENC 1101 9 March 2017 Why Parents Need to Involve Their Children in Sports Obesity, diabetes, cancer, heart disease, the list of health-related illnesses goes on and on. However, to drastically reduce these fatal health issues for future generations, there is one simple change parents of the world can make. That change is, involving their children in physical activity. It is paramount that parents involve their children in sports/physical activity because the advantages drastically outweigh the disadvantages. To no surprise, lots of research has been done that overwhelming supports the decision to involve children in physical activity. Substantial health benefits in childhood and adulthood have been observed, as opposed to children that do not participate in physical activity. Having said, due to the many health factors that are improved by taking part in sports, it is evident that parents need to involve their children in physical activity. Organized sports typically require people to dedicate a portion of their time. Therefore, busy parents and children may be opposed to participating in sports. However, this is a ridiculous excuse because this time investment has the potential to keep a child healthy for a lifetime. As stated by Colin Boreham, in his academic journal, is a biological carry-over effect into adulthood, whereby improved adult health status results from childhood physical activity. In particular, childhood obesity may be a precursor for a range of adverse health effects in adulthood, while higher bone masses in young people reduce the risk of osteoporosis in old Mihm 2 (915). This quote shows how this research would further encourage the participation of adolescents in sports. The research being done on this topic illustrates the significance of sports during childhood. Furthermore, the long-term effects of childhood activity allow parents to understand the importance that sports involvement in youth will have on the remainder of their life. Research is being done around the world to make people aware of the sports involvement change that needs to occur. For instance, in 2010 research was conducted in Canada focusing on the connection between physical activity and health in children. Research carried out by Ian showed how Canada created recommendations to increase physical activity because they were aware of the numerous health benefits. Health benefits including, but not limited to, high cholesterol, high blood pressure, obesity, low bone density, and depression. According to Ian Janssen, Canada believes that children increase the time they spend on moderate-to-vigorous intensity physical activity by 30 minutes per day, and over a 5 month period progress to adding an additional 90 minutes of daily physical (1). These results indicate that Canada is actively trying to increase amounts of activity to promote health benefits in children. Therefore, parents around the world should learn from this and make an active effort to involve their children in physical activity. When it comes to parents with children that have disabilities, the results are all the same. For parents with kids with disabilities, research has also been done expressing the importance and benefits of activity for these children. Andrew Pitchford wrote an academic journal article in the American Journal on Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities. In this article, Pitchford concluded that these results suggest that youth with disabilities whose parents and caregivers have more positive beliefs of the benefits of physical activity are adequately active for Mihm 3 more days during a (29). Even though these results may seem very obvious, these results are powerful. The quote shows that when making the decision to involve their disabled children in sports, these parents and caregivers already had the beneficial factors in mind. Therefore, the more educated the parents are on this topic, and the more the parents care about their health, the more the parents involve their kids in sports. This ideology needs to be encouraged, regardless of disabilities or not. Further expanding on unfortunate circumstances parent may face, such as disabilities, parents may have low incomes. When it comes to parents with low incomes making the decision to involve their kids in sports or not, they may be hesitant. Nicholas Holt, the primary author, referred to the conclusion of his research when he said: combined data from parents and children demonstrated some clear associations between sport involvement and children gaining a range of social and personal developmental (494). It is widely understood that sports may become expensive when parents have to pay for gear and other necessary fees. However, results emphasize the importance of sports participation and show that even low-income families agree that sports involvement is important for children, regardless of the families financial hardship. Therefore, if at all possible, parents need to invest in a sport for the benefit of their child. Another reason parents need to involve their kids in sports is for the self-esteem benefits. Carly Slutzky wrote an academic journal article in the Psychology of Sport and Exercise. Through research, Slutzky concluded that analyses suggested that these relations did not vary across gender, sport ability, sport importance beliefs, or peer (381). Overall, findings showed that kids who invested more time in team sports reported higher sports self-concept. Having said, study was able to correlate higher sport self-concept results Mihm 4 with higher self-esteem levels among children. Therefore, this article serves as proof to the particular importance of child involvement in sport. All of these studies boil down to one main point. They are all based on improving children of the world with a better Health-Related Quality of Life. Health-Related Quality of Life (HRQOL) characteristics include physical, emotional, social, and school functioning. HRQOL is becoming of increasing importance to chronic conditions and diseases. Cancer, heart disease, and diabetes can be caused by low levels of physical activity. Due to these circumstances, the article suggests that parents should consider involving their children in a sport they are interested in because many studies have revealed that child involvement in sports are beneficial and improve HRQOL. According to Vella, the author of the HRQOL article, psychosocial health benefits of sports participation are evident among children and adolescents, including self-esteem, positive social interactions, and a reduction in depressive (1469). Having said, parents should not be hesitant about involving their kids in sports or physical activity. All in all, parents need to realize the vast potential that physical activities pose on their overall health, and make the decision to involve them in sports. It is evident that participation in physical activity is a major factor in increasing and maintaining a healthy lifestyle among children and adults. Therefore, it is vital for parents around the world to understand that they need to involve their children in physical activity regardless of age, disability, family income or any other factor. Mihm 5 Works Cited Vella, Stewart A., Dylan P. Cliff, Christopher A. Magee, and Anthony D. Okely. Sports Participation and Parent-Reported Health-Related Quality of Life in Children: Longitudinal  The Journal of Pediatrics 164.6 (2014): 1469-474. Ebscohost. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Holt, Nicholas L., Bethan C. Kingsley, Lisa N. Tink, and Jay Scherer. Benefits and challenges associated with sport participation by children and parents from low-income  Psychology of Sport and Exercise 12.5 (2011): 490-99. Ebscohost. Web. 02 Feb. 2017. Pitchford, E. Andrew, Erin Siebert, Jessica Hamm, and Joonkoo Yun. Parental Perceptions of Physical Activity Benefits for Youth With Developmental  American Journal on Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities 121.1 (2016): 25-32. Ebscohost. Web. 2 Feb. 2017. Slutzky, Carly B., and Sandra D. Simpkins. The link between sport participation and self-esteem: Exploring the mediating role of sport  Psychology of Sport and Exercise 10.3 (2009): 381-89. Ebscohost. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Janssen, Ian, and Allana Leblanc. Systematic Review of the Health Benefits of Physical Activity and Fitness in School-Aged Children and  International Journal of Behavioral Nutrition and Physical Activity (2010): 183-219. BioMed Central. Web. 14 Feb. 2017. Boreham, Colin, and Chris Riddoch.  The physical activity, fitness and health of  Journal of Sports Sciences (2010): 915-929. Routledge Taylor & Francis Group. Web. 14 Feb. 2017.