Gainer 1 Christion Gainer Anastasia Khawaja ENC1101.903S17 02 April 2017 The Most Fair Way To Pay Teachers Teachers salaries are one of the lowest paying wages, as compared to similar jobs which have similar educational qualifications. Traditionally teachers have been paid a standard salary. Recently however, the teachers have been paid based on their experience. Not only is this more fair, it encourages teachers to pursue a higher education, which allows them to teach their students better. Teachers salaries should be based off their individual qualifications because it is more fair for the some people believe that teachers salaries should be based on the curriculum they teach, or how long they have been teaching. Paying teachers in such a way often times leaves them feeling entitled to a higher salary, with no real benefits to the students. Not only is it more fair, but by paying teachers based on their level of education, students also receive the benefit of learning from an experienced and knowledgeable teacher. Therefore, teachers salaries should be based off their individual qualifications. Paying teachers based on experience is more fair than paying them for the curriculum they teach. Teachers with an educational background have learned different teaching strategies that can help with different student learning styles. This can help raise the grades of students and even boost the overall grade of the school. Additionally, it would create a better teaching and learning environment because people who have completed a degree in higher education tend to conduct themselves more professionally. A recent conversation regarding teachers salaries has Gainer 2 been about how to draw qualified teachers into a specific school district. The best way to recruit qualified teachers would be to offer a salary based on their level of education.This would encourage teachers to pursue higher education to receive this higher salary, and in turn, school districts would be able to bring in more qualified teachers. In general, more experienced teachers lead to better quality teaching, which results in more student achievements. In addition to paying teachers based on their level of education, teachers should be paid a base salary, and then receive additional raises based on their performance. While this base salary is based on their level of education, the raises can be earned based on many different criteria. Teachers can receive additional raises based on the percentage of students passing their class, by renewing their teacher certificate, completing higher education even after being hired, and by students receiving high test score on standardized testing. This makes it more fair because paying teachers in this way gives all teachers a opportunity to get a raise.Also, it keeps the teachers involved and active in their class and makes them care if their students pass or not Some people believe that teachers should get paid based on the type of class they teach. This means that teachers who teach harder classes should be paid more. Others believe that only teachers who have been teaching a long time should have a salary raise. They believe that the best teachers are the ones who have tenure, because they have the most experience teaching in a classroom. They argue that it matter how many years an individual went to school to learn how to be a teacher, because the best experience and teaching strategies are developed in the classroom. However, there are problems with both of these arguments. In regards to paying a teacher based on the difficulty of the class they teach, the difficulty of a class is subjective to the teacher and the student learning. This is because some people are naturally gifted or enjoy Gainer 3 teaching a specific class. Teachers be penalized for teaching a class viewed as easy, especially because classes that are labeled as easy are classes which establish a foundation of knowledge, making them equally as important as more difficult classes. If teachers are given raises based on a the difficulty of a class, they be motivated to go get their Degree. Additionally, teachers should not receive salary raises for how long they have been teaching. Paying teachers in this way gives them a sense of entitlement, which oftentimes leads to a lack of motivation to work hard and make sure their students succeed. Paying teachers based on how long they have been teaching can potentially lead them to working the bare minimum, waiting for their next raise to come. Paying teachers based on their level of education is not only the most fair way to pay teachers, but it is also the best way to bring experienced teachers into the school. This ensures that students receive the best quality education possible. Paying teachers in this way would give teachers an incentive to pursue a high level of education. Additionally, better qualified teachers would to lead to more student successes. Gainer 4 Bibliography Allegretto, Sylvia A., Lawrence Mishel, and Institute Economic Policy. The Teacher Pay Gap Is Wider Than Ever: Pay Continues To Fall Further Behind Pay Of Comparable  Economic Policy Institute (2016): ERIC. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Behrstock-Sherratt, Ellen, Amy Potemski, and Research Center on Great Teachers and Leaders at American Institutes for. Performance-Based Compensation: Linking Performance To Teacher Salaries. Ask The  Center On Great Teachers And Leaders (2013): ERIC. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Figlio, David N. Can Public Schools Buy Better-Qualified  ILR Review 55.4 (2002): 686-699. Business Source Premier. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Hough, Heather J., Susanna Loeb, and (PACE) Policy Analysis for California Education. Can A District-Level Teacher Salary Incentive Policy Improve Teacher Recruitment And Retention? Policy Brief  Policy Analysis For California Education, PACE (2013): ERIC. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Tin-Chun, Lin. Teacher Salaries And Student Achievement: The Case Of  Applied Economics Letters 17.6 (2010): 547-550. Business Source Premier. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Vedder, Richard, and Joshua Hall. Private School Competition And Public School Teacher  Journal Of Labor Research 21.1 (2000): 161-168. Business Source Premier. Web. 24 Jan. 2017.