Kennedy 1 Victoria Kennedy Ashley Tisdale ENC 1101 1 March 2017 As Religiosity Grows, Morals and Intelligence Decline The world has been controlled by religion from the beginning of civilized humanity. Humans have evolved drastically over millions of years, but only one thing has remained constant throughout its existence; religion and its malevolent, misogynistic, homophobic, racist, and ethnic cleansing properties. Christianity is simply a cloak of ignorance to protect the minds of the unaware, to reassure the malicious believes in insecurities and judgements of those who are different. Avidly judgmental followers mask their hate as acts and servitude to god allowing them to justify their beliefs. have been the fruits of Christianity? Pride and indolence in the clergy, ignorance and servility in the laity. In both; superstition, bigotry and Benjamin Franklin stated: way to see by faith is to shut the eye of irrational, manipulative, and judgmental roots have remained active and constant throughout history. In Negative Impact on Modern American Nicolas Baker discusses his encounters with Christian parents who home school their children and incorporate biblical scriptures instead of science. this can be related back to the times of enlightenment, when scientists and religion clashed. Science was denied and attacked when it went against anything said or believed in the bible, the refusal to acknowledge proven facts is a common fault in religion. In Genesis 19:26, God destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah because of their Kennedy 2 involving homosexuality and drunkenness, God spared a family, Lot, his wife, and his kids. While leaving the burning city wife turned back to look at the city and god turned her into a pillar of salt. In Churches, this is taught to children and adults as factual, that it is possible for someone to turn into salt. Scientists argue against this purely through logic. This story of Sodom and Gomorrah is irrational to the point of stupidity and has been passionately believed for two thousand years by Christians. religious language no longer makes sense in modern societies. The term God, he wrote in 1963, is either meaningless or  Since it cannot tell us anything about reality as such--at least, nothing that can be made intelligible empirically--its only function is to express our attitudes, preferences, and feelings. And if what the word God does, the essential ethical message of Christianity can be expressed without reference to the Death of God Fifty Years On By Rose, Matthew In Ku Klux Klan, Conservative Politics and Religion: Taking Extremism to the Political The authors, Andrew Selepak and John Sutherland, discuss the relationship between the Ku Klux Klan and Christianity. They study the positive correlation involving white Christian conservatives and their acceptance of the values and beliefs. The growing branch of extremists are altering their messages and agendas to mimic Christian values and ultra-conservative politics ultimately justifying their organization as a pro-white, anti- immigration group who believes in conserving white culture and traditional ideology. The same method of deception is used in conservative views today. Conservative views tend to be Christian based and contain out of date biblical ideals such as homophobia, racism, and superiority. The need for conservatives to be in control of other lives reflect the strict rules and guidelines over Christian followers and the Christian desire to spread their faith Kennedy 3 as much as possible, even if it results in going against the Constitution which states the separation of church and state. In Existence of Religion as a Survival the author, Ken Cleaver, discusses the desire and need for religion in society. The symbolic structure supplies the need for a purpose, a purpose that is predetermined by god who ultimately makes up for the of power or the disability of individuals or the community to handle Religion is a crutch for hopelessness, for guilt, for the powerful, and for the powerless. In a changing world, Christianity is left behind and deemed as unimportant and irrational in a society where evidence and facts are needed in any opinion to be valid. The decrease of power Christians and conservatives have in society has called for a white/Christian lash towards those who are opposed of their conservative ideals. This has been talked about by many journalist and experts. Christian desire for control, to be in power and the majority stays consistent throughout history. As a counterargument, religion can benefit those who have cannot find hope within themselves for difficult situations or hard times in life. The feeling of an all-powerful being that will protect you or that is on your side in no matter what done in the past, regardless of where you come from, and regardless of economic stature is an important part of the growth of religion. It is something that everyone can be a part of and brings people of the same religion together. Although it might bring people together it has been one of the leading reasons for war and separation. Like ISIS and Christianity for instance, if there was no Islamic faith and no Christianity there would be less drive to commit acts of violence against others. In the Civil War America was a Christian ran country, both the North and the South had a Christian majority fighting for what they believed in. In the Bible, multiple instances of condemned slavery were portrayed in the Old Testament and New Testament, this was used by slavery defenders in the Kennedy 4 south. Both sides believed god was on their side, one going against the bible and winning the war, the North, and one using the bible as justification for the use of slavery and losing, the South. In Side of Heaven: Race, Ethnicity, and Christian Alvaro Nieves and Robert Priest focus on the troubles Christian groups and churches have with the acceptance and changes required to diminish the historically traditional and conservative prejudges directed towards those of racial and ethnic minority with little success in the as well as the 6% rise in Christian hate group activities after September 11, 2001. Also discussed is the relationship with hate groups and their relationship with god, using it as a justification and empowerment method. In this article, it shows the relationship of Christianity and hate groups over time, from the to 2001 the survival of hate groups based on the Christian faith have failed to change. Reference page: Selepak, Andrew, and John Sutherland. Ku Klux Klan, Conservative Politics and Religion: Taking Extremism to the Political Politics, Religion & Ideology 13.1 (2012):75-98. Web BAKER, NICHOLAS M. Negative Impact on Modern American  Skeptic, vol. 20, no. 4, Dec. 2015, pp. 56-59. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=aph&AN=11198 8510&site=eds-live Nieves, Alvaro L., and Robert J. Priest. This Side Of Heaven: Race, Ethnicity, And Christian Faith. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2007. eBook Collection (EBSCOhost). Web. 9 Feb. 2017. CLEAVER, KEN. The Practical And Ethical Considerations In Labeling A Religious Group As A  Journal For The Study Of Religions & Ideologies 11.33 (2012): 164-181. Humanities Source. Web. 13 Feb. 2017