Zhengyu Liu ENC 1101 Anastasia J. Khawaja 4/16/2017 Intermediate Draft According to Benjamin article History of Social Media: Social Networking social media has become one of the most popular terms that almost everyone know it, and probably imagine living without it However, as an important role in the world today, social media just has a short history of development. People usually consider Six Degrees which was launched in 1997 as the first modern social network because it was the first social media that allowed users to add friends and connect each other. After that, social media got into a process of rapid development up to now. At the same time, when more and more people begin to touch and use social media, its impacts are card by the society. There is no doubt that social media brings both positive and negative effects to people whether you use it or not. But as the most popular way that people choose to communicate with others today, social media has a great development prospect and it seems that no one can stop it. So, the ways people treat social media should be consider more on its advantages and how to remove its negative impacts. After the birth of social media in 1997, social media became more and more popular with the popularization of internet. the year 2000, around 100 million people had access to the internet, and it became quite common for people to be engaged socially Social media gradually became the major way people choose to communicate with others. Compared with traditional ways of communicate, such as join party, club, sodality or chat with others by letters and telephones, social media has incomparable advantages. has never been easier to make friends than it is right now, mainly thanks to social networking Social media connects the world together by internet and allows its users to make friends with different kinds of people that they are interested in. People may have hundreds of friends social media such as Facebook and some of them may never meet with each other. But it cannot effects them to be friends and take interacts because social media connected them together from different areas in the world. Besides internet, smart phone is another important factor promoting the development progress of social media. It allows people to communicate with others or take interacts with your friends online easily in fast pace of life today. Social media not only brings people a conveniently platform to communicate each other, but also show people more in the social and brings them more possibilities. In the past, social platforms are monotonous. For an example, the telephone a very medium, able to transfer only voice, hence poorer in conveying 798). Compared to social experience on telephone, social media has colorful functions to show its users more and make the communication more interesting. Social media allows people to share their lives on it in order to rich the communication. Some social networks gathers specific groups of people who are interested in article writing, game exchanging or sharing of music, video and photos. These social networks provide people different platforms to get higher quality of communication experience because they are able to empathize with each other. In addition to its colorful functions, social media also all the communication and interaction Kingston ). Social media brings more possibilities to people not only reflects in it can show people more on communication, but also reflects in it gives more people possibilities to do communicate with others. Such as people who rely on their natural speech to meet their communication needs in face-to-face (Jessica & Janice 680). Jessica Carona and Janice Lighta provide share the information about how social media help people with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis communicate with others in their article World Has Expanded Even Though Stuck at People in this groups face speech intelligibility issues that negatively affect their overall communication & Janice 680), but social media gives them possibilities to do communicate easily, by its colorful functions and its broad social platform. Great mobility, interactivity and rich functions , possibilities make social media become the most popular way people choose to do communicate today, and it will still be the important social platform with its development in the future. However, when social media brings so many advantages to our communication, it also products some negative impacts and it is true that many people believe social media is damaging their lives. When the users of social media increase faster and faster, social disadvantages become more and more obvious. of the negative effect of social media or network is it leads to Kingston). People usually spend many hours on social media everyday, and it is effects their lives a lot because social media diverts too much their attention from their lives or works. Today a lot of people become slaves to the cell phone because of social media, they look at their phones and pay attention to their social media anytime and ignore their reality lives. For an example, today a lot of people are used to take photos when they are meeting or taking meals. They like posting these photos to their social media to show others their lives. But the lives they sharing are fake because their attentions are always on social media instead of their meeting or their friends around them. For many people, especially for juveniles, excessive addicted to social media has effected their practical knowledge and expertise of the everyday life. who have a problem relating socially have found a way to avoid learning those skills and not a good thing at F). Many teenagers feel it is easier to communicate with others on social media than do it in reality, and some kids do not how to behave in a face-to-face F). But in fact, environment of social media is not suitable for juveniles because people share photos on social media that contains violence and sex, which can damage the behavior of kids and Kingston). So, using of social media should be wisely. Social media is the tool to help people do communicate easily and rich their lives instead of the way to replace the realistic society. Social media is a double-edged sword that it brings both positive and negative effects to people, but in generally it is more helpful for people in communication right now. After all, social media brings negative effects not because social media is evil, it ties in the way people use it. It cannot be used in place of real connections between people whatever how wonderful it is. Although social media has dispute, it will still be the important way for people to communicate with others and connect themselves to the world in the future. Works Cited Jessica Carona & Janice Lighta. World Has Expanded Even Though Stuck at American Journal of Speech-Language Pathology (2015):680-691. Print. 01 Nov. 2015. Benjamin, Hale. History of Social Media: Social Networking History Cooperative. Web. 16 Jun. 2015. Amit M., Schejter. the meek, seek the Social media and social Telecommunications Policy. Volume 39, Issue 9(2015): Web. Oct. 2015. Regina F., Graham. Social Media Causing A To Take Cbslocal. Web. 16 Apr. 2014. Dave, Parrack. Positive Impact Of Social Networking Sites On MakeUseOf. Web. 19 Apr. 2012. Ali Kingston, Mwila. and Negative Effects of Social Media on Linked in. Web. 31 Oct. 2015.