Chuck Roehm Professor Sarah Basil ENC1102 16 April 2017 Going to college remains one of the best ways to gain the knowledge needed to obtain a well paying job. However, the cost of college has risen so much that college graduates often spend the next half of their lives just trying to pay off the massive debt accumulated from student loans. Young Americans who decide not to attend college due to insufficient funds often end up with low paying jobs that cannot support much other than themselves. In the recent presidential campaign, candidates like Bernie Sanders promised free college for all, but taxpayers support a plan that would cost them so much so the idea was deemed implausible. The Free College Tuition Alliance has a better idea that would maximize the benefits to all parties involved in the issue of the cost of college. The average college graduate ends up leaving their institution with a debt of $30,100 (The Institute For College Access and Success). This enormous debt takes the average graduate 21 years to pay off (The Institute For College Access and Success). These discouraging numbers are what limits the upward mobility of many young Americans from lower income families. What is unfortunate is that these young Americans realize how much of a difference just an degree makes. A graduate with an degree is 25% more likely to be employed, and 40% of the time will go on to earn a higher degree (Goldrick-Rab). An degree can make the difference between a person who struggles to pay the bills each month, and a person who is financially stable. Another part of the reason why these people attend college is because of the cost, and other responsibilities. People from low income families already have trouble with financial support for their education, and some also hold a job while attending college. This can be overwhelming and often leads to college dropouts. Many people from low income families see the value in college education because the courses teach them the technical skills needed to acquire a higher income job (Grier, David Alan). All of these factors lead to high dropout rates and people not attending college at all. You may be wondering why anyone other than these people from low income families should care about this issue. Well, this issue affects everyone in America. If you are a college student right now, you see how much college costs. Either you or your parents have to pay for the multitude of expenses that come with a college education. Also, if you have children yourself, you will likely end up sending your child to college and once again see the financial drain of college education. You already know how helpful a free college tuition program would be. For the ones who do not believe they are involved, you still are. Every law abiding American pays taxes. Taxpayers would be the ones who fund a free college program, so they would see large tax increases if the wrong type of program were to be put in place (Eden, Max). This is why a large population of taxpayers is against the idea of free college. But the members of the middle and upper class are still affected by these low income people. If these people had a way to obtain the skills needed to move into the middle class, then we would have a stronger middle class to help pay taxes and drive the economy. This would also help the upper class because more middle class members leads to more spending which benefits the business or service they offer. A more educated population leads to a stronger workforce, which would lead to a more stable American economy. But how can we increase the amount of educated individuals without bankrupting the taxpayers? The Free College Tuition Alliance has a plan for that. Chuck Roehm Professor Sarah Basil ENC1102 16 April 2017 The main factors that lead to college dropouts are the cost of college, and the workload (Cubberly, Fran). Students who also have a job take less and less courses until they end up dropping out because they have to focus on their job or afford to attend college. To remedy this, some have suggested free college tuition (Cubberly, Fran). Taxpayers want to pay the price for free college tuition, especially because many of these students would end up dropping out anyway (Goldrick-rab). The foundation of the Free College Tuition idea would address both of these problems with a tuition reimbursement plan. Qualifying students from low income families would be able to attend community colleges and trade schools free of charge as long as they maintain a high enough GPA and take an adequate amount of class credits. The government would pay these costs so that new laws be imposed on colleges. Should these students drop out of college, they would have to pay the costs of tuition back to the government. If they graduate, the costs of their tuition would be reimbursed and they would owe nothing to the government. To further decrease the dropout rate, students with jobs would be allowed to take less credits and still be considered a full time student so they would qualify for the tuition reimbursement program. Students who hold a job are much more likely to dropout, but this would give these students more flexibility to learn at their own pace and hold a job (Cubberly, Fran). Finally, community colleges and trade schools would have an approach focused more on learning technical skills than general education. Students are often told of the value of higher education, but they always see it while attending their university (Grier, David Alan). If the system was reworked to focus on teaching these technical skills, more people would see the value in this career paths and choose to learn a skill. Students would be more interested in what they are learning, graduate faster, and obtain skills that can actually be used for earning more money (Grier, David Alan). All of these ideas would contribute to decreasing the dropout rate, because we do not want students to drop out and owe money. With this plan, taxpayers would see minimal increases in taxes and they would only be funding graduates, not dropouts. This also increases incentives for college students to attend college, stay in college, and earn their degree rather than dropping out. The low income class would benefit from this plan due to increased opportunity for upward mobility. The middle class would see very little tax increases and the resulting stronger middle class would allow for the government to cut taxes. In addition to that, this plan would leave the opportunity for more education reforms in four year institutions to help combat the tremendous student loan debt in America. With more middle class tax payers, the government would be wealthier and would be able to put into effect a plan like this one for four year institutions. The upper class would also see increased spending from the middle class which would go to their businesses. This plan benefits Americans from all income classes, so it would appeal to everyone. If you support the plan that will drive the American economy forward, you can visit the Free College Tuition Alliance website and sign the petition that voices this idea to the American government. You can also lead any family and friends to this site by spreading the idea on social media such as Twitter, Instagram, or Facebook. Ideas like this require your help to gain traction and become reality, so it is crucial that you spread the word of this plan. Only together can we achieve the necessary reforms needed to lead America into a new era of prosperity. Chuck Roehm Professor Sarah Basil ENC1102 16 April 2017 Works Cited Cubberley, Fran. The Reality of Free Community College  Journal of College Admission.227 (2015): 21-3. Print. Eden, Max, and Policy Research Manhattan Institute for. Issues 2016: Will Free Tuition Increase the Number of College Graduates? Issue Brief. Manhattan Institute for Policy Research, 2016. Print. GOLDRICK-RAB, SARA, and ANDREW P. KELLY. Should Community College be  Education Next 16.1 (2016): 54-60. Print. Grier, David Alan. Free Tuition for Community College: A Role for the Tech  Computer 49.7 (2016): 80-2. Print. Student Debt and the Class of  The Institute For College Access and Success. The Institute For College Access and Success, 18 Oct. 2016. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.