Dec 1 Khristian Dec Ms. Tisdale ENC 1101 04/09/2017 Drinking Age Before 1984, the legal drinking age was 18 years old. That is the age you become an adult. However, in 1984 it was changed by an organization called MADD, which stands for Mothers against drunk driving. MADD argued to raise the minimum drinking age from 18 to 21 for the sole purpose, of reducing drunk driving accidents. The legal drinking age should be lowered to 18 because it has no correlation to drunk driving, this will also reduce binge and/or dangerous drinking, your frontal lobe fully develop until age 25 which means the difference between 18 and 21 is no difference at all, and finally if you can serve our country at 18, you should be able to have a beer. the age of 18, change is big in a life. Now officially adults, teens become legally responsible for themselves. They are free to make adult decisions, able to vote, compelled to be socially independent, and urged to live on their own and pay their own bills. But they buy a (Roanoke 2004). This means you can vote at 18, you can buy a car at 18, you go into debt at 18, you can serve our country at 18, you get the idea. If you can do whatever you want at 18 why you consume alcohol? The legal drinking age was raised to reduce drunk driving. Well now people are realizing there are more problems beginning to stem out of this law than originally predicted. Problems that problems back then, like the development of the frontal lobe, fake ID sales, binge drinking and how many college students it Dec 2 kills every year. There are even people who legitimately prove that there is no correlation between drunk driving and the minimum drinking age. The perks of the minimum legal drinking age being changed from 18 to 21 is non- existent. Barnhill states appears to be no correlation between the minimum age and drunk- driving fatalities. In fact, the US data does not correlate with that of Europe, where fatalities have been decreasing since 1982, although the minimum drinking age is (2014). What this means is that in countries where the minimum drinking age is lower than the U.S. (normally around 16-18) there are less drunk driving accidents. This is because alcohol is introduced to teens at a younger age therefore by the time they are ready to drive they are already aware of the effects of alcohol and what it has on a ability to drive. Holloway states that rational part of a brain fully developed and be until age 25 or (2017). [Your frontal lobe or prefrontal cortex is what allows adults (people who are 25 years old or to respond to situations with good judgement and an awareness of long term consequences. Teens process information with the amygdala. This is the emotional part [of the (Holloway 2017). This means that the difference between the legal drinking age being 18 or 21 is no difference at all, because either way your frontal lobe still fully developed, so either way your ability to make decisions sober or not is still impaired. Paglia states was stampeded into this puritanical law by Mothers Against Drunk Driving, who with all good intentions were wrongly intruding into an area of personal choice exactly as did the hymn-singing 19th century temperance crusaders, typified by Carrie Nation smashing beer barrels with her hatchet. Temperance fanaticism eventually triumphed and gave us 14 years of Prohibition. That in turn spawned the crime syndicates Dec 3 for booze smuggling, laying the groundwork for global drug trade. Thanks a lot, (2014). This statement truly explains how the law even got passed. It also makes you realize how little the people who passed it spent studying the after effects of this law. We be in this mess if we thought it through first. According to MADD, the national highway traffic safety administration estimates that this particular law in place saves about 900 lives a year. Even if counter argument is true, the law is still hurting more than helping. In college, kids are binge drinking every day, consuming alcohol at unhealthy levels. They must do it unsupervised, because they want to get caught. CDC [Centers for Disease reported that alcohol is responsible for more than 4,300 deaths annually among underage youth. The CDC also found that young people between the ages of 12 and 20 drink 11 percent of all the alcohol consumed in the U.S, and more than 90 percent of this alcohol is consumed during binge (Cary 2014). 1,825 college students between the ages of 18 and 24 die from alcohol-related unintentional injuries [this includes binge (NIH.gov 2015). This law is continuing to harm our country by increasing binge drinking, fake ID sales, and an increase in drug abuse (Cary 2014). With all these other facts pointing towards the lowering of the minimum drinking age, I understand why still 21. This law should not only be changed, but it should be changed now. It needs to be changed soon because its harming more than its helping. All-in-all, this law is poison for our society and we continue to lose more and more people because of this law. So, as you can see the legal drinking age should be lowered to 18 because it will reduce binge and/or dangerous drinking, your frontal lobe fully develop until age 25 which means the difference between 18 and 21 is no difference at all, and if you can serve our country at 18, you should be able to have a beer. Dec 4 Works Cited Barnhill, John H. Age Salem Press Encyclopedia, January,2014. Cary, Mary K. to Lower the Drinking U.S. News Digital Weekly, vol. 6, May2014, p. Holloway, Beth RN. University of Rochester, Paglia, Camille. The Drinking Age Is Past Its  Time. Time, 23 Apr. 2014. Web. 11 Dec. the legal drinking age be lowered? Roanoke times, vol. 29, sept. 2004.