Samsonenko 1 Vladislav Samsonenko Professor Anastasia J. Khawaja ENC1101.903S17 13 April 2017 The Effect of Video Games on Children Past few decades showed the strong shift in the importance of technology in the lives of people. Electronic devices are now used in almost every aspect of life, whether it is communication or household duties. Audience of technology users is expanding and now includes children, who play video games on their devices from a very young age. This shift in preferences is a concern to some parents who believe that devices are replacing real life communication and outdoor activities. Other parents worry that video games are addictive, cause violence, and have a negative effect on the physical development of the kids. However, this conversation is missing an information about the fact that video games are able to provide benefits that cannot be found anywhere else. Despite all the concerns caused by video games, there is a strong evidence that they are capable of increasing comprehension and improving The debate as to whether video games are good or bad for children has been going for over two decades. Fortunately, there are a number of studies that confirm the positive impact of video games on various aspects. Video games are mostly packed with actions and require player to make decisions quickly. Every day, people get exposed to such kind of environments more. Unsurprisingly, playing the kind of games described above for a long time improves a wide range of mental processes. Some of these improvements are visual acuity, cognitive control and generalized improvements in perceptual learning (Berard, Cain, Watanabe 1). Even earlier short- term studies confirm that people who played action video games often were proficient in Samsonenko 2 processing multiple distractors, quickly identifying visual targets, stretching visual attention over a wide eccentricity range, and resisting the effect (Green, Bavelier 2). Mental processes are impacted by fast-paces action games, but there are also numerous other games aimed to increasing other abilities in children. Educational games are a specific kind of video games, which is often overlooked in the video game debate due to its lack of violence. However, it was proven by Prot, Mcdonald, Anderson, and Gentile that spatial skills and specific knowledge are improved by these games. Additionally, long exposure to not simply educational games showed to improve creativity in kids in tasks such as drawing pictures and writing stories (Henion, Jackson). On the contrary, such effect was not caused by other activities such as use of cell phones, the Internet and computers. Thus, video games can contribute to kids development in a more efficient way than other forms of technology. Contrary to the popular belief video games are also capable of creating some positive health-related benefits. Apparently, video games could improve eyesight by teaching the brain to spot small details, follow movements and spot subtle light changes. (Jeon, Maurer and Lewis 24). Other evidence show that children with dyslexia are able to improve their reading abilities after only 12 hours of playing video games, that do not involve any special phonological training (Franceschini, Sandro, et al 4). Improved attention, reading skills and eyesight are only some of the health benefits of playing various genres of videogames that are not necessarily created to fix these problems. Yet, all the listed benefits are often ignored in favor arguments that video games cause more mental and physical problems than benefits. One of the issues that is often highlighted by opponents is that video games supposedly encourage violence and aggression. Another point is Samsonenko 3 made that normally, gameplay does not provide option of a non-violent conflict resolution. Indeed, violence in video games has been linked to the aggression in young adults. However, American Psychological Association claims that there is evidence to link violent video play to criminal According to study by Jenkins, the rate of juvenile violent crime in the United States is at a 30-year low. And people committing crimes tend to be exposed to media less than those people who do not commit crime. Therefore, there are various social factors impacting the violence, but video games are highly unlikely to cause a severe impact on children. Teenagers are able to leave the emotional effects of the game behind when they stop playing and live their regular life. Another point that opponents of video games often make is that video gaming makes children more isolated and leaves them less time to play sports and do other outdoors activities. This is a valid concern because obesity rate among children ages 2-19 is at 17%. Taylor, Jenson, Castell and Dilouya make a counter argument by claiming that games serve as an additional to a life, not its substitutes. Often times games a played with a group of friends and being by him/herself is not common among gamers. Additionally, companies that produce consoles realize that this issue exists and introduced Wii Fit to the market. This console features games such as yoga, strength training, aerobics, and balance. This console has been used widely in physiotherapy, which proves that video games develop in response to the complaints of the audience. Currently, 90% of American children and teens play video games (Prot et. Al.). Constantly growing use of gadget is certainly causing concern among parents, video game companies and government. There is no denying that kids spending too much time playing video games may exhibit impulsive behavior and have attention problems. However, it has been proven that video games are capable of improving cognitive skills, spatial skills, creativity and specific Samsonenko 4 knowledge. But not only there are mental benefits, but physical too. Video games are capable to help people with coordination issues, bad eye sight and dyslexia, among many others. Violent games are also not as dangerous as media makes them to be. Stakeholders of the issue need to pay attention and limit the amount of time spent playing videogames and that mix of educational activities is appropriate, which will ensure that children receive the best possible effects from video games. After all, there are many concerns about the impact of video games, but there is also a lot of proof of they the positive effect. Samsonenko 5 Works Cited Berard, Aaron V., et al. Frequent video game players resist perceptual  PloS one 10.3 (2015): e0120011. Childhood Obesity  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 10 Apr. 2017. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Collins, Nick. Playing video games  The Telegraph. Telegraph Media Group, 17 Feb. 2012. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Franceschini, Sandro, et al. Action video games make dyslexic children read  Current Biology 23.6 (2013): 462-466. Green CS, Bavelier D (2003) Action video game modifies visual selective attention. Nature 423: pmid:12774121 Henion, Andy, & Jackson, Linda (2011). Video game playing tied to  MSUToday. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Jarvis, Michaela. Video games: The bad, the ugly, and the (potentially)  Science 355.6332 (2017): 1385-1385. Jenkins, Henry. Do violent video games contribute to youth violence? N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Jeon, Seong Taek, Daphne Maurer, and Terri L. Lewis. The effect of video game training on the vision of adults with bilateral deprivation  Seeing and perceiving 25.5 (2012): 493-520. Official Site Wii Fit  Wii Fit Plus. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Samsonenko 6 Prot, Sara, Katelyn A. Mcdonald, Craig A. Anderson, and Douglas A. Gentile. Video  Pediatric Clinics of North America 59.3 (2012): 647-58. Web. Taylor, Nicholas, et al. Public displays of play: Studying online games in physical  Journal of Communication 19.4 (2014): 763-779. Violent Video  American Psychological Association. American Psychological Association, n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.