Vega 1 Leonardo Vega Ms. Ashley Tisdale ENC1 Sec 008 April 9, 2017 US Pro-Tennis Decline in the Global Arena American tennis greats Connors, McEnroe, Agassi and Sampras have made the US the most successful nation in Open Era. But in recent years, the US is losing tennis power, currently reaching a mere (Konigsberg). There has been no Grand Slam winner in the last thirteen years (since Andy Roddick won the 2003 US Open) and no semifinalist in over seven years (McCann). Moreover, no American player has reached the quarterfinals for the last twenty-one Grand Slams. The struggle experienced by the American tennis circuit is a topic of loud contention among players, coaches, and tournament directors. Coaches and players blame situation with the on a poor approach to technique and tactics, compounded by the lack of clay court training (Kamperman). Directors take issue with the below-average inconsistent rigor used to certify coaching professionals. One point of common ground however lays on the weak multi-level approach. It fails to grow the popularity of the sport by not promoting tennis to all youths equally, not just the It also fails to create a plan that supports gradual development deep- rooted in commitment to tennis excellence, not just profit (Kamperman). American tennis is at a serious low point. The system of pro-tennis development for the male players in the US is broken because of poor clay court training, unqualified tennis coaching professionals, and Vega 2 inadequate sponsorships for pro-training opportunities. The American male athletes must overcome these weaknesses in order to regain competitive global standings. The issue of poor clay-court training at home and abroad underlines one of the main weaknesses of the US tennis professional team. A successful clay-court season is paramount for a tennis pro-player to maintain high rankings within the ATP World Tour. Among the thirteen clay-base tournaments in the season, primary target is the highly- regarded French Open. One of greatest tennis stars, Pete Sampras, winner of thirteen major titles from 1990 to 2002, never consummated the dream of winning the French Open. The problem affecting the decorated American player was simply failing to practice more on clay- courts at home, as well as insufficient attendance at ATP warm-up tournaments on clay before the main French event. With almost no professional grade clay-court training facilities in the US Pete possibilities to ever win the French Open were beyond (Foster). It remains frustrating that twelve years later, American male tennis players continue to lack the proper clay-court training needed to be competitive on clay-surfaced pro-tournaments. Top- youth tennis player, Noah Rubin, winner of the 2014 Wimbledon Tennis Championship, failed to qualify for the French Open tournament, only two months earlier. Rubin joins the long list of American tennis players showing questionable tolerance against the slow-surface challenge. In a 2015 New York Times article written by correspondent Eric Konigsberg, presents the expert views of GM of Player Development, Pat McEnroe, on the issue of US clay-courts. McEnroe points out the urgency of building regional clay-court hubs for more American players to grow up training on the slow surface so they could learn to a slower and higher-bouncing used so effectively by European players who often dominate during the pro-tennis clay-court season. That same year, the USTA created the Equipment and Vega 3 Facilities Grants Program, a welcomed response to the much-needed funding to build and maintain true professional grade, clay-court facilities. It offers grants of $15,000 to $20,000 to tennis programs that pass a rigorous qualification process focusing on programs which long-term goals benefit primarily local communities. Furthermore, the USTA recommends such grants are used for maintaining and purchasing equipment for established youth tennis programs, such as Quick Star. Indirectly, the USTA deters the use of these funds on building new tennis courts, much less clay-based. The fact is that the Equipment and Facilities Grants are simply not enough funding to cover the cost of building and support professional grade clay-court systems in the US for touring American players to train on and According to USTA sponsored Quality Court Industries, the cost of building organic clay-base courts can be up to $80,000 per system with an equally steep maintenance and re-surfacing cost of up to $6,000 per year. There are no indications of what if any plans the USTA has, in order to help solve the critical clay-court deficiency affecting the American male athletes. US pro- tennis players have endured on-going struggles to train in proper clay-court facilities at home, which has contributed to their many loses on clay-surface professional events. Consequently, the poor clay-court season results of the American men have significantly reinforced a steady decline in the global arena. As important as the training facility, the excellence of your trainer and coach matters. For over ten years, tennis experts content that the slump experienced by American male tennis players on the pro-tour is also attributed to the lack of qualified US tennis coaching professionals. Lawrence Kleger, Head Coach of the John McEnroe Tennis Academy in NYC, claimed that coaching education in the US, has not with the tennis advancements in other countries, and has failed to provide the proper platform to support a Vega 4 strong future for the men is US pro-tennis (Konigsberg). Like their European counterparts, American coaches have not been made accountable for keeping their credentials and necessary training up-to-date, to avoid a fine and possible USTA termination. Even more significant to the development of American tennis is that professional coaches in the US have never been required to obtain a special clay-court certification to help the American male athletes be successful during clay-based ATP World tournaments. For example, Pete coach, Paul Annacone, lacked the experienced and ability to teach the American how to adjust his powerful play-style from the faster hard and grass courts to the slower clay surface. As expected, the national governing body of tennis in the US responds by establishing the first USTA Professional Coaching Development Grant. The focus is to fund and regulate a basic coaching certification process that supports the development of the sport at the community level, and requires coaches to update their skills regularly and According to Coach Kleger, despite the USTA positive intervention toward the improvement of American coaches, the problem of underqualified tennis coaching professionals in the US continued by 2015 (Konigsberg). Additionally, he argues that focusing on assisting coaching professionals in the US does nothing to support coaching and training staff accompanying the American male players on tour. Kleger suggest a less expensive alternative for the USTA to allocate special funding to sponsor an oversees coaching exchange program, so that the American players can have the support of ATP level coaching professionals when on tour. Presently, no such funding has been approved. Moreover, no USTA moneys are currently allocated toward the expansion of clay- court coaching certifications in the US. Overall, the value of American pro-level coaching staff continues to weaken, contributing to the decline of US tennis in the global circuit. Vega 5 Maintaining a high-level tennis coaching staff is hard enough, but not as challenging as providing on-going support to the pro-athletes that compete for the US day in and day out. One of the strongest arguments surrounding the decline of American male tennis players in the world standings has been providing adequate sponsorship. In a solitary sport like tennis, welcoming more players who have not come up through the country-club circuit, creates a bigger tennis interest among young athletes, which in turn helps to grow the sport. Both Coach Kleger and USTA GM Pat McEnroe agree that the future of US tennis is in the hands of Simply getting kids excited about playing tennis is key to prevent they pick other sports (Konigsberg). In support of the development of the sport of tennis in the US, the USTA offers grant programs to promote diversity and inclusiveness for academy and individual players alike. For example, the USTA Recreational Tennis Division provides grants which focused primarily in funding non-profit organizations at community level, such as parks and recreation facilities, as well as school districts. Grants totally $400,000 are awarded twice a year among organizations such as Parks and Recreation Facilities, and school districts, to mention a few. Their main intent was to develop tennis programs for children and promote diversity in the sport. More recently, the most important USTA sponsorship improvement has been the creation of the High-Performance Grants Program. It identified as the single most significant hurtle preventing multicultural players from accessing the sport of tennis in the US and The challenge is that the distribution of and grants needs better accountability of funds for non-academy players (Kamperman). With only one office located in USTA headquarters handling funding for hundreds of potential recipients nationally, it was very difficult to account for local moneys accurately, and to ensure the and those grants were designed to support Vega 6 (Kamperman). The USTA is encouraged about the opening of six regional hubs around the nation, the Multicultural Grants Division, to effectively managed the allocation of direct funds. The USTA has been distributing this grant among individual, top-youth players attending prominent tennis academies in the US, who have been to lead the return of American male tennis players to the global top rankings (Konigsberg). The fact is that inadequate sponsorship affects pro-training opportunities. The success of these USTA sponsorships depends on the success of American tennis academies and their coaches, to continue encouraging talented, high-quality players capable of producing long term results in the pro-tour. One obstacle has endured: the one-size-fits-all approach of American whose main goal has been to turn young talent too quick into the pro-circuit, without the proper long-term coaching support. The USTA has confronted this issue by firmly proposing players first go to a four-year college program and then join the pro-tour (Konigsberg). Despite the advancements in USTA sponsorship programs, from 2009 to 2015, for high performance player development, American tennis academies have yet to produce a winning formula that ensures coaching patronage and support for experienced male tennis players in the pro-circuit. Until that happens, the US tennis may continue to decline in the global arena. US pro-players have endured a steady decline in the ATP World Tour standings. The USTA has made conclusive improvements to provide better sponsorships for high- performance players. Despite those advancements, the cookie cutter formula used by American tennis training academies have consistently failed to develop male players that can endure long- term success in the pro-circuit. This is primarily due to the poor exposure to clay-court training in the US and abroad, and the lack of adequate coaching support, which has plague the US pro-players for over ten years. One can argue that the consistent decline of American male Vega 7 tennis players in the global arena, could be transitory, and will eventually turn around. Considering all the global attention the US men have gotten in the fierce pursue of a pro-tennis comeback, perhaps other countries will begin welcoming US athletes to train year-round outside US soil, with non-American coaches in better facilities oversees. If so, one can speculate that the American male players will finally get the competitive edge they need to break the downward pattern they have experienced for years in the pro-tennis platform. What country will that be? Vega 8 Works Cited and USTA, 2015, www.usta.com/About-USTA/USTA- Awards/grants/. Accessed 15 Feb. 2017. of Building a Tennis Quality Court, www.qualitycourt.com/index.php/faq. Accessed 3 Apr. 2017 Foster, J. Soils BBC News, BBC, 23 May 2002, news.bbc.co.uk/sport2/hi/tennis/French open/1952120.stm. Accessed 8 Feb. 2017. Kamperman, Kurt. Awards over $400,000 in Recreational Tennis Grants to 45 Non-Profit Organizations across the USTA, 15 Aug. 2009, Accessed 9 Feb. 2017. Konigsberg, Eric. U.S. Tennis Rise The New York Times, The New York Times, 22 Aug. 2014, www.nytimes.com/2014/08/24/magazine/can-us- Accessed 14 Feb. 2017. McCann, Mimi. Roddick: The 2003 U.S. Open Comeback Will Make You A Bleacher Report, 27 Aug. 2009, http://bleacherreport.com/articles/243619- andy-roddick-his-2003-us-open-comback-will-make-you-a-believer. Accessed 12 Feb. 2017. Vega 9