Alexis Wallace Wallace 1 Instructor: Sarah Roth Composition I April 8, 2017 The Benefits of Arts Education amongst Various Cultures Art is a shared passion worldwide. It is one of the things that keeps us connected and works within various fields of communication. Unfortunately, some cultures are disregarding the importance of the arts by limiting it within their education systems. An article written in 2012 stated that to new findings the first government survey in a decade that tracks the availability of arts in schools fewer elementary schools are offering visual arts, dance and drama classes than during a decade (Walker, 2012). The debate on whether art is needed or not, revolves mainly around opinion. There are some who believe that there is not enough evidence to support the idea that art contributes to learning in other academic criteria, and that it is not as important as other subjects. While others, such as people with high education in the fine arts and those who participate in and experience art, have a fair argument as to why it is important that art education exists. Some cultures promote the arts more than others, and see firsthand just how beneficial they can be. It is important to promote and educate people about the arts because it helps with other school curriculum, opens students to new ways of thinking, and provides the inspiration needed to form new ideas and create new innovations. All schools provide basic core subjects, because they are required. However, everyone has one or two subjects that they dislike. Not everyone is inclined to love math or science. Some may not care for English or history. Having an outlet, such as a form of art, is important in this setting because it opens the mind and encourages engagement. Recently, STEM programs seem to have an overpowering importance that can leave art programs in the shadows. Since this Wallace 2 acronym is so highly valued, an article written in 2015 challenges it by changing it to STEAM so that Arts is included. education is based on the premise that STEM and the arts function better together than they do (Ghanbari, 2015). People are realizing that art contributes to a way of thinking that other subject matter quite reach. So, to keep art in the game, this article offers a creative way to slip it into normal curriculum. A similar article written this year suggests that art contributes greatly to student engagement, therefore making it a vital part of the education process. Katrina Skewes McFerran, Alexander Hew Dale Crooke, and Lucy Bolger write that, school-based arts programs have been reported as particularly effective for both preventing disengagement, and re-engaging students in (2017). A school environment where students are more eager to learn and are able to stay focused is something every school strives for. The arts allow people to experience a unique way of thinking. An article written by Karen in 2006 explores how to incorporate creative writing into our observations of other cultures: argue that by working with different methods, it is possible to move out of closed ways of thinking and writing that are constrained by cultural biases and disciplinary practices or 2006). When there a battle for gaining arts education, it is easier to expand its possibilities and build on its foundation. Another article, written in 2009 by a team of researchers, discusses creative art education in Australia. Under well- organized education program were believed to come to a better understanding of the Creative Arts through engagement as both arts practitioners and (Alter, 2009). They saw the benefits of art education and made sure to take advantage of all aspects involved in various forms of art. Instead of arguing that the arts are important, the Australian education system already acknowledged its importance and did something about it. Wallace 3 Several ideas and innovations come from the feeling of inspiration. Every form of art is intended to inspire. In a classroom setting students are normally excited when they get the opportunity to create art. Carolina Blatt-Gross suggest that, in our understanding of the cognitive benefits of art making, eager in artful behaviors suggests that the arts are worth considering as valuable and viable components of (2013). Blatt-Gross also believes that art is a natural human behavior (2013). Unfortunately, when schools experience budget cuts, they have to pick and choose which extra-curricular programs and classes they will provide. If a school is not centered on fine arts, the programs included in this field do not bring in much money. This is why sports usually meet the priority list. Hundreds of people pay to attend school sporting events and buy food from the concession stands. Events such as plays and art shows, on the other hand, do not normally draw in large audiences. Also, some of these events do not even charge admission. Money often seems to be the leading cause of bringing down the arts. This should not be the case. Art is a part of all of us. Not being able to express our creativity could lead to a lack motivation and closed minded way of thinking. The Arts benefit education in various ways. They help students concentrate on their school work, open the mind to new ways of thinking, and contribute to new innovations. There are some cultures that value the arts more than others, creating a variety of perspectives around the world. Perhaps if we worked more closely with some of these cultures we could better evaluate the importance of arts education. Researchers and art enthusiasts are working towards a more creative society, but if schools better funded the arts will continue to be at a serious risk. Art leads to inspiration, and that is something everyone needs. Wallace 4 Works Cited Walker, T. (2012). The good and bad news about arts education in U.S. schools. News and Features from the National Education Association. Retrieved from http://neatoday.org/2012/04/05/the-good-and-bad-news-about-arts-education-in-u-s-schools-2/ Alter, F., Hays, T., & R. (2009). Creative arts teaching and practice: Critical reflections of primary school teachers in Australia. International Journal of Education & the Arts, 10(9). Retrieved from http://www.ijea.org/v10n9/ Ghanbari, S. (2015). Learning across disciplines: A collective case study of two university programs that integrate the arts with STEM. International Journal of Education & the Arts, 16(7). Retrieved from http://www.ijea.org/v16n7/ K. (2006, March 16). Experiences with poetry, pedagogy and participant observation: Writing with students in a study abroad program. International Journal of Education & the Arts, 7(1). Retrieved from http://ijea.asu.edu/v7n1/ McFerran, K. S., Crooke, A. H. D., & Bolger, L. (2017). Promoting engagement in school through tailored music programs. International Journal of Education & the Arts, 18(3). Retrieved from http://www.ijea.org/v18n3/ Blatt-Gross, C. (2013). Toward meaningful education: Investigating artful behavior as a human proclivity in the classroom. International Journal of Education & the Arts, 14(7). Retrieved from http://www.ijea.org/v14n7/.