Lamusse Kelly Lamusse Erika Staiger ENC 1102 16 April 2016 Buy a thermos, begin a beneficial campus trend The University of South Florida is one in four-thousand, seven-hundred and twenty-six institutions of higher education in the United States, which consumes an enormous amount of coffee on a daily basis. This paper will not target the beverage, but the disposable cup in which the drink is served. The New York times posted an article last year to explain the issue regarding these cups; most of them are not This implies that once consumed and thrown away, the cups will not be decomposed by bacteria or other living resources. The main concern for the media conglomerate was how simple the solution was: students should purchase a thermos which could be used over and over again. The thermos is a specialised type of vacuum flask used to store extremely hot or cold beverages. This paper challenges each and every student to purchase a thermos which can be refilled with coffee throughout the day. Furthermore, this paper urges the students to refrain from using disposable coffee cups, and to encourage the community to follow the movement. Coffee is known to be the second most consumed beverage after water, in the world. The amount of coffee we consume has become a global concern due to the amount of pollution created in the process; the beverage is mostly consumed out of plastic, and mostly non-recyclable cups. Freelancers Union, an insurance company based in Florida, recently published an article to share the facts about our excessive coffee consumption. According to the organization, 58 billion coffee Lamusse cups are tossed out annually in the United States, and 10 million trees are cut down to produce the cups. Sarahanne Wright, a journalist at the Food Business Research group in Florida, exposed how the community now faces space in local (3). This is a major concern for the USF community since the majority of students and professors consume coffee, and can therefore directly help to reduce the problem. Furthermore, the campus area, where most people live, may suffer from increased future pollution levels. In addition, coffee cups contribute towards economic waste; a reporter from USA Today, Sandra Block, explained that each coffee cup accounts for fifteen percent of the total cost of the beverage (5). Block stated that humans who purchase a coffee will spend ten cents on the cup, which amounts to an average of fifty dollars a year (6). Kelly Lamusse, a freshman at USF recounts how several students have already begun to help reduce the overall use of coffee cups; the solution is as simple as purchasing a thermos, or re-usable coffee cup. The campus is re-usable friendly since all the dining halls have self-service machines, and the coffee suppliers such as Starbucks, not only sell, but also allow customers to use their own re- usable cups when ordering a drink. As seen in the previous paragraph, most of us drink coffee, and therefore consume plastic cups and contribute towards the pollution in our community. And, although buying a thermos is easy and cheap, a person often unwillingly changes a bad habit since many believe that an individual effort to change contribute to a greater solution. However, if a student who drinks two cups of coffee a day, purchased a thermos instead of using disposable coffee cups, that person could save 56 cups a month, and 196 cups a semester. Unfortunately, individuals are not constantly reminded of how beneficial a change in daily consumption habits can be. Advanced Disposal is a Waste & recycling facilities in Florida which has recently argued that simple gestures such as Lamusse purchasing environmentally-friendly cups will play a major role in diminishing the rising pollution levels in the Tampa Bay area. Since there is such an abundant use of these plastic cups at Universities like USF, students may soon face increased costs to help fight the pollution. Advanced Disposal can only to overcome the insufficient storage space for rubbish in the area. Hopefully, with such strong claims made by the company, students will begin to care about and react to the issue. A highly acclaimed reporter named Ameanda Bates from Good Housekeeping published an article which highlighted how influential humans can be; in the article, a person who purchased a thermos and used it in a University dining hall managed to influence several other students to purchase one too. The student was unaware of the positive impact, which Bates referred to as a domino (3-4). With that being said, a student who adopts a better habit of using re-usable coffee cups, can help influence others to do the same thing. Fortunately for students, purchasing a thermos/re-usable coffee cup is both cheap and easy. Lee Joongsup, a professor at the Iowa State University, bragged about the ease of using a thermos; modern stainless-steel thermos is one of the least expensive yet most valuable pieces of equipment the outdoorsman (Joonsgup 12). To be precise, the professor indicated that purchasing the thermos will do more than just benefit the environment. Joonsgup later mentioned that the thermos no maintenance and is as indestructible as a manhole (11). Moreover, thermos cups are available in most stores; the re-usable cups come in thousands of different colors, sizes and designs. Students can even personalize and add accessories to a thermos. more, the price of a thermos can range from five dollars in Walmart to over one-thousand dollars coated in Swarovski crystals. All in all, students have the luxury to choose a bottle according to their style and budget. more, students can even contribute towards the overall Lamusse market demand for the bottles; if people continue to purchase thermos cylinders, then the industry will react (Wright 182). The journalist explained how coffee cup manufactures have begun to diversify towards producing re-usable cups. Unfortunately, as much as the coffee industry wants to produce environmentally-friendly re-usable cups, the change happen (Wright 184). With that being said, the high costs involved in changing the production processes and the lack of flexibility are amongst many reasons why disposable cups are still the most popular way to consume coffee in (Wright 184). Finally, students at USF have the power to consume coffee in a more environmentally friendly way, and reduce the pollution levels in the Tampa area as well as across the United States. More importantly, the students can also influence others in the process and hopefully begin a worldwide thermos trend across campus. Since these bottles are fun, cheap and easy to find, there are no reasons against their use. To all students of the University of South Florida, the challenge is to purchase a thermos, enjoy using it and help those around you to adopt more eco-friendly habits. As mentioned by Bates, the time has come for you to start a positive domino effect on campus. Works cited Lamusse Bates, Ameanda. One Fresh  Good Housekeeping, vol. 264, no. 3, Mar. 2017, p. 160. Charles, Bob. In Praise of the  Outdoor Life, vol. 209, no. 8, Nov. 2002, p. 24. Lee, Joongsup. A study for increasing reusable cup consumption in the coffee industry: focused on behavior change with  (2015). Sandra, Block. Two Families Find a Little Change Can Save a  USA Today, n.d. Wright, Sarahanne, et al. Environmental Purchasing Practices and Environmental Beliefs of Stand-Alone Coffee Shop Owners and  Journal of Foodservice Business Research, vol. 14, no. 2, Apr-Jun2011, pp. 180-188..