Catherine Wright Kevin Ip Comp 1102 April 14, 2017 Stop Common Core In 2009 the United States created the Common Core Standards. Under Former President administration these standards were adapted to create students who were college and career ready. They were a state lead effort that was privately funded by organizations such as the Gates Foundation, who donated over $160 million (Karp). The vision for Common Core was a great idea, it was very appealing to many states and to the people. While there were many great ideas behind The Common Core State Standards, the standards do not work and they are hurting our students. An end needs to be put to The Common Core State Standards or the students, the future of our country, will continue to be oppressed by them. Some people think that because they are out of school that they do not need to care about the what is happening in them anymore. These people are wrong though, whether you plan to have kids in the future or you just plan on living in The United States in the future, these standards effect you. The students that are in these classes right now being directly affected by these standards are the future of our country. One of the kids sitting in a math lesson right now who is learning the way to do math is going to be our future President. We are past the point of only thinking in the today and now. We need to all start looking into the future and what these standards are going to do to our kids. The Common Core State Standards are designed so that all high school graduates are college and career ready. The first problem with this is that college is not for everybody. In 2015, only 66.1% of students who graduated high school enrolled in a higher education (Brown). What happens to the other 33.9% of students who we are creating to be college and career ready, who going to college? We catering to all of our students if the main goal of the standards even apply to them. Students going to care about a state test if they need the score to go to college. We need to look at all of the students that we are creating these standards for and understand when all of them are. You make a one size fits all standard, because no student is the same. For the students who do plan to go to college, Professor Jason Zimba, who was a lead writer of the math standards, the standards, known as Common Core, prepare students the colleges most kids go to, but not for the college most parents aspire and added that the standards are for selective (Staff). we be encouraging our students to learn to their highest potential and not lowering the standard to the minimum bar for them to get into a decent college? We should set the bar high so that our students are always reaching to be better and to keep growing in their educational journey. Due to the classes that students will be taking under The Common Core Standards many and universities will likely have to lower the level of their introductory math courses to avoid unacceptably high failure (Staff). The information that our students will be learning under these standards even high enough to allow them to pass basic college classes. While these standards are lowering the bar for our students, it is increasing the stress. Students have to take standardized test from 3 rd grade until the graduate. In 3 rd grade if they pass the one test they are at risk of being retained. A 3 rd grader from Jacksonville, Florida home from Holiday Hill Elementary in tears, hyperventilating over her Florida Comprehensive Assessment (Thompson). These tests are causing an 8-year-old who should be learning their multiplication table to have a panic attack over taking her FCAT. How can we think it is okay to cause a child to be in such distress in an environment that is meant to be nurturing and safe? It is time that we stand up against these standards and bring back teaching into our educational system. An organization that is based in Port Charlotte, Florida called Florida Stop Common Core Coalition is an incredible organization that working to stop Common Core. Their mission is to stop The Core system of standards, tests, and data collection because that system will harm the quality of education in Florida, violate our and privacy rights, deny state sovereignty and local control, and be unsustainably (2017 Legislature). There are so many ways that you can help to make a difference in our future education system. The first and simplest way that you can help is through a small donation. You can simply go to the Florida Stop Common Core Coalition home webpage and donate right from there. Another option is to write a letter to your local and state government. You have a voice and it deserves to be heard. These people are here to serve you, let them know how you feel and that you want to make a change. The final thing you can do to make a difference is to join a rally. Again, if you go to the Florida Stop Common Core Coalition website they will direct you to many locations that you can join a rally. In 2009, under Former President administration The Common Core State Standards were created and adopted. They were created by state led efforts, while also being privately funded by organizations such as the Gates Foundation. The vision for Common Core was a great idea, it was very appealing to many states and to the people. While there were many great ideas behind The Common Core State Standards, the standards do not work and they are hurting our students. An end needs to be put to The Common Core State Standards or the students, the future of our country, will continue to be oppressed by them. Works Cited 2017  Florida Stop Common Core Coalition. N.p., n.d. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. Brown, Emma. College enrollment rates are dropping, especially among low-income  The Washington Post. WP Company, 24 Nov. 2015. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. Karp, Stan. The Problems with the Common  The Problems with the Common Core. N.p., n.d. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. Staff, Editorial. Lowering the Bar: How Common Core Math Fails to Prepare Students for  Pioneer Institute. N.p., 09 Mar. 2015. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. Thompson, Rhema. Too Much Test Stress? Parents, Experts Discuss High-Stakes Standardized Test  WJCT NEWS. N.p., n.d. Web. 14 Apr. 2017.