Staggers 1 William Staggers ENC 1102 Sarah Basil 16 April 2017 Public Smoking Public smoking is an issue that has been debated for a long time and still without any resolution to the problem that is created for public health. Smokers and non-smokers have been fighting or their individual rights to smoke and also to keep their health in good condition. There a definite way to completely satisfy both sides which is why the issue is so hard to resolve. People also need to understand the stakes in this problem in order to decide for themselves and make educated decisions for the community. The two sides have yet to come to a compromise which is what is needed for this issue to end. Both stakeholders have been fighting for all or nothing instead of offering the other side something in return. In order for these two sides to come together on this problem, designated smoking areas must be created in order to separate non-smokers from the health risk and allow smokers to exercise their freedom to smoke. USF is a university that has banned smoking entirely and restricted anyone from smoking anywhere on campus. This is one way to deal with this issue but smokers simply going to quit. There are still areas on campus where students feel comfortable to smoke around other people. According to Olivia Dimmer, told USA TODAY College she used to study at the on-campus library, but now that she step out for a smoke break, she opts to stay home (Dimmer). This shows that students are actually being limited by this ban and are more controlled by tobacco than the rules surrounding it. This interferes with work and Staggers 2 well being. Smoking is considered an addiction by many and can not simply be quit on command. Campus wide bans fixing the problem and neither side is benefiting from an overall ban. A compromise needs to be agreed upon which will actually benefit both sides and end this long fight. As USF students, you should be concerned for your health but also the freedom of other students on campus. When one group is struggling, others are close to follow. Designated smoke areas have become a popular method of separating smokers from non-smokers in many situations. Lewis & Clark is a college that has adapted to this idea and created roughly a dozen smoking areas around their campus in order to suit needs. This has worked well for them and instead of instating a ban that students must adhere to, they provide all of the information that students need to make an informed decision of whether or not to smoke. This allows students to exercise their freedom as they wish as well as protect unwilling students from second hand smoke (Lewis & Clark). USF could adopt this idea as well if enough support is shown from students to make this happen. In order to make a change, USF students must petition to bring back the old policy from 2012. According to Daylina Miller, Many students had something to say about old tobacco policy in 2012. were mostly upset about the former policy them in because of the areas they were only allowed to go to smoke (Miller). This shows that when USF allowed smoking in 25 areas on campus, students felt isolated even then (Miller). A campus wide smoking ban would only isolate students even more and force them in to uncomfortable situations when they want to smoke. Students should be provided with as much support as possible when it comes to feeling comfortable in work environments or commutes. Staggers 3 More universities are adopting these smoking areas every day and the results all look positive. TCU is a university in Texas that has been thinking about whether or not to allow smoking on campus in certain areas. Shain Thomas wrote an article for TCU where he explains the opinions of the campus community and weighs the pros vs cons. According to the administrative assistant for the department of nutritional sciences of TCU, personal opinion is that making something like smoking illegal on campus is counterproductive. I think people are going to do what they want regardless of whether smoking is (Thomas). The power of choice is very important when it comes to this issue because most smokers feel trapped when they they have to walk around areas all day where their habit allowed. According to Shain, are individuals. We typically express ourselves in ways which may not fit with what the excepted norms are. I believe having a set of rules which maintains standards and yet infringe upon individuals can only be seen as a good thing. (Thomas). This article also shows that the University of Texas in Austin simply allows students to smoke outside of all the buildings as long as the smoke blowing into any of the facilities (Thomas). As students of USF your job to take action if you believe that this is an issue that you vested in. in our hands to gain enough attention about this issue and speak up about it. I would encourage all of you to create petitions and sign existing ones in order to show the school that we care enough about this issue to make it possible. You can even read out to the school personally in order to make your individual voice heard. Many students care but just know how to make any change happen. Nothing will certainly happen if you the first step to making a change. You can voice your opinion to administrators or just other students but educating people about this issue is important. Staggers 4 In conclusion, ultimately up the USF community as to whether or not designated smoking areas should be brought back. The freedom of choice always shows positive results whereas smoking bans tend to isolate students and deter them from their work. The past has shown us that campus wide bans result in zero progress. Minimizing the issue is important so that public health is preserved and health rights being violated. In order to make a change on this campus, we must speak up to the students and administrators in order to reach a compromise for both sides of this issue. The most important thing you can do is create a discussion somewhere or have someone else become involved. Staggers 5 Works Cited More campuses have smoking bans -- but do they  USA Today. Gannett Satellite Information Network, 06 Oct. 2016. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Health Promotion and  Designated Smoking Areas - Health Promotion and Wellness - College of Arts and Sciences - Lewis & Clark. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Webmaster, University Of South Florida. Students React to New Smoking  Students React to New Smoking Policy - University of South Florida. N.p., 20 Mar. 2012. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Staff, TCU 360. Designated smoking areas could be best  TCU 360. TCU 360, 17 Feb. 2012. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.