Student DuBois ENC 1102 16 April 2015 Help for Our Troops Recently, the numbers of poverty and substance abuse amongst veterans have risen within the last couple of year. This fact has led to cause harm to others and themselves. Fifty percent of all suicides are committed by veterans due to unemployment and homelessness. The growing number of 5.5 million disabled veterans have continued to grow since 2008 as more veterans return home from war not as the same person as they were before (Bureau). Unfortunately, many of veterans are not obtaining the proper care benefits as they wait endlessly for their applications to go through. Since the government is not giving their health care when they need it, some must seek help elsewhere. Thankfully there are many programs that are happy to obliged. One program in particular is the Wounded warrior Project, which creates many programs for these veterans to obtain their care rightfully. As this is a good thing, there is a profuse number of veterans seeking additional help which can degrade the distinctive care of these programs. To fully grasp and take on the challenge of assisting these veterans, bringing about the awareness of the issue is the first step, following taking action within the community. Delivering a better life for those who fought for our freedom and more can be the beginning to a greater country. Before comprehending why this issue needs to be tackled on, one must understand how did it arise in the first place. Military veterans are those served in any of the branches. Some fought in war and some were lucky enough to not endure the horrid experience. Those who faced the traumatizing effects of war unfortunately brought it back with them when returning home. Most of the homeless veterans are those who fought in the Vietnam war. Hector Garcia is a psychologist who is interested in impeding the suffering of those veterans with PTSD. In his Ted Talk, he explains that until recently the science behind treating those with PTSD was researched how to come back from war, because we never really (Garcia). Most of the resources were just managing the symptoms instead of eliminating them. Therefore, when returning home some veterans do not have the proper mental awareness to live a normal life, leading to substances abuse like drugs and alcohol. Most of the incidents they confronted were so traumatizing preferred to hide them with drugs and alcohol so they have to face (Goeckeritz). This strips them from job opportunities and loss in self-confidence. Luckily there has been help provided in some areas of the country. Street Vets, a documentary on homeless veterans, records the life of those who found help through homeless fellowships. This provided them some skill work and enough financial aid to live comfortably within their circumstances. Organizations as such provide a sense of refuge for veterans and it is important to continue the trend of lending a helping hand. Henceforth, veterans are ambassadors for justice and courage and protecting them is evident. They voluntarily decided to risk their lives for others to have a better future. They are the backbone to the country as they protect the rights and freedom of American citizens. It a more than enough reason why this issue should be concerned over as it is almost discourteous to how they are being treated. Furthermore, small effects lead to bigger ones; their behavior also affects the society. More veterans out on the streets leads to greater poverty, which degrades value in humanity. The first step to preventing the situation is based on Goeckeritz theory on training soldiers how to come back home. The constant switching from the battle field to civilization creates a confusion within their mentality and commences PTSD symptoms. Hence, training their minds and behavior on how to slowly interchange back to normal life is extremely imperative. Thereafter, assisting them with other needs can be further introduced within their lifetime. Consequently, there are people doing something about the subject, but not enough. The number keeps rising and the awareness is not spreading. Overall the adjustment to civilian life is hard enough, so when they do not have a home to come to makes it unbearable. There has been some help from the government, like the post-9/11 GI Bill, which has resulted in more than 1 million veterans going back to school. However, it all comes back to adjustment, and per the Washington Post is not easy for a service member who has conducted hundreds of patrols in a combat zone to translate that experience into skills that a civilian employer can (Flournoy). The Obama administration has sought to increase employment with its campaign, which challenged businesses to hire or train 100,000 unemployed veterans or their spouses by the end of (Flournoy). Although it seems like the government is helping, it is believed more should be done on the issue. Moreover, it is appreciated that the government is doing some slow progress with the issue, however there needs to better understanding of the demographics of the population in the country to fully assist those who are in desperate need. Instead of a nation-wide topic, it is more community based. In Tampa, there are various of opportunities and assistance that one can find. a spectrum from the James a. Haley Veterans hospital to safe housing in the Tampa area. However, some do not have the resources to go out and seek this assistance. That why it is imperative for volunteers to reach out and show them the path to a better life. Volunteering is the best way to bring out the awareness while also giving time to the cause. A great organization to offer time to is Homes for Our Troops. Their mission includes building homes Veterans to rebuild their lives, and once again become highly productive members of (Homes for Our Troops). Volunteering gives a sense of empowerment and significance for doing a greater good for the community. However, if this seems too excessive, just spreading the knowledge to others is also more than enough. The more people that understand the issue, the more effort to resolving it can be done. In retrospect, the arising issue of homelessness amongst veterans is inevitable. These men and women feel like they never left the war when returning to civilization as there are factors that take them back to war. Those who experience the symptoms of PTSD only refer to drugs and alcohol abuse to hide from their problems. That is why it is crucial to stop the trend and spread the awareness. Not only is it beneficial to the soldiers that help fight for America, but it is also valuable to the society and its economy. Retaining veterans off the streets promotes a healthier America. Volunteering and reaching out to those in need are also just a few things the society can do to stimulate the growth of a grander American community. America is a country of Life, Liberty, and the Pursuit of happiness, and it all starts with everyone, hand in hand, helping this country prosper. (WC 1204) Works cited Bureau, U.S. Census. U.S. Veteran Facts and  Disabled World. Disabled World, 01 Nov. 2011. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Flournoy, A. We Doing Enough to Help Veterans Transition to Civilian  The Washington Post. WP Company, 02 Apr. 2014. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Garcia, Hector. We Train Soldiers for War. Train Them to Come Home,  TED: Ideas worth Spreading. TED Talks, Nov. 2015. Web. 02 Apr. 2017. Goeckeritz, Issac. Street Vets - PBS Homeless Veteran  YouTube. PBS, 01 Feb. 2011. Web. 02 Apr. 2017. Homes for Our Troops. Our  Homes for Our Troops. N.p., 2004. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.