Mendola 1 Vincent Mendola Prof. Penuliar Enc 1102 16 Apr. 2017 The American Cancer Helping Hand A big issue in our everyday lives is Cancer, it can affect anyone of us directly or indirectly. Cancer care what race, ethnicity, or gender you are, it can pick anyone as its next victim. However, the American Cancer Society does care about this issue that affects millions of people and families every day and they do the most they can to help support those affected. I will be explaining what the American Cancer Society is, what beneficial services they do for people battling cancer, and how you can get involved to help the cause! The mission of the American Cancer Society is save lives, celebrate lives, and lead the fight for a world without (ACS). They are also the th largest charity and the 75 th best employer in the according to Forbes and with that being said is also one of the main organizations with the most up to date research on Cancer (Forbes). The fact that the American Cancer Society has the most up to date research is also backed up by Dr. Jason Lee who is a radiation oncologist in the Cancer Treatment Center in Swansea, who states, probably the best data we have from a public health (Forsythe). This shows why the American Cancer Society is such a dominant participant in cancer research. worldwide research will enhance our understanding of cancer and help us find and develop better, more effective (Worldwide). The American Cancer Society is all about saving lives and they do a lot to accomplish this goal as you can see from the following quote off of their main website, Mendola 2 be funding and conducting research, sharing expert information, supporting patients, and spreading the word about prevention. All so you can live longer and (ACS). As you can see the American Cancer Society is playing a huge role in combatting cancer and is making strides to help people by prevention, looking for a cure, and supporting patients. I also want to bring to your attention that they have invested $4.5 Billion in cancer research since 1946 and have averted 2.1 Million cancer deaths since (ACS). This clearly shows that they are making a difference and doing everything they can to increase these numbers. Cancer is a huge issue and the public needs to be engaged to assist the tedious process. According to Worldwide Cancer Research, crucial to remember that cancer is not one disease, more than 200. All different, unique diseases, which require different approaches for (Worldwide). The American Cancer Society understands that dealing with cancer is extremely difficult for both the patient and their loved ones. In fact on their webpage it states, Whether you want to learn about treatment options, get advice on coping with side effects, or have questions about health insurance, here to help. We can even find you a free ride to treatment or a free place to stay when treatment is far from  (ACS). They want to make the most difficult time of dealing with cancer a much easier and less stressful time for their patients. The American Cancer Society helps patients out in several ways, but the main ways are by assisted pay for recovery, transportation needs, and through moral support. On their main page they explain, you want to learn about treatment options, get advice on coping with side effects, or have questions about health insurance, here to help. We can even find you a free ride to treatment or a free place to stay when treatment is far from (ACS). Cancer medication is often very expensive and not everyone can afford it. However, the American Cancer Society has ways of helping patients with monetary problems and also helps Mendola 3 with how to plan for paying and how to pick the right insurance company for them. A lot of times a person undergoing cancer treatment or testing have a reliable form of transportation to their appointments which makes it a more difficult time them. However, The Mercy Medical Centers webpage explains that the American Cancer Society provides a program called Road to Recovery which gives transportation for cancer patients to and from related medical/treatment  (Mercy Medical). Another main issue cancer patients deal with is the mental stress cancer endures on them along with their family in this troubled time. The American Cancer Society helps this by providing moral support groups which can be described as a one-on-one support program, for patients facing cancer. Trained cancer survivors offer information, answer questions and provide support to patients facing cancer and/or undergoing  (Mercy Cancer). They also provide support programs for the families of the patient as well and other programs that even provide wigs for free to any patient undergoing chemotherapy who had to shave their head in the process. Now that you have heard all of the beneficial services the American Cancer Society provides, I want to ask for your help to get involved with the organization in order for them to keep up the amazing work they do while helping those in need in the process. There are many ways to help and get involved with the American Cancer Society, a few are by monetary and gift donations and by volunteering and participating in Relay for Life. Relay for Life is a fundraising event where people of all ages and ethnicities get together and make teams that go out and fundraise to make money for cancer research, patient care programs, and prevention  (Relay). However, on Relay day everyone goes out to an all-day event and participates by walking the track to raise more money for cancer along with playing a lot of fun games and eating at food stands where all of the money made goes towards cancer funding. not all Mendola 4 though, on Relay Day after the sunsets, there is a very heart-touching Luminaria Ceremony. Luminaria bags honor every life touched by cancer. You can dedicate them to a loved one lost, someone currently battling, or anyone overcome it. When you attend a Relay event, see small white bags decorated with names and sometimes messages to the people dedicated to. At night, each Luminaria lit is in remembrance of a life touched by  (Relay). Along with this great volunteering option, you can choose instead to donate any amount possible to the American Cancer website where you will be helping a great cause to inch closer to a potential cure to this despicable disease. The American Cancer Society is making a substantial difference in the issue of Cancer and the ways it affects those dealing with the disease. I have explained what the American Cancer Society is and what they stand for, how they help those in need, and why and how you can get involved to help their beneficial cause. With this being said I also want you to remember that they have invested $4.5 Billion in cancer research since 1946 and have averted 2.1 Million cancer deaths since and this number is still increasing today and every day after until a cure is developed (ACS). Finally, I want you to think of the best way you can make a difference to this issue and pursue it, if not for yourself, do it for the millions of loved ones affected every day by this disease. Mendola 5 Works Cited American Cancer  American Cancer Society, Inc. 2017. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. American Cancer Society Free Programs &  Mercy Medical Center. Catholic Health Services of Long Island, 2017. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. American Cancer Society on the Forbes The 100 Largest U.S. Charities  Forbes. Forbes Magazine, n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Forsythe, Jaime. people are dying from cancer. Belleville News-Democrat. Metro-East News, Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Relay For Life Cancer Walk Cancer Fundraising  Relay For Life Cancer Walk Cancer Fundraising Events. n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Why Worldwide Cancer Research Is  Worldwide Cancer Research. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Mendola 6