Shyler Willett English comp 1 Project 3 intermediate draft Animal Testing Over time animals have been there for humans as companions and subjects of admiration. It has been proven that animals feel compassion, sorrow and guilt just as humans do; thus, breeding animals only to have them live in a laboratory to be poked and manipulated is an ethically questionable action. The ethical treatment of animals has seemingly always been a controversial topic. Many argue that testing on animals is necessary to acquire knowledge and explore the art of science, to make advances in medical research, and for the overall survival of the human population. Others argue that testing on animals is unethical, a violation of their rights as a living creatures, and unnecessary as there are alternatives methods. Using for example, computer models to simulate the different systems in a body, or carrying out experiments with cultures of cells or tissues in a test tube. Just because we are at the top of the food chain does not mean we can violate other rights for our own benefit. Animal testing has been a topic of controversy since the idea came to be. Animal testing is unethical and numerous organizations are attempting to either roadblock companies or stop them from testing. Testing on animals is unethical because of the affects it has on animals, the fact that there are alternative options, and the affects that an animal testing label with product sales. In terms of emotional consequences, animals are the ones who suffer in the process. In multiple cases the animals are tortured, and forced to pass the humane capacity of pain. Some proponents argue that it is acceptable to treat the animals this way because they do not feel the same level of emotions as we do; however, this is incorrect. Even though animals cannot communicate vocally just as humans, we can observe their body language and actions to understand how they are feeling. the identifying signs of many clinical conditions in animals, mention is made of depression, which is a marked reduction in general activity; a generalized behavioral atony. One example that has attracted recent attention is somnolent dog- sitting in sows, characterized by frequent and protracted sitting on the haunches, with drooping of the head and eyes half (Fraser, 1988). When an animal is naturally going through pain suffered from an injury or illness, we can see it, just as you can in a laboratory. In the laboratory animals are pushed beyond clinical pain, they suffer through pain, malaise and frustration (Fraser, 1988). One of the biggest arguments is why animal testing is unnecessary. The fact that there are many alternative methods and resources that can have the exact same outcomes as using animals for testing in the laboratory. The reliability of the results found on animals is not always reliable due to that fact that they are not the exact same genetic makeup as humans (Knight, 2009, p. 10). An obvious alternative for animal testing would be human testing, because animals are not the exact makeup. In the United States the 5 th and 6 th leading causes of death are due to the side effects that could not be found when testing on animals (Knight, 2009, p.10). If humans began testing on themselves the accuracy of most of the data would be drastically improved, if one one hundredth of the prescribed dose of the medication being tested to the patient, minimal harm would be done and accurate data can be found (Knight, 2009, p.10). Another alternative for animal testing is toxicogenomic, which is the study of genomes in toxicology (Knight, 2009, p.10). In the next years, it is expected that since the increase in gene chip use toxicology will start to replace animal testing more and more (Knight, 2009). Over the past people have begun to be educated on the evil truths of animal testing and what happens behind closed doors. Activist and groups like PETA has been fighting to educate the people of the harsh reality of what humans are doing to the creatures that also call earth their home. Activists have sent numerous detectives into facilities to record and observe the actions that are being taken, and later distributed these brutal findings to the public. Due to these findings, thousands of companies have band animal testing and began to use alternatives to make their costumers happy. After the public was educated, customers of major comapnies and many famous figures began to boycott their items. For example, MAC is one of the only female cosmetic companies that still tested on animals along with many other companies including tide, Chapstick, Vicks, Listrene, Windex and thousands of other companies. Boycotting has a huge impact on sales and has convinced many companies to end testing on animals including Bare Minerals and Wet and Wild cosmetics. Even though animal testing is cruel, and unnecessary many proponents argue that is vital to the survival and gain of knowledge for humans. After years and years of animals being tortured and used for our own selfish benefit we need to bring this cruelty to an end. We have found alternatives that are just as beneficial and have proven that animals are just as emotional as us and do indeed feel pain and suffering. Testing on animals is completely unnecessary, there may be pros but they do not out way the cons. Actions like boycotting and educated the public are being made. It is time for this process to end. Work Cited Fraser, A.F.(1988) Animal Suffering: The Appraisal and Control of Depression and Distress in Livestock. Applied Animal Behavior Science, 20, Pages 127-133 Knight, A. (2009). Alternatives to animal testing. Retrieved from: xpts%20Vet%20Times%202009%2039(45)%208,10.pdf