Rodriguez 1 Andrew Rodriguez Ashley Tisdale ENC 1101 2 April 2017 The Acceptance of Esports as an Official Sporting Event The concept of Esports or electronic sports has been around as long as video games themselves have. Video games have always fostered a sense of competition and comradery wherever they go. This concept can be seen as early as the classic arcade cabinet where people would watch local players battle it out for the highest score. Since then the popularity of video games has skyrocketed and so has the technology that comes with them. With the addition of the home console and the internet, players can engage in multiplayer game modes. These game modes foster the true spirit of Esports where players can come to compete head to head with other players. These kinds of multiplayer games have become increasingly popular among modern gamers and often times have communities of over one million active members. However, while the concept of competitive video gaming has existed for a long time, its separation from traditional sports has existed for just as long. Since sports have existed they have maintained a very strict definition of what they are. This causes an unnecessary exclusivity that leaves no room for change or improvement. Despite this exclusivity Esports has all the qualifications and traits of these traditional sports. Esports, is more than just people playing video games together. These are organized leagues of various competitive teams that span across multiple games and platforms. Furthermore, Esports as a whole has garnered large amounts of Rodriguez 2 worldwide attention. Esports should be placed on the same level as traditional sports because of its global popularity, organized events, and professional teams. One of the most notable aspects of Esports is its incredible increase in global popularity. Many traditional sports are stereotypically only popular in certain regions of the world. However, Esports transcends all boundaries and regions of the world, Esports is popular across many continents and many cultures. In fact, Esports is so popular it has its own dedicated 24/7 streaming service known as Twitch TV. Twitch TV is an online platform where by simply making an account anyone can go online and stream themselves playing video games. This platform became so successful that it was in part directly responsible for the increase in popularity of Esports. The potential of this platform was so apparent that in the year 2014 amazon purchased Twitch for almost one billion dollars. This extremely successful 24/7 streaming service allows gamers from all over the world to watch others play games. As a result of success many, Esports championships such as the ESL Pro League stream their tournaments for all to see. Often times, these tournaments garner millions of viewers worldwide. These events are so popular they even have sponsored ads by and Buffalo Wild Wings played. The popularity of these tournaments combined with Twitch results in some Esports events gaining more viewers than the NBA finals. Esports also serves as a lucrative business opportunity for many organized teams, tournaments, and leagues. As previously mentioned the ESL Pro League serves as an excellent example. The ESL Pro League is an organized league of CS:GO (Counter Strike: Global Offensive) teams that must play and compete in various tournaments to qualify for larger events and championships. This Esports league is very professional even hiring well known casters to provide live commentary and interviews for various events. These casters keep detailed records Rodriguez 3 of each statistics, roles, and contributions to their team. Furthermore, these tournaments contain prize pools ranging from one hundred thousand dollars all the way to over one million. Jana Jacobs talks about the income of professional Esports athletes in her article to Esports: More than Just a Jacobs says (many under the age of 20) playing intensely complicated games of strategy and making more money than some of the top tennis players and This article shows the incredibly lucrative world of Esports and the potential profit athletes can make. However, more often than not these athletes tdo not compete in these tournaments by themselves. Esports has many professional sponsors and teams and almost all professional athletes are sponsored by a team. These teams provide financial stability, housing, and training all under a contract signed by the aspiring athlete. An example of an Esports teams getting sponsored and providing services for their athletes is a deal made with Xfinity and the team Evil Geniuses. The deal states agreement has Xfinity as a brand sponsor during ESL broadcasts and tournaments, and will see Comcast supply training facilities with Gigabit Pro internet (Tribbey 12). Here we see that Xfinity is agreeing to sponsor the team Evil Geniuses and even go so far as to provide them with high speed internet for their training facilities. Furthermore, these athletes can each get their own individual sponsorships and have enormous fan bases. In South Korea one article compares Esports athletes to professional super stars. The article Technology: Get ready for sports to turn Unreal: Could we soon be tuning in to videogame tournaments rather than the big match? Some countries already  states, of the most popular title, the complex real-time strategy game, Starcraft, are superstars. Teenage girls mob them, they have their own clothing lines, (Stuart). These athletes are considered the epitome of athleticism in their country and get treated as such. China Rodriguez 4 even takes this ideology one step further. The article to Esports: More Than Just a  states, China, eSports is recognized by the General Administration of Sport, and players reside in gaming houses that are dedicated to training them. They have the best coaches, hand-eye co-ordination specialists, psychologists and agents at their (Jacobs 30). These athletes are taken so seriously that they are given everything they need to be successful. Many argue against accepting Esports as a true sport because these sports are not physical. The Merriam Webster Dictionary defines a sport as a contest or game in which people do certain physical activities according to a specific set of rules and compete against each However, this definition does not state that a sport has to be very physically extreme just simply physical. These Esports athletes sometimes practice more than traditional athletes and are the best at what they do. Another requirement for the traditional definition of a sport is that it has to be for entertainment. According to this aspect of the definition of a sport Esports meets the requirement and exceeds it. In conclusion, traditional sports have been defined too specifically for centuries leaving little to no room for change. Despite these restrictions Esports has overcome these barriers throughout many years and has become a worldwide phenomenon with enormous prize pools, sponsors and huge crowds. Furthermore, Esports deserves a place among traditional sports because it excels in both the places traditional sports do and where they cannot. Rodriguez 5 Works Cited Fuchs, Andreas. Let The Games  Film Journal International 110.10 (2007): 34-36. Art & Architecture Source. Web. 13 Feb. 2017. Jacobs, Jana. Welcome to Esports: More Than Just a  Finweek (2016): 30-34. Business Source Premier. Web. 20 Feb. 2017. Jonasson, Kalle. Electronic Sport and Its Impact On Future  Sport in Society 2 (2010): 287. SwePub. Web. 20 Feb. 2017. Stuart, Keith. Technology: Get ready for sports to turn Unreal: Could we soon be tuning in to videogame tournaments rather than the big match? Some countries already  The Guardian (London, England) 2008: Business Insights: Essentials. Web. 13 Feb. 2017. Tribbey, Chris. Swanson: Esports An Opportunity For  Broadcasting & Cable 146.20 (2016):. Business Source Alumni Edition. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Tribbey, Chris. Watching People Playing: Game  Broadcasting & Cable 146.24 (2016) 12-13. Business Source Alumni Edition. Web. 4 Feb. 2017.