Ernst 1 Katie Ernst Professor Noah Pearlstone ENC 1102 2 April 2017 The Solution to College Pay The disputed topic of whether college athletes should receive a salary or not through their particular sport has developed in conversations all over the country. The National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) has its views set on not allowing college athletes obtain a salary since paying them would develop unnecessary problems in the economy and the college atmosphere itself. Although college athletes put forth time and effort into their desired sports with no additional time for employment, athletes should focus more about their education rather than wanting a salary from their participation in sports. To keep this payment from happening, people who support the NCAA must all come together and hold conventions to persuade people who consider compensating athletes for all of the work they bring to their sport. Making a visit at different colleges and spreading the word of reasons why paying athletes is unrealistic will save money and not ruin the college sports industry. Overall, the NCAA was established to dedicate the well-being and lifelong success of college and their values are essential to the sporting world. Their views about dismissing college athlete pay comes with multiple practical reasons as to why this controversy should not evolve into more of a concern. Although numerous colleges spend money on new equipment, maintenance on the fields, and other sports related merchandise, these purchases are made in order to bring more money into the program (Anderson). On the scholarship aspect, many of the athletes go to school for free due to these awards given to them Ernst 2 by the college. Additionally, some cases, the average athletic scholarship at a school actually exceeds the (Anderson). But, with these scholarships, their housing, clothing, meals, and medical care are already paid for so there is no need for this payment, especially since students with an academic scholarship will not even be considered in this salary process. Students with these scholarships put as much work into their studies as the athletes do with their sports and they do not even get any recognition toward a possible salary. This athletic versus academic situation would create avoidable issues within the college campus and institutions try to stay away from these unnecessary instances. The NCAA tries to promote that the educational facet of the college experience is the most important to the future. The involvement they put into their sports should be looked at as a way to continue receiving a higher education. However, access is only continuous enrollment in the school, academic eligibility, and participation in the sport they (Anderson). Students must keep a high enough grade point average in order to maintain their spot on the team so the importance of academics is crucial for the student athlete. Essentially, not paying college athletes will cease the difficulty it would cause through the economic aspect. If this salary did exist, income taxes would rise tremendously and as an employee, the player would be required to pay a few thousand dollars extra in addition Why We Pay College Athletes ). Even though the athlete would receive payment, taxes would create economic problems for the student athlete. In regards to the NCAA, they are a non-profit organization which means if they start paying the college athletes, it would not correlate to their expectations about how they run their company money wise (Anderson). Also, college students in general are not experienced enough in handling money; therefore, they Ernst 3 have the potential to uncontrollably spend their money on random items since they contain little experience in expenses. According to a research team, about 62 percent of students at a four-year school check their bank account balances and only 39 percent of these students use a (Anderson). Therefore, obtaining this salary, for most students, will create dilemmas in their financial lives. Another arising problem would pertain to how much each sport would receive in salary. To be fair, the sports that get aired on television would receive the same amount as the sports that do not, which would cause an unreasonable conflict between all athletics (Kieran McCauley kmccauley@dailylocal.com on Twitter). In order to stop this from happening, the athletic pay should not become reality to save the struggle and tension that will rise between each team. As a result, the whole college industry would be negatively impacted with these payments getting passed out to athletes. The only reason these athletes should be playing college sports is because of their ultimate desire to play what they love most and a chance to become a professional while receiving an education. Receiving a salary should not even be a part of the option to participate in sports during their college career. On the contrary, there are people who accept that college athletes deserve to get paid. Some arguments that go against athletes not obtaining a salary would associate with college athletes putting their bodies in dangerous situations for their health, they bring in revenue for the college, and paying them would help create some type of financial awareness. Conversations arise on how athletes are sacrificing their bodies and physical health at a chance to play a game they love, and possibly it to the professional (Patterson). Also, they consider that this salary will help the students become more understanding in financial literacy and guide them into their future careers if they do not become a professional for their sport. According to Marc Edelman, a contributor for Forbes, the NCAA claims college Ernst 4 athletes are just students, the own tournament schedules require college athletes to miss classes for nationally televised games that bring in (Edelman). All of these reasons are valid and understandable for the perspective of the athlete but with all of the reasoning against this idea, it is too unrealistic for athletes to get paid through their athletics. This will be a constant argument in the athletic atmosphere and will take many years for people to strictly agree with each other that pay is not constructive for college athletics. In essence, college sports have impacted countless sport fanatics throughout the years, making it a time for family and friends to come together and watch their cherished sport. These athletes do put in a lot of hard work and dedication to make these moments happen so people would assume that they deserve to get paid. However, the factors that go into the payment process are not rational to reach for the college athletes. The economy would crash even faster since taxes would rise for the students, it would be unfair for other students with academic scholarships, and generally college students are still learning the basics on how to manage their finances at the university level. In order for people to agree that college athletes should not be paid, groups who support this are to visit different colleges to speak about this controversial topic. If valid reasons are stated within their speeches and they are persuadable to change the minds of others, the NCAA would hold even more value in their beliefs to provide what is best for the student athlete. Ernst 5 Works Cited  NCAA.org - The Official Site of the NCAA. N.p., n.d. Web. 2 April. 2017. Anderson, Dave. Top 10 Reasons College Athletes Should Not Be  Top 10 Lists ListLand.com. N.p., 17 Mar. 2016. Web. 02 Apr. 2017. Edelman, Marc. 21 Reasons Why Student-Athletes Are Employees And Should Be Allowed To  Forbes. Forbes Magazine, 06 Jan. 2015. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Why We Pay College Athletes  Time. Time, n.d. Web. 02 Apr. 2017. Kieran McCauley kmccauley@dailylocal.com on Twitter. College athletes be  Daily Local News. Daily Local News, 28 Apr. 2015. Web. 02 Apr. 2017. Patterson, Tiffany. Should College Athletes Be  SmartAsset. N.p., 03 Feb. 2017. Web. 02 Apr. 2017.