Mitchell 1 Chase Mitchell Instructor Tisdale ENC 1101 4 April 2017 Space Exploration: Is It Worth It? Space exploration has been talked about for decades. What exactly is space exploration? It is the ongoing investigation of the environment beyond atmosphere (Logsdon 2). In 2005, NASA had a budget of 16.2 billion, which is equivalent to approximately 20 billion today. As the national debt in our country continues to increase tremendously, people still decide to put money into organizations and causes that are not directly benefitting life on Earth. Why is this? Why further space travel when there are problems affecting the people searching elsewhere for help instead of dealing with the problems at hand? Space exploration throughout history, has had many mistakes and accidents when it comes to spaceflight. For example, the Columbia, Apollo 13, and Apollo 1 are some of the major space accidents in history. Rick Hauck, a former astronaut who flew in three space missions in the 80s, during a lecture at the Wilson Center in Washington D.C. addressed the issue of the risks of spaceflight. He notes that, is impossible to eliminate the risk of human space travel, either to the crews themselves or people on the ground who could be in the path of the (Foust 3). He also stated that in the Columbia accident, if the shuttle broke up a little earlier, more people would have been at risk, though many people were already at risk from just the viewing of the space shuttle reentering the atmosphere. There is, accident rate of one every 62.5 missions, through which 14 American astronauts have lost their lives, which is simply Mitchell 2 not (Foust 2). The fatality rate is four percent, which is the same percent of people who have died climbing MT. Everest. Space flight can be considered an extreme sport along with rock climbing, snowboarding, and mountain biking. Along with the risks of space flight, there are pressing issues here on surface that are of immediate concern. For example, global warming, the depletion of the ozone layer, world hunger, deforestation, etc. Former President of the United States, Dwight Eisenhower, once vetoed the Apollo program stating, rocket fired signifies, in the final sense, a theft form those who hunger and are not fed, those who are cold and are not (Degroot 1). This view coming from the President ignited a spark that did not want to travel to outer space, but just nine years later in 1962, John F. Kennedy gave his well-known space speech where he proclaimed, choose to go to the And yet again the people gave hope to the space program as the budget for NASA was increased by 89 percent and the following year it increased even more up to 101 percent (Logsdon 3). In just nine years the space program grew at an accelerating rate although there were major problems that would soon come around the world that would make this excitement pointless. Though there are many drawbacks to space exploration, there are also benefits that will arise from travelling outer space. One of the would be that we gain insights about our pace in the universe. For example, by measuring the microwave radiation waves as well as a study relating to the distribution of life in the universe. Another benefit is the reduction in the risk of the extinction of humanity and other life on Earth. Without space exploration, which would eventually lead to space colonization, the survival of humanity and other Earth life will be over the course of the next hundreds or even thousands of years because of climate change and many other issues globally (Baum 2). Colonizing could get Mitchell 3 people away from threats to themselves such as nuclear warfare, pandemics, and immediate climate change. Stephen Hawking, a famous researcher, discoverer, and author has argued that must colonize other planets to endure long-term (Degroot 1). He has the notion that people should continue to look for that could potentially sustain life. There were many polls taken to get the opinion on how the space program is doing (Whitman 2). The first poll was to me how important you believe the space program is to our This question was asked for multiple times. It was at its lowest in 1994 at about 40 percent but in 1995 it increased a lot because of the release of the Apollo 13 film to about 55 percent. Another poll asks how well of a job NASA is doing and has done, and the majority is that they have done a or job. Polls as well as political views show the preference of whether space should be explored. Democrats lean towards discontinuing space exploration, while republicans believe that it is worth the money to continue to venture out into the unknown. Space exploration needs to come to a stop. There is no reason that we should worry about the surface of another planet before making sure that people here on Earth can sustain their own life long enough. How are people going to colonize on another planet if there are no people left due to the neglect of your own planet. Now is the best time to contribute to help Earth last longer. Going environmental friendly is a great start to preserve the planet. Mitchell 4 Works Cited Baum, Seth D. Viewpoint: Analysis Of Space Exploration: Some Ethical  Space Policy 25.(2009): 75-80. ScienceDirect. Web. 4 Feb. 2017. Carroll, Joseph. Public Divided Over Money Spent on Space Shuttle Program: Americans Continue to Rate NASA  Gallup Poll Briefing (2006): 1-4. Business Source Premier. Web. 13 Feb. 2017. DeGroot, Jerry. The US Government Should Cut NASA  Space Exploration, edited by David Haugen and Zack Lewis, Greenhaven Press, 2012. At Issue. Opposing Viewpoints in Context, link.galegroup.com/apps/doc/EJ3010356216/OVIC?u=mcle22101&xid=eb507c74. Accessed 13 Feb. 2017. Originally published as The Space Race Is a Pointless Waste of  Telegraph, 25 Feb. 2009. Foust, Jeff Weighing the risks of human  The Space Review: Weighing the risks of human spaceflight (2003) (page 1). Web. 20 Feb. 2017. Logsdon, John M. Viewpoint: Why Space Exploration Should Be a Global  Space Policy 24. (2008): 3-5. ScienceDirect. Web. 20 Feb. 2017. Whitman Cobb, Wendy N. Supporting Space Activities? An For US Space  Space Policy 27.(2011): 234-239. ScienceDirect. Web. 4 Feb. 2017.