Correa 1 Henrique Faria Brito Martini Correa Instructor: Noah Pearlstone ENC1102.024S17 April 14, 2017 Genetically Modified Organisms in Food Production In the last centuries, society has struggled to increase food production. Only in the past two hundred years, the human population increased about 6 billion people and is going to reach 7.5 billion in 2017 (Roser and Ortiz-Ospina). Evidently, all these people need to be fed. To address this issue, great advances in agricultural technologies have been created and implemented throughout the past fifty or so years in order to ensure that the growing population will have access to quality food. In 1996, one of these main advancements in the field of food cultivation occurred, with the introduction of genetically modified organisms (GMOs) in crop production. GMOs are living organisms whose DNA had been altered using advanced genetic engineering techniques. Genetically modified plants are much more resistant to most pests, environmental conditions and some diseases (Robaey 768). Hence, the crop yields increased astonishingly, contributing to the increase in food production around the world. However, the introduction of GMOs in the food market generated a whole discussion about whether or not it is safe and healthy. The truth is that geneticists and nutritionists have not yet come to an agreement on what the effects of GMOs in human organisms are. Although GMOs allowed food production to astonishingly increase, GMO foods still can be harmful to human health. Thus, there should be an increase in movements standing for a law regulating GMOs in food production and boycotts to companies that refuse to submit their products to tests and properly label them. Correa 2 Humans have been manipulating genetics for thousand of years. Through selective breeding, early farmers selected the specific varieties of crops that yielded more and, generation after generation, they built harvests that were much more resistant to pests and environmental conditions. DNA was only discovered in the 1950s and the first projects of genetic engineering were launched in 1972. In just a few years, the field was widely developed and, in 1994, the commercialization of the first transgenic crop - a tomato whose genome was mixed bacteria DNA to have a longer shelf life - was approved for human consumption in the United States (Bruening). In the early 21st century, more than ten genetically modified crops were marketed in twenty-five countries, including the USA, Brazil, China, Argentina and Canada (Chawla). As one can see, GMOs development and applications have been increasingly expanded in the past three decades and its usage has generated many debates concerning its costs and benefits. Even when scientists are unsure of the possible side effects of GMOs, three- quarters of all the processed food in the current US market (i.e., cookies, potato chips or cereals) contain some sort of GMO among its ingredients. Also, most of the transgenic crops grown in the United States include corn, cotton, papaya, soybean, and canola and the commercialization of these commodities generate revenue of billions of dollars per year for the agricultural market of America. In the US, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has never safety tested genetically engineered food. Contradictorily to what would otherwise be expected, there are still no formal laws that require the labeling of GMOs and many huge American companies stand against such laws About Genetically Engineered ). Monsanto, Coca-Cola, DuPont, and Syngenta for example, expend an immense amount of money in combating projects that take action against GMOs in America. They believe that, in Correa 3 addition to costly, labeling GMO-food can potentially affect public opinion if people become more aware of the environmental and health problems that GMOs can conceivably cause, generating an unfavorable impact on their sales (Robaey 785). It is curious, though, that these companies do not want to share the whole content of their products with the government and the consumers. It makes one think that that there is something they do not want people to know. Evidently, using GMOs in food production also creates some advantages for both producers and consumers. As they increase crop yields, producers can reduce costs through economies of scale, reflecting in lower prices for consumers. GMOs also represent product improvements, since genetically modified food is more durable and usually has better nutritional facts. GE plants are more resistant to pests, like insects, and diseases, considerably increasing agricultural production as a whole Genetic Pest ). Furthermore, GMO-food also presents taste benefits. However, scientists are not yet sure of all the negative consequences that GMO-food can cause in the human body and, according to Dr. Klaus Henle (professor and environmentalist), the spread of GE crops will ultimately end up in loss of biodiversity (Henle, et al. 68). Therefore, many scholars argue that the problems GMOs can potentially cause in human health and the environment far overcome its marketing advantages GE Food & Your ). Some recent studies have already shown implications that GMOs could be causing allergic reactions in humans Asked Questions on Genetically Modified Although, there has not been any evidence verifying that genetically modified food poses a danger to human health, children that had not yet shown allergic reactions to regular peanuts reacted when exposed to genetically modified ones. In addition, research has shown that cows fed with GE corn produced Correa 4 milk with proteins whose composition was slightly different from regular milk proteins; this could be the cause of recent new dairy allergies (Bromilow). Accordingly, although scientists are not sure how these reactions might be occurring, they have indications that GMO-food can possibly have unexpected effects on human organism. If one thinks skeptically about this issue, s/he will figure out it is all just a matter that science do not yet know, or cannot yet explain, clearly all the results of GMOs in humans. Nonetheless, there must be some sort of consequence, since people are ultimately ingesting DNA of potentially harmful viruses and bacteria that was mixed with the genome of plants. GMOs also have a considerable negative impact on the environment. A special concern of farmers and environmentalists is the spread of altered genes from genetically modified crops to organic crops grown in nearby regions through pollinating agents, like bees and butterflies. Since humans have no control over the pollinators, this would have a negative effect on these traditional crops. The genetically modified genes could likely change the offspring of these crops. Such process would generate a huge problem on the exports market, once many countries of the world, such as Brazil, Norway, and Saudi Arabia, have an import or production ban on GMOs (Singh 454). Moreover, there are not many books, articles, or academic journals about the possible effects of GMOs on the pollinating agents and how they could disturb the health of these animals, which leads one to believe that scientists do not know enough about this subject and this could be a good topic for future research. Americans should take action, firstly, by becoming more informed about the issue of GMOs in food production. This paper is a good starting point to become more educated about the topic, but there is always more content out there, in articles, websites and newspapers, that can empower everyone as consumer and citizen. Thus, Correa 5 people would be more aware of all the issues related to something as essential as the food they eat every day. Furthermore, there are many projects and organizations whose main purpose it to mobilize people to take action on the GMO issue, and they have come up with many different ways to approach it. Non-GMO Project, for instance, defends the labeling of GMO-based food in the US. GMO-Free USA, though, asserts that a good way to fight against GMOs in food is to encourage boycotts on companies that refuse to submit their GMO products to tests and label their packages in the US market. This institution is a nonprofit organization that advocates for clean and healthy food and ecological systems (GMO-Free USA, ). They defend that boycotting the large companies, like is the most efficient way to manifest the opposition and disapproval of their GMO policies and interested people can find the best strategies about how to take action and step in their movements on their website. Therefore, there are many opportunities to get involved in the issue of GMOs in food production. It is a controversial topic and people should be paying close attention to it. It is time for Americans to be more informed about how their food was produced and engaged in the debate around GMOs. Only then, there will be an increase confidence that citizens can have an impact on the resolutions taken by the government concerning a so relevant issue. Correa 6 Works Cited About Genetically Engineered  Center for Food Safety. N.p., n.d. Web. 1 Apr. 2017. <http://www.centerforfoodsafety.org/issues/311/ge-foods/about-ge-foods>. Bromilow, Sophie NL, et al. Characterising Unintended Effects of Genetic Modification on Expression of Gluten Proteins Involved in IgE-Mediated Allergies and Coeliac Disease Using  Journal of Allergy and Clinical Immunology 137.2 (2016): AB265. Bruening, G., and J. Lyons. The case of the FLAVR SAVR  California Agriculture 54.4 (2000): 6-7. Chawla, Kim, and Hanuman Jaipal. Genetic Engineering: An  Indian Journal of Applied Research 6.5 (2016). Frequently Asked Questions on Genetically Modified  World Health Organization. Web. 30 Mar. 2017. genetically- modified-food/en/>. GE Food & Your  Center for Food Safety. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Mar. 2016. <http://www.centerforfoodsafety.org/issues/311/ge-foods/ge-food-and-your- health>. Genetic Pest  People.oregonstate.edu. N.p., n.d. Web. 31 Mar. 2017. Henle, Klaus, et al. Identifying and managing the conflicts between agriculture and biodiversity conservation in  Agriculture, Ecosystems & Environment 124.1 (2008): 60-71.  GMO-Free USA. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Correa 7 Robaey, Zoe. Transferring Moral Responsibility for Technological Hazards: The Case of GMOs in  Journal of Agricultural & Environmental Ethics 29.5 (2016): 767-87. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Roser, Max, and Esteban Ortiz-Ospina. World Population  Our World In Data. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Singh, Ram Lakhan. Principles and applications of environmental biotechnology for a sustainable future. Singapore: Springer, 2017, pp. 425-65. Web. 1 Apr. 2017.