LoPresti 1 Andrew LoPresti Noah Pearlstone ENC 1102 4-2-2017 Zoos: The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly. The moral discussion of whether or not zoos have been more beneficial to animal well being than not has been debated ever since public zoos first became popular in the late 18th century (National Geographic). Nowadays, there are several zoos that have consistently been praised for their exceptional treatment of animals, educational output, and global conservation efforts. The San Diego Zoo has often been used to exemplify the productive and beneficial possibilities of zoos and cares for over 6500 animals of 950 different species in its parks alone (About San Diego Zoo Global). However, the majority of zoos have been faced with criticism and controversy by animal rights activists and the general public alike. While some people claim that all zoos exploit animals and should be shut down, others claim that while some zoos have been known to mistreat their animals, zoos are vital to proper animal care and education. The truth of the matter is that only about 10% of all registered zoos worldwide have been approved by the Association of Zoos and Aquariums (AZA), a nonprofit organization considered the forefront for accrediting zoos for proper treatment of animals (Association of Zoos and Aquariums). Within these 10% are some of the largest and most influential zoos accredited with proper treatment of animals, but the majority of zoos require improvements in conservation and preservation of animals in order to be seen as beneficial to animals by the animal rights community. To revolutionize how zoos are perceived around the world, the community needs to LoPresti 2 shift their hatred away from effective and animal friendly zoos and moved towards educating the community as well as reforming the many zoos which do not meet the standards set by authorities like the AZA. The argument for or against zoos ultimately boils down to whether or not zoos treat their animals properly as well as whether or not the business practices of zoos are focused towards the protection of animals rather than profit. Animal rights activists have consistently berated zoos, aquariums, reserves, and circuses alike for the mistreatment of animals they possess. Horrible cases have been brought to light from zoos around the world including one in which the Forest Wild Animal Zoo allowed 11 of its Siberian tigers to starve to death in cold, cramped metal cages during the first three months of 2010. (5 Disgusting and Depressing Stories of Captive Animal Abuse) Cases such as this highlight despicable practices that violate animal rights laws taking place in some lesser known zoos around the world. Because of extreme scenarios like this, all zoos are often looked at through a negative light and many claim that the potential harm to animals kept in captivity outweighs the benefits that zoos may have provide towards protecting species in the wild. Within the past couple years more zoos have been exposed for mistreatment of animals like the San Antonio Zoo, charged with offenses such as insufficiently sized animal enclosures and most notably capturing healthy animals from the wild (One Green Planet). The continued discoveries of malpractice within zoos is what accentuates the severity of this argument. Although some of the most influential and well known zoos may put animal welfare first and properly treat their residents, there are still many organizations around the world which cannot say the same for their animals. Regardless of which stance LoPresti 3 someone takes on animal rights, the need for reform in zoos is apparent with a focus on proper treatment of their captive animals. While the ugliest cases are often used to highlight why zoos can be immoral, the opposing side demonstrates how zoos can be overwhelmingly beneficial to both animal communities and our own. Often considered one of the greatest zoos in the world, the San Diego Zoo is in many ways a shining example of what makes zoos educational and helpful to the survival of many animal species. Among other feats, the San Diego Zoo and its Institute of Wildlife Conservancy have successfully bred 165 endangered species as well as reintroduce 43 once endangered species back into the wild (San Diego Zoo Global Wildlife Conservancy). While these numbers may seem insignificant they represent entire species which without proper care may have disappeared from the planet altogether. The San Diego Zoo as well as many others around the world fight a never ending battle against extinction, protecting animals and saving lives both in captivity and in the wild through global conservation efforts. It is for this reason that zoos are often argued to be crucial to animal well being on a global scale and because of this, the continued support for these successful organizations as well as a push for reform in zoos that do not operate on the same level as these is of utmost importance. Both the general public and animal rights activists should take action by shifting their negativity away from the smaller percentage of zoos that uphold the standards of conservation set by organizations like the AZA and focused towards reforming the larger majority that do not. Transforming the effort from animal rights activists required to attack zoos like the San Diego Zoo into a desire to improve and reshape the larger majority could eventually lead to a global reform in how zoos are operated in third world countries as well as highlighting the many zoos LoPresti 4 which mistreat their animals hiding in plain sight. Although some people have stronger and more extreme beliefs than others, about 62% of Americans surveyed from a poll in 2015 stated that animals around the world need some form of protection by humans (More Say Animals Should Have the Same Rights as People). Therefore it is of utmost importance for the general public as well as organizations like the AZA to discover malpractice within zoos as well as begin reformation programs so that their goals and practices will have an positive impact on animals around the world. Zoos are crucial to educating and protecting endangered animals which would not survive in the wild. Supporting trusted zoos, educating others on malpractice, and advocating for the continued proper treatment of captive animals is the best way that the average person can make a global impact towards helping animals. Works Cited: How Stuff Works. Are Zoos Good or Bad for http://animals.howstuffworks.com/animal-facts/zoos-good-or-bad1.htm. Accessed 2 April 2017 Association of Zoos and Aquariums. http://www.aza.org/animals-and-conservation. Accessed 2 April 2017 Association of Zoos and Aquariums. https://www.aza.org/about-us. Accessed 2 April 2017 LoPresti 5 National Geographic Encyclopedia. http://www.nationalgeographic.org/encyclopedia/zoo/. Accessed 2 April 2017 San Diego Zoo Global Wildlife Conservancy http://www.endextinction.org/end-extinction. Accessed 2 April 2017 5 Disgusting and Depressing Stories of Captive Animal Abuse http://www.treehugger.com/natural-sciences/5-disgusting-and-depressing-stories-of-captive-ani mal-abuse.html. Accessed 2 April 2017 San Diego Zoo About San Diego Zoo http://zoo.sandiegozoo.org/content/about-san-diego-zoo-global. Accessed 16 April 2017 One Green Planet The San Antonio Zoo: One of the Worst Zoos in http://www.onegreenplanet.org/animalsandnature/san-antonio-zoo-one-of-the-worst-zoos -in-america/. Accessed 16 April 2017 Gallup U.S., More Say Animals Should Have Same Rights as http://www.gallup.com/poll/183275/say-animals-rights-people.aspx. Accessed 16 April 2017 LoPresti 6