Hackett !1 Josephine Hackett Pearlstone ENC 1102 April 16, 2017 Amnesty Prostitution Solution Multiple vantage points can be taken when dealing with the issue of prostitution. Prostitu- tion is highly controversial as many are conflicted about the idea of selling body for sexual activity. The impact felt from prostitution is great and varies world-wide as different con- tries have various criminal policies concerning the legality of prostitution. The decriminalization of sex work would be a major step in improving the overall well-being of society and would posi- tively impact the conditions of sex work and the safety of sex workers. It is important to note that removing criminal penalties for sex work does not remove penalties for exploitation, forced la- bor, violence, trafficking, rape or sexual assault of minors Reasons Decriminal- izations Protects Sex Decriminalizing sex work will promote superior sexual safety with the protection of sex workers and in turn aid Amnesty International in maintaining and preserving human rights for all. In order to accomplish this goal the support of Amnesty In- ternational is significant; as Amnesty International has a great stake in the well-being of sex workers. The support of sex workers is crucial as they are one of the most disadvantaged groups of people and they are often subjected to discrimination, beatings, rape and harassment. The laws regarding prostitution vary throughout the world and involve several elements such as pimping and brothel ownership. Prostitution is completely legal in countries such as Chile and Germany, completely illegal in countries including Italy and France, while other coun- Hackett !2 tries such as the United States and Canada have limited legality. Currently in the United States prostitution is illegal with the exception of 11 Nevada counties Federal and State Prostitu- tion Laws and Related Amnesty International proposes that prostitution, the act of consensual exchanges of sexual acts between adults be decriminalized: in the hopes that it will remove laws and policies criminalizing or penalizing sex work policy to protect the hu- man rights of sex Full decriminalization reduces the risk that sex workers will be vul- nerable to discrimination, eviction or arrest for related charges Reasons Decriminalizations Protects Sex Currently the criminalization of prostitution leaves sex workers open to many violations to their human rights as they do not have to have equal access to hous- ing or health care, all in addition to the prejudice and discrimination that they already face. De- spite the fact that prostitution itself is not a human right, sex workers are still humans and their basic human rights should be upheld and be abided by. A line of work should not factor into decisions involving their basic rights and no person should be denied the opportunity to ob- tain and maintain proper housing or the access to proper health care. It is a frequent story that sex workers are abused by their landlords if they are even able to obtain housing. To make matters worse there have been many cases of sex workers who have faced situations of harassment or endangerment that feel as if they have no where to turn. Sex workers have difficulty reporting such situations of harassment as reporting incidents to law enforcement could result in a convic- tion for the sex worker. Securing a living situation for sex workers is made even more difficult with the fact that they are not allowed to live with another sex worker as they would face consid- eration as brothel. Hackett !3 The criminalization of prostitution leads to many unsafe practices and forces an entire underground network of trafficking that could be reduced. This pushes sex work further under- ground, making it difficult to seek help when needed. Sex workers are often forced to put the protection of their clients above their own well-being, forced to meet clients in hidden places where the risks to their safety are higher, rather than places where they know they will be safe. Reasons Decriminalizations Protects Sex The treatment and the harass- ment that sex workers face is brought to a head by police officers in their efforts to enforce the law against prostitution. Sex workers are often barred by not only the laws which serve to be bi- ased against them but also the police officers who are given the liberty to judge and interpret the situations. There are anti-prostitution loitering laws in New York, California, and Washington D.C. that are inconsistent with human rights principles. One of these laws is California Penal Code 653.22, known as loitering with intent to commit prostitution. This law is significant be- cause it is solely based upon the police interpretation of the event and one can be arrest- ed without engaging or committing any acts of prostitution. A arrest can be made as long as the police officers believes that one had the intention to commit prostitution. The interpretations o labeling a person as a prostitutes is based upon the police officer profiling. Profiling is practice of target- ing individuals as suspected offenders for who they are, what they are wearing and where they are standing, rather than on the basis of any observed illegal activity Workers at Another basis for arrest after a person has been perceived as a sex worker is the amount of condoms found on them. Using condoms as evidence for arrest, police officers discourage sex workers from using and carrying condoms based on fear. Condom confiscations and fear of con- Hackett !4 dom possession lead to higher STD rates and truly endanger all parties involved in the sexual acts. Contrary to the belief that the decriminalization of prostitution is the best way to handle the safety of sex workers, not everyone takes this stance. There is a belief that the trivialization of sex will fuel rape culture. The view of sex would change to a commercial standpoint as it is something that can be sold between people; instead of an extremely personal and intimate act between people that should not be available as a business transaction. These transactions can be- come particularly complex as legal problems could arise with a faulty agreement between a sex worker and a client. The sexual transactions would convolute the lines between rape and sexual service. It is also important to recognize that allowing the act of prostitution is masking the un- derlying problem of why people become sex workers in the first place: the majority sex workers are people who have are predominantly from disadvantaged and vulnerable communities. While entry into prostitution is often preceded by prolonged and repeated trauma, rape is often the first sexual experience of most prostitutes, and a majority of prostitutes were victims of child sexual abuse Reasons to Be Wary of Prostitution Sex workers truly face prejudice and discrimination in their lives not only from their everyday interactions but unfortunately in the eyes of the law and from those that are instructed to interpret it. A difference can be made in their lives however, if prostitution were to become decriminalized. If sex workers were legally supported so that they could maintain their proper human rights they could easily maintain safer work conditions and live a more prosperous life. Hackett !5 Works Cited: Geist, Darren. 5 Reasons to Be Wary of Prostitution  Rolling Stone. Rolling Stone, 01 June 2016. Web. 03 Apr. 2017. Huang, Margaret. 5 Reasons Decriminalization Protects Sex  Rolling Stone. Rolling Stone, 09 June 2016. Web. 02 Apr. 2017. <http://www.rollingstone.com/politics/ news/5-reasons-decriminalization-protects-sex-workers-rights-20160609>. Loitering with Intent to Commit Prostitution CA Penal Code 653.22  Loitering with Intent to Commit Prostitution CA Penal Code 653.22 PC. N.p., n.d. Web. 03 Apr. 2017. 100 Countries and Their Prostitution Policies - Legal Prostitution -  Should Prosti tution Be Legal? Procon.org, n.d. Web. 02 Apr. 2017. US Federal and State Prostitution Laws and Related Punishments - Legal Prostitution - Pro  Should Prostitution Be Legal? Procon.org, n.d. Web. 02 Apr. 2017.