Mahbubani 1 Amar Mahbubani Pearlstone ENC 1102 April 2, 2017 The American Dream The topic of immigration is polarizing, it has been at the forefront of American politics since the founding. In the mid there were well documented instances of legislators pushing for laws and policies that prevented Quakers from immigrating to certain colonies (PROCON). Fast forward to today and we see the sitting U.S. president signing executive orders that directly stop people from specific regions, predominantly muslim countries, from entering the United States (PROCON). The U.S. population is generally split on this particular move according to polls, despite how extreme the action could be considered (Clement). These attitudes showcase the prevailing fear that a large amount U.S. citizens have had, that immigrants have an overwhelming burden on the United States in terms of both safety and economic well-being. In reality, it seems that even undocumented immigrants have made huge contributions to local systems within their communities. Immigrants, both legal and illegal, are evidently a benefit to american society; they should be celebrated and their human rights should be protected. Also, the future generations that spawn from immigrants will have an even more noticeable positive impact. This should be recognized and a pro-immigrant platform should be unanimously represented within American politics. There are a list of reasons of why immigration should be considered an essential discussion. One of the main reasons that immigration has become such a heated discussion at the Mahbubani 2 dinner tables of your average American family is because of the surprisingly large amount of undocumented people living within the United States. Although the number has decreased slightly in recent years, as of 2014 approximately 11.1 million unauthorized immigrants were living the United States (Krogstad). In addition to this staggering number, unauthorized workers accounted for almost 5% of the workforce during the same time period (Krogstad). Immigrants play a huge role in altering the lifestyle of Americans that they may interact with. Some organizations and political parties have expressed concern in relation to these numbers. FAIR, for example, is a non-profit organization that believes that the current growth trend in the U.S. is unsustainable (FAIRUS). They often advocate for policies that limit or discourage immigration to the U.S. which is a position that establishments such as the Republican party stand by. These particular stances have resonated with the a large portion of the American public. Almost of the population that was polled by the Pew Research Center is in favor of a large wall at the Mexican border. A wall of this caliber would serve the purpose of decreasing the number of Mexican immigrants that attempt to enter the United States (Jones). These statistics demonstrate the worry that immigrants cannot support their own weight but certain economic indicators suggest otherwise. The total tax contributions that undocumented workers account for is almost 11.6 billion dollars according to an analysis published by the Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy (Chen). Undocumented immigrants a higher effective tax rate than the top 1 percent income The studies that are conducted here prove that these immigrants are not just a burden on American systems, but there are more places that experience a boost in prosperity with immigrant growth. The business community is also directly benefiting from this growing group of people. By 2010 than 40 of Mahbubani 3 Fortune 500 companies in 2010 were founded by immigrants or their (Estrada). This shows that the progress of innovation within the most significant companies has largely been driven by the hands of immigrants or their children. Small businesses are also given a boost when immigrants are added to the equation. Almost 28% of small business owners in the United States are immigrants and in 2010 small businesses that were founded by immigrants made over $775 billion in sales, generated $100 billion in income, and accounted for $126 billion in payroll taxes.(Estrada). In the same study it was also found that immigrant employ almost 4 million people within the workforce. These numbers should not be ignored as they demonstrate the clear advantage of supporting immigrants in general. These facts are especially relevant to my family because of some of my family members previous legal status. My foreign family has made significant investments for the future throughout their time in this country, the results are already beginning to show. My father, an immigrant hailing from the Caribbean, has managed a relatively small clothing store for over 23 years and as of 2013 he has maintained full ownership of the business. Although even he was illegal at one point, my father has made an improvement to our local economy and has served as a consumer for decades. He has personally hired countless locals to help run the store over the years and almost every single one of the workers were American citizens. Both my mother and father have raised two children, including me, that will input into the American way of life in the same manner that they did. I consider my story to be similar to the stories of almost all other immigrants. Both of my parents have experienced discrimination, harassment from institutions that focus on law enforcement, and a general anxiety about their future simply because of their label as immigrants. These systematic obstacles have only made their effort to Mahbubani 4 help those around them even more difficult but they have never stopped in pursuing their dreams. Every type of American should feel obligated to help or recognize families such as mine, it not only improves the lives of individuals that are disadvantaged but it also facilitates an environment in which all groups of people can thrive. As previously mentioned, there has always been an underlying suspicion aimed towards immigrants within the United States. The attitude towards immigrants has generally fluctuated in recent years (Jones). Despite this, the representation within our current government has reflected an anti-immigrant sentiment. The Executive branch of the government, the House of Representatives, and the Senate all currently have a majority Republican control. The Republican party, in the recent past, has dedicated parts of its platform to immigration reform. They believe in preventing illegal immigrants from entering the country and some Republicans aim to limit the amount of legal immigrants that are allowed in Views on A way to take action and combat this mentality is to voice your own opinion to local representatives. Simply calling a state or local office can make them aware of what their constituents might want. Discussing the topic amongst friends or family members in a diplomatic fashion could also raise awareness. Involving everyone in the conversation is essential to developing any sort of progress. Immigrants, both legal and illegal, in the U.S. are often mistreated and grossly misrepresented. Taking even the smallest of steps to assist these people could turn out to be a benefit to every American. It has become necessary to consider this call this call to action as propping up the immigrant populations within the country will lead to a stronger economy, stronger infrastructure, and more equal society. Mahbubani 5 Works Cited FAIR Federation for American Immigration About FAIR Federation for American Immigration Reform, www.fairus.org/about. Accessed 2 Apr. 2017. Chen, Michelle. Immigrants Contribute Over $11 Billion to Our Economy Each The Nation, 14 Mar. 2016, www.thenation.com/article/undocumented-immigrants-contribute-over-11-billion-to-our- economy-eac h-year/. Accessed 2 Apr. 2017. Clement, Scott. are more split on the Trump travel ban than you might The Washington Post, WP Company, 13 Feb. 2017, www.washingtonpost.com/news/the-fix/wp/2017/02/13/americans-arent-rejecting-trumps Accessed 2 Apr. 2017. Estrada, Cesar Maximiliano. Immigrants Positively Affect the Business Community and the U.S. Center for American Progress, 14 July 2016, www.americanprogress.org/issues/immigration/news/2016/06/22/140124/how-immigrant s-positively-affect-the-business-community-and-the-u-s-economy/. Accessed 2 Apr. 2017. Timeline - Illegal Immigration - What are the solutions to illegal Mahbubani 6 immigration in America?, Accessed 2 Apr. Republican Views, 25 Nov. 2014, www.republicanviews.org/republican-views-on-immigration/. Accessed 2 Apr. 2017. Jones, Bradley. views of immigrants marked by widening partisan, generational Pew Research Center, 15 Apr. 2016, www.pewresearch.org/fact-tank/2016/04/15/americans-views-of-immigrants-marked-by- widening-partisan-generational-divides/. Accessed 2 Apr. 2017. Krogstad, Jens Manuel, et al. facts about illegal immigration in the Pew Research Center, 3 Nov. 2016, www.pewresearch.org/fact-tank/2016/11/03/5-facts-about-illegal-immigration-in-the-u-s/ . Accessed 2 Apr. 2017.