Kozma 1 Robert Kozma Noah Pearlstone ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Where violence in video games goes right Violent video games have been the target of parents blame for their violent actions starting in the where the first case was brought before the supreme court (Gardner). With the rise of violence and better graphics within modern video games, the concern for the children who play them has also risen (Scutti). It cannot be entirely argued that violent video games have no negative effects on the gamers who play them, as at least 400 studies showed that there were cases of increased violence in some subjects while in 600 other studies there were no signs of change or decreased overall violence in the subjects, causing there to still be much controversy over violent video games effects on gamers and although it cannot be entirely proven there is more evidence against the negative effects of video games. (Kleinman). Although violent video games have been increasing in popularity as children have become more violent, violent video games influence the younger generation and are works of art that reflect the development of games. Designers should be allowed to freely create their games without any restrictions. Over the years more concern for the young gamers who play violent video games have become the topic of media and parents, however their concern is mostly misplaced as most violent video games require strategy and quick thinking (Ted). It appears that most people will skim over the fact that games like Call of Duty, Battlefield, and Mortal Kombat actually require Kozma 2 real time strategy thinking and last second changes to that plan when something does not go as planned. Violent video games have been shown to have given people the same stimulation as chess, the few differences in it includes the greater visual stimulation from video games and an overall more interactive experience in the game (Granic). Along with the stronger following for video games over board games, video games have gained a greater popularity with the younger generation. When it comes to playing video games the younger generation is capable of putting so much effort into trying to progress and get better at them that some of them will put in more than 20 hours a week, and it is this sort of devotion that could be used to improve the community (Mears). There are four ways that gamers become better at improving their community by always being willing to try anything in order to achieve their goal, gamers find groups that they are willing to work and play with in their everyday lives, gamers are willing to work hard to complete a goal that they have in mind, and gamers are always trying to find a greater meaning (Ted). With the violence in video games getting more gruesome with better graphics over the years, the greater the outcry towards them from parents has been. One of the most noticeable changes do to graphics would be that of The Ultimate Doom to its newest version Doom which had taken a whole new step into violence from the better graphics and more gruesome scenes of killing demons. With the improved graphics in video game it is argued that video games have become their own form of art. One of the major companies that strongly argues for allowing themselves free creativity with their works would be EA Dice, who created battlefield known for being a first-person shooter and its destructible terrain (This is Dice). While many people may not see it but violence in some video games is necessary such as in Mortal Kombat with its gruesome fatalities, without those it would basically be Tekken but with different skins and Kozma 3 story. This would lead to more games feeling less original then similar games just as Mortal Kombat has fatalities other games have their own form of originality. The main argument brought up against violent video games is that they cause the children who play them to be more violent overall and that they encourage children to be more violent by rewarding their violence in the game. While violent video games may cause an increase in violence when children are playing the video game and a little after it overall has been shown that their violence actually decreases (Decamp). That being said this is not true for all gamers of violent video games and so if a gamer does act more violent overall after playing a violent video game they should not be allowed to play violent video games. This has been shown to happen in people who have mental disorders that are associated with delusions (Mears). This leads into the second issue where it is argued that violent video games encourage children to act more violent because they are rewarded for violent behavior, there have only been a few cases where this was shown to be true since most children can tell the difference between the real world and the video game (Mears). There are benefits to allowing people to play violent video games beyond helping people improve their strategy planning and reaction time. One of the fewer known benefits of violent video games includes helping those with PTSD, by creating scenes similar to what they had experienced, usually used by those who experienced PTSD from war so games like Call of Duty and Battlefield help out the most, usually done by companies like polygon. A way that to help support this would be to go to website and donate money or games for them to use towards there research to better help those with PTSD. This can help improve the quality of help that patients with PTSD can get for their affliction. Another way to help develop violent video games would be to become a video game designer to see what it feels like to develop video Kozma 4 games. This can help by improving the community for violent video games as more ideas can be created for them. Another way to help out violent video games would be to buy one or another game from a company that happens to make violent video games. This would help support the companies to make more video games in the future. Kozma 5 Works Cited A Quote from  Goodreads. N.p., n.d. Web. 02 Apr. 2017. Decamp, Whitney. Impersonal Agencies of Communication: Comparing the Effects of Video Games and Other Risk Factors on  Western Michigan. Western Michigan University, 2015. Web. 2 Apr. 2017. Gardner, Joshua. Video Games Make Kids ABC News, ABC News Network, 17 Dec. 2012. Web. 02 Apr. 2017. Granic, Isabela, Adam Lobel, and Rutger Engels. The Benefits of Playing Video  The Benefits of Playing Video Games. Radboud University Nijmegen, Jan. 2014. Web. 3 Apr. 2017. Kleinman, Zoe. Do Video Games Make People  BBC News. BBC, 17 Aug. 2015. Web. 02 Apr. 2017. Mears, Bill. California Ban on Sale of Video Games to Children  CNN. Cable News Network, 27 June 2011. Web. 02 Apr. 2017. Peagram, Kortney. The Evolution of  ChicagoNow Is Full of Win. N.p., 6 Feb. 2013. Web. 02 Apr. 2017. Rockfeller, Jay. Effects of Violent Video Games on Children -  Why Do People Deny the Harmful Effects of Violent Video Games. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Scutti, Susan. Do Video Games Lead to  CNN. Cable News Network, 26 July 2016. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Kozma 6 Ted. can make a better world Jane Online video clip. YouTube. YouTube, 17 Mar. 2010. Web. 03 Apr. 2017. This Is  DICE. N.p., n.d. Web. 02 Apr. 2017.