Patihk 1 Daniel Patihk Kristin Gocinski ENC1102.078 21 April 2017 Ending Gun Violence with a Bang. According to recently updated statistics presented by the Gun Violence Archive, so far for the year 2017, in less than four months, there has been 18,214 gun related incidents, which includes over 4000 deaths and near 9000 injuries (gunviolencearchive.org). This can be linked to the fact that a survey revealed that by 2015, there were a total of 265 million guns in the hands of Americans, and that this statistic is expected to continue increasing (thetrace.org). However, there is still hope to curtail gun violence in the future, by making the primary focus gun safety. This will be possible by introducing the National Education Association to the topic of gun control and urging them to become active through engagement with the States United to Prevent Gun Violence, which will have benefitting results to both the NEA and to gun control. The debate on gun control and the idea of second amendment rights has become very popular in American culture. However, it was in 2008 during District of Columbia v Heller where The Supreme Court ruled that the second amendment does give an individual the right to ownership of a gun (ontheissues.org). Since then, gun control has become an ongoing debate and gun violence as exponentially increased. Although 91 percent of Americans acknowledge that there should be at least minor restrictions on gun ownership, there still exists events such as gun shows, whereby ideally anyone can walk in and purchase not just a handgun, but an assault weapon with almost no questions asked and no trouble (ontheissues.org). In addition to this, it is no coincidence that throughout history, all the Patihk 2 major events of mass killings, such as the Sandy Hook shooting, San Bernadino shooting and most recently, the shooting of a gay nightclub in Orlando, have been with assault rifles. Hence, organizations such as the States United to Prevent Gun Violence have formed to help fight for gun restrictions and means of keeping weapons out of the hands of criminals, but are currently still in need of support if a true change is to occur. My position on the topic of gun control is in favour of gun restrictions and background checks for gun permits. An article written by Adam Soloperto and published by the Seton Hall University School of Law supports my position by questioning the Second legitimacy. The introduction recalls previous instances of extensive gun violence in America, or more specifically assault rifles, including the shooting of Sandy Hook Elementary School by Adam Lanza, shooting of a party by the San Bernadino County Department of Health, and shooting of a gay nightclub in Orlando by Omar Mateen. Soloperto also includes some key statistics, such as there are estimated eighty-eight guns per one hundred people in the United and that people are killed each year with (Soloperto 228). This article legitimizes my position that there should be a ban on all military-style weapons to non-military citizens. Another article, this one by Ashley Mata of the California Western International Law Journal, supports my position on the topic in a similar manner to the previously described article by Soloperto. Mata also describes many instances of mass shootings, and then recalls a statement made by former president Obama be able to stop every violent act, but if there is even one thing that we can do to prevent any of these events, we have a deep obligation ... to (Mata 171). The article then continues to state why there needs to be a ban on assault weapons in America by comparing this country to many others, such as Great Britain and Australia, where there are already existing bans on assault weapons. In both Patihk 3 cases, this reduced the number of mass shootings. Hence, this article legitimizes my position to have military- style weapons banned from non-military citizens. On the topic of gun control, I also believe that background checks should be issued to anyone attempting to purchase a gun, or acquire a gun license. This introduces an article by Jill D. McLeigh of the University of Colorado School of Medicine, published by the American Journal of Orthopsychiatry. McLeigh identifies a map that highlights seventy-four school shootings that took place after the Sandy Hook incident in 2012 and linked it to parents react out of fear rather than consideration of how to prevent future occurrences. The article then discusses ways to minimize gun violence, the main method being to implement threat (McLeigh 201) which is very similar to the background checks for gun owners that I support. Therefore, this article legitimizes my position to have background checks for all gun purchases implemented. There is one particular organization, the National Education Association, that has no engagement with gun control, but can actually be very influential if they were to become active. The National Education Association claims to be the largest professional employee organization, boasting or three million members working at every level of education. While their mission is advocate for education professionals and to unite our members and the nation to fulfill the promise of public education to prepare every student to succeed in a diverse and interdependent they also believe that with parents, families, communities, and other stakeholders are essential to quality public education and student (nea.org/home). The NEA is a very large organization that is interested in providing a complete education for students and has stated that they believe in working together for common goals. This is their gateway to a relationship with the topic of gun control. Patihk 4 If the National Education Association was to become engaged with the topic of gun control, it would result in dual benefit. The NEA has already displayed their belief in working together for a common purpose or goal, and explained the high value that they place on a education. A large part of gun control is gun safety education. However, this is usually sought after privately and independently, rather than being part of the education system. Given that the NEA is dedicated to education, this therefore provides common ground whereby the National Education Association can merge with gun control. This engagement will only see benefits for the NEA. Statistics show that most of the students will eventually become gun owners and therefore would need gun education to keep themselves and the people surrounding them safe. By providing some form of gun safety education, the NEA will be achieving one of its goals, which is to provide students with a complete education and prepare them to succeed in a diverse world. This engagement will also see gun control benefit. The NEA is a huge organization and therefore has a lot of influential power. The engagement will result in gun control growing in popularity and demand, as well as a future of consistently well-educated citizens on gun safety. This is how gun control will benefit. Gun safety education can play a major role in advancing gun control and reducing the number of deaths by guns annually. This introduces an article by Cecilia Obeng, published by the Journal of School Health, describing an academic study that supports the need for a gun education curriculum in schools. The results of the study indicated that third of US homes with children have (Obeng 397). She continued to state that 32% to 43% of such homes the guns are unlocked. Furthermore, the firearms are loaded in 14% to 30% of the homes with (Obeng 395). This shows the demand to educate children on gun safety since many of them in the US are exposed to guns in the home. A different article by Denise Dowd, published by the America Academy of Pediatrics, elaborates on training Patihk 5 methods to avoid children playing with guns. They also advocate for child-based training to served as another layer in firearm injury (Dowd 1847). Therefore, this article also legitimizes gun safety education as being a step towards achieving gun control. The National Education involvement in the topic of gun control is very important and they should therefore take action. Becoming engaged with gun control would not only reduce the number of deaths by guns in America, but would eventually result in a population well educated on gun safety and gun control. The NEA should first become involved with a gun control organization such as the States United to prevent Gun Violence, so that they can become more educated on the topic. This can be done through a simple meeting with the board. They should then plan a comprehensive gun safety curriculum with the SUPGV and advocate for its implementation into the national education system. This is important because the NEA, being the largest organization of professionals has a lot of influence in the education sector. Finally, the NEA can include the idea of gun control on their website and web pages to increase the popularity of gun control, which would then increase its demand. In taking this course to action, the NEA will benefit as well, as previously mentioned, by providing students with a more well-rounded education that is better preparing them to succeed in an independent world, as stated in their mission statement. In summation, gun control is very important in society as there are instances of gun violence every day in America. There are over 265 million guns in America and more than 60 percent of those are non-handgun, meaning that more than 60 percent of those millions of guns in hands are each capable of mass destruction. However, although the battle against gun violence is far from won, turning to gun safety as a focal point through the involvement of the National Education Association in gun control can be a huge step forward for gun control. Therefore, the NEA needs to take action and become associated Patihk 6 with the SUPGV and begin planning a gun safety curriculum for children. This is a simple way for the NEA to act that will see huge results. Patihk 7 Works cited Soloperto, Adam P. standard of review for gun rights: the second amendment question hot as a two-dollar Seton Hall Law Review; 2016. http://eds.a.ebscohost.com/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?vid=1&sid=9f705ffc-7cf3-4814- b1ed-cc8d6e3bdf6c%40sessionmgr4008&hid=4108. Acceseed 21 April 2017. Obeng, Cecilia. gun safety be taught in schools? Perspectives of Journal of School Health. August 2010. http://eds.a.ebscohost.com/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?sid=73da7e49-7f30-4a5e-be53- 780ab3e1ca09%40sessionmgr4007&vid=19&hid=4108. Accessed 21 April 2017. McLeigh, Jill D. new normal? Addressing gun violence in American Journal of Orthopsychiatry; May 2015. http://eds.a.ebscohost.com/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?sid=85dff11c-0e54-48d5-9c17- da92e0afa8dd%40sessionmgr4009&vid=21&hid=4103. Accessed 21 April 2017. Dowd, M. Denise. Sege, Robert. Smith, Gary A. Wright, Joseph L. Miltenberger, Raymond G. injury prevention: failure of gun-safety American Academy of Pediatrics; June 2004. http://eds.a.ebscohost.com/Legacy/Views/static/html/Error.htm?aspxerrorpath=/eds/Cit ations/FullTextLinkClick. Accessed 21 April 2017. Mata, Ashley. for the Innocent: Why Modeling Gun Regulation after Great Britain, Australia, and Switzerland Will Reduce the Rate of Mass Shootings in California Western International Law Journal; October 2014. http://eds.a.ebscohost.com/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?sid=0ec4eef9-1864-48d3-bdd0- 664bc3b6ad09%40sessionmgr4010&vid=1&hid=4108. Accessed 21 April 2017. New Stats From 2016 That Help Explain Gun Violence in The trace. www.thetrace.org. Accessed 21 April 2017. Patihk 8 on Gun On the issues. http://www.ontheissues.org. Accessed 21 April 2017. Violence Archive Gun Violence Archive. http://www.gunviolencearchive.org/. Accessed 21 April 2017. Mission, Vision and The National Education Association. http://www.nea.org/home. Accessed 21 April 2017.