Ashley Dempsey ENC 1102 29 th January, 2017 T. Poston Let Us Talk Abortion is one of the top most controversial topics in our society. It is not the most popular topic of conversation but what I talking about it could save a life or could help so many in need? Would our society talk about it then or would the conversation same the same, dead silent? Abortion needs to be discussed more to educate young teens on their rights, restrictions, and all options even before considering abortion. Will we talk about it now? What is sex? Besides being an uncomfortable word that is being taboo but is the most common natural thing ever. How did we all get here? Sex. The real issue that needs to be discussed sex but the consequences of it, Abortion. Lack of sexual education has a direct correlation with high abortion rates. There are so many other options and steps that ca be taken before abortion should even become an option or a decision. Sexual education is typically a small chapter taught in a physical education class but because it is so taboo it is not taught in depth. The basics are if you have sex use a condom if you you will either get an STD or become pregnant. Educators talk about sex as being something scary, they show child birth and do demonstrations of how to put on a condom with a cucumber. But what they fail to do is educate young minds on birth control and how there are more than one type of condoms and they are not just meant for males or just penial vaginal intercourse. With the correct education and resources abortion becomes less and less of an option, but the real key factor in all this is education. If we take the time as a society to ensure that all educators properly educate young minds on sexual education from an early age. Statistically woman who are below the poverty level or already have children are most likely to make the decision to get an abortion even though most people think teens are more likely. Ignorance is bliss, and with the lack of proper education how can we ever make a difference. In states like Texas they have defunded and shut down many centers that provide essential recourses such as educational on sex and sexual anatomy, free contraception such as condoms along with access to birth control. They also provide STD testing and have on staff Another perk of many of these are that they work on a sliding scale of income so many people who cannot afford health care can come here and receive assistants. These centers also are commonly known for performing abortions which typically gives these centers such bad reputations. The state of Texas passed a bill that required these centers to meet specific requirements and if not met then they were forced to closed. These requirements included all hallways of the facility to be a certain width so that two gurneys could easily pass through and for their rooms that they preform procedures in to be as equipped as an operating room that would be used for open heart surgery. These requirements were purposely implemented because the senate knew it was impossible for these facilities to meet these requirements resulting in the closing of many. A whole state without single one of these facilities affected so many. Their rate of teen pregnancies increased rapidly due to the lack of access to contraception. They caused so many more problems just trying to Options is something that everyone in America has the right to, become educated on your options and your rights. Many states do put restrictions on options for example to receive an abortion in the state of Florida one must be 18 or older or they will notify your parent or legal guardian, also a transvaginal ultra sound must be preformed before being scheduled for an abortion which will not take place for another 72 hours. A transvaginal ultrasound is when a ultra sound wand is put into a condom and then inserted into the vagina, a woman have to listen to the heart beat and see the baby she has chosen to abort the choice itself is hard. These all are mechanisms used to guilt trip females into changing their minds including the 72 hour waiting period. So what if this could all be prevented? As a society who hates the idea of abortion what is being done to stop or limit is? We must educate because abortion should be last resource not first thought. So as a society we must talk, educate and communicate. No other states should end up like Taxes or have to jump through hoops like Florida. Options are available so lets as a society spread the word, because there are so many options to choose from. Reference page Nolan, David. Men Have Rights in Pro- Choice forum 21 st of March 2001 4 pages. Shostak, Arthur B. in Abortions, Lessons, Losses, and Green Wood Press. February 1, 1985 333 pages. Planned Parenthood v. Danforth. 428 U.S. A United States Supreme Court Case on Abortion. Missouri 1976. Reuters Thomson, Find Law. Rights in Abortion. Paternity 2016 Planned Parenthood v. Casey. 505 U.S. 833 A United States Court Case on Abortion. Pennsylvania 1992. www. Plannedparenthood.org