Chauhan 1 Ayush Chauhan Prof. Jubalee Penuliar ENC 1102 011 17 April 2017 Education Matters Education is the backbone for early childhood development. It provides future generations the opportunity to explore new worlds and new ideas. A mind requires cultivation of reason and imagination to create a worthwhile pursuit of excellence. This can only come with access to quality education. According to the National Center for Education Statistics in 2010, only 44 percent of low socioeconomic status children attended preschool. compared to 69 percent of children from high socioeconomic status and 54 percent of middle- class children who attended preschool (Wenish). This is after the implementation of the Common Core State Standard that has shaken up the entire United States education system. There is a disparity growing within the education system that is hurting young minds. This is a growing problem in America today that needs immediate attention. The lack of access to quality education is hurting future generations and action must be taken. Bureaucrats have implemented federal standards to close this disparity but they have only added fuel to the fire. No longer do teachers and parents have control over their education. Common Core has plagued the American school system and it is time for a change. The power of education should be taken out of the hands of Washington and given back to parents and teachers that truly know what is best for a child. To sustain and improve public education, organizing and advocacy efforts are the only things that will save us and the future of public education. Chauhan 2 For the most part, a clear majority of Americans have an interest in giving every child in America the best education possible. However, the differences lie in what way quality education should be given. As mentioned before, Common Core State Standard was brought on as a revival to the No Child Left Behind Act from the Bush era in 2002. The intentions were to lift students to a higher standard and provide tools to make America the pinnacle of education. The implementation of this idea was disastrous. Instead of pushing students, NCLB and CCSS created a narrative of failure for all schools that meet the fairytale standards set by the Federal Government. The main reason for that was highlighted by Stan Karp, director of Secondary Reform Project for New Education Law Center. In the article, Karp states individuals charged with drafting the standards, 14 were from testing 0 teachers were in the (Karp 4). This proves that bureaucrats designed Common Core and that no teachers were consolidated on the decision. The government has taken multiple approaches to aiding the children of America. But now it is the time we shift focus from politics and focus on what truly matters, the students. No change can be brought until that shift is made. As we move on, the question arises, how will this shift be made? Well, the answer is not a simple one. For this drastic mentality change on what truly matters, the current situation must be carefully analyzed. Anne Stone from The Gale Group explains the reality of the class room. Stone believes that the classroom fosters freedom and creativity and that can be represented with color. However, after the implementation of federal standards the color of the classroom started to fade away (Stone). Stone is symbolizing when standards are introduced and not tailored to students. Classrooms lose their color and students lose the free thought. This is a frightening thought but the current path of common core is creating manufactured learning. are becoming more like where students go to learn but come out only knowing how to Chauhan 3 take a (Stone 3). This is the harsh reality of the current situation we are currently in. Students are no longer learning how to think, rather they are learning what to think. This is done all in the name of making America the pinnacle of K-12 education. According to The Learning Curve, develop by the Economist Intelligence Unit, the United States ranks 17th out of 40 countries in overall educational performance (Zandi 24). This is proof that prior attempts by the U.S government have not worked. It is time to try a new approach that understands the value of fostering freedom and creativity within children. This new approach requires a lot of work to bring it to fruition. The path of providing access to high-quality education to every child in America and bringing power back to the parents and teachers is not linear. However, there are two steps that can be taken by everyone who is willing to help the cause. The first step is spreading the word about the current problem at hand. If you look at the current K-12 system, the problems are growing exponentially. A lot of people associate the problems with the school system to the teacher. Teachers are being told to teach a certain way that is causing them not to achieve the desired results. The current curriculum that is imposed on public schools is increasing the disparity between students and quality education. We will never see the day of excellent universal education until we grant teachers the intellectual freedom they deserve. To do that, we must speak out about this problem. All of us must come together to bring awareness. This can be as simple as telling your friends, family or even your neighbors what is going on with our current school system. Often, those you tell have noticed the same problems. The second step is to contact your U.S Representative. You can find who represents your district by simply logging on to http://www.house.gov/representatives/find/ and entering your ZIP code (house.gov). Each person who contacts their representative is one voice that has taken charge to change the future of Chauhan 4 education. It all starts with one, but soon one becomes two and two becomes three. Change will not come easy, but this fight is for kids and its one worth fighting for. Education opens the door for opportunity. It provides new learning experiences every day that mold us into who we are. The sad thing is that access to quality education is a rare thing to come by these days. Kids are no longer learning how to think but rather they are learning what to think. Common Core has open the door for manufactured learning that undermines teachers in the process. It is time for a change. Luckily, there are steps that can be taken to tackle this major issue. To sustain and improve public education, organizing and advocacy efforts are the only things that will save us and the future of public education. The solution is not linear, but we must do whatever it takes to bring the power of education out of Washington and into the hands of teachers, parents, and students. Chauhan 5 Works Cited Karp, Stan. Problems with the Common Rethinking Schools, vol. 28, no. 2, 2013, pp. 1-10. Stone, Anne. Common Standards the The Gale Group, vol. 2013, no. 5, 2013. pp 1-4. States House of House.gov. N.p n.d. Web. 15 April 2017. Wenish, Michael. Future of K-12 Catholic Social Science Review, vol. 17, no. 1, 2012, pp. 335-350. Zandi, Mark. The Learning Curve, vol. 12, no. 2, 2013, pp. 22-26.