Yasreeb 1 Ahmed Sadat Yasreeb Kristin Gocinski ENC1102.078 20 April 2017 All that looks yummy is not healthy Health is something which we all care for because if we become unhealthy we will be open to diseases, get lazy and get sick. Everyone wants to be healthy and fit, no one ever wants to compromise health before anything but did people ever think this deep about the food we consume? People no matter how much health conscious they are, they still love to eat junk food. Nowadays junk food companies such as McDonalds, Burger King are making a lot of profit because they are cheap and yummy according to people. Therefore, people love eating them as they are cheap and quick to eat. For example, McDonalds McPick2 is just for five dollars and we can get chicken nuggets and a quarter pounder burger with it. People love to get so many things in just five dollars but they never thought about the quality of the food which is just five dollars. People are ready to compromise their health to consume junk food. Likewise, large organizations like Co. are investing on such junk food companies making them more cost effective to attract more customers. As a result, junk food is bad for health and people should know about it, at the same time Co. should stop investing on such companies so that junk food companies cannot expand and become cost effective. If invests into healthy eating companies then they will be more profitable and their goodwill will also increase. Junk food is so attractive and its appearance makes it more compelling to consume it. People should control their appetite about fast food because fast food can make them affected in lot of ways. Firstly, fast food will make people get fat and lazy, for example a McDonalds Yasreeb 2 quarter pounder has around 600 to 1000 calories. People never imagine that they are just consuming so much calories in just one meal. So obviously fast foods can make us become fat and lazy. After consuming a fast food there will be bad feeling in our body, no one feels good after consuming such food because these foods are made with the worst possible quality ingredients (Watkins 86). This is the reason why they are so cheap. At the same time people should also know that it just not alters our waistline but also affect our mental health (Daily Mail 1). There has been a study where Spanish Scientists unraveled that 51 per cent people who consumes fast food they are more likely to suffer from depression compared to people who eat fast food (Daily Mail 1). So, all depression, frustration and feeling dizzy, lazy, inactive are all related to our eating habits. Diseases can also affect people for being unhealthy, there can be food poisoning, diabetes, kidney diseases, heart disease, arthritis etc. All happens because excess calories and cholesterol makes our digestive system bad causing kidney and food poisoning and thickens our nerve vessels causing heart attacks. People get sick for these junk foods and have to fight with deadly diseases (New Scientists 18). Diabetes is a disease for lifetime so if people can control their eating habits they will be better off from getting fast and inactive, from a lot of diseases and depression. Organization such as Co. are investing on profitable companies such as Krave Jerky which is a fast food company, they are investing on this companies to get a share from their profit. It also means that if Krave Jerky are performing better then goodwill will increase together with Krave as they invested in it. Hershey is a large multinational chocolate company and they are very profitable. Their mission state is Milton legacy of commitment to consumers, community and children, we provide high-quality products while conducting our business in a socially responsible and Yasreeb 3 environmentally sustainable 1). Therefore, they are a very respectable and profitable brand and everyone knows because of their good quality chocolates. They also do business responsibly and want to keep their customers happy by producing better quality products. They also invest on business to become more profitable and to increase their market share worldwide. By capturing market share worldwide they become more profitable and invest on better technology to become cost efficient. Being technology advanced helps them to grow more and invest within their business. to capture more market share are investing on junk food companies such as Krave Junky as mention by Collins in his article and If they invest on vegetarian food business or businesses which carry out a healthy eating way then Hershey will be more profitable. This is because healthy eating will then be promoted and people will eventually eat more healthy food and fell satisfied about it. Then the goodwill of Hershey will increase and people will trust both the healthy food companies and (because of their investment) and become brand loyal to both. So, if Hershey invest on healthy food businesses then their profit will increase more due to increase in goodwill. Therefore, if companies such as stop investing on these junk food companies then junk food companies will stop growing and this will also make people slowly become less attractive to junk food companies. Thus, people will stop consuming junk food in this way. There has been an article written by Graham where McDonalds franchisees are in trouble and their stock value has also decreased (10). This is because companies stopped investing on McDonalds and this led to McDonalds growth to fall and stop its advertisings which caused customers attention to sway away from McDonalds (Graham 11). Therefore, if stop investing on Krave Jerky and invest on Healthy food companies then the junk food companies will fail to Yasreeb 4 maintain their food quality products and their advertisements because of lack of finance from before. As a result, people will stop consuming junk foods and move to other healthy alternatives. This will also result in people getting less sick and less fighting with deadly disease (New Scientist 19). Thus, can still be profitable and increase their goodwill investing on healthy companies and at the same time people will stop eating junk foods as junk food companies will be less financed due to lack of investments. In the end, Junk foods are bad for health and can cause a lot of diseases and suffer people with depression, so people should understand this and improve their eating habits. By maintaining their eating habits, they can avoid a lot of bad diseases and live a healthy fit life. On the other hand, if multinational companies like can invest on healthy food companies which will be more profitable for them and stop investing on junk food companies then junk food companies will be less financed to persuade and attract customers. So eventually slowly people can stay away from junk food and enjoy a peaceful healthy life because health is wealth. 1309 words Yasreeb 5 Work cites 1. Collins, Allison. Craving Junk  Mergers & Acquisitions: The Journal, Date Accessed : 10 th April 2017. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ba h&AN=108948502&site=eds-live. Fat with Fake New Scientist, vol. 187, no. 2511, 06 Aug. 2005, p. 18. EBSCOhost, Date Accessed 20 th April 2017 exproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohots.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ap h&AN=17878212&site=eds-live. 3. Graham, JED. Franchisees Are in a its Investors Business Daily, 17 Oct. 2016 p.1 EBSCOhost, Date Accessed 20 th April 2017 exproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=b wh&AN=118913261&site=eds-live. Accessed 20 th April 2017. http://www.hersheys.com/world-travel-retail/about-us/vision.aspx 5. Not Just Bad for Your Weight, Junk Food Can Give You the  Daily Mail (London, England), 2012. EBSCOhost, Date Accessed 20 th April 2017 ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ed sgbe&AN=edsgcl.284953899 6. Watkins, Dennis. Junk Food Makes You Feel Bad And Look Mens Health no.8 2006. Date Accessed 20 th April 2017. Yasreeb 6 eproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebsocohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ed sgao&AN=edsgcl.155171827&site=eds-live.