Han 1 Songting Han(Martin) ENC 1102 Jarad Fennel April 16, 2017 A Gift from the Heart Life is priceless, for which we play jokes on it at any time. Blood is the source of life-saving and its importance is illustrated in an old of a mother cannot save her Child. But your Blood According to the one blood website, one donation has the potential to save as many as three lives. Three teaspoons of blood can save a However, most people believe that donating blood can be harmful to their body, but this is not true. Conversely, the benefit goes to both donor and recipient. By giving the blood, one can save the lives of other people who are in desperately need of it. In fact, it only takes few days for the body to regenerate the blood. There are no any damaging effects concerning to the metabolism of the body. We need to step forward to donate blood as it offers many advantages which include: reduction in the risk of heart disease and cardiovascular incidents, having a better blood flow as well as the enjoyment of saving other lives. First, donating blood is beneficial in the prevention of heart disease and cardiovascular incidents of the blood donors. This fact can be found in a study published in the Journal of the American Medical Association (JAMA). In the article, researchers point out that the excessive amount of iron that persists in the human body will put a threat to the heart. Iron has proven to speed the process of oxidized cholesterol, does harm to the arteries and leads to the heart disease. However if a donor wants to have a blood transfusion to the recipient, a decent Han 2 amount of iron would purge and remove from the body system, and this lowered body iron concentration can effectively lower the risk of the heart disease. This conclusion is reached when researchers found that participants ages 43 to 61 had fewer heart attacks and strokes when they donated blood every six months. The associated study that shows donating blood can also resist the hardening activity of atherosclerosis caused by iron. This can be found in the following article called iron stores reduction affects lipoprotein status a potential benefit of blood In the article, the author Medicinski Glasnik has conducted an experiment which composed of the 500 ml blood samples from 23 healthy males after overnight fasting. To make the result of the experiment more accurate, researchers draw the blood from these 23 males for three different week intervals. The research measures various parameters including body iron; lipid profile; anti -oxidants; and oxidative parameters of low-density lipoprotein (LDL).(Medicinski 2011). It turns out that blood donation has various beneficial effects such as the oxidative state of LDL particles and increasing the antioxidant status of the body. All this together helps to maintain a proper endothelial 2011) Consequently, the act of donation will result in a lower risk of heart disease and cardiovascular incidents of the blood donors. Second, donating blood is of great significance in helping people get a better blood flow. It is widely acknowledged people are getting more and more pressure with the increased competition in our society. Undeniably, an increasing number of people would be negatively impacted by the surroundings around them. Some of them are getting anxiety and having emotional stress, some are having a high-sugar diet and others are reaching a high uric acid level. All of these factors will strengthen blood hypercoagulable, increasing blood viscosity and Han 3 slowing down the blood circulation, which results in a blood clot or stroke. Hypercoagulable blood contributes to inflammation since the oxygen get to the tissues when the blood could not flood better. The people should realize that the repeated blood donations may help the blood flow better, less hurting to the lining of blood vessels, which should result in fewer arterial as the director of the Loyola University Health System blood bank Phillip DeChristopher, M.D., Ph.D.,said. (Mercola 2014) Third, the benefit of donating blood is for blood donors getting great satisfaction from helping others. The behavior to save the life of the recipients is considered as altruism, and the benefit of helping others into the light of life is unquantifiable compared to any other forms of help. There are too numerous heart-warming and impressive actions of saving life to be mentioned. However, the factors contributing to the hindrance in helping others renascent are twofold: the limited amount of blood archive repository available in the hospitals and blood banks; and the misunderstandings amidst a large number of people having fear about donating blood.The fear that donating blood can counter attack the health of the donor. To tackle these problems, the misconceptions toward donating blood must be removed to inspire more people to realize that blood donation can benefit the donors and simultaneously to the recipient as well. The motivation to blood donation should be accorded more importance, perhaps by giving more incentives and rewards can influence people to donate blood. In conclusion, blood donation is favorable not only to the recipients but also for the donors. There are many benefits for giving money which involves preserving the heart and cardiovascular health, having a better blood flow as well as the enjoyment of saving lives. To those of people who have the misunderstanding towards the side effects of blood Han 4 donation, awareness needs to improved to them to save lives. Many lives are urgently needing to save by donating blood. Nothing is more important and meaningful than saving a life. Therefore, people should donate the blood on a regular basis so that the patients can receive the treatment at the right time. One thing to point out is that the process of donating the blood is quite simple. easier to make an appointment online and just drop in the hospital can one donate the blood. If everyone can give one blood to the people who are in need, the whole world will be full of love. Han 5 Works Cited Dandu, Madhavi. Multiple Health Benefits and Importance of Blood Donation  RSS. N.p., 14 Jan. 2017. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Davids, Lorraine. The Health Benefits of Donating  Medical Science Today. N.p., 04 July 2015. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Jaarsveld, Henretha Van. Beneficial effects of blood donation on high-density lipoprotein concentration and the oxidative potential of low-density  Atherosclerosis. Elsevier, n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017 Swalin, Rachel . 4 Unexpected Benefits of Donating  Mercola.N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.