Antle !1 Glenn Antle Kristin Gocinski ENC 11002.078 21 April 2017 Women In The Military Women have been trying to stay in the military for a long time. The Marines do not think that women in combat is a good idea because they do not have the physical capabilities that men do. Even though they receive much criticism for being on the front lines, women still show outstanding performance in the field (Prividera and Howard). The first women to enlist in the military were during World War I in 1917. They were allowed to join the Navy and the Marine Corps which they started out in small roles but over time, they were allowed into much bigger roles in the military like commander or other high ranked positions. All of these high ranked positions were filled by males but when they started to fill up with females then that is when the women in started to have a say in what went on in the military (Ali). I believe that the Goodwill can help bring awareness to this debate while also helping them. I think that women in combat should still be allowed and the Goodwill can really help bring more awareness to this debate. This will help Goodwill because their reputation and sales will increase if they hold a household items and food drive and send those materials collected to women in combat. Women in combat is a good idea because it is a right of any United States citizen to fight for the country. A right to fight for this country should not be challenged because they have a right to join any branch of the military they want (MacKenzie). My position is this way Antle !2 because I am all for equal rights. Women should be allowed to do what men are allowed to do. They be denied access into the military because of their gender. The Goodwill is a organization who, to enhance the dignity and quality of life of individuals and families by strengthening communities, eliminating barriers to opportunity, and helping people in need reach their full potential through learning and the power of The main operation that Goodwill does is donations. Anyone can go to a donation center and donate whatever they want. Then, Goodwill will put those donations in the shelfs of their store or they will deliver them to homeless shelters so that people who can not afford clothes, can get some through donations that people send. The Goodwill only sell clothes, they sell all types of household items that low-income families can not afford for their house or even Christmas presents for their kids. If the Goodwill decides to engage in the issue of women in combat, their reputation and sales will increase. The benefits of engagement for Goodwill will be an increase in sales and reputation. Once people see that Goodwill is helping out women in the military, people will think that they are for rights which will draw a crowd that are for rights but want to shop at Goodwill. As for reputation, this can go for existing and new customers, people will realize that the Goodwill really does care about the people and the people that fight for our country will will leave a good note on Goodwill in mind. The benefit for women in combat will be awareness. Many new people will just start to notice that this is an issue that many people in this country face. If more people notice this topic then something will happen for the women so that there is no more criticism towards them in the roles on the front lines. Antle !3 If the Goodwill does decide to engage with women in combat, then the call to action will have a few steps. The first step is to promote a drive where people can donate canned foods or female specific household items such as deodorant, brushes, hair ties and other necessities that women use all the time. The purpose of promoting the drive first is so that people can prepare and gather the stuff they need to donate. The next step is to actually have the drive. The people can go to any Goodwill donation center to drop off the materials. Next would be to package all the materials and sort it into categories of what everything is. After all that is done, then they will be dropped into the front lines where the base is at so that the women can have basic necessities while on the ground fighting the enemy. Goodwill can do so much for themselves and also for women in combat. Not only will their sales increase, but their reputation and the awareness of issue of women in combat too. I believe that women should be allowed to serve in infantry positions because it is their right to ugh for this county and it be denied just because some as strong as men. A good way for Goodwill to get involved is to have a food and household items drive to help out the women in combat who might not have certain things to get them through the day. Works Cited Goodwill Industries International, Inc., www.goodwill.org/about-us/. Accessed 21 Apr. 2017. Ali, Isra. Advocacy and War on Terror Democratic 2014, journals.fcla.edu/demcom/article/view/83939. Accessed 21 Apr. 2017. Antle !4 MacKenzie, Megan H. Let Women Fight: Ending the U.S. Female Combat Ban. Council on Foreign Relations, 11 Jan. 2012, www.jstor.org.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/stable/pdf/ 41720932.pdf. Accessed 21 Apr. 2017. Prividera, Laura C, and John W Howard III. the Direct Combat Exclusion Rule: Examining the Ongoing against Women Soldiers. Women & Language, 2014, eds.a.ebscohost.com/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?sid=4d024b54- b74d-490a-9858-e1ca685c008d%40sessionmgr4009&vid=7&hid=4210. Accessed 21 Apr. 2017.