Denis1 Ryan Denis 4/26/17 Uddin The Cannabis Argument Over the year politicians have been deciding on the legal use of marijuana for medical and recreational use. The main purpose of legal marijuana is used for the taxed profits to help boost the economy of the cities. Contrary to what most people believe even with high sales of legal taxed cannabis, it is not enough to counter the regulations in place. Therefore marijuana has more harmful effects on the economy than what some might assume. When legal cannabis came around people were drawn to the dispensaries throughout the cities. But much to their surprise the cannabis was much more expensive than the cannabis sold on the streets from local dealers. This turned many people away, Arron Rousell says The structure of these regulations tended to benefit the retail outlets uniquely and they marked up prices by 13) With the outrageous prices and a high demand the public turned to the black market. By not going to the dispensaries and purchasing the legal taxed cannabis this hurts the economy. The government of these cities with legal marijuana have spent too much money towards legalizing and regulating to ensure that rules are followed and that certain precautions are in order. There are other scholars that say that cannabis is more harmful to the economy than what most people think. Another way that cannabis is so harmful is because of the health risks. There are studies that show that there is a strong correlation with smoking and lung cancer and other Denis2 breathing and heart troubles. When patients are in the hospital they can no longer go and purchase the taxed cannabis from their local dispensaries. When a person gets sick their main focus is to get better they do not want to smoke or consume marijuana. The sick person is going to pay their medical bills be bed ridden for a while if it is not a terminal illness. So while this happens it hurts the economy for a while. Instead of the user going out and buying the weed and using it and buying more. The user is now sick with a bad cough and cannot work or go and purchase any more substance so this then hurts the economy by no more tax cannabis is being sold and the user is not going to work to make more money. Even with these strong arguments saying that marijuana is not an economical benefit there are many other counter points to the idea. One scholar John Hazlehurst believes that legal cannabis has its rightful place as an opportunity to be an economic boost to local cities. Hazlehurst says analysis is based on the assumption the money from the sale of marijuana is spent in the local community. It was assumed $80,000,000 income is made from the sale of Hazlehurst has done research in some local areas with legal cannabis and has said to found that there is in fact a small percent that the marijuana helps with the economies. In conclusion marijuana has negative economic value that out ways the positives. The rebuttal to the argument does say that cannabis has brought in a percentage of well-earned tax revenue from the product sold. But contrary to the belief that cannabis is good for the economy it has been shown that there are far more negative side effects to the legalization of marijuana. From the rise of prices in dispensaries and people returning to the illegal black market trade. To the link of the hospitalizations of people who have been long term smokers causing them to not Denis3 spend money on cannabis but to the hospitals. It just goes to show that cannabis should not be used as an economic resource. Work Cited Conant, Eve, and Katie Maloney. POT AND THE  Newsweek. 11/1/2010, Vol. 156 Issue 18, P30-35. 6p. 3 Color Photographs., 1 Nov. 2010. Web. 2 Mar. 2017. Finn, Kenneth, and Rochelle Salmore. The Hidden Costs of Marijuana Use in Colorado: One Emergency  Journal of Global Drug Policy & Practice, 2016. Web. 01 Mar. 2017 Hazlehurst, John. Marijuana Sales, Distribution Major Part of Local  Colorado Springs Business Journal (CO), 27 Oct. 2006. Web. 02 Mar. 2017. Pudney, Stephen. Drugs Policy: What Should We Do about  Economic Policy., Jan. 2010. Web. Mar. 2017 Roche, Edward J. Federal Income Taxation of Medical Marijuana By Edward J. Roche :: SSRN. N.p., 13 Aug. 2013. Web. 28 Feb. 2017. Roussell, Aaron. Field Observations of the Developing Legal Recreational Cannabis Economy in Washington  International Journal of Drug Policy. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Feb. 2017.