Robertson 1 Erik Robertson Kristin Gocinski ENC1102.078 21 April 2017 A Medicinal Operation: Walgreens Marijuana has proven time and time again to be a biological and medicinal miracle from the future but also has been around for thousands of years. The first recorded usage of marijuana dates all of the way back to B.C, in the writings of the Chinese emperor Shen (Hudak 10) and continues to receive irrefutable attention until this very day. Whether being used for paper, plastic, cement, fuel, a medicine, or simply the euphoric side effects, marijuana shines with efficiency, cleanliness, and costs when compared to those materials currently held in place instead of the plant. With these diverse variables in mind, trying to push these different characteristics into the modern economy at once would be a difficult task, but starting with the most important factor, the medicinal feature, would not. As more and more states within the United States aim to legalize medicinal marijuana, the more readily available it should become. Introducing a long standing and reputable pharmacy like Walgreens into the picture would become a perfect solution to this issue, and would only benefit both parties. If Walgreens were to begin carrying medicinal marijuana in their pharmacies located within legalized states, not only would the company itself see a sheer jump in profits, but it would also bring a more casual sense to the drug, allow for medicinal patients to easily obtain the prescription of which they seek, and begin a movement against a lethal epidemic that is sweeping this country. Robertson 2 Medicinal marijuana has been used all throughout history and is slowly being introduced back into market. It is no wonder as to why, though, as the benefits that the plant brings along with its lack of harsh side-effects undoubtedly shines over current prescription drugs. In fact, marijuana be used for pain relief, reductions of muscle spasms, schizophrenia, depression, post-traumatic stress disorder, epilepsy, disease, HIV patients, and (Dharshini 1). While still covering a broad spectrum, this incomplete list can still alone prove that marijuana is a miracle drug, especially when combined with its serious lack of side- effects that most prescription drugs contain today. For example, when compared to another commonly prescribed pain killer like Xanax which one of a class of drugs known as benzodiazepines, which are notorious for quickly causing physical dependence in some people in which the user has the risk (Thompson 1), marijuana patients will not have to think twice about this cannabinoid receptors, unlike opioid receptors, are not located in the brainstem areas controlling respiration, lethal overdoses from cannabis and cannabinoids do not and 1) making the plant something a lot safer to prescribe, and something that should be casually and readily available in a pharmacy like Walgreens. Walgreens has been around for a while and it seems like they are here to stay. Founded in 1901, the second largest pharmacy store chain in the United States handed out million prescriptions in fiscal 1) and continues to see an increase in numbers annually. The company with 10 million customers in its stores and online each (1) without blinking an eye, and sees yearly increases in these numbers as well. is to champion right to be happy and (1). While they have successfully done this for well over a decade, their methods have changed over the years to comply to the population of which they serve to. As the medicinal field advances each year, there Robertson 3 are more and more factors that must keep in mind to serve their consumers. As marijuana seems to become more widely accepted day by day, it should be something that Walgreens needs to consider in order to keep up with society. Including marijuana as an available prescription from Walgreens would benefit society and the company itself as a whole. This would be an opportunity to give the people what they want and allow for the company to open doors to another group of consumers, only promoting the current annual growth that they constantly receive. For the company, expect to see sheer increases in profits almost immediately. To compare, last year alone, Colorado $1.1 billion in legal (Letter 6). This alone goes to show that profiting from this call to action will not fail. The only direction Walgreens can travel with a decision like this is up. While the company will indeed face a heightened number of profits, the population will also benefit, giving the chain a better reputation, and keeping the economy running. For the people, those with illnesses who are prescribed marijuana will have quick and easy access to their medication instead of searching for a dispensary. It will also give the drug a more casual sense to those who are against it. Having the shelves stocked and readily available with marijuana in a familiar store like Walgreens will promote the unfamiliar audience to give it a try as walking into a dispensary could potentially heighten that sense of uneasiness to giving the drug a try. In addition, selling a drug that is much safer than its alternatives is another bonus. Formally educating customers on a new drug could allow them to switch over from current harmful prescription drugs. Current pain killers that are prescribed to the masses have proven time and time again to be dangerous, but yet we still choose to ignore this fact. The opiates found in a majority of these medicines has only continued to feed the flame of the opiate epidemic that we are facing today. In fact, abuse of new, powerful prescription narcotics now accounts for a major source of opioid Robertson 4 addiction. In the US, there was an almost 3-fold increase in the incidence of neonatal abstinence syndrome (NAS) between 2000 and 2009. In Ohio, a 6-fold increase in hospitalization for NAS was recorded between 2004 and (Wexelblatt 522). Counteracting this epidemic would benefit not only the population to avoid such fatal occurrences, but would also be a great promotion tactic for Walgreens to use. Publicly declaring the availability of a safer prescription drug to replace current pain killers would not only help to raise sales, but to also follow their mission statement champion right to be happy and (Walgreens 1). Following the steps in order to make this plan a reality will not be all of that extensive. It will go as follows: Step one, find a marijuana farm. This is currently a growing business, and setting up a business plan with one would not be hard to do. It is a growing market, and will be for some time. Not only would Walgreens be able to obtain high quality marijuana in massive amounts, but they would also allow the opportunity for hundreds if not thousands of more jobs to open up. Step two is to give their employees a background on the science behind the plant so that they can spread the knowledge to the customers. Not only would this help to introduce marijuana to their locations, but also promote the usage as customers will become more familiar and comfortable with what the drug is and what it does exactly. Step three, and quite possibly the simplest step, market the fact that medicinal marijuana is now available in stores located within legalized states. Let the medicinal patients know that they are now a proud seller of medicinal marijuana. Introducing this simple yet effective plan will change the medical field as we know it yet again. It is almost necessary to take this step to open up a door of unlimited opportunity for the residents of this country. Safe medications are a huge priority today. Acting against an ongoing yet sickening epidemic that we know today as would be a huge self-promotion for the company, and would only benefit this country as a whole. Starting a movement against Robertson 5 such a wide spread issue could potentially save hundreds of thousands of lives, and continue to do the same in the years to come. To summarize, if Walgreens were to begin carrying medicinal marijuana in their pharmacies located within legalized states, not only would the company itself see a sheer jump in profits, but it would also bring a more casual sense to the drug, allow for medicinal patients to easily obtain the prescription of which they seek, and begin a movement against a lethal epidemic that is sweeping this country. It would not be a comprehensive task, and would be a swift innovation within the stores of Walgreens. Robertson 6 Works Cited Hudak, John. Marijuana : A Short History. La Vergne : Brookings Institution Press, 2016., 2016. The Short Histories. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ca t00847a&AN=usflc.034907833&site=eds-live. Accessed 21 April 2017. Dharshini, Mary Pascaline. Benefits of Medicinal Medical Daily, 26 Sept. 2016, www.medicaldaily.com/medical-cannabis-2016-new-benefits-medicinal-marijuana- 398935. Accessed 21 April 2017. and National Cancer Institute, www.cancer.gov/aboutcancer/treatment/cam/hp/cannabis-pdq#section/all. Accessed 21 April 2017. Walgreens, www.walgreens.com/. Accessed 21 April 2017. Letter, Kristie Betts. Medicinal Applications of Marijuana in  The Chariton Review, no. 1, 2016, p. 73. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ed sglr&AN=edsgcl.464897275&site=eds-live. Accessed 21 April 2017. Wexelblatt, Scott L., et al. Original Article: Universal Maternal Drug Testing in a High- Prevalence Region Of Prescription Opiate  The Journal of Pediatrics, vol. 166, 01 Mar. 2015, pp. 582-586. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.jpeds.2014.10.004. Accessed 21 April 2017. Robertson 7 Thompson, Tracy. Drugs Almost Killed  addiction to Redbook, vol. 194, no. 1, Dec. 1999, p. 126. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=rg m&AN=503610117&site=eds-live. Accessed 21 April 2017.