Gilliam 1 Quartney Gilliam Andrew de Carion ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Cosmetic animal experimentations are the process in which chemicals and substances are tested on mice, rabbits, and other animals to observe the reactions that occur and compare those to how a human would react. Although these tests are conducted to ensure that the substances are safe and will not harm customers who use them, the process of testing these products results in over 100 million animals dying annually. A newspaper article published by The Times of India proceeds to go in depth about the extent in which animals are used in cosmetic testing by stating that the animals have cosmetic chemicals dripped in their eyes, spread on their skin, or force fed to them in sometimes lethal Against Animal Testing For n.p). To help end these gruesome forms of animal cruelty, we have several non-profit organizations such as People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA), Cruelty Free International, and many others that fight for animals rights while also spreading awareness to why it should be banned globally. Being that these organizations have also been working to expose cosmetic companies that rely on animals for their experimentations, makeup companies have began to realize that these tests are unethical and are resulting to other forms of testing. Although these select few cosmetic lines have decided to walk away from cosmetic animal experimentations, there are still over 100 different cosmetic brands that continue to test on animals and it is vital that we as young adults work together to end the testing cross the globe. As Gilliam 2 the millennials of this society you have the power to use social media and our influence to not only teach our peers about animal testing but also encourage them to join the fight in putting it to an end. With that being said, cosmetic animal testing is an important issue that is occurring globally young adults should be interested in helping protest it because it directly affects them all, there are other alternatives, and it is not ethical. Whether or not you are a young adult or someone that uses makeup, facial products or anything from a cosmetic line, young adults should care about the animal experimentations that occur because it does directly affect them. The most common and impacting relation is in regards to how the funds for cosmetic testing have come from the pockets of American citizens each year. According to an article published by PETA, [National Institute of 2014 budget accounts for more than $12 billion in U.S. taxpayer Tax Season: Learn How More Than $12 Billion in Taxpayer Money Is Wasted When money is taken out of the paychecks of Americans to pay their taxes, whether you use products that have been tested on animals or not, you still help fund the testing and keeping it active. It is important as young adults that tax dollars are dedicated to issues and projects that you all support and being that there are cheaper alternatives that offer faster results, there is no need for Americans to use approximately $12 billion dollars to fund these types of testing methods. Adding onto that, there is no reason for Americans to be devoting $12 billion in tax dollars cosmetic testing because there are much cheaper alternatives available and testing on animals is not a reliable method. With the use of advanced innovations and skilled professionals, scientists have been able to create alternative methods to animal testing for the cosmetic industry that have been able to predict safety hazards and precautions and being far more accurate than Gilliam 3 using animals. less costly alternatives to cosmetic testing include computer patent drug, stem-cell genetic, faux skin and several other substitutions. These options are more valuable to cosmetic animal testing because they provide scientists with valid results that can be analyzed for the safety of humans and do not involve the harming or abusing of animals to get the examination results. As stated in an academic journal published by Gregory Mone, alternatives to cosmetic testing such as in vitro are much more beneficial to society and the cosmetic industry because scientists not only have more accurate 3D cell cultures at their disposal, but these cultures also last longer, allowing lab researchers to study the effects of a substance over a longer period of Models in Cosmetics Replacing Animal 20). Being that it also takes extremely longer periods of time to gather data from animal experimentation, investing into other forms of cosmetic testing will result in more accurate testing faster and possibly cause less funds to be taken from the paychecks of Americans because they will not have to finance such a costly method. As stated before, testing chemical substances for cosmetic products is not a reliable or accurate method and is also why young adults should not have their tax dollars used to support the procedure. There have been numerous studies conducted by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) that have proven more than 90 percent of cosmetic animal tests to be inaccurate when comparing the animal results animals to how they would affect humans. An academic journal published by Cambridge University Press states that for all of the money that has been invested into conducting animal tests study burns, trauma and sepsis were effectively useless...people because the mice responded in ways that are completely different from Flaws and Human Harms of Animal It is essential that scientists rely on forms of testing that give precise and accurate results for the safety and Gilliam 4 well being of humans that use cosmetics because a flawed animal test could result in humans having life threatening reactions to chemicals put in products. Being that there are cheaper alternatives that are also more careful and authentic with results that can be be compared to how humans would react, it is more ideal for us to help put an end to using animals and invest in more ethical, practical forms of testing. Another logical justification for young millennials to help put an end to cosmetic animal testing would be the unethical aspect of it all. Although we as humans cannot completely understand how animals feel or the emotions they encounter, it is morally wrong for their rights to be abused for the sake of human consumption. In an article published by PETA, the organization declares that animals have the ability to suffer in the same way that human beings do. They feel pain, pleasure, fear, frustration, loneliness, and motherly Animal n.p). Conducting animal experimentations not only puts the animals through suffering and pain that they never asked for or deserved, but ultimately due to its lack of use, the results obtained serve no purpose. Ultimately, we are allowing cosmetic companies to kill millions of animals for no reason and not considering how the animals feel or how we would feel being placed into their situation of abuse and trauma that does not benefit anyone. The mistreatment and cruelty placed upon these animals can be put to an end if young adults join the protest against cosmetic animal testing. In summation, experimentations for cosmetic products is a critical current issue that young adults should help protest because it directly impacts them all, there are other alternatives, and it is not ethical. As previously stated, being young adults that tend to influence one another, it is crucial that you all use your clout to inform peers about cosmetic animal testing Gilliam 5 and spark their interest to help it end globally. Living in a world that relies heavily on social media to spread news and awareness, an ideal method is to take advantage of social networking sites and use hashtags such as #CrueltyFreeLifestyle. Using social media would not only attract your peers but also help discover different ways to get involved such as active protests around town or even current events that may be taking place. Another extremely helpful method to get involved would be to donate to nonprofit organizations such as PETA and The National Humane Society of the United States. The donations provided go towards funding alternative methods of testing that do not involve animals and extensive research to find even more options that could help end animal testing and other forms of animal abuse. By spreading awareness and protesting the experimentations young adults can help save themselves, millions of animals, and their money while putting cosmetic animal testing to rest for good. Gilliam 6 Works Cited Why Animal  for the Ethical Treatment of N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Mone, Gregrory. Models in Cosmetics Replacing Animal of the ACM. (2014): 20. for Computing Machinery 26 Jan. 2017. Singh, Vijay. Against Animal Testing for Coleman & Co. Ltd. (2015). Insights: Essentials 14 April. 2017. Beauchamp, Tom L., DeGrazia, David, and Akhtar, Aysha. Flaws and Human Harms of Animal Quarterly of Healthcare Ethics. 2015): Vol. 24 Issue 4, p407-419. 13p. University Press 14 April 2017. Tax Season: Learn How More Than $12 Billion in Taxpayer Money Is Wasted People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals. n.d. Web. 15 April 2017. Gilliam 7