Jacqueline Langley Professor Sabah Uddin ENC 1101 May 7, 2017 Title IX Moving Forward With developing athletic programs all around, we are aware of how much Title IX has turned equal funding for the better for all male and female athletes. Much evidence has been provided that gives the knowledge of improvements by many to help people in both genders succeeds in their athletic careers. Contradictory, there have also been many claims that argue the fact that we are still behind today and should still be striving to push forward more equal rights for the male and female athletes. In this essay, facts and evidence will be brought out to argue whether or not all government funded programs are equalizing their finical means fairly amongst all genders in all different levels of schooling. With 45 years of evidence at hand, taking a stance on a matter such as this can be difficult. This paper will prove that we have built a stronger meaning for the law of Title IX and that schooling programs are improving their programs for the law. Big, small, tall, short, male or female an athlete is an athlete. Sports have been around for as long as we can remember. However bringing the aspect of playing a sport for your school changed a lot of things. Title IX is the law that states that person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial  (NCAA) Before this law was passed on 1972, it was very rare to see a female athlete on the field or court. They had many struggles such as, limited sport options, no equipment, and unfair funded. However, a drastic change has been made and now the female athletes have benefitted. More and more women are going out onto the field and playing. Another great thing Title IX is doing for gender equality is, provision poses a problem if institutions offer a team for one sex but not for the other. In such cases, the regulation provides that members of the other sex must be allowed to try out for the existing team if opportunities for that sex have historically been (Francis) Another example also of how girls are making many achievements due to Title IX took place at Duke University. We read that University permitted Heather Sue Mercer to try out for their football team as a walk-on place kicker. Although she did not make the team initially, she attended practices, participated in conditioning drills, and served as a team manager. The seniors selected her to play in the spring Blue/White scrimmage game, she kicked the winning field goal, and the coach announced that she was a member of the (Francis) At first she might not have been talented enough for the team but just like any other male or female athlete, she worked her way up and practiced hard to get where she wanted to be. Without Title IX none of that would have happened. Not only have number of girl participiants increased rapidly, but hearing stories like that shows how gender discrimation in sports can be put aside due to the help of Title IX. Contrary to that, not all believe that Title IX has progressed. The biggest issue seen when it comes to unfair treatment is leaving the girls in the dust for finically. Whether they are not getting the proper things needed to play the sport or colleges spreading their funds equally amongst genders, there has been moments in history that prove some schools look the other way when it comes to Title IX. It is discovered that 2013, Baylor spent just 44 percent of its athletically related aid budget on women, even though they made up 58 percent of all university (Trahan) It is known that if you place a sporting event at a time that is after work hours for adults and on days such as Friday that more people will come. When more people come, more revune is made at the gate entrance, parking lot, and at concession. One incident discovered that made women feel as if they were second class was, example, a Michigan federal district court found the Michigan High School Athletic Association policy of scheduling basketball games in nontraditional seasons in violation of Title They put all the basketball games in times that were prime time which helped them create more money leaving the girls in the dirt. Instead of equally spreading out the game times, the athletic department put the women last. These are some situations that argue the fact the women in sports still has not progressed and they are still struggling and lagging behind the males. Indeed there have been many marks which show that women still are not completely equal, compared to how it used to be Title IX has made women take steps forward. Yes Baylor was in the wrong by not evenly splitting their athletic scholarship money, however, before Title IX was passed 1972, the year the law was passed by Congress, fewer than 32,000 women played intercollegiate sports, compared to more than 170,000 men, and they received only two percent of athletic budgets. Athletic scholarships for women (Trahan) At least today scholarships for women athletes are given out compared to nothing before. Athletic championships for women did not even exist before Title IX and now they do because of this law. We cannot except everything to change overnight but as the years go by, we can hope for small changes to keep happening for the better. Certain things take longer than most, but as long as we keep moving in the right direction, Title IX will soon not even be questioned and all athletes will share equality. Right now, 25% of women play sports compared to before when it was .04%. Some might think Title IX is still leaving girls in the dark but if you take a look at the facts, most of the evidence we have shows us that improvements have been and are being made for gender equality for sports. Works Cited Francis, Leslie. Title IX: An Incomplete Effort to Achieve Equality in  Journal of the Philosophy of Sport 43.1 (2016): 83-99. Web. Parker-pope, Tara. As Girls Become Women, Sports Pay  The New York Times. The New York Times, 15 Feb. 2010. Web. Pusch, Jennifer. URBAN STRUGGLES: AN ANALYSIS OF TITLE IX AND URBAN HIGH SCHOOL ATHLETIC OPPORTUNITIES FOR  Litigation Essentials - Error. University of Wisconsin Law School, 2014. Web. Stader, David L., and Jeanne L. Surface. Not Second-Class: Title IX, Equity, and High School  The Clearing House: A Journal of Educational Strategies, Issues and Ideas 87.3 (2014): 119-23. Web. Stevenson, Betsey. Beyond the Classroom: Using Title IX to Measure the Return to High School  (2010): n. pag. Web. Trahan, Kevin. : Are Major College Sports Programs Treating Title IX Like A  VICE Sports. N.p., 15 June 2016. Web.