Shamond Lanier Professor Aranda ENC 1102 4/11/17 Exercise Daily Every day millions of Americans spend more time eating and sitting than being active in their daily lives. More than one-third of adults in the United States has obesity. Obesity and becoming overweight have become a common narrative in America. Often times, people find excuses to not exercise and eat healthy. Obesity is a harmful condition that leads to heart diseases, diabetes and certain types of cancer. What many Americans do not know is that being obese actually costs more money regarding medical bills. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), estimated annual medical cost of obesity in the U.S. was $147 billion in 2008 and the medical costs for people who were obese were $1,429 higher than those of normal (cdc.gov). In an effort to lower the increasing rates of obesity, the University of South Florida is sponsoring 60 minute challenge in order to get people moving during the week. This challenge will help people get motivated to exercise daily and lose weight. According to the U.S. Department of Health & Human Services, than 5% of adults participate in 30 minutes of physical activity each day, and only one in three adults receive the recommended amount of physical activity each (fitness.gov). Daily exercise should be an integral part of lives. Simply walking around your neighborhood with a pet, riding a bike to the nearby store, or jogging with a friend are all ways to get the correct amounts of daily physical activity. Due to a lack of movement in this new age of technology, adults and kids are more attached to screens than the outside air. Educating people about daily exercise, hydration, and nutrition is important in order for everyone to live a healthy lifestyle. Obesity has become a nationwide issue because of the constant promotion of fast food restaurants and unhealthy eating. Overweight and obesity are caused when there is not a balance between food eaten and energy expenditure. According to the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases (NIDDK), body needs a certain amount of energy (calories) from food to keep up basic life functions. Body weight tends to remain the same when the number of calories eaten equals the number of calories the body uses or Over time, when people eat and drink more calories than they burn, the energy balance tips toward weight gain, overweight, and (niddk.nih.gov). Due to the United emphasis on fast food restaurants such as Burger King, and people have begun to eat more calories than necessary to a nutritional diet. The harm of being overweight and obese may lead to lasting effects on your health and a struggle against losing weight. However, with certain steps, people can lose weight. In order to get yourself started, begin by tracking your weight and figuring out exercises that work best for you. Also try to exercise with friends and get others involved. Continue staying fit long after you reach your goals so your weight does not return. The University of South Florida is also sponsoring 60 minute challenge. This challenge is an effort to get people moving in their daily lives for at least 60 minutes every day. Works Cited Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. (2016, September 01). Adult Obesity Facts. Retrieved April 16, 2017, from https://www.cdc.gov/obesity/data/adult.html National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases. (2012, October). Overweight and Obesity Statistics. Retrieved April 16, 2017 U.S. Department of Health & Human Services. (n.d.). Council on Fitness, Sports & Nutrition. Retrieved April 16, 2017, from https://www.fitness.gov/resource- center/facts-and-statistics/