Geisler 1 Alison Geisler ENC 1102-039 Dr. Fennell 16 April 2017 Would you believe me if I said that over 2.3 million people were incarcerated in 2016. That is one out of every 110 were in a state or federal prison or county jail (Mass Incarceration 2016). People coming out of jail do not see the help they should if they were going to have a successful transition from jail to a so called normal life. As soon as a man or woman goes to jail it can affect their life from the moment it happens. There is always a reason for going to jail, it is never just because. Once they get out of jail and need a background check, it will never be cleared and will lead to complications when trying to get a job, a house, a bank account, just to name a few. The more help we can give to these men and women would alleviate the relap of going back to jail. With the help of experience from individuals in a specific field, those that were incarcerated will have availability to resources that can help them get back on their feet. Every year around 636,000 men and women are released from incarceration, which is about 1,742 a day (Mass Incarceration 2014). These men and women do not have any help when they are released. Some may be on probation, others may have families or some just on their own. Regardless, these men and women need help. The type of help these people need is to have someone understand where they have been and how to help them get back to a productive lifestyle. Understanding that people who are in jail for less than 24 hours may have it easier than people who are in for months even years. They start to disconnect from reality and do not realize how much life around them changes while they are living in a jail call. Not saying that people who were Geisler 2 in jail for a short period of time do not see the repercussions but they are not as withdrawn from their surroundings. Talking about men and women with different situations such as those on probation are unable to do much which can hurt them mentally because they want their independence back but are restricted in what they can do and they have requirements to meet and curfews they need to be back by. It does not seem like an it is going to be difficult but when trying to get a job and live a semi normal life it becomes difficult. Another circumstance is when you have a family and have been away from them, they miss their children growing up, their spouse has a lot on their plate because they could have been raising a family on their own and working more to make ends meet. Lastly, being alone is difficult because you need somewhere to live and a job to support yourself and self motivation to continuously be successful. These different circumstances have their own difficulties but this is where we need educated people to help. People that understand how to cope with these difficulties and can help them continue with their journey are those that we need to keep people out of jail. Obama wanted to clean the jails out before his term came to an end. Unfortunately he was not able to complete this before Trump came into term and wanted nothing to do with the issue. Obama and his administration went through countless records of people incarcerated. With that being said, he granted clemency to 1,715 people throughout his 2 terms as president (Obama Granted Clemency 2017). These people were released and it was not all success stories. Obama did do a few stupid things such as release men that were in ties with other countries in return for a Geisler 3 few americas that were held captive in other countries. Clemency is when the president pardons someone from jail or prison for a crime that one commits. That person can be released that day or have their term shortened. Regardless of crimes committed these people are still humans who have been released no matter if it was just the end of their term or they were granted clemency by the president which is very rare. One should have the resources available to allow them a smoother transition to life after incarceration or they could go back to their behaviors before. This path would then lead to additional harm which is unnecessary but it is always something that could happen. If we have the necessary resources for these men and women to accompany them with the transition then we will alleviate any issues that may come up if they were to be alone. With your help men and women coming out of incarceration will have someone to rely on. Sometimes they just need someone that believes in them or can answer questions about things they may forget how to do it themselves. If one has speciality in a certain area, you are valuable because you are focused on your specific job which includes dealing with people that may have been in this situation. These men and women may not have to confidence to go out and get help themselves because they are frightened about the consequences. If an individual does not choose to help them, that person could be hurting people you may know because they will choose to go back to a life of crime rather than a life of substance that will put them on the right path. With Trump being president and not using his clemencies along with focusing on the military and bombing other countries we need to help the people that we can while we can Geisler 4 focus on them. Not stating that there are not people coming out of incarceration everyday who need the most help but when a president grants clemency these men and women were more than likely already in jail for a lot longer time than many people getting out daily. Any help that these men and women can receive will put them in a better position than if they were to do it on their own. Their life has been drastically flipped by their actions before they went to jail. If we do not choose to help them then they could relapse which will not only hurt them but civilians who are in contact with them. Taking the time to do this for someone else can be rewarding and help keep the jails clean and hopefully that will contribute to a safer society and surroundings. Geisler 5 Works Cited Smart, Charlie. Obama Granted Clemency Unlike Any Other President In  FiveThirtyEight, 25 Jan. 2017. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Wagner, Peter, and Bernadette Rabuy. Mass Incarceration: The Whole Pie  Prison N.p., 14 Mar. 2016. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Wagner, Peter, and Leah Sakala. A Prison Policy Initiative  N.p., 12 Mar. 2014. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.