Keever 1 John Keever Sabbah Uddin Composition 1 April 25, 2017 The Inefficiency of Drug Prohibition and the Alternative In 1971 president Richard Nixon declared drug abuse public enemy number one. Since then, drug prohibition based laws and policies have been enacted within our federal government in an attempt to stop the flow of drugs into the United States. The main idea behind drug prohibition is to destroy the supply of drugs, and incarcerate drug traffickers to reduce or eradicate the supply of drugs nation wide. But recently, support for drug prohibition has shifted; as the negative effects of the prohibition have become unmistakably discernible. With a 500 percent increase in the number of individuals incarcerated over the past three decades, and a $30 billion dollar a year budget for the DEA (Drug Enforcement Agency) alone (Boettke 1080) . no wonder people are shifting their views. The shift was causation for a new alternative in reducing drug abuse to be introduced: harm reduction. The approach is simple, create policies with a clear emphasis on programs and practices that reduce the harms associated with the abuse of psychoactive drugs in people who are unable or unwilling to stop their use. While drug prohibition based policies are still being implemented into United States legislation today. They negatively effect the lives of millions; creating mass incarceration, corruption, political destabilization and human rights abuses nationwide. These laws and policies have proven ineffective at reducing the use of drug abuse within the United States. And although harm reduction is considered a new idea by many researchers. Prohibition is less likely than ever to obtain the achievable goal that war on drugs had set out for in the beginning: a nation without drugs. Since its beginnings, War on Drugs has caused an undeniable mixture of economic and social consequences for United States. The amount of prisoners between 1980 and 1993 alone increased by nearly tenfold. (Harvard 1487 - 1488) An increased influx of prisoners causes a major increase in a prisons needs, as the Harvard Law Review puts it: Federal and state prison needs dramatically, and now require over 1600 new prison beds each week to keep pace with new arrests and conviction . . . The fixed cost of building a prison ranges from $60,000 to $75,000 per inmate, and the average operating cost is about $60 per day per inmate, or about $22,000 annually per inmate. (Harvard 1487) This increase in prisoners has consequently resulted in state prison budgets exceeding 1 billion in places such as California, Florida, Michigan, New York, and Texas. In addition to that, it also caused the federal governments prison budget exceed 1 billion. (Harvard 1488) This unnecessary increase has ultimately caused a heavy economic burden on the United States. Siphoning tax money away from education, public health, and into prison costs for non-violent drug offenders. Keever 3 Where prohibition might have done its the most damage to society is through the incarceration of non-violent drug offenders. The United states in comparison to the rest of the world, has about 5 percent of the world population; but also has 25 percent of the worlds prison population (Boettke 1080). This is mostly due to the harsh punishments within the United States, and the mandatory minimums required for those punishments. This large percentage comes with its systemic human rights issues; the group that is most effected are minorities. African Americans in particular make up about 40 percent of all United States prison inmates; this is mainly due to an apparent bias towards African Americans and illicit drug use. (Harvard 1489). Its concluded that drug prohibition laws fuel the perception of what the identity of a drug user is. This prejudice can be seen in the 1995 survey that asked how they typically envisioned an illicit drug user, of respondents a black person . . - even though 76% of illicit drug users are (Harvard 1489). Along with these social and economic costs, drug prohibition ignores basic economic ideas that cause it to be extremely inefficient at stopping the abuse of drugs nationwide. The main focus of drug prohibition is to eradicate the supply of drugs, and incarcerate drug traffickers as an attempt to reduce the supply of drugs within the United States. But this ignores one of the most fundamental economic principals. In economics, if you decrease the supply of a product without decreasing the demand, the price of the product goes up. This would normally effect the sale of many products, but not drugs. The drug market is not price sensitive, meaning Keever 4 drugs will be consumed no matter what the costs. The result is an increase in production of drugs and recruitment of more traffickers which increases availability. This is the balloon effect: even if a major drug producer or supply route is seized; the supply for the end user will not be reduced. (Laffiteau 16). The alternative is to try a new method: harm reduction. Instead of reducing the supply of drugs, we treat those afflicted. In an attempt to decrease the demand for the drug. This way, supplier will run out of business. Many researchers question the effectiveness of this approach, stating being too new and (Savary 3). Yet harm reduction based policies have already proven to be effective when implemented. An example of this would be the heroin crises in Switzerland. In the 1980s, Switzerland experienced a public health crises due to heroin use. HIV rates skyrocketed and street crime became a problem. In order to counteract this, Switzerland implement the four pillars harm reduction strategy: prevention, treatment, harm reduction, enforcement.They opened free heroin maintenance centers that allowed abusers access to free heroin of high quality in addition to clean needles, safe injection rooms, showers, beds and even medical supervision. With social workers that helped them find housing and jobs (Savary 4) many people were able to return to their normal lives. The concluding result rise in heroin consumption . . . [being halted and steadily since the early (Savary 5). According to Savary, the strategy also reduced the amount of deaths that are associated with drug use, such as overdosing, HIV and Hepatitis. Also in addition to that, 1991 and 2004, the drug related death toll fell by more than 50% . . (Savary 5). Keever 5 Drug prohibition is an outdated and inefficient ideology that has led to problems nationwide; including drug related violence, abuses in human rights, political destabilization, and corruption. Its negatively impacted lives of millions and has caused the separation of families, and has influenced the cultural views of what an illicit drug user is to look like. Drug prohibition is the resource that fuels most issues that we associate with illicit drug use. Even though harm reduction based approach is a new and upcoming idea. The urgency to implement it has been greater than ever. It is solely up to us as citizens of the United States to properly educate ourselves and be proactive in pushing legislation towards harm reduction based policies. By voting for political figures and legislation that supports harm reduction policies, we can reduce the economic and social costs of the the United States drug prohibition or on After 40 years of fighting, it is time to finally end this war on drugs. And push for a new legislation, towards something better. Keever 6 Works Cited Cohen, Michael M. Jim Drug War: Race, Coca Cola, and the Southern Origins of Drug  Southern Cultures. The University of North Carolina Press, 03 Aug. 2006. Web. 25 Apr. 2017. Csete, Joan. The Lancet: Public Health and International Drug Policy  TheLancet. The Lancet, 13 Feb. 2016. Web. 25 Apr. 2017. the War on Drugs: A for Nonviolent Drug Harvard Law Review, vol. 113, no. 6, 2000, pp. www.jstor.org/stable/1342356. Kyser, Nicole Marie. Counselor Attitudes toward the Harm Reduction Approach in Substance Abuse  Dissertation Abstracts International Section A: Humanities and Social Sciences, vol. 71, no. 11-A, 2011, p. 3913. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login? url=direct=true&db=psyh&AN=2011-99090-319&site=eds-live. Laffiteau, Charles. The Balloon Effect: The Failure of Supply Side Strategies in the War on  Ecprnet.eu. Charles Laffiteau, n.d. Web. 25 Apr. 2017. Boettke, Peter J., et al. Keep off the Grass: The Economics of Prohibition and U.S. Drug  Oregon Law Review, no. 4, 2013, p. 1069. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/ login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=edsgao&AN=edsgcl 410464293&site=eds-live. Savary, Jean-Felix. The Swiss Four Pillars Policy: An Evolution From Local Experimentation to Federal  Academia.edu. Jean-Felix Savary, n.d. Web. 25 Apr. 2017.