McMahan 1 Justin McMahan Angelica Aranda ENC.1102.033 Smoking, Is it really worth it? Did you smoke a cigarette, pipe or even a cigar today? How about know someone that has smoked today. If the answer is yes, there is a big possibility that you or the person you know will have some sort of lung disease in the coming years if you continue smoking. Tobacco products have sky rocketed over the years and the smoking addiction is on an all-time high. Millennials are the big targets to the addiction, Millennials are people reaching young adulthood in the early 21st century, most millennials age range is 18 to 31 (Oxford Dictionaries ). What many millennials know is smoking is harmful to themselves and the people around them. When you are around someone who smokes, you can intake that smoke and get similar effects, this is called second hand smoke (CDC). This is a variation of smoking can harm your lungs without even smoking. So in this world you can get lung disease with inhaling smoke or breathing in second hand smoke. In order to do something about this issue it is important to create knowledge and awareness about smoking and its effects on the lungs. One way this can happen is millennials can get in contact with the American Lung Association via their website, mainly by clicking on the tab (American Lung Association ). According to the American Lung Association (American Lung Association ), Smoking is the leading cause of preventable death in the U.S., causing over 438,000 deaths per year. When smoking a cigarette, cigar or pipe, you are smoking tobacco with nicotine. Nicotine is a chemical that makes smoking addictive for humans. Some smoking is infused with over 7000 chemicals like cigarettes and others just the smoke that hurts you like cigars and pipe (The Real Cost). When someone smokes they are inhaling the smoke into their lungs then exhaling it out. This is McMahan 2 really bad for your lungs because you are disrupting the natural way of the respiratory system by affecting the main organ/ motor of this system the lungs. You are putting extra chemicals into your body that should not be in there and over time your lungs will look tar black because smoking is like having tar go through you lungs and a little sticking to your lungs every time you smoke and it will accumulate every time causing diseases. Hey millennials, still want to smoke after that. You guys should really care about smoking because not only does it affect your lungs, it can affect your overall health, your family and finances. Lung diseases that are associated with smoking are lung cancer, chronic bronchitis, emphysema or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (which is a combination of the previous two). Lung cancer is cancer that appears in your lungs by mostly smoking. Chronic bronchitis is increased mucus and inflammation, emphysema is destruction and enlargement of air spaces and COPD is a combination of the two that block airflow and make it difficult to breathe (Mayo clinic). Smoking does not just cause lung diseases there are other that smoking can cause like gum disease, heart disease, development of a stroke and can nearly harm every organ in your body in some way (Tabacco Free Florida). So your overall heath is a factor at play every time you smoke. Smoking can ultimately kill you, which is why you should care about smoking and if you are still not fazed by this, smoking can ultimately hurt your family. Your family can get hurt in many ways, you could die which would tear your family up. You could get shunned and not be a part of the family and worst of all it takes time away from your family because most places presently allow smoking, so that means when someone get the urge to smoke they have to leave the premises which makes it hard on the family to want to be around you and include you. Lastly, smoking can have a big impact on your income. Every time you smoke you are burning away your money. Smoking can hurt someone financially by buying smokes and McMahan 3 buying life/health insurance. With the addiction on the rise, the price of smoking keeps going up, the average price for a pack of cigarettes is five dollars and fifty cents with the most expensive packs being twelve dollars and eighty five cents. That is two thousand and five dollars and fifty one cents average for a pack a day smoker and a four thousand six hundred and seventy seven dollars and forty cents for an expensive average for a pack a day smoker. You can do so much with that type of money that can benefit you and multiple ways. Millennials can essentially take action to care about the topic of smoking and get people to stop smoking or get themselves to stop smoking. One way to do is this is to get in contact with the American Lung Association via their website, mainly by clicking on the tab. This tab can empower you to learn more about smoking facts, help you quit, help someone quit or ultimately help you to join a program called from not just an option to take action on the topic of smoking, more of a need. Millennials are the beginning generation of new adults, the new adults are the new leaders, teachers, workers, moms, dads Do you really want to waste adulthood by smoking? Millennials are starting to arise in many fields in this world and if you smoke you are hurting the world by wasting your life, a life that can be used to help this world flourish. McMahan 4 In conclusion, smoking is a deadly addiction that mainly hurts your lungs and can lead to death but it can also hurt many other factors in your life that are tangible and intangible. Millennials need to get this through their head by mostly being knowledgeable and aware of smoking and its effects. Millennials need to be to take action to care about the topic of smoking and get people to stop smoking or get themselves to stop smoking. One way or a beginning step to this is getting in contact with the American Lung Association via their website, mainly by clicking on the tab. So how about it millennials I challenge you to get empowered to make a difference when it comes to smoking. McMahan 5 References American Lung Association . Health Effects. 2017. http://www.lung.org/stop-smoking/smoking- facts/health-effects.html. 14 April 2017. American Lung Association. Stop Smoking. 2017. http://www.lung.org/stop-smoking/smoking- facts/health-effects.html. 14 April 2017. CDC. Secondhand Smoke (SHS) Facts. 2017. s/. 14 April 2017. Mayo clinic. COPD. 2017. http://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/copd/home/ovc- 2017 April 2017. Oxford Dictionaries . Millennial. 2017. https://en.oxforddictionaries.com/definition/millennial. 14 April 2017. Tabacco Free Florida. Effects of tabacco. 2017. http://tobaccofreeflorida.com/why-should-i- quit/effects-of-tobacco/. 2017 April 2017. The Real Cost. Tabacco Basics. 2017. https://therealcost.betobaccofree.hhs.gov/tobacco- basics.html?gclid=CPCJwJTpqdMCFUU9gQodZboJCA&gclsrc=aw.ds. 14 April 2017.