Guseinova 1 Vafa Guseinova ENC 1102 Andrew DeCarion 16 April 2017 Every American citizen deserve to live in a society based on freedom, to have his own privacy respected and also have a chance to go as far as their ability and effort will take them regardless of race, gender, ethnicity or economic circumstances. Privacy is one of the top priorities in life. This right refers to the concept that personal information should be protected from public scrutiny. The right to privacy implies the possibility to live according to own wishes to not provide the conflict with public interests, rules of law, and morals. In addition, to the right to live; all people deserve rights to human dignity, liberty, and security of person (Glaser 3). The right to privacy is a crucial democratic right, especially if one lives in a democratic country such as the United States. Without the right of privacy, there is no real freedom of speech, or freedom of opinion. Therefore, this lack of privacy usually leads to not the actual democracy. Usually privacy should be protected by the state Constitution. However, according to the US Constitution, there is no privacy law explicitly stated in this document, but some amendments provide some privacy protections (Linder). The Bill of Rights, expresses the concerns of James Madison along with other framers of the Constitution for protecting certain aspects of privacy. In the US Constitution, the Fourth Amendment protects privacy against unreasonable searches. According to Amendment IV, home is his secure from unreasonable searches and seizures of property by the government (The Constitution of the United States). Next is the Fifth Amendment that protects against self-incrimination which in Guseinova 2 turn protects the privacy of personal information and nor shall private property be taken for public use, without just compensation. The Ninth Amendment says that the enumeration in the Constitution of certain rights shall not be construed to deny or disparage other rights retained by the  (The Constitution of the United States). This has been interpreted as justification for broadly reading the Bill of Rights to protect privacy in ways not specifically provided in the first eight amendments. The right to privacy is most often cited in the Due Process Clause of the 14th Amendment, which states: no state shall make or enforce any law which shall abridge the privileges or immunities of citizens of the United States. Not shall any state deprive any person of life, liberty, or property, without due process of law (The Constitution of the United States). Not deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws. While governments can and do engage in surveillance of specific targets, technological advances have enabled the mass surveillance of everyone using communications technology. Just because it is technically possible does not mean it should be done. However, nowadays there is an organization which take the US privacy away. National Security Agency (NSA) is an organization which collects records of communications through phone call, messages, or Internet paints an intimate portrait of lives. The NSA started their work after September 11 in 2001, when the 43d President George W. Bush authorized the program of monitoring the electronic communications (including the control of e-mail messages, phone calls, financial transactions and internet activity). However, many people nowadays maintain that spying is cutting off the citizens privacy and independency. According to news reports in December 2005 first revealed that the National Security Agency (NSA) has been noticing that this organization is intercepting phone calls and Internet communications. The NSA is also receiving wholesale copies of telephone and other Guseinova 3 communications records. According to Electronic Frontier Foundation, of these surveillance activities are in violation of the privacy safeguards established by Congress and the US (Electronic Frontier Foundation 1). Strong laws and policies must put clear limits on the surveillance powers to bring it into alignment with both the US Constitution and international law. So, there is an organization, Stand Against Spying (SAS) that maintains that the NSA is invading the US privacy. The SAS is a coalition of organizations that supports freedom and democracy of the US citizens. Their goal is to make privacy a fundamental right to everyone living in the US. The SAS is fighting against mass surveillance with the National Security Agency (NSA). The SAS maintains that spying of millions the US people. According to SAS, that sweeps up the communications of millions of people violates the US Constitution and international (SAS.org.). Collecting records of communications through phone call, messages, or Internet paints an intimate portrait of lives. This organization maintains that mass surveillance is contrary to freedom and democracy, which must be stopped nowadays. To make the US lives better and comfortable, people should take some actions. People must rebuild the broad coalition that fought the first crypto wars, including cryptographers, investors, businesses, developers, civil liberties groups, scientists and ordinary people. Next people have to expose the vulnerabilities that have been secreted into technologies. Also, people have to ask standards bodies, companies and individual developers to pledge, publicly and unequivocally, to reject efforts to build backdoors or insert known vulnerabilities into their products. Therefore, people should create transparency so that nobody can secretly have access to databases containing information about US citizens. Building up own Guseinova 4 privacy tools is also important. Also, supporting the tools that already exist that are independently verifiable as secure (most prominently, open source tools). Finally, Americans must support efforts in Congress to rein in the NSA and bring it back under the rule of law, and must make sure that Congress specifically forbids the NSA from working to make our technologies less safe. Guseinova 5 Works Cited Clarke, Richard A., and Emilian Papadopoulos. Terrorism In Perspective: A Review For The Next American  Annals Of The American Academy Of Political And Social Science 668.1 (2016): 8-18. PsycINFO. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Glaser, April. One Way to Stand Against Spying: Meet with A  Electronic Frontier Foundation. N.p., 21 May 2015. Web. 16 Apr. 2017 Linder, Douglas O. The Right of Privacy: Is It Protected by the Constitution? N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. NSA  Electronic Frontier Foundation. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. SAS: Where Do Your Representatives Stand on Illegal  StandAgainstSpying.org. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.