1 Student 1 ENC 1101 Dr, Jenifer Paquette 14 April, 2017 Climate Change Exists Global climate change has been an evolving subject of matter that is rigorously studied and observed for many years. With much evidence and data collected, it proves the existence of climate change and the effects it has on the world that drastically shows the imprints of the damage done so far. However, many individuals are either care-free or believe in climate change whatsoever, thus creates a lack of urgency to improve the world and therefore diminish the world we live in. So rather than taking climate change for granted, I will explain the claim for the existence of climate change and the effects it has upon the world. Understanding what climate change distinctively is has been occasionally misinterpreted or simply ignored by many people and therefore lack the knowledge of this matter. Climate change is an enduring alteration of weather patterns that eventually shifts its effects towards all phases of the Earth. In other words, the climate is changing into worse conditions that has become transparent and therefore leads to causes such as atmospheric cycles becoming warmer, floods, droughts, ice caps melting, earthquakes etc. However, climate change or global warming has become an ongoing debate because many people are in the state of mind where if it affect them currently than they have to worry about it. is great debate 2 among many people, and sometimes in the news, on whether global warming is real (some call it a hoax). But climate scientists looking at the data and facts agree the planet is (LiveScience 2016). The world experiences severe change which involves the climate to reach hotter temperatures every year. In fact, the scientific consensus on climatic changes related to warming is that the average temperature of the Earth has risen between 0.4 and 0.8 over the past 100 So, the cause of the rising temperatures of the Earth? Well with human activity, such as burning of fossil fuels and releasing toxic and greenhouse gases into the atmosphere it creates a domino effect that results in these catastrophic proceedings. Moreover, many people still doubt the evidence and facts about the existence of climate change because they believe the world is too big to take such effects and that it still measure up the results. Which leads to my next point that climate change occurs over a period of time and develops accordingly once bundled into major factors such as pollution and agricultural commotion. The world has been in a state where many individuals have already been affected with their health and predominantly life and death situations. With much testing and data collected, scientists within NASA Observatory state that the temperature continuously gets warmer and within the last 15 years have the warmest ever been and still increasing. The question lingers around occasionally on how does the Earth get warmer? NASA goes in detail and answers this question by describing Earth as a greenhouse effect, temperature begins with the Sun. Roughly 30 percent of incoming sunlight is reflected back into space by bright surfaces like clouds and ice. Of the remaining 70 percent, most is absorbed by the land and ocean, and the rest is absorbed by the atmosphere. The absorbed solar energy heats our (NASAobservatory). Furthermore, once human activity and buildup of carbon dioxide releases into the atmosphere, it diminishes the circulation of the atmosphere and 3 becomes trapped within our ozone which causes warmer temperatures. With the information stated, it explains how significant we play a role with climate change and there is a need for improvement to share this knowledge to decrease these climate change conditions. Indeed, climate change has become as relevant as ever because of the effects it has created, and has been anticipated for plenty of years. Scholars Tom and Paul Baer have done advanced research to see the trends of climate change and its effects along the years, which they discussed in their book Global Justice and Global Warming. While beginning their research, they observed that there was an unstable rate of resources being exploited and therefore led them to predict even worse conditions in the future. With their statistically data, they believed the trend for climate change would drastically become such a factor in individuals who are less fortunate such as the lower-class population. Fast forward to present day, their predictions correct and unfortunately has become more effective than ever. Nevertheless, climate change is real and the effects have been concurrent, however the debate on whether it is existent or not should be concluded with all the facts and evidence proven for many years which has been published to the world to learn from. On the other hand, we can grow and improve our quality to control climate change as much as we can to at least decrease the occurrence for future generations to come. 4 Works Cited Global Warming: News, Facts, Causes &  LiveScience. Purch, Jan. 2016. Web. 13 Apr. 2017. Global  NASA. NASA, Apr. 2015. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. Does Global Warming  Debate.org. N.p., Aug. 2010. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Athanasiou, Tom and Baer. Dead Heat: Global Justice and Global Warming. New York: Sven Stories Press, 2002