Student: Oleksandr Buhaievskyi Professor: Ashely Tisdale Class: Composition 1 Date: April 9, 2017. Economy system in USSR USSR had not organized socialist party; it was reason for economic instability and problem between different classes of people. Different classes had dissimilar job and educational opportunities for people living rich and people living poor, it led to decline of educational system. Anyway, Soviet Union was focused on studying own resources and development own sustainability. Poor class were effect by inequality, hard work, lack of education and bad conditions, while richer class was able to choose place to live and work in cities like Moscow. Educated people had always more opportunities, but socialism equality had same amount of salary for everyone, a lot of people want do intellectual job. Without activity of intellectual people Soviet Union economy got decline and finally collapse. Thesis: Economical sustainability in Socialism Republic could be organized by the government with organizing labor, providing good education and developing international relationship. 1. Socialist republic with general idea of union labor efficient, socialist party organize labor in Second, party state not only failed to effectively coordinate the economy, but in Soviet Union, at least, it also failed to develop adequate auxiliary markets that would fill the left by (Michael, 1992). Socialist party were using old economic order, moreover even changes in it did not help them succeed. Urban People were living in USSR had worked for 10-12 hours a day for better efficiency, while educated worker could work less and more efficient. Some of residents of Soviet Union were send to their work location without their agreement, in other way they could face 3 to 5 years of prison. Closer to Labor was not organized; people were without ability to work that was effect of low payment and working conditions. Socialist Party had control over market economy and economic order, system work after some party members were arrested doing illegal things like: drinking and illegal business. Some of members were arrested because of speculation against Stalin, most of them were send to death. 2. USSR were using a lot of labor, but it was not organized, because people were not educated . can identify a number of problems that have arisen in history education, from the emergence of new ideological symbols to inequities between schools for the rich and schools for the poor.( Tatyana, 2005). Soviet Union was the biggest agriculture empire in their labor was efficient and people always had worked. USSR and education system had changed after Stalin died, a lot of people changed their perspectives and abilities. Education was not same strong as it was with Stalin, students were working more than studying and it had negatively affect them. Workers who had control the process of building infrastructures and agricultural activity were not organize as same as their labor, because of it projects were taken too long. Anyway, after WWII USSR were using resources from Germany to replace their losses, partially Europe were making Soviet economy better than ever. In addition, USSR had big inequality between rich and poor people, there were school for both. Inequalities between schools have created problems in social structures and educational system. 3. USSR did not have perfect developed international relationship; government had focused on agriculture grown and growth inside of Social Republic. had missed most of the first century of modern economy (Angus, 2006 ). Soviet Union had focused on inside infrastructure for better efficiency, side effect was decline in international relationship and total isolation. People have concentrated on work and social events; communism had created perfect isolated world. Government did not want people see another country, traveling out of USSR was possible for people like Stalin, etc. Soviet Union was focused on agricultural activity and chip labor, while isolation and socialism were the best condition for industry. Moreover, concentration on agricultural growth let USSR missed most modern economy growth that happened in United States and Europe. 4. USSR government had different opportunities for people from rich and poor class, it leads to economic decline after and effects everyone. of the most striking consequences was the dramatic economic decline recorded in official statistics and the pervasively negative economic impact on most lives in vast region on Johannes, 2004). USSR had different jobs, all harsh and hard work did poor class, it had negatively affect their and health, while higher class were working on better opportunities in Moscow. Socialism equality like: same salaries and living conditions made problem after people from higher jobs did not understand ? they got paid as same as lower class Rich class stopped be organized without ability work for country, they could not work with poor class , it led to economic instability. Class difference made negative effects on education, life of Soviet residents and it start economic decline in 5. Economical sustainability between 1920 and 1960 inside of USSR was good, but it overcome with several crises and finally collapse. mobilized its own resources as the first claimed and sustained, albeit surrounded, Stephen, 2002). Since 1920 Soviet Union was organized and isolated, it had mobilized own sources and was independent. Stalin made focus on education, especially for agricultural activity. USSR had own sustainability, fuel and water sources. After World War II Soviet Union were using German resources and labor for own sustainability for more than 20 years. Between 1920 and 1960 Soviet had different problems, but it had focused on reconstruction economic activity, industry and Republic in general. Several crises by the time let USSR finally collapse, especially inequality between classes. 6. As labor was not organized, some people were working on corporations, that were doing both legal and illegal business, this let them survive after collapse of Soviet Economy. The influence of employee (and managerial) ownership seems to be fairly benign, although results show that corporate outside shareholders are associated with more active asset retrenchment strategies in crisis (Trevor, 1999). After collapse in USSR everyone got opportunity run own business, some of corporations were working for small time. As all corporations were working on Soviet Union, after its collapse there were no legal corporations in Russia or Ukraine, people got chance have own business. People become owners of housing that was governmental, it let create new economic condition and finally revolution. Conclusion. In general: USSR had focused too much on own sources and agriculture, they developed food sustainability, but their economy collapse without providing good education and conditions. In my opinion Soviet could better organize own labor, give better education and focused more on international relationship like: China communist country that increased their efficiency up to 200% by own labor. Difference in classes did not let USSR succeed, poor class was working not educated while rich class have ability to work for same money. It led to decline of Economy system in Soviet Union and finally broke up of USSR. Citation 1. Michael, Pavel. The Soviet Transition from Socialism to Capitalism: Worker Control and Economic Bargaining in the Wood Industry. American sociological review. American sociological association. February 1, 1992. 2. Tatyana Volodina. Teaching history in Russia after collapse in USSR. Society for history education. Vol. 38, No. 2 (Feb., 2005), pp. 179-188. March 17, 2017. 3. Angus Madison, Economic growth in Japan and USSR, Routledge (2006). 4. Johannes F. Linn, (Dis)integration matters: The Soviet Collapse The Brookings institution, (2004), 1-25, Academic search, March (2017) 5. Stephen A Resnick, Class theory and history; Capitalism and communism in USSR, Routledge ( 2002) 1-25, Mar 6 (2017). 6. Trevor, Igor. Corporate Governance and Employee Ownership in an Economic Crisis: Enterprise Strategies in the Former USSR. Journal of Comparative Economics. Vol-27. Pg:459-474. September ( 1999).