Kolman 1 Elle Kolman Kristin Gocinski ENC 1102.078 21 April 2017 Super Moms Children are the future of the world, therefore crucial they receive the knowledge and tools in order to better the world for the generations to come and the best way to achieve that is through mothers. Blue Zones Project acquires the knowledge and the skills necessary to transform the lives of people. BZP works with cities around the United States in order to create healthier environments for people and to spread the knowledge of how to live a nutritious and happy life. By targeting mothers at Tampa Bay Moms Group, Blue Zones Project will be able to not only transform their lives but also the lives of their children and ergo descendants to come. Tampa Bay Moms Group would greatly benefit from a happier, healthier life and family through the use of Blue Zones expertise and knowledge. Blue Zones Project is an organization that has already helped thousands of families. The organization was founded on the research findings of National Geographic, longevity experts from the National Institute of Aging and author and explorer Dan Buettner. Together this dream team studied five places in the world defined as Blue Zones or limited region where the population shares a common lifestyle and environment and whose exceptional longevity has been accurately (Poulain et al). They spent ten years studying what traits these five places, located in Italy, California, Japan, Greece and Costa Rica, had in common. After Kolman 2 researching, they discovered nine characteristics consistently found throughout each area that are scientifically linked to their longevity. These traits include moving naturally, having a purpose, relaxing, the 80% rule, drinking moderately, connecting with the community, putting loved ones first, surrounding yourself with positive influences, and eating a mainly plant based diet. Researchers found that the healthiest people run marathons or even join gyms they move naturally through walking around town, gardening or other everyday activities (Dan Buettner, Having a purpose is linked to up to 7 years of extra life expectancy (Dan Buettner, Downshifting is crucial in keeping disease low in Blue Zones as stress is associated with every major age related disease (Dan Buettner, The 80% Rule refers to a confucian saying, Hachi recited before every Japanese meal to remind themselves to finish eating when they are 80% full so that they do not overeat (Dan Buettner, In Blue Zones many residents have a glass of wine with dinner or friends, as it is found that moderate drinkers or people who enjoy one drink a day actually live longer than nondrinkers (Dan Buettner, Connecting to the community is shown to add 4-14 years of life expectancy (Dan Buettner, Prioritizing love ones is linked to lower disease and mortality rates in children as well as up to 3 years of extra life expectancy (Dan Buettner, In Blue Zones, it was found that having supportive peers that have similar goals and healthy behaviors is crucial for a healthy life (Dan Buettner, In the past, BZP experts have teamed up with cities to construct outlets for everyday activity, better employee health care plans, as well as easier and cheaper access to healthier foods in many states including Kolman 3 Hawaii, Texas and more (Healthways). Blue Zones Project have the necessary expertise and facts needed to transform environments into health promoting atmospheres. Tampa Bay Moms Group would be able to utilize Blue Zones Projects facts and tips in their own lives and families. This organization is a local group in Tampa that is creation of moms who just wanted a way to connect with each other for support, events and real relationships. Motherhood is hard but it should never be lonely and moms at their core are all the We want best for our children and that unites (Rodriguez-Neely et al). Overall Tampa Bay Moms Group is designed for moms to stay connected and help each other through life especially when it comes to their children. Endless information is shared between the women of this group ranging everywhere from local activities, events, restaurants, shops, schools, vacation spots, health and fitness tips etc (Rodriguez-Neely et al). Anything that this group may lack, can still be addressed by the opportunity to ask other moms in the group. Together this group of supermoms unite and make the most of their lives and of their crucial roles as mothers. Blue Zones Projects and Tampa Bay Moms Group both share the need to nurture and help stimulate growth. Blue Zones Project does this on a large scale by slowly, city by city, giving Americans what they need to beat chronic illnesses and live long fulfilling lives. However, Tampa Bay Moms Groups not only nurture and encourage growth in their kids but also in one another. In addition, both organizations recognize the importance of community and family. With the knowledge of Blue Zones Projects, TBMG would be able to focus more energy on the pivotal aspects of a healthy life found in Blue Zones such as a mainly plant based diet, 80% rule, relaxing etc. therefore changing their lives forever. Blue Zones Project has already Kolman 4 influenced 31 communities, 1,685 organizations, and over two million lives Secrets To Living Better Are All Around When describing the statistics of Okinawa, Japan, Dan Buettner explains suffer only a fraction of diseases that kill Americans: a fifth the rate of cardiovascular disease, a fifth the rate of breast and prostate cancer, and less than half the rate of dementia seen among similarly aged (Dan Buettner, Contrastingly, a place called North Karelia in Finland saw drastic negative health changes in their population after World War II when residents were granted land but lacked the knowledge of how to farm vegetation (Dan Buettner, Finnish Rather than farming vegetables and fruits, residents kept livestock which lead to a huge increase in pork, beef, eggs and dairy in their diets (Dan Buettner, Finnish Years to come after the shift in diet, health problems began exploding all over town with a major increase in heart disease which put North Karelian men as the statistically most likely to have heart attacks in the world (Dan Buettner, Finnish Physician Pekka Puska lead a team to combat these horrible health problems, Puska and the clubs hatched the idea of holding afternoon where a member of team would give a short talk encouraging them to replace butter with oil, meat with vegetables, cut salt, and stop (Dan Buettner, Finnish Puska and his team succeeded in teaching residents healthy habits and in turn decreasing cardiovascular disease by 80% (Dan Buettner, Finnish Similarly, a project conducted in Albert Lea, Minnesota, average life expectancy was increased by 3.1 years along with a decrease in obesity and health care costs and an increase of everyday activity (Brink). Blue Zones Project would greatly benefit from the participation of Tampa Bays Moms Group because by informing mothers they will be able to transform the lives of children and create healthy habits that will Kolman 5 hopefully pass down following generations. With this kind of spreading of information, over time healthy routines may finally become common knowledge, which would drastically raise life expectancy and lower disease. Tampa Bay Moms Group needs to join forces with Blue Zones Project in order to greatly benefit each organization. Tampa offers many opportunities to recreate characteristics of Blue Zones. Tampa Bay Moms directors would first need to upload links onto their website that lead members to Blue Zones website and all the vital health information from Blue Zones. Then they would need to organize an event for the members of their groups to come with their families and learn more about Blue Zones. After the event, families can pledge to live a Blue Zone inspired life. They can achieve this by utilizing the plethora of parks, preserves and trails to move naturally as well as plant a garden. Planting a garden would also give them access to healthier foods and could also serve as an opportunity for quality family time. In addition, there are many healthy produce places and restaurants around Tampa for them to choose from. Moms could also work on getting their kids involved in sports and school activities to ensure their child is getting a healthy social life. Also, they could downshift by going to the beach or reading a book. Parents can enjoy a glass of wine or beer at dinner, improving their health while also showing responsible drinking habits to their children. At least once a month or so a fun event could be put on by the group based on one or more of the nine characteristics of Blue Zones to keep their members informed and engaged. TBMG could become even more engaged by spreading the secrets to longevity to friends and family as well as school too. Tampa Bay Moms Groups must get involved with Blue Zone Projects in order to transform the lives of their family and generations to come. Kolman 6 Blue Zones Project is designed to impact the lives of people like those in Tampa Bay Moms Group. Through collaboration between the two organizations, both Blue Zones Project and Tampa Bay Moms Group would greatly benefit from personal success as well as the spread of healthy habits. By getting involved through pledging to live by the fundamental health tips discovered in Blue Zones such as eating a mainly plant based diet and moving naturally, the quality and quantity of the lives of the moms and families in Tampa Bay Moms Group will increase tremendously. Kolman 7 Works Cited Brink, Susan. A Health  News and World Report, Vol. 147 No. 7, Academic 2010, eds.b.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/detail/detail?sid=d68d2dab-be3f-4f93-8c3af cb6da87ecb5%40sessionmgr102&vid=1&hid=127&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWRzLWxpdmU %3d#AN=edsgcl.236585890&db=edsgao. Accessed 21 April 2017. Buettner, Dan. Finnish Town That Went On A Atlantic. The Atlantic Monthly 2015, www.theatlantic.com/health/archive/2015/04/finlands-radical-heart-health-transformation /389766/. Accessed 21 April 2017. Buettner, Dan. Longest-Lived Women Hold The Key to Better Blue Zones Solution. National Geographic 2015, www.bluezones.com/2016/10/japans-longest-lived-women-hold-key-better-health/. Accessed 21 April 2017. Buettner, Dan. Engineering 2016, www.bluezones.com/2016/11/power-9/. Accessed 21 April 2017. Healthways. HMSA and Healthways Launch Blue Zones Project to Improve the Well-Being of Hawaii  Wire, Regional Business News 2014, eds.b.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/detail/detail?sid=37637e3d-7d8b-4925- 94c1- 6661e3e54dbd%40sessionmgr103&vid=4&hid=127&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWRzLWxpdm U%3d#AN=bizwire.c57191016&db=bwh. Accessed 21 April 2017. Kolman 8 Poulain, Michel, et al. Blue Zones: Areas of Exceptional Longevity around the Vienna Yearbook of Population Vol. 11, 2013, pp. www.jstor.org/stable/43050798. Accessed 21 April 2017. Rodriguez-Neely, Steffany et al. Bay Moms Group. Tampa Bay Moms 2016, www.tampabaymomsgroup.com. Accessed 21 April 2017. Secrets Of Living Longer, Better Are All Around Zones Project, Healthways www.bluezonesproject.com/. Accessed 21 April 2017.