Daddario 1 Mathieu Daddario Kevin Ip ENC 1102 2/12/2017 Project 2 Final Draft Humane Society of the United States The Humane Society of the United States provide many services to help and protect animals. The main goal of the company is the protection of animals and the giving of animals rights. Based on the two pictures provided by the Humane Society of the United States they provide a lot of information on which the group stands for. First off I will give you some background information on the Humane Society of the United States. The Humane Society of the United States is a nonprofit organization, there goal according to their website is that they are large-scale cruelties such as puppy mills, animal fighting, factory farming, seal slaughter, horse cruelty, captive hunts and the wildlife (HSUS). They try and save animals who are being mistreated in places like puppy mills as well as animals who are being neglected. They helped more than a hundred thousand animals a year. They are basically the voice of the animals, because the animals speak. The first picture originates from the Humane Society of the United States website, to start off with this picture you have to start with the pathos of the picture. The first thing the audience notices in the picture is this ridiculously cute white little harmless dog with some cute glowing eyes. That makes the audience feel that this dog do anything wrong, and that is what helps give the pathos due to the fact that this picture is about reporting abusive puppy mills. The Daddario 2 stakeholder would definitely get behind this because it is showing how innocent puppies are in these abusive puppy mills. The picture offers quite a bit of logos in it, to begin with, the cute little dog again has pathos by showing how innocent it looks. The logos is the words above and below the little cute dog, reward report puppy mill (HSUS Puppy Mill). So logically the audience thinks these cute little dogs are being abused and that the Humane Society of the United States are offering rewards to help put these places out of business and to save these dogs. So the Humane Society of the United States would back this photo because it is pushing for what they want to do as an organization. That is to protect the animals and give them rights. Another bit of logos in the photo has to do with the fact that they are willing to pay people to help them with there mission. Also $5,000 for saying something is quite a lot of money, so logically the audience is thinking the Humane Society of the United States are really trying to help out these animals. According to Charity Navigator Humane Society of the United States uses 77.6% of its total expenses is spent on programs and services (Charity Navigator). Which means they are helping people fight things like puppy mills and other things that are against rights as well as to help protect them. There is some more logos in the picture its just the words are very blurry so it is hard to make out but it says HSUS also offers a reward of up to $5,000 for information leading to the arrest and conviction of anyone involved in dogfighting or cockfighting. If you have information about illegal animal fighting in your area, you can call animal fighting tip line at 877-TIP-HSUS and your information will be kept (HSUS Puppy Mill). So not only is the Humane Society of the United States fighting for the protection of animals in abusive puppy mills they are also against cockfighting and dogfighting. Showing how they care about all the animals and believe that they deserve to be giving rights Daddario 3 and treated with care and protection. Which is what the Humane Society of the United States organization is all about. Now the second photo originates from the the Humane Society of the United States has some big words put smack down in the middle of the picture. Which gives the photo logos/ ethos due to the fact that the picture has is the white text saying (Cook). Which if you look that up it has a lot to do with protection of animals as well as anti hunting propaganda. Which the stakeholder completely gets behind due to the fact that their goal as an organization is to protect animals. It also has pathos because it tells you about USDA documents have been restored, but still more needed to be (Cook). Now that has to do with something with animals on animal welfare, according to the Washington Post of the animal welfare documents that were abruptly purged from an Agriculture Department days after animal rights groups filed a lawsuit to make the records public (Washigton Post). Which basically means someone went into the servers and took out these names, for some unknown reason. Now not all the records are put into public yet, but for the most part HSUS and other animal companies are trying to help get those animals back on the list. Which shows why the stakeholder would agree with this picture. The audience sees is the pathos of the picture very quickly because it has a dog with very sad, glossy eyes, making the audience feel that this dog has been through some very troubling things. In turn making them feel like they should help their cause by donating their money so that more animals can be saved, which is why the stakeholder would like this image. The cage the dog is in also has a lot of pathos behind it because again it strikes the audience with the feeling that this dog is sad and afraid. It helps the stakeholder because it shows how they are Daddario 4 trying to save these dogs from these depressing cages. Which puts into the mind that the Humane Society of the United States are really trying to help animals. In conclusion, the Humane Society of the United States relate to these images by different reasons. The first picture because it deals with the fact of animals being abused weather it is in dogfights, cockfights and in abusive puppy mills, and is heavily using pathos and logos to get to the audience. The Humane Society of the United States would back this up because it is against animal cruelty and helps animals who are being abused, to get protection and help them get the rights. The second picture has to do with on how the HSUS is helping protect animals and asking other to help them .But they all represent the Humane Society of the United States by showing that their goal is to protect all animals and give them rights. Daddario 5 HSUS Puppy Mill and Animal Fighting Rewards. 2017. HSUS Puppy Mill and Animal Fighting Rewards. Web. 12 Mar. 2017. Daddario 6 Cook, Chuck. #Attack On Animals. 2017. Humane Society of the United States. Web. 12 Mar. 2017. Work Cited Kaplan, Sarah. Amid Outcry, Some Animal Welfare Documents Are Restored to USDA  The Washington Post. WP Company, 17 Feb. 2017. Web. 12 Mar. 2017. Rating for The Humane Society of the United  Charity Navigator. N.p., 01 Feb. 2017. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Daddario 7 The Humane Society of the United States: The Humane Society of the United  RSS. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.