Butz 1 Dana Butz Mrs. Penuliar Composition II 17 April 2017 Be The Voice Animal testing has been used since the beginning of biomedical research, specifically by early Greek physician-scientists Aristotle and Erasistratus (Hajar). In the twelfth century, a physician by the name of Ibn Zuhr introduced animal testing as an method for testing surgical procedures before applying them to human (Hajar). This was the start of animal subjects being used for science. Over the past two centuries, the medical field has expanded and experienced significant advancements. With these advancements have come a greater need for animal subjects. Although recent criticism of animal testing has led to the decrease of number of animals used in labs today, animals did play a large part in discovering the polio vaccine, penicillin and the elimination of (History of Animal Research). I, along with organizations such as PETA and Cruelty-Free Kitty, believe that animal testing is an outdated and cruel method of experimentation that has many alternatives that are both more efficient and more ethical. With the communication barrier between animals and humans, animals are at a disadvantage when they are manipulated and abused in lab settings. That is why we must be the voice for those who cannot speak up for themselves. By only buying cruelty-free brands and becoming involved in organizations that fight against animal testing, we can put an end to this cruel method. Butz 2 It is estimated that 115 million animals worldwide are used for experimentation each year (About Animal Testing). By definition, animal testing is scientific experiment or test in which a live animal is forced to undergo something that is likely to cause them pain, suffering, distress or lasting (What is Animal Testing?). Common experiments using animal subjects include: injecting or force feeding animals, surgically removing, or altering the body, forcing animals to inhale substances or gases and exposing the animal to chemicals or substances to see how they react. As if these situations are not bad enough, the animal subjects are usually killed when they are done being tested on. Laws and regulations have been passed in the United States that regulate the conditions that these animals are kept in to eliminate any torturous environment; however, mice, fish, amphibians and birds are not defined as animals under animal experiments (What is Animal Testing?) This means that these species of animals are not protected under any of the laws or regulations that other species of animals are protected under. Since there is no standard on how to treat, feed or take care of these specific types of animals, they are more likely to be found in a lab being used as subjects. This is both wrong and discriminative. A common problem with excluding these certain animals from laws and regulations is that when companies declare themselves as there is a possibility that rats, mice, fish, amphibians, or birds were tested on in the process. Since there are no laws protecting these animals, the companies do not have to publicly release their use of these animals as test subjects. As a result, companies continue to get away with this unethical method of testing. I believe that people should care about this matter because we have the opportunity to be a voice for these animals. Animals communicate in a way that we do not understand. This makes it impossible for them to defend themselves when they are being used as subjects in a lab. People Butz 3 that are fighting against the use of animal testing are the only influence that can eliminate this method. PETA also works toward putting an end to animal testing. PETA ongoingly funds the research of alternative methods to animal testing, as well as publishes the research and promotes the new methods (Alternatives to Animal Testing). Non-animal testing has several benefits. Most importantly, alternative methods are more reliable than animal testing methods. an in vitro test derived from cultured human skin cells, was found to be more accurate in identifying chemical skin irritants than traditional animal (In Testing). By replacing just a fraction of animal testing with in vitro methods, millions of animals lives will be saved, along with millions of dollars that would be wasted on animal testing. Along with money being saved, time will also be used more effectively. Compared to the four weeks that it would take animal testing to produce results, in vitro methods can produce the same, as well as more accurate, results in as little as 3 minutes (In Testing). In vitro methods have proved to be more accurate, ethical and even environmentally friendly. Now it is our part to put an end to animal testing and be the voice. According to the 2017 report that Cruelty-Free Kitty released, 40 makeup brands, 28 hair product brands and 62 skin care brands currently use animal testing for the products they release onto the market. (Companies that Test on Animals 2017). More likely than not, the average human uses many products in their everyday life that were once tested on animals. Awareness and education about this topic are important to understand the benefits of using only cruelty-free products. Imagine going through your daily routine washing your face, brushing your teeth, putting in hair product knowing that multiple animals died so that you can use these products. It does not always have to be like that. By only buying cruelty-free products you are ensuring that no animals were harmed in the process of that product being testing. With animal testing Butz 4 currently in the spot light, there are more than enough resources to find cruelty-free brands in almost every product available on the market. Two more ways to make a difference in the fight against animal testing are to sign a pledge or to donate to PETA. By simply signing a pledge, this will recognize that you are against animal testing and it will signify that you refuse to support it. Taking the pledge is the easiest way to become involved in the fight against animal testing, and the best part, it is free! Donating to PETA is also a very effective way to become involved. Many organizations accept donations through their website, and some even give you the option to choose exactly what you would like your donation to go toward. website has the option of a monthly donation or a one-time donation. The one-time donation is a good option because it does not financially tie you down, but it will still have an impact on the fight against animal testing. We must all be aware of what is happening behind the scenes. Animals are killed every day for our benefit, but it does not have to be like that. There are more than enough alternative methods to replace animal testing, which can save millions of dollars, millions of lives and a great amount of time. In order for this fight against animal testing to come to an end, we must act now. We have the resources and the power to be he voice for those who cannot speak up. It can be as easy as signing a pledge or rethinking the decision to buy products that use this horrendous method of testing. The resources are out there and they are there for our disposal. By only buying cruelty-free brands and becoming involved in organizations that fight against animal testing, we can put an end to this cruel method. Butz 5 Works Cited Animal Humane Society International. Human Society International, n.d. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. to Animal PETA. N.p., n.d Web. 19 Mar. 2017 that Test on Animals Cruelty-Free Kitty. N.p., 4 Mar. 2017. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. Hajar, Rachel. Testing and Heart Views: The Official Journal of the Gulf Heart Association 12.1 (2011): 42. PMC. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. of Animal Understanding Animal Research. N.p., 17 Mar. 2015. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. New England Anti-Vivisection Society. New England Anti-Vivisection Society, 2017. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. is Animal Cruelty-Free International. N.p., n.d. Web. 17 Apr. 2017.