Casey Dean Sarah Basil ENC 1102 16 April 2017 The Future of Planned Parenthood In 2015 a federal bill was created that proposed the availability of federal funds for any purpose to Planned Parenthood Federation of America unless they certify that the affiliates and clinics will not perform any abortion procedures during such (Black). This lead to increased concerns about the future of Planned Parenthood continuing without funding. Still, a numerous number of people are unaware and unbothered with how this issue will ultimately affect them and others around them. Being an organization centered around reproductive health many believe that if they have never utilized services provided by Planned Parenthood they will not be affected if the organization loses federal funding. What these people fail to realize is the results that will indirectly affect them. Calling for the defunding of a national reproductive health provider will not only put family planning out of reach for millions it will also have a significant impact on the United States economy. Several necessary actions must be made signing petitions and becoming a to increase public awareness and protest the removal of government funding issued to Planned Parenthood. Planned Parenthood (PP) focuses primarily on reproductive healthcare for women. PP is responsible for providing primary care services including contraceptive and abortion services, sexually transmitted infection testing and treatment, and cancer (Planned Parenthood). In a single year PP services prevent 579 thousand unintended pregnancies, provide more than 270 thousand pap tests and 360 thousand breast examinations and they also provide 4.2 million tests and treatments for STIs. Along with all the services PP provides for women they also offer reproductive and sexual education and information to people of all ages nationwide (Planned Parenthood). As part of the Affordable Care Act most of the federal funding for planned parenthood services comes from Medicaid reimbursements which means that repealing the ACA will ultimately eliminate funding for Planned Parenthood as well. Currently Planned Parenthood receives more than 500 million dollars every year in federal funding. In 2015 a video was released by the Center for Medical Progress that portrayed Planned Parenthood allegedly profiting from donating fetal tissues obtained from abortions. While the videos were later ruled as edited and did not a complete or accurate record of the events they purport to (Brandhorst, Jennings). Pro-life activists went on to call for investigation and potential defunding of Planned Parenthood. What they take in account is how many people will ultimately be affected if Planned Parenthood was to lose funding. Defunding Planned Parenthood means defunding a national reproductive health provider, an act that will leave millions of people in the country without family planning and reproductive healthcare services. While defunding Planned Parenthood would eliminate abortion services from being provided and satisfy pro-life activists it would also eliminate any other services that Planned Parenthood provides currently and devastate all others. Abortions services are a very small portion of what Planned Parenthood does, medical services provided in 2015, 31% was contraceptives, 45% was STD testing, 7% was cancer screening and prevention, 4% was abortion services, 13% was other health so removing all funding would do more harm than good. In addition to depriving millions of healthcare services removing federal funding from PP would disrupt the economy (Planned Parenthood). Allowing access to family planning indirectly affects the economy. Being able to access family planning has shown an increase in labor-force participation, which improves not only their economic security but their economic security as well. 2013, publicly funded family-planning providers helped women prevent two million unintended pregnancies, one million of which would have resulted in unplanned births and 693,000 in (Flynn). Without access to birth control and other contraceptives it makes it almost impossible for women to avoid pregnancy which would as a result increase the rate of abortion services and their related costs. It is important to think ahead about what consequences can come from defunding a major organization. There are several things individuals can do in order to increase awareness of these potential consequences and protest against defunding Planned Parenthood. The first initial step toward making a difference is becoming an active Planned parenthood defender. Planned Parenthood Defenders are a committed group of supporters on the front lines of protecting Planned Parenthood, the health services it provides, and the people who rely on its health centers. Defenders take part in necessary actions toward making a difference like signing the #IStandWithPP petition and calling members of congress to influence their decisions on attempt to defund Planned Parenthood. Detailed instructions are given prior to becoming a defender that help explain these actions in depth (Planned Parenthood Action Fund). Specific to the University of South Florida community joining the Planned Parenthood Generation Act is also another option toward helping. This is an on-campus organization, directly linked with the Planned Parenthood Action Fund that consists of students who are against defunding Planned Parenthood and are taking important action toward stopping the government from removing federal funds. All individuals have the right to access family planning and get the appropriate healthcare services they need. Defunding Planned Parenthood will conclusively leave millions of citizens without family planning and necessary healthcare services which is realistically an infringement on the rights of an individual. It is important that every individual aware of the current issue Planned Parenthood faces and more importantly how the issue can affect them along with their rights. By educating and motivating as many people as possible necessary change can be made toward preventing the potential inequality of the country. WORKS CITED Black, Diane. All Info - H.R.3134 - 114th Congress (2015-2016): Defund Planned Parenthood Act of  Congress.gov. N.p., 22 Sept. 2015. Web. 12 Apr. 2017. Brandhorst, Jaclyn K. and Freddie J. Jennings. Full Length Article: Fighting for Funding: Values Advocacy and Planned  Public Relations Review, vol. 42, 01 Nov. 2016, pp. 723-733. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.pubrev.2016.06.002. Flynn, Andrea. The Economic Case for Funding Planned  The Atlantic. Atlantic Media Company, 17 Sept. 2015. Web. 12 Apr. 2017. Parenthood, Planned.  Planned Parenthood Action Fund. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Apr. 2017. www.plannedparenthoodaction.org/about-us. Parenthood, Planned. Planned Parenthood at a  Planned Parenthood. N.p., 20 Mar. 2017. Web. 12 Apr. 2017.