Al Ibrahim 1 Ammar Al Ibrahim Professor John Williams ENC1102 16 April 2017 Social Media Addiction Literally at this time, many people around the world are using one of social apps. Many of us have used one of those apps at least once today. Even you, you might be using your phone while you are reading this paper. If you are using them right now, you are really approving the idea of social media has taken over the world and many of us cannot continue his day without using one of them. It becomes more like a daily routine that should be done or like drinking a morning coffee. Many consider social media as a positive thing for people and their social life because it keeps them connected with people around them, especially for people who are working all the time and cannot find time for socializing. On the other hand, many believe a bad habit that could affects health and brings problems to people like addiction. Large numbers of people are using apps for very long hours and spend so much time on. People who cannot manage him-self and stop using them, scientists call them addicts. Some people reach very high level of addiction and this would consider as a big psychological problem that may bring issues into lives. Since technology took place in the world and people started to use social media platforms all the time. Many of them get addicted to it and cannot manage themselves. In this case, people should stop spending so much time on and aware each other for example each parent should give his or her kid limit hours per day for using those apps. Al Ibrahim 2 Social media has been used from all people around the world and all societies ages not only teenagers. The chance to get addicted to social media is equal on all ages, which mean there is no specific certain age that needs to be aware of its danger. All society ages needs to get advised because all people who use them are able to get addicted and be in the danger of being distractive. According to Boyd, all people in society are able to be addicted and affected not only teenagers (21). Being addicted to it can bring many problems to people in different aspects. For example, it is going to distract students in classes and even while doing homework and school stuff. Boyd believes using social media in classes are not going to affect only the person who is using it also would affect who is around. Sometimes professors would ask the person to stop using his phone and pay attention, which will force professor to waste time and stop teaching in order to ask the person. Being addicted also could affect health and minds, which put users in more danger. The majority of people are unaware of the danger light that comes out from all devices because it brings several problems for eyes. The danger increases when use those devices in darkness because the device light will be the only source that both eyes will receive light from. This type of effects is very danger on human because it show its consequences immediately. It takes human long time to find out their eyes are getting affected unless they check up continuously. Doctors usually call this type of issues as long-term effects. People usually receive sight issues and feel those problems when they be around 35 years and sometimes from 40 and above. Going back to the survey that MEMO has done around 30% of people in the world start to wear medical glasses at age of 36 and above. This survey kind of approve the idea of long-term effects because most Al Ibrahim 3 people use the devices for long hours when they are between 22-35 especially people whose his work done through computers. Additionally, of us are unaware of the potential dangers of blue light emitted from light-emitting diode (LED) and compact fluorescent light (CFL) to (Smick, Kirk 32). People should be carful and aware who are around them about the danger of this new technology and its impact on human. All need to know how to use those devices in good way. It has been so clear that spending so many hours on social media is kind of harmful for different aspects in our societies. Therefore, According to Smick and Kirk, parents must take an action against the new addiction that makes very serious issue in societies (33). They state parents can reduce the usage of social media by limit the usage hours for their kids. For example, they can give the kid specific time to use iPads and Phones and limit usage hours that could be around three hours less or more. Moreover, aware kids about the danger of those devices on them and the consequences that could come from like harmful lights. Furthermore, they believe to get this process done parents need to be educated about the effects of that harmful light on vision in order to advice their children. In our daily life, social media has become a routine and habit for all of us and sometime become hard to continue a day without checking our devices continuously. Also, it becomes rare to have a friend who use one of the platforms and none of us could spend a day without using any type of social media platforms. Those apps take many and many time from our days and distract all users while doing their important things like school or work stuff. Thoughts about social media have changed over time and majority of us around the entire world became using social media more than any time Al Ibrahim 4 before which increases the chance of getting addicted to them and hard to limit themselves. In the middle of all this issue people should take an action to reduce the usage by different ways. Advising could be one of the helpful actions that need to be done nowadays because now might be a little bet late to start advising. And the reason is most of us cannot control themselves to avoid using those apps all the time. Al Ibrahim 5 Work cited L. J. Current status of the digital micromirror device (DMD) for projection television Proceedings of IEEE International Electron Devices Meeting, Washington, DC, USA, 1993, pp. 381-384.doi: 10.1109/IEDM.1993.347329 Middle Eastern Medical-Service Organization  Welcome to MEMO - Middle Eastern Medical-Service Organization (MEMO). N.p., n.d. Web. 13 Apr. 2017. Smick, Kirk. How To Educate Patients About The Dangers Of HARMFUL  Review Of Optometry 152.3 (2015): 32-33. Academic Search Premier. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. The Social Lives of Networked  Complicated. Yale University Press, n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.