Al Moosawi !1 Majid Al Moosawi Prof. John Williams ENC 1102 16 April 2017 ! E-cigarettes as a Healthy Alternative to Smoking: Benefits for Public Health and Industry Profits. Electronic cigarettes first appeared as an alternative to smoking in 2003, when Chinese inventor and pharmacist, and also a smoker himself created first commercially successful electronic (Historical Timeline Of Electronic Cigarettes - CASAA). This inventor, Hon Lik, created e-cigarette because of his father who died of lung cancer, probably caused by heavy smoking. In 2006 and 2007 electronic cigarettes appeared on the U.S. market. Initially, electronic cigarettes are advertised as an completely healthy alternative to smoking. However, in 2008, The World Health Organization (WHO) released its findings on the topic, and according to them: WHO has no scientific evidence to confirm the safety and efficacy. Its marketers should immediately remove from their web sites and other informational materials any suggestion that WHO considers it to be a safe and effective smoking cessation aid. Marketers Of Electronic Cigarettes Should Halt Unproved Therapy Though many different studies have been conducted as to the effects of e- cigarettes, it can be concluded, based on our current data, that e-cigarettes are indeed a better alternative. Typical e-cigarette or vaporizer consists of the battery, an atomizer, and a liquid tank, where the flavored liquid is refueled. Many of these liquids contain nicotine in a different amount. Therefore, such liquids using e-cigarettes or vaporizers delivers nicotine Al Moosawi !2 in the body of the one who inhales the vapors. Nicotine is a main component of tobacco which causes addiction and harms the health of smokers. Thus, smoking kills because of the nicotine. According to WHO, almost half of smokers die from cardiovascular and oncological diseases, the development of which is caused by this addiction. Additionally, there is evidence that accounts for about 30% of all cancer deaths in the United States, including about 80% of all lung cancer Health Risks Of Smoking ). These facts suggest that the replacement of traditional smoking can better affect the statistics of cancers among heavy smokers. A study conducted by Health New Zealand in 2008 concludes that electronic cigarettes are safe relative to cigarettes, and also safe in absolute terms on all (Laugesen, Murray 3) which have been applied. However, today it seems that heavy smokers are not going to replace traditional cigarettes fully with electronic vaporizers, and instead are using them as the means to smoke in places where traditional smoking is not allowed. Thus, heavy smokers can remain faithful to their habit in restaurants, public places and in general wherever smoking is long prohibited. Due to this, one might think that electronic cigarettes are useless as a substitute for traditional smoking. According to Federal Drug Administration, the products of the electronic cigarettes industry currently and may contain unknown chemicals and toxic (Welch, Ashley). Additionally, Stanton A. Glantz, Ph.D., and director of the USCF Center for Tobacco Control Research and Education argues that the is that quitting smoking is one of the main reasons both adults and kids use e- cigarettes, but the overall effect is less, not more, (Fernandez, Elizabeth). Such evidence allows us to doubt the possibility of using electronic cigarettes as a healthy alternative to traditional smoking. Al Moosawi !3 Additionally, electronic cigarettes are not certified by WHO, and no large-scale studies of this device have been conducted. The cartridges, nor cigarettes themselves are not subject to mandatory certification or any other kind regulation and therefore unscrupulous sellers can easily produce fakes or dangerous devices. Also, imitation of smoke in the form of steam can irritate others purely psychologically because of the visual similarity with cigarette smoke. The maintenance of harmful substances in cartridges for refueling is completely on the conscience of manufacturers. Electronic cigarettes are not a safe alternative to conventional cigarettes since the content of nicotine in them exceeds what was declared earlier, and they are produced more often in Chinese factories with no safety standards. The composition of the liquid evaporation of which simulates tobacco smoke includes propylene glycol. It can cause allergic manifestations and even block the breath of the smoker. There is data that some smokers have problems with the lungs and throat. However, despite these facts, there is also significant evidence supporting the positive side of electronic cigarette smoking. Thus, lately electronic cigarettes were considered by Federal Drug Administration (FDA) as a possible option for current smoking cessation tools approved by FDA. One of the recent studies relating to electronic cigarettes found that who try e-cigarettes to quit smoking appear to be serious about wanting to quit. Despite the lack of evidence regarding efficacy, smokers treat e-cigarettes as valid alternatives to FDA-approved cessation (Pokhrel, Pallav et al.). Therefore, e-cigarettes can be an option for those who have the desire to quit smoking, so while people still smoke traditional cigarettes they smoke them less. Additionally, electronic cigarettes do not burn as their traditional counterparts, and therefore nor the smokers themselves not the people surrounding them are exposed to the toxins produced by burning tobacco. Al Moosawi !4 The study by a group of researchers on smoking reduction and quitting which was held during six months revealed that use of e-Cigarettes substantially decreased cigarette consumption without causing significant side effects in smokers not intending to (Polosa, Riccardo et al.) Therefore, the role of e-cigarettes as healthy alternatives to traditional smoking is still possible. However, many studies conducted on the matter emphasize the thought that could play a role in smoking reduction and cessation, and as a result could reduce the harm incurred by smoking as effectively as any FDA-approved (Palazzolo, Dominic L.). Additionally, a study on popular opinion of harm of secondhand e-cigarette vapors found that the lack of scientific evidence on the safety of the secondhand inhaling of the vapors produced by e-cigarettes smokers is making people favor the restriction of e-cigarettes in public places (Mello, Susan et al.). Therefore, we can see that electronic cigarette as a substitute to traditional smoking is still a controversial topic nowadays. Today, there is still not enough scientific evidence present to prove with one hundred percent assurance that they are safe. However, there is enough evidence to claim that e-cigarettes are certainly less harmful as the traditional cigarettes. Combined with the fact that secondhand vaping also has no significant effect on the health of those who exposed to it, we claim that the use of electronic cigarettes gives more benefits than harm compared to conventional smoking, and therefore should be marketed as the healthier substitute in order to improve public perception and use. ! ! ! Al Moosawi !5 ! ! Works Cited ! Fernandez, Elizabeth. E-Cigarettes, As Used, Helping Smokers Quit, Study . UC San Francisco, 2016, https://www.ucsf.edu/news/2016/01/401311/e-cigarettes- used-arent-helping-smokers-quit-study-shows. ! Historical Timeline Of Electronic Cigarettes - . CASAA, 2017, http://casaa.org/ historical-timeline-of-electronic-cigarettes/. ! Laugesen, Murray. Safety Report On The E-Cigarette Cartridge And Inhaled Aerosol. Health New Zealand Ltd, Christchurch, New Zealand, 2008. ! Marketers Of Electronic Cigarettes Should Halt Unproved Therapy . Who.Int, 2008, http://www.who.int/mediacentre/news/releases/2008/pr34/en/. ! Palazzolo, Dominic L. Electronic Cigarettes And Vaping: A New Challenge In Clinical Medicine And Public Health. A Literature . Frontiers In Public Health, vol 1, 2013, Frontiers Media SA, doi:10.3389/fpubh.2013.00056. ! Pokhrel, Pallav et al. Smokers Who Try E-Cigarettes To Quit Smoking: Findings From A Multiethnic Study In . American Journal Of Public Health, vol 103, no. 9, 2013, pp. e57-e62. American Public Health Association, doi:10.2105/ajph. 2013.301453. ! Polosa, Riccardo et al. Effect Of An Electronic Nicotine Delivery Device (E-Cigarette) On Smoking Reduction And Cessation: A Prospective 6-Month Pilot . BMC Public Health, vol 11, no. 1, 2011, Springer Nature, doi:10.1186/1471-2458-11-786. Al Moosawi !6 ! Welch, Ashley. E-Cigarettes Help Smokers . Cbsnews.Com, 2016, http:// www.cbsnews.com/news/e-cigarettes-dont-help-smokers-quit-study/.