1 Mcneal Rebecca Mcneal Kevin Ip Composition II 26 February 2017 Through the Eyes of Those Against NCLB The Child Left Act was made to close the achievement gap between low and high performing students and to make sure every student is getting the same opportunities to achieve as everyone else is. While the Child Left act might have seemed like a good idea it had many effects that created problems with other stakeholders such as teachers. When it comes to the Child Left act there really any organizations involved with it but there are various individuals who may come together to voice their opinions about the act. There are various stakeholders involved and affected by the Child Left Act but the teachers that are against the Child Left act opinions and views will be highlighted at most. The stakeholders, teachers, who are against the Child Left act have not come together to create any organizations or groups but just merely stated how they feel, how they are affected, and how they see students being effected. Teachers feel that the Child Left act is limiting them from actually teaching students and feel that it takes the principle of learning away from students. The two images use different rhetorical appeals to illustrate how the Child Left act is taking the principle of learning and the focus from other important subjects that are essential for students away and putting teachers in a position where they are no longer to teach but only train students to test. There are four different types rhetorical approaches, Ethos, Pathos, Logos, and Kairos. Ethos is the rhetorical approach that appeals to credibility and morality. This is where people 2 Mcneal determine if the information is accurate and if strong or weak information. The rhetorical approach Pathos appeals to the emotions. This is where the writer or illustrator tries to connect with the emotions or have the audience feel certain emotions to what is being written or drawn. Logos is the rhetorical approach that appeals to logic and reason. Writers or illustrators use logos to persuade the audience to believe what they are talking or illustrating is logical. Lastly, Kairos appeals to timeless. Writer or illustrator use Kairos to talk about things that are relevant and important at the time. There are many people who portray what is being said by the stakeholders against the Child Left act with visual representations. The first image is from David Horsey, who is portraying what people see going on with students inside of the classroom right away. Horsey shows how students are not learning anymore but instead are programed to just take test. Many teachers have voiced how they are put in positions where they are no longer teaching things that their students should know but are teaching students how to take test and the information and material that is suppose to be on the test. In the cartoon Horsey drew in black and white students who have a helmet on their head with the word written across it and different tubes attached to the helmet. The students also have on something attached on the side of their faces so that they look around and only can focus on their test. There is also a student who is looking outside of a window who looks amazed at what is outside, while the teacher is telling the student to come away from the window and to go back to doing the test that everyone else is doing. Then in color he draws a scenery that looks fun and pleasing to the eye. He incorporated subjects into nature and made it look so fun and interesting. The logos implemented in this visual representation would be that the testing is sucking the creativity out of the students and are blocking out the learning of other subjects. The pathos represented in the 3 Mcneal image would be where Horsey drew the students, classroom, and teacher in black and white. He made the classroom look sad and depressing and the students look worried and stressed taking the test. He makes the teacher seem a bit scary and big. Horsey draws the girl who is looking out the window to look as if she is amazed by what is outside (the different subjects). The ethos that is displayed by the drawing is that even though It is not a realistic setting or scene it conveys how students are being brainwashed in classrooms. Kairos is presented due to the fact that students are now being brainwashed into just learning how to do test and are being held back from learning other unimportant things that will benefit them. In the second visual ad by Mike Keefe, he has drawn teachers holding hops for students to jump throw as if they were being trained like in a circus. The logos presented in this cartoon drawing is that students are being trained like circus animals when it comes to their education. They are trained to learn how to take test. Also the teachers are saying how they agree with training the student and how they also have to pay for things that they want to have anything to do with. Keefe applied ethos to the illustration by showing even though students really being trained to jump through hoops and teachers really training them to do so it represents the students being trained to take test and how teacher do not feel that training students to take test is the best thing. Keefe portrays pathos by drawing the cartoon in black and white which makes the scene mundane. He drew the kids to look like how animals do in the circus when they are jumping through the hoops. He drew some of the students with no emotion on their faces and then some students look like they are having a little difficulty jumping through the hoops. Keefe also drew the teachers to look fed up and uninterested in holding the hoops which represents the teachers uninterested in training students to take test when they could actually be teaching their students something that would be useful and beneficial to them. Kairos 4 Mcneal is presented due to the fact in schools students are being trained to take test instead of actually learning things that will benefit them and help them in the future. Even though there are no organization associated with the Child Left act there are people and stakeholders who still voice their opinions. Due to that there are people who listen and portray how stakeholders feel and view things in different articles and visual representations for others to understand their point of view. Both of the visual representation that were presented showed how students learning anymore but instead are trained and brainwashed to learn how to take test. It shows how students are losing the ability to learn other things that are beneficial for their future and being suppressed from the learning of other subjects. According to Susan Hobart, got things backwards today. Children should be in the front seat, not the testing companies. And teachers should be rewarded for teaching, not for being Stanley Kaplan The two illustrators presented the rhetorical appeals in the image and explaining the effects of the Child Left act on teachers and students. 5 Mcneal Work Cited First image: Horsey, David. CARTOON: Dismal learning is not the path to Seattlepi, (2010) Web. March 2017 http://blog.seattlepi.com/davidhorsey/2010/10/07/encore- cartoon-dismal-learning-is-not-the-path-to-success/ Second Image: Keefe, Mike. Ridiculousness of Teacher Merit Frankly Curious, (2004) Web. March 2017 http://franklycurious.com/wp/2014/10/09/the-ridiculousness-of-teacher-merit-pay/ Hobart, Susan. Ridiculousness of Teacher Merit The Progressive, (2008) Web. March 2017 http://progressive.org/dispatches/one-teacher-s-cry-hate-child-left-behind/