Heath 1 Baylei Heath Kevin Ip ENC 1102 12 March 2017 Not Dead Yet, an Organization against Assisted Suicide and Euthanasia Worldwide each year millions of end of life patients are faced with extreme, unbearable pain and often consider taking their own lives or turning to others to assist them in doing so. This is known as suicide, physician assisted suicide, or euthanasia. A recent study from Washington state publicized in the New England Journal of Medicine suggests that the state of Death with Dignity Act has not led to many terminal ill patients seeking legal prescriptions for euthanasia (Loggers et al. 1418). The study reveals that almost three years after the law was enacted, only two hundred and fifty-five total prescriptions were written for physician assisted suicide (Loggers et al. 1418). Most of these patients were terminally ill cancer patients with complete mental capacity. (Loggers et al. 1418). Having complete mental capacity is a requirement to be administered the prescription (Loggers et al. 1418). However, opponents against suicide, assisted suicide and euthanasia argue that this number is still too high and there are alternatives to taking a life. Not Dead Yet is one such organization that leads a national, grassroots disability rights group that opposes legalization of assisted suicide and euthanasia as deadly forms of discrimination (Not Dead Yet 1). To help persuade others to adopt their beliefs, Not Dead Yet uses powerful visual images to draw supporters to their cause. The attached two images illustrate the goals by advocating against the choice of suicide, euthanasia or assisted suicide by using logos, an appeal to logic and reason, pathos, an appeal to emotions, ethos, an appeal to credibility and morality, and kairos, which refers to the opportune time and place. Heath 2 The first image, used as a public service announcement by Not Dead Yet to discourage public support of physician assisted suicide, is that of a smiling elderly woman. Physician assisted suicide is described as, euthanasia, in which a doctor intentionally kills a person by the administration of drugs, and (2) physician assisted suicide (PAS), whereby a doctor helps a person to commit suicide by providing drugs for (Tomlinson et al. 724). This image utilizes ethos, imploring the audience, through the text, trust a teacher who harmed trust a chef who poisoned how could you trust a doctor who helped to kill a These words provoke powerful thought from the reader. The image of the elderly woman also utilizes pathos. The elderly eyes in the image are reminiscent of a sad puppy dog and the reader cannot help but connect the sweet, smiling elderly woman with their own grandmother or someone else elderly that they dearly love. By doing so, they feel persuaded to protect her, as she is depicted as vulnerable and unable to protect herself. Logos is also present in the image, as it seems logical that if you would not trust a teacher who harmed children, or a chef who poisoned their diners, you certainly should not trust a doctor who assists their patient in taking their own life. After all, if a skilled worker delivers the exact opposite of what is expected of their profession, they have clearly failed and should not be trusted. This is further alarming in the case of a doctor, as a doctor has a higher ethical standard than most professions. A doctor is required to take a Hippocratic oath, which requires him or her to uphold certain ethical standards of their profession (Tomlinson et al. 723). The Hippocratic Oath is an oath written by Hippocrates still held sacred by physicians in which they swear, among other things, to treat the ill patient to the best of their ability, preserve a privacy, and to mentor new doctors. (Tomlinson et al. 723). The literary element of kairos is also present in this image, as the woman depicted is elderly, and this persuades the reader that the call to action is imminent, as Heath 3 the woman may not have long to live. Overall, this public service announcement is effective in appealing to the logic, reason and emotions of the viewer to advocate against assisted suicide by a physician, and the laws that support it. The second image utilized by Not Dead Yet in their advertising materials further appeals to the viewer to consider life, not death, in the event of a patient with a terminal illness. This image is that of a string of cut out figures, both male and female, alternating, holding hands, with their shadows in lighter green below them. The caption states, NOT This image is significantly different than the first image, in that it does not depict a real person, however, it is equally powerful in convincing the viewer to oppose assisted suicide and euthanasia. The cut out images remind the viewer of paper cut-out dolls, a childhood favorite of many, thus utilizing the element of pathos. The viewer may reminisce back to their childhood, a time of easier, care free days, free of pain and responsibilities. This emotional draw leads the viewer to view life as the right choice. This cut-out figure image also uses a certain color scheme to further appeal to the audience to reject the idea of death as a plausible alternative for the terminally ill patient. The cut- out figures and their shadows are a pleasant, calming green. The color green is often used to signify life and nature, and illustrates the use of logos. This asks the viewer to consider life and not death. It is further represented in the caption of the image, NOT in that NOT is written in bold green letters, again signifying life, as opposed to the words CARE and KILLING, which are the only items on the image that are depicted in black, a harsh color and significant contrast with the green. In addition, by using bold, typographical strategies to further appeal to the audience, the image attempts to persuade the reader that killing a terminally ill patient is not an option. The element of kairos is present in the image, by capitalizing the phrase, NOT at the bottom of the image, it is a powerful call to immediate action of the viewer to Heath 4 consider and advocate for life and not death amongst the terminally ill, and creates a sense of exigency. This image is another powerful image utilized by Not Dead Yet to encourage the viewer to reject euthanasia and assisted suicide as an alternative for the terminally ill patient. These two images are examples of publications used by Not Dead Yet as strong appeals to a emotions and sympathy, through their use of the rhetorical devices of logos, pathos, ethos, and kairos. These images also utilize other literary devices to assist the organization in driving their point home to the viewers. Both images are effective in furthering the Not Dead Yet goal of outlawing assisted suicide and euthanasia by increasing awareness of their cause, and create a call to action by appealing to viewers to take a stance and not remain silent regarding suicide, assisted suicide, and euthanasia. Changes are easier made when more people are informed and support a cause. Heath 5 Works Cited Andre, Claire and Velasquez, Manual, 2015 Suicide: A Right or a Issues in Ethics 1:1-3. Web. 10 March 2017. Loggers, Elizabeth Trice, M.D., Ph.D., Starks, Helene, Ph.D., M.P.H., Shannon-Dudley, M.S.W., L.I.C.S.W., Back, Anthony L., M.D., Applebaum, Frederick, M.D., and Steward, Marc F., M.D., 2013, a Death with Dignity Program at a Comprehensive Cancer New England Journal of Medicine; 368: 1417-1424. Web. 11 March 2017. Not Dead Yet, The Resistance. 2017, notdeadyet.org. Accessed 24 February 2017. Tomlinson, Emily, Spector, Aimee, Nurock, Shirley, Stott, Joshua, 2015. Euthanasia And Physician-Assisted Suicide In Dementia: A Qualitative Study Of The Views Of Former Dementia  Palliative Medicine 29.8 (2015): 720-726. PsycINFO. Web. 11 March 2017. Heath 6 Image 1: Image 2: