Matthew Comeskey Composition 2 Instructor: Sarah Basil 4/15/17 Uber or a Monopoly? Uber is an international application that can be used from a variety of smartphone applications. The impact of Ubers takeover is an issue that is starting to take a toll on thousands of Americans. Uber has overtaken the transportation industry, as their competition, Lyft and taxi companies, have not adjusted their business platforms to be competitive in the transportation market. domination of the transportation industry is becoming strikingly close to a monopoly and must be regulated to promote the further sustainability of taxi cab companies and the thousands of taxi cab drivers working hard across the US. Recently, Uber has expanded even more in the market place with the recent addition of UberEats to their platform. The sheer efficiency of the application and cheap prices have taxi cab companies struggling to stay in business because they cannot beat Ubers prices. In fact, another reason that Uber is becoming much more successful than taxi companies is because the ability to create your own schedule and work whenever you please have drivers attracted towards the transportation giant. Uber is not just an application that helps people get from one place to another but is even growing into the commercial goods market. Analyst Miguel Helft writes that economic aspects of ride-sharing service are assessed, along with the food delivery and long-haul trucking programs and potential disruption of urban (Helft 2016). While Uber is dominating essentially every aspect of the transportation industry, taxi cab companies are barely making ends meet due to the monopoly like power over the transportation industry. To engage the audience the most fitting way would be to show the exorbitant impact that taxi cab companies are encountering due to Ubers impacts. In the following quote, Brian Solomon is going to analyze the fall of what was once San largest taxi company largest taxi company, Yellow Cab Co-Op, said that it will file for Chapter 11 bankruptcy in a December letter to shareholders obtained by the San Francisco Examiner. While regular taxi operations will continue, the company needs to restructure due to serious financial  caused by mounting debt and competition from ride-hailing (Solomon). These apps, predominantly Uber are the reason for the destruction of taxi cab companies. Uber has driven the price of ride fares so low that these taxi cab companies, even the giants, are failing and thousands of hard working Americans are losing their jobs. The biggest take away from the previous paragraph is the utter disregard throughout America. Companies that were once the kings of the transportation industry are consistently being run into the ground due to Ubers supreme services. Thousands of hard working Americans are losing their jobs daily due to Uber. The biggest issue with this is that thousands of these hard- working Americans are immigrants that have recently came to the US. Write Michael Luo states that new study on the people who drive New York taxicabs paints a rare portrait of this harried work force and reveals that extraordinary numbers of the newest immigrants continue to flock to the (Luo 2004). Ubers domination of the industry is taking those new to Americas first real source of income in a new life. How is someone with financial struggles supposed to afford a car to drive for Uber? simply not possible and therefore they are meant to work behind the wheel of taxi cab companies that push these men and women into working horrible shifts that then reflects in their work ethic and attitude. The biggest takeaway from this paper should be to show the negative impact that Uber is imposing on thousands of Americans lives. This is becoming a problem as monopolies should be properly regulated within the American economic system. However, there is something that you can due to slow Ubers roll to help taxi cab companies and drivers everywhere. asking you to try and take a taxi cab at least once out of the three times you need a ride somewhere. Just that one ride could make a huge impact if everyone at the USF community were to implement this rule. In summary, Uber is becoming a monopoly and running taxi cab companies out of business throughout the United States. The issue at hand is that many of these immigrant workers that are new to the country cannot afford a car to become and Uber driver. then forced to work for taxi companies which are then going out of business and leaving thousands of hard working immigrant workers without jobs. By just taking one taxi cab ride out of every three rides, you could be a part of the effort to save taxi cab companies and to save the hard working immigrants jobs across the United States. Works Cited HELFT, MIGUEL, et al. BOLD MOVE. (Cover  Forbes, vol. 198, no. 9, 30 Dec. 2016, pp. 58-74. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=tru e&db=buh&AN=120089637&site=eds-live. Luo, Michael. Study of Taxi Drivers Finds More Immigrants at  The New York Times. The New York Times, 06 July 2004. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Solomon, Brian. First Casualty? San Largest Taxi Company Filing For  Forbes.Com (2016): 30. Business Source Premier. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Uber.