Mitchell 1 Evelyn Mitchell Mr. Kevin Ip ENC 1102.002 26 February 2017 The Fight for Fair Pay It is no question that teachers are considered underpaid by American standards. Anyone who has gone through American primary school has most likely heard teachers make some comment about their pay. But why are teachers so underpaid despite all the work they are expected to do? Teachers are not only expected to give students a high-quality education but are also watching after children during the day. This could be considered two jobs in a sense, both of a nanny and a tutor. With this in mind, the United States Government made any moves to truly raise pay. This may be due to the fact they are in charge of overseeing the payment of things like military expenses, road upkeep, and maintenance of government buildings. With all of these expenses it appears to be tight to raise pay, and the last thing the government wants to do is raise taxes. It is ridiculous though to continue to underpay teachers considering all the jobs they are expected to do and how important they are for the future of America. The two images shown below display the issue in a visual sense, there needs to be a positive change in pay instead of an increase in funding for military expenses. A major problem is the Department of lack of funding to pay teachers a decent salary. In the China, they have increased their education budget recently so it now equals about trillion yuan or 188 billion U.S. (China.org). This is more than twice as much money as the United States currently spends on education, which is about $70 billion Mitchell 2 (National Priorities Project). The main focus for decades has been military expenses, and this may have been fine back during the world wars but today it is impractical. Continuing to underpay teachers, underfund the Department of Education, and still expecting to be on par with the Chinese for education is unreasonable as well as impossible. To put the current issue into perspective, in the fiscal year of 2015 the spending is projected to account for 54 percent of all federal discretionary (National Priorities Project). This means that about $598.5 billion is set aside specifically for military expenses, yet only $70 billion is set aside for education (National Priorities Project). Image one shows a protest where multiple teachers and supporters came out to protest the fact that there is always money available for war but not for the Department of Education. Here, the sign being displayed gets straight to the point and asks the very simple question is there always money for war but not for It would make more sense that instead of the government struggling to come up with money for education, that they should be struggling to find money for war. War should not always be on the governments mind, the future of the United States should be which means educating youth. Money should not be an issue for the department of education; money needs to be taken out of categories in the budget that are not necessary to the overall well-being of the United States and put in the Department of Education. youth are the future of this country and if their education continues to be subpar to other countries then this country will see the repercussions of this in the future. Another representation is image two, despite the fact it is not as straight forward as image one is, it definitely takes some consideration to understand the meaning behind the image. The cartoon shown illustrates a school administrator asking where the teachers is while the teacher is standing there. Clearly the confusion comes from the fact that the teachers appears to have Mitchell 3 numerous jobs, some being a janitor and nurse. When someone considers the job of the teacher they consider the other responsibilities that teachers have as well. A teacher could be considered a nanny looking after numerous children at once, but paid considerably less than a nanny. The average nanny gets paid an rate USD (International Nanny Association) while teachers get paid approximately $25.67 an hour (Writer 2013) but also only work 180 days out of the year and not on weekends. Also, although janitors are present in the schools, teachers typically are responsible for any large messes that happen in their classrooms. Teachers are also responsible for taking care of any minor cuts or scraps that happen because allowing a student to go to the nurse for every little scrap takes away from that education. On top of this teachers are also needed to be there for the students mentally as a counselor if the student is struggling socially or emotionally. This can become a massive burden on our teachers and often requires teachers to stay longer than a typical nine to five job would. A new requirement has also been established that requires teachers to give students numerous standardized tests to determine if they are on par with other schools in the nation. Sometimes these tests determine how well the teacher is doing and can even affect the pay in the end. Both of the images shown have rhetorical appeals that make them so perfect for convincing people to take their side. In image one specifically, it shows a woman in an actual protest holding a sign she made. The blatant frankness of the question stated appeals to timeliness because the question makes the situation appear as ridiculous as it is. Money be continuing to go to just war and should be stopped sooner rather than later to save money. Image two appeals mainly to logic and emotion. By displaying the teacher doing multiple activities, it appeals to the emotion of guilt and pity. It is unreasonable to be having our teachers do so many things but Mitchell 4 have them so underpaid, and by making people feel guilty for putting so much on teachers in the first place they will be more likely to agree with this side. Logically, not paying enough money to someone who does the work of two jobs is unreasonable. Teachers should be compensated for the amount of work they do. Despite the work done by numerous people to help teachers achieve fair pay, not much has been improved except for a few mediocre salaries increases here and there. The union states that collective bargaining and political they can achieve fairness for teachers (American Federation of Teachers). By creating cartoons that show the current state teachers are in and holding protests that teachers actively participate in people slowly begin to join. And with more people seeing the problem at hand then they too will participate and eventually the government will have to make a change when the voice calling for change gets loud enough. Having over half of the budget go to war is absolutely ridiculous when the real threat to future is under-educated youth by teachers who are struggling to make ends meet. The United States needs to reassess their budget and move money around so every category is accommodated according to actual need and not just what the Government assumes is needed. Many of the problems in the Department of Education area can be fixed with just the appropriate amount of funding so the Department can raise salaries, and properly supply schools with the materials needed for a good quality education. Mitchell 5 Works Cited American Federation of  American Federation of Teachers. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Military Spending in the United  National Priorities Project. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. 2014 Nanny Salary and Benefits  International Nanny Association. N.p., 25 Nov. 2015. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Writer, Leaf Group. How Much Does a First Grade Teacher Get Paid in an  How Much Does a First Grade Teacher Get Paid in an Hour? Chron.com. Chron.com, 11 Aug. 2013. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Education Spending on the  Education Spending on the Rise- China.org.cn. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Mar. 2017. Mitchell 6 Image 1: Image 2: Mitchell 7