Yeidi Martin ENC 1102 Kevin Ip February 26, 2017 Goals and Advertisements The animal rights movement has been expanding and more people are fighting to try and stop animal cruelty. One important organization in the animal rights movement is the People for Ethical Treatment of Animals, otherwise known as PETA. main goal is to try and get animals better rights, as well as stop all animal cruelty in four main areas that include the meat industry, the clothing industry, the entertainment industry and in labs (PETA). This goal is shown in these two images. The first image, which will be called the massacre picture, tries to get people to realize how many animals are killed each year in the meat industry by showing bloodied piled upon each other. The second image, which will be called the zombie image, tries to get people to convert to vegans by showing other humans eating body parts. In order to get these goals across, both of these images use rhetorical appeals. The massacre image and the zombie image both use logos, ethos, and pathos. These two images both fit into goal of lowering animal cruelty by using logos, an appeal to logic and reason, pathos, an appeal to the emotions, and ethos, an appeal to ethics, to try and save animal lives. In 2013 alone, there were a total of 6.6 million cattle slaughtered for the meat industry in the United States. This means that an average of 18,000 cattle are killed every day (Reference). After hearing about these numbers, PETA released an image to try and combat the meat industry. In this image, there is a bloodied woman with nude colored underwear on, mimicking a naked body, sitting with a sign in her hands. The sign reads, billion animals killed for flesh each Martin 2 Behind her, there are a bunch of bloodied, and naked bodies piled on top of each other. This image is trying to tell people how many animals are killed in the meat industry every year. To try and replicate all the animal deaths, the people were naked and bloodied while acting dead on the floor. Because they are trying to convey a message, there are several rhetorical appeals in this image. The first rhetorical appeal used is logos. This image appeals to logic and reason because they are trying to convey that if flesh is flesh, killing all those animals is like killing humans and killing humans goes against many reason. The second rhetorical appeal used in this image is the appeal of pathos. The emotions are appealed to in this image because there are dead, bloodied people laying on top of each other and this type of image can stir up a lot of different emotions in different people. The last rhetorical appeal used is ethos. Ethos is used in this image because they are trying to convey that it is ethically wrong to kill that many cattle for human consumption. Because this image is trying to convey the message that countless numbers of animal deaths occur in the meat industry, it fits into main goal of trying to make people more aware of animal cruelty and trying to put an end to it. The second image in campaign to end animal cruelty has to do with people going vegan. Veganism is different from vegetarianism, contrary to what some people think. Vegetarians and vegans both do not eat meat but they are not the same thing. While vegetarians do not eat meat, vegans do not eat any animal products. For example, vegans do not eat eggs or drink milk because both products come from animals. PETA uses this image to try and make people go vegan because they believe that eating any type of animal products is wrong. This image shows three people, who look like zombies and are covered in blood, sitting on the floor having a picnic. Instead of eating food, they are eating human body parts. Around them there are signs that read, is flesh. Go for zombies, go and grains, not Martin 3 brains. Go This image is trying to get people to turn vegan instead of eating meat. In order to convey this, the people have dressed up as zombies and are seen eating human body parts. While trying to convey this message, several rhetorical appeals are used. The first rhetorical appeal used is logos. This image appeals to logic and reason because most people believe that it is not logical to eat other human beings. The second rhetorical appeal used is pathos. Pathos is used in this image because there are people eating other people and that can cause someone to feel different emotions. For example, when most people see humans eating other humans they get scared or surprised. The signs and the people laying on the floor help express this goal. The last rhetorical appeal used in this image is ethos. This image appeals to ethics because they are trying to say that it is not ethically right to eat animals, just like it is not ethically right to eat other humans. These appeals help to try and convey the message that flesh is flesh and eating meat from animals is like eating other humans. This type of message that conveys that animals are not food fits into main goal. One of main goals is to stop animal cruelty, which includes the meat industry, and, therefore, humans should not eat meat. These two images can be considered shocking, so there are articles that speak about their goals. The first image, the massacre image, shows bloodied people laying on top of each other. This image tries to get people to notice how many animals are killed in the meat industry annually and why it may be a bad thing to eat meat. An article by BBC tilted Animal Ethics, states that if you truly believe that have rights, raising and killing animals for food is morally (BBC). This article also states that even the most ways of raising animals in the meat industry violate the interests, like wanting to live freely or be free from fear or pain (BBC). These statements agree with what the image is trying to convey Martin 4 because they both are trying to tell people that raising animals for the meat industry is wrong. The second image, the zombie image, displays people having a picnic while they eat human body parts. The meaning of this image is that eating animal flesh or meat is just like eating other human beings and should be considered wrong. An article from website titled More Reasons to Go Vegan explains some of the reasons why people should go vegan instead of trying to eat meat. The two reasons the organization lists on its website are that becoming vegan the only way to end world and that meat industry makes a killing by exploiting (PETA). This source fits into what the image is trying to convey because it explains why people should become vegan instead of eating meat. Because both of these images fit into main goal of trying to stop animal cruelty, an article about main goal must also be taken into consideration. Ingrid Newkirk of Quartz write in her article PETA: Our Tactics may be Shocking that PETA strives for real change in the animal rights movement. Newkirk states that goal is for animals to be left in peace to go about their here to win a popularity contest or to reiterate already understood. For do or die for the animals, and, bit by bit, society is (Newkirk). This idea agrees with main goal because it states that while PETA may be considered extreme by others, the main goal is still to try and end animal suffrage, no matter what it takes. In conclusion, the massacre and zombie image fit into main goal of trying to end animal cruelty because both images try to stop animal cruelty by getting people to help animals instead of hurting them. The massacre image tries to convey that killing animals for the meat industry is wrong by using ethos, logos, and pathos. The second image, the zombie image, tries to get people to realize that eating meat is wrong and better to go vegan by using ethos, Martin 5 logos, and pathos. These images are important because they help PETA convey its main message, which means that they help show people that animal cruelty is wrong. Martin 6 Works Cited BBC. BBC - Ethics - Animal Ethics: Eating  BBC News. BBC, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Dozens of PETA Supporters Strip off for Central London Protest against Meat-eating on World Vegan  Daily Mail Online. Associated Newspapers, 03 Nov. 2014. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. How Many Cows Are Killed Each  Reference. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Mar. 2017. Newkirk, Ingrid. PETA: Our Tactics May Be Shocking and In Your Face, but They Yield  Quartz. Quartz, 05 Nov. 2015. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. PETA. More Reasons to Go  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Martin 7 Image #1: Image #2: