Student 1 Student L.E. DuBois ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Money Talks In world, a major social concern is the argument of whether or not student athletes should get paid for their performance on the fields, which brings in millions of dollars of revenue. The problem that needs to be confronted in regards to this concern is that there needs to be a solution in order to satisfy both the goals and needs of the NCAA and the goals and needs of the CAPA organization, which advocates for the treatment of college student athletes as employees that deserve money for their work on the field. The positions that will be covered are the viewpoints of the NCAA, which believes that college athletes do not need to be paid, while the CAPA organization believes that they should be paid. The NCAA (National Collegiate Athletic Association) is a $900 million dollar organization that helps organize over 30 sports for over 1,000 schools, colleges, and institutes in North America. Their main goal is to help high school student get into college and help those students pay for college through the participation of sports in college. The CAPA (College Athletes Players Association) is an organization that advocates and fights for the college athletes to get paid for their hard work on the court. The main argument that the NCAA holds is that the college athletes are receiving so much money in scholarships, books, meal plans, and housing, that there is no need for extra paychecks that reward their play on the field. The main argument that CAPA holds is that these college athletes are putting their blood, sweat, and tears into this game, as well as having to maintain good grades Student 2 and having more responsibilities than just their respective sport, as well as with all other responsibilities, that they do not have time to get a job and get extra their sport is their job. The goals and views of CAPA are very realistic and make a compelling argument because college athletes are putting in their blood, sweat and, and tears into the game they play and the NCAA gets all the benefits from the revenue they produce from these college athletes. College athletes are the main workers of the NCAA and they see none of the money that comes in from their performance on the field. The fight for the pay of college athletes has been a discussion that has come up recently within the past 5 years. This dilemma hit the spotlight in 2015 when the Northwestern football players attempted to unionize and form the Northwestern Players Union, which was declined by the National Labor Relations Board. This case brought the problem to a national spotlight and really opened eyes and brought in lots of speculation as to why college athletes are not being paid when they clearly do just as much work as the pros, if not more. However, there is the clear conflict of interest here when it comes to question of scholarship money The NCAA argues that it is enough. The NCAA, however, wants to keep the playing field even and keep the integrity of college sports where from money and keeping the passion in the sports. If they begin to pay their athletes, that would take the passion away from the game and college athletes would start to play with extrinsic motivation instead of intrinsic motivation, taking the passion away from the game. The past solutions that have been offered were that extra benefits were given by the NCAA, as before they just paid tuition, they later added on housing, then meal plans, then books, then clothes and gear for their respective sports. Thus, the NCAA argues, that that is over $50,000 a year in benefits that athletes receive, so with that much monetary value being handed to college students, there is no need for extra benefits. Student 3 This is where CAPA comes in and argues all this. The NCAA uses these student athletes in order to use their talents to sell out venues, gather television views, and sell merchandise from their respective colleges. Sure, the NCAA does provide scholarships and education for these students, but that just enough. As scholarships just cover school costs and account for the countless other costs. the need for school supplies, gas money, money for clothes, money for household supplies, and the need for pocket money for whatever reasons. Regardless the reason, student athletes need extra money in order to live an adequate life outside of the simple costs for school, meal plans, and school books. Sure, they could ask mom and dad for money, but for most of these college athletes, their parents afford to send them extra cash for personal spending. They could also get a job, but as most athletes know, there is no time for a job. barely time to sleep. Athletes have to devote time to practice, and travel to their athletic events, as well as devote time to homework, studying, and actually going to class, and then you also have to include time to eat and downtime to relax from all the stress that student athletes constantly deal with. Student-Athletes deserve to get paid at least a minimal salary for their hard work put on the field that generates the great wealth for the NCAA. If it for these athletes sacrificing leaving their hometowns, practicing every day, and limiting their social life, the NCAA would be nothing. These student athletes usually get to go out and party and have fun and do all the things their fellow peers do because of their tight schedules and limited time, which leads to having to prioritize and sacrificing certain things. These athletes deserve this money due to their sacrifices and hard work. no time for them to try and pick up an extra job, so they have to struggle through college being broke. a real struggle to be walking around broke with no money, while the NCAA makes millions of dollars off of your production on the field, and you Student 4 see none of that money. like a slap on the face, like being used, like a slave to the NCAA. In order to solve this problem, non-engaged stakeholders can help out to the solution by helping form funds and organization for college athletes. For example, one solution could be if a non-engaged stakeholder begins a fund or scholarship organization that helps raise money for college athletes. This extra money could go a long way for these athletes as the extra cash really help them live more comfortable, and have a little extra money to buy essential things that they need. The viewpoints and goals of the NCAA and CAPA contradict each other, however they both show great care for their athletes. But at the end of the day, these are college athletes that deserve to be paid for their hard work on the field. It is clear that more could be done for these athletes that make so many tough decisions and sacrifices in order to play college sports. This, in return, brings so much revenue to the NCAA, but the athletes see none of that money, so it is as if they are just working for free. College athletes deserve to be treated as employees, just like the pros, for their hard work and dedication, they deserve to be rewarded for their hard work on the field. Student 5 College Athletes Players Association (CAPA), www.collegeathletespa.org/. Accessed 29 Mar. 2017. National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA), www.ncaa.org/ . Accessed 29 Mar. 2017. Nocera, Joe, and Ben Strauss. of the Union: How Northwestern football union nearly came to Sports Illustrated, 24 Feb. 2016, www.si.com/college- football/2016/02/24/northwestern-union-case-book-indentured. Accessed 29 Mar. 2017. Thelin, John. Why We Pay College Time.com, 1 Mar. 2016, http://time.com/money/4241077/why-we-shouldnt-pay-college-athletes/. Accessed 29 Mar. 2017. Edelman, Marc. Reasons Why Student-Athletes Are Employees And Should Be Allowed To Forbes.com, 30 Jan. 2014, https://www.forbes.com/sites/marcedelman/2014/01/30/21-reasons-why-student-athletes-are- employees-and-should-be-allowed-to-unionize/#9024a6f8d051. Accessed 29 Mar. 2017