Nguyen 1 Phuong-Anh Nguyen Ms. Tisdale ENC 1101 9 April 2017 Intermediate draft project 3 Language is how we communicate in our everyday life and is a cognitive faculty which forms the primary basis of your thinking. Did you know that having to think in different language can make a huge difference in your way of thinking? Because language forms the primary basis of thinking, there are certain thoughts that cannot be made or are totally different in some languages. Your brain is wired differently depending on whether you think thoughts in Japanese, English, or Swahili (Floorwalker). A scientific study found that speakers of different languages put different emphasis on actions and their consequences, influencing the way they think about the world. It also found that bilinguals may get the best of both worldviews, as their thinking can be more flexible (Weiler). The principle of linguistic relativity, popularly known as the Sapir-Whorf hypothesis, holds that the structure of a language affects its world view or cognition. In other words, language shapes the thoughts about many aspects of the world. However, the question of whether languages shape our thoughts or not starts with the surveillance that languages are immensely different from one another. It is often told that a language reflects its culture, psyche and modes of thought (Deutscher). Language is a fundamental mode of communication that shapes the thought of the person speaking it and its influence extends a lot further than what you may think. Before talking about the effects that language has on thinking, answer the question of whether language can change the way you think or not. My opinion on this is yes, Nguyen 2 language does change the way people think. In fact, language has a role in human cognition in many aspects. Anthropological linguist Stephen C. book called of Space: Explorations in Cognitive has shown that there are major relations between culture, language and cognition. Talking about culture, it has an influence on language and it also goes the opposite way. When you learn a new language, you are also learning about a new culture. If you want to learn about a culture, you cannot skip the language because the influence they have on each other is tremendous. In the book The Language published in 2010 by Guy Deutscher, he writes the rules of grammar are meant to be coded in the genes, then one could expect the grammar of all languages to be the same, and it is then difficult to explain why grammars should ever vary in any fundamental (97), then comes to the conclusion of language being the first and foremost artifact of culture. In language, and Sapir- Whorf by Leonid I. Perlovsky, it says that language models (words, phrases) are acquired from surrounding language by age of five or seven. They contain cultural wisdom accumulated through millennia. During the rest of life the language models guide the acquisition of cognitive (4). Since cultures vary a lot, so languages and human thoughts. The effects that language has on human thoughts come in many aspects. One effect that language has on thoughts is navigation and time. Results of different experiments in Deep Are Effects of language on Thought? Time Estimation in Speakers of English, Indonesian, Greek and by Daniel Casasanto suggest that the spatial metaphors in our native language may profoundly influence the way we mentally represent time and language can shape even primitive, low-level mental processes such as estimating brief durations an ability we share with babies and non-human animals. Nguyen 3 Another effect language has on thinking is that grammatical genders can shape the feelings and associations of speakers toward objects around them. Although English does not have grammatical genders, languages like Spanish and German do. Instead of having all neutral words, they categorize words into feminine, masculine and neutral. However, the gender for the same words are not the same in those languages. For example, an apple is masculine in German but feminine in Spanish. Because of this, when thinking about objects with a masculine gender, speakers of these languages tend to think of them with more manly characteristics like strength. For objects with a feminine gender, they tend to like of them as being elegant and slender. on grammatical gender and thought in early and emergent by B. Bassetti and E. Nicoladis, published in 2015, marks gender grammatically might affect thinking. In their research, linguists and psychologists used a variety of tasks: object categorisation, paired associate learning, perspective switching, voice attribution, and (for children) classifying objects as or Variables that were investigated include levels of proficiency, amounts of exposure to the language, and language of interaction among others. The results mostly converge, showing that knowledge of one or more than one grammatical gender language affects performance in a variety of tasks, in both early and emergent bilinguals. However, how language changes the way we think can be seen the most through bilinguals or multilinguals. By speaking two or more languages, these people have more flexible thinking. In the article a second language may change how you see the written by Nicholas Weiler on Science magazine, results from different experiments done on bilinguals show that a second language can play an important unconscious role in framing perception, which also proves that different perceptions exist in a mind because of the effects from both languages. Nguyen 4 Does language really change thoughts when things can be translated and still would express the same ideas, only with different words? It is true that the more words you know, the more thoughts you can have. This is proved by comparing between young children, who has limited vocabulary and adults. We can also compare a native language speaker to a foreigner who is attempting to learn the language. Of course the native speaker would be able to express and have more thoughts than the foreigner because the foreigner would not know certain words to express a certain idea. Another example would be international books that are translated to multiple languages. However hard the translator can try to deliver every single idea the book has to express to another language for more people to receive them, it still would not be the same as reading the book in the original language it was written in. Germans have the word which specifically means the pleasure derived by someone from another misfortune. Since English does not have an exact word which means the same thing, it would be different when translated. Languages diverse too much to be translated and still mean the exact same thing. Language does change the way you think in many ways that you might have not noticed. It plays a role in human cognition in many aspects: navigation, time, perception of the world,... Not only does the change of thought comes from the language itself, the experience of learning a new language can also open doors to new, exciting thoughts. The easiest way to help you discover new thoughts that you have never had before is by learning a new language. Nguyen 5 Works Cited Bassetti, B., Nicoladis, E., on grammatical gender and thought in early and emergent International Journal of Bilingualism, vol. 20, no. 1, SAGE journals, 21 Sep, 2015, journals.sagepub.com/doi/full/10.1177/1367006915576824. Accessed 19 Feb, 2017. Casasanto, D., Boroditsky, L., Phillips, W., Greene, J., Goswami, S., Bocanegra-Thiel, S., et al. (2004). How Deep Are Effects of language on Thought? Time Estimation in Speakers of English, Indonesian, Greek and Spanish. In Kenneth Forbus, Dedre Gentner, Terry Reiger (Ed.), Proceedings of the 26th Annual Cognitive Science Society. Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum. Deutscher, Guy. Through the Language Glass: Why the World Looks Different in Other Languages. New York: Metropolitan Books/Henry Holt and Co, 2010. Print. Levinson, Stephen C., and David P. Wilkins. Grammars of Space: Explorations in Cognitive Diversity. Cambridge University Press, 2006. Perlovsky, Leonid I., language, and Sapir-Whorf Proceedings of the 2009 international joint conference on Neural Networks, IEEE Press Piscataway, NJ, 14 Jun. 2009. Weiler, Nicholas. a second language may change how you see the Science, American Association for The Advancement of Science, 17 Mar. 2015, sciencemag.org/news/2015/03/speaking-second-language-may-change-how-you-see- world. Accessed 13 Feb 2017.