Aloraimi1 Mohammed Aloraimi Mr. John Williams Comp 2 April 15, 2017 Global Warming researchers have ceaselessly raised alert over the continually evolving atmosphere. A few centuries back, dinosaurs existed on the planet yet today, none of them can be discovered wandering planet earth. Their passing was most likely some help to mankind essentially because of the risks they postured. Despite the fact that this threat was discarded by their annihilation, the marvel they cause was to later execute people gradually or so would researchers accept. Coal is what has framed hundreds of years after their extinction. The individuals who thought that it was utilized it at first for local purposes until it was understood that it could prompt the industrialization. Today, people appreciate refined products and enterprises because of mechanical transformation yet these merchandise are gradually expanding the levels of Carbon in the climate. Greenhouse gasses radiated from industries, consuming of petroleum products and vehicle discharges are gradually corrupting the ozone layer, a marvel that has come to be perceived as a worldwide temperature alteration (Meinshausen 1161). As most people continue to exist oblivious to whatever that is happening in the upper atmosphere, a lot of environment things will happen and affect the earth such as, the animal and plants will be no longer safe, climate, and disease but the researchers trying to have a common solution to save the have mostly been worried about the fact that increasing temperatures might be unbearable at one point. True as this may be, animals too are not any safe. Forest fires are one strong indicator of how global warming is affecting the earth. In certain parts of the world such Aloraimi2 as the United Kingdom and America, forest fires start at any time, out of the blue. Many people get hurt and others lose properties. Temperatures have been as high as 45 degrees; yet global warming has not stopped. These are just some of the few effects humans are bound to experience. Animals, on the other hand, may not have the voices to speak for themselves and express the turmoil that global warming might have caused. In the recent past, animals have had to endure these temperatures that humans endure as well. Such have had a profound effect on their physiology and general well-being. Scientists are now beginning to noticing that animals have been affected physiologically. For instance, animals in higher latitudes are said to be dealing with more heat than those in lower latitudes. These areas have more heat than normal and as a result, animals that are unable to withstand such kinds of heat are slowly becoming extinct (Root on the other hand, are affected in a reverse manner. In the same report by Hughes, certain breeds of plants have been noted to grow faster due to increased amounts of carbon dioxide. Temperatures are known to increase respiration, which increases the production of carbon dioxide for plants to use. All these changes may seem mixed up with some seemingly more negative than others. What happens in the long run is a shift in balance. It is difficult to predict where exactly this shift might lead planet earth to. Therefore, humans can only hope that the changes will be more positive than high temperatures, other indirect changes that have bigger effects are expected to take place. Held and Soden (5690), present a rather interesting theory based on calculations and estimations they have made concerning the relationship between global warming and the climate. According to these calculations, increased temperature which is the most commonly known effect of global warming is likely to cause an increase in water vapor levels in the lower Aloraimi3 stratosphere (Kessel 160). What this means in terms is that those areas that are usually dry will become increasingly dry and those that are usually wet will become wetter. Furthermore, there will be heavier floods in the latter and harsher droughts in the former. In a nutshell, the balance that usually exists will be diminished. This means that climates will become unbearable. If there are increased floods then food crops cannot be produced and neither can they be produced in drought seasons. This means that humans will have less food to eat and so will animals. The earth will also be difficult to inhabit due to lack of moderation and balance in the climate. Therefore, if global warming is not reduced, the world should expect starvation cases to the recent past, certain diseases have affected larger masses than before with outbreaks being reported in different parts of the world. Such diseases include Malaria and Dengue fever. Hughes (58) argues that such incidences are not just sheer coincidences but are as a result of hidden effects of global warming. These two diseases are caused by specific types of mosquitos. In the past, these were serious issues but governments fought hard to get rid of them. Their unexpected and untimely comeback, according to Hughes, should be a strong and disturbing indicator of something that is wrong in the climate. He argues that increased temperatures are leading to increased species of these insects. Due to their need to feed, they bite on humans and spread the deadly diseases. The fact that diseases that had already been successfully fought are now making unexpected returns means that humans will have more problems to fight than is obvious that the entire human race should be concerned about global warming. Scientists believe that a specific date for a complete meltdown cannot be pinpointed. It could take decades to centuries before global warming overwhelms the world. In the meantime, Aloraimi4 scientists believe that something should be done to reduce emissions into the atmosphere. Meinshausen (1162) categorically state that there is no doubt a commission was formed over a decade ago to deal with this problem. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) was tasked with regulating burning of fossil fuels in a bid to reduce greenhouse gases. Government representatives agreed to work on reducing emissions in their respective countries by specific percentages. The Carbon Capture Storage (CCS) was proposed as a means of mitigating global warming. Despite these promises and theoretical frameworks laid down, Malte notes that almost nothing has been done to adopt this proposal. He also points out that in the meantime, scientists have failed to give a plausible solution that could help reduce global warming. Countries are still burning fossil fuels despite promises to reduce such activities. Currently, the world is running on fossil fuels (Meinshausen 1160). Automobiles, which run economies and industrial activities, are mostly dependent on fossil fuels. Consequentially, the situation continues to worsen despite the awareness that something needs to be conclusion, each scientist or expert uses complex methods to come up with predictions on how the future might be if gas emissions are not controlled. Major bodies and governments have expressed concern over the issue and changes are surely being experienced. A critical analysis of the facts presented, however, confirms one ugly truth; there is a worrying lack of consistently. Though many experts claim that the worst is yet to come, they are not consistent in the information they give concerning the matter. Some claim that deforestation is bound to occur yet others claim that CO2 levels will actually lead to increased plant growth. These inconsistencies could only mean two things; either human are living with fear for misfortunes that will never come or that the worst is yet to come only that the magnitude is unknown as of Aloraimi5 Works Cited Held, Isaac M., and Brian J. Soden. Robust responses of the hydrological cycle to global  Journal of Climate 19.21 (2006): 5686-5699. April 15 2017 Hughes, Lesley. Biological consequences of global warming: is the signal already  Trends in ecology & evolution 15.2 (2009): 56-61. April 15 2017 The global warming vs. The scientific Informationisbeautiful : (2008). April 14 2017. Kessel, Dagobert G. Global assessment,  Journal of Petroleum Science and Engineering 26.1 (2000): 157-168. April 16 2017 Meinshausen, Malte, et al. Greenhouse-gas emission targets for limiting global warming to 2  Nature 458.7242 (2009): 1158-1162. April 14 2017 Root, Terry L., et al. Fingerprints of global warming on wild animals and  Nature 421.6918 (2005): 57-60. April 14 2017