Shayhorn 1 Zachary Shayhorn Maria Theodosiou ENC 1102 April 16, 2017 Always Watching Our lives are on display for anyone to see the government being one of the worst perpetrators of spying on us everyday citizens. The government and anyone who cares to look can see exactly what you are doing at every second of your day. Some of this spying happens with the average citizen being a perfectly willing participant through incessantly updating social media. The real problem with mass surveillance is not the willing participation in some portions, it is the unwarranted tracking of emails, phones and - according to a research team from Cornell University even your exact position in your home (Xin). In order to keep our personal lives personal and away from prying eyes such as the NSA, we must learn to protect our computer and home from intrusions as well as fight for more restrictions on government agency surveillance power. Every single action that you perform on your computer while connected to the internet can be watched and recorded. All websites that you visit every letter you type can be seen and stored for later use. The NSA has the power to view your every action, and since I am currently connected to the internet, the agency can view me as I type this if they chose to. Now one might think that all of this spying has to be used for a god purpose such as stopping terrorists, criminals and the like. While the end goal is to prevent any and all terrorism in the United States as well as assisting overseas and they generally do believe that they are doing this for a good cause, Shayhorn 2 snooping is another (Hackett, 3). While the NSA does assist in lowering the death toll related to terrorism in the United States averaging thirty-four per year since 2002, 0.000000098% of the population the tradeoff is to great of an injustice (Brower). The surveillance conducted by the NSA and other organizations like it are an extreme violation to the basic human right to personal privacy. Other than keeping your private life between you and the floorboards should care about privacy because if the data says done something wrong, then the reading the data will interpret everything else you do through that (NSA Prism). This means that if I were to text a friend about a video game and that text had too many uses of the word bomb, kill etc. I would be placed on a possible watch list. While on this list everything I do will be looked at with an air of suspicion even if I am a completely normal citizen. The NSA and others have a plethora of ways to watch your every move and it is very scary how truly easy it is for them to do so whenever they wish. They have your phone records, your internet services pass them your data, they can hack your devices, they have made sure your security devices are exploitable, they can track you wherever you are, they are hacking foreign companies, they know exactly what you own and buy (Express VPN). In fact, the movie Eagle Eye is not too far off when considering the amount of information, they can gather on you and predictions they can make from this information. If this relative information about where you generally are or what you are generally doing is not enough to scare you into action then what researchers found at the University of Cornell will. Four researchers found that the Wi-Fi signal coming from your internet router, smart Television and phones can be used as a sort of echolocation to find your exact location in your home. They can do this because person has specific influence patterns to the surrounding WIFI signal while moving The influence can be captured by the Channel State Information (CSI) time series of (Xin, 4). If the NSA can do this while you are sitting at home what is stopping them from using this type of technology Shayhorn 3 to track you wherever you go, after all our society has Wi-Fi signals in nearly every square foot of every city and town. The NSA and other hacking groups are a large beast to be fighting against however everyone can help, and no amount of help is too small. To begin with we want to make it harder for the NSA to track the average citizen in their daily actions and there a clear generational shift toward more information sharing, particularly on social sharing less information would increase the cost of (Hubaux, 2). Now imagine every citizen made it more difficult (and therefore expensive) for these organizations to spy on them. It would become more expensive for these programs to keep an eye on everyone. That would make it more difficult for them to keep a close eye on the majority of (Baxter). By using up the recourses we can limit their reach over the United States citizen body making them at the very least focus their every watching eye on the more fewer more pressing matters of the country like actual terrorist threats. Your part does not stop here of course there is plenty of other things you can do to help the cause to stop the spying. Understanding something is the first step to overcoming it therefore obtaining a solid understanding of how the NSA and hackers gain access to your computer is the first step to preventing them from intruding. There are a plethora of online resources that are available to teach you how to code and be default how to intrude on computer through coding, knowing how they do this can help your prevent it being done to yourself in the future. A solid place to start is either Codecademy or Codewars, both are simple and effective ways to learn the basics. You cannot go it alone however, everyone is going to need help so why not get help from people who stop hackers and spyware for a living. There are many companies who have a free version of anti-mal and anti-spyware software, some of which is built into many computers such as Microsoft Security Essentials. By simply running a Shayhorn 4 routine scan for viruses you can prevent your computer from being watched by harmful programs, and can even speed up your computer in the process so it is a win win! Lastly, there is the political approach in order to take action against the NSA directly. This implies writing your Senator and Hour representative and asking them to take action against the NSA by placing more regulations on the extent of their powers. As you should have learned from the essay, our lives are constantly on display for all to see and unless we want everyone to know our personal life we need to take action against people like the NSA. Learning how they can intrude on your life and the basics of how to stop them are just the start of how you can defend yourself, spreading the word that the NSA is a must if we want our congressmen to take action against the them. Spread the word and protect yourself because they are Always Watching. Works Cited: Hackett, Robert.  Fortune, vol. 175, no. 4, 15 Mar. 2017, pp. 114-116. Hubaux, Privacy Is Dead, Long Live  Communications of the ACM, vol. 59, no. 6, June 2016, pp. 39-41 Baxter, Arthur. the Government can spy on you and what you can do about The Next Web, Aug. 2015 Anonymous. Ways the NSA is Spying on You Right Express VPN, March 2017 Anonymous. Prism: why we should The Guardian, June 2013 Xin, Tong et al Indoor Human Identification with WiFi Cornell University Library, Aug 2016 Shayhorn 5 Brower, Eve deaths in terrorism vs. gun violence in one CNN, Oct 2016