Corrinne Warnke Ashley Tisdale Composition 1 9 April 2017 Nudity in Art David by Michelangelo was criticized for showing the full male human form in a public so leaves were placed to block the areas that some would deem crude, but today the statue of David stands at Galleria in France with the leaf coverings removed. Michelangelo also painted the ceiling in the sistine chapel, in which he painted the figures in the scene in the nude which caused much outrage by the church and other people of the time. Sadly this beautiful piece of art was modified by the church to add more clothing to all the figures due to the fact they felt it was inappropriate for a religious place. Many people in society believe that the nude human form is something that should not be addressed in art, and in result there have been many cases of censorship, such as Michelangelo including many other recent examples such as; of Ms. Ruby May, by Leena McCall even completely nude, but was censored due to public hair showing; and Daughter by Diane Ducruet was a image of a mother and young daughter nude in an embrace and was removed from a gallery due to some deeming it indecent; and many more were unfairly censored. Nudity in art should not be censored because the human body is oversexualized in society, it is a way for people to express their cultural identity, and the right to freedom of speech. Nudity in art has often been censored because society oversexualizes the human body. An image that concerns the nude form may be considered indecent just because of our mindset when we look at it. This idea is shown in this quote, suggest that the nude occupies three frames: the understood and bounded spaces of art, pornography, and information. Increasingly, the nude image can be found and understood in a fourth frame: the commodified frame of advertising and magazine (Eck, 604) Eck shows that there are different frames of mind when viewing nude images, however due to the increased presence of pornography and risque advertising we feel that all images of the nude are meant to cause arousal rather than be viewed from the artistic perspective. This idea can be used to look at this next quote, contextualise representations of homosexuality that is, same-sex relations between men. The male nude made its appearance in work in the early 1950s, a time when the nude was not a popular subject in (Arya). Arya shows that nude that contains art may become oversexualized when it is dealing with a controversial topic such as homosexuality. Many people may be uncomfortable with artwork that may seem to them as a representation of homosexuality due to religion or personal beliefs. However, their ideas of why these pieces of art should be censored are screwed due to their personal beliefs that it is inappropriate and sexually deviant. Nudity in art should also not be censored because it is a way for many people to express their culture. These images may often be seen as inappropriate because people outside the culture viewing them may not understand or appreciate the piece. This idea can be shown in this quote, is an important part of assigning meaning to nude images. Many social scientists have written about the importance of such schemas in notes that categories can be modified to include new objects, but that the greatest comfort comes with those classifications that make  and do not challenge our (Eck, 606) This idea helps you understand how people approach an image containing nudity. Everyone has a schema of what they expect to see when looking at a piece of art dealing with nudity. A schema is a conception of what we believe fits into a category due to previous experiences. However, In dealing with nudity in art we may have different of what is considered nudity in art versus what is considered inappropriate, but these vary greatly by the culture we have created our schema is. This is because we have different experiences and varying views of how far a piece of nude artwork can go before it becomes inappropriate. This quote shows one example of this, like and were not uncommon when White writers described and interpreted African American art. These works were typically described as a feeble attempt to emulate White art or as primitive (Bey). This example shows the idea of each culture having different schemas when viewing artwork because as this artist was expressing his cultural style it was not accepted by the because the style of art did not align with the schema they have created due to their culture. This idea can cause people to become uncomfortable with these images and therefore they may be deemed inappropriate. However, if these people look at it from other cultural perspectives they may be able to accept these pieces of art. Finally, nudity in art should not be censored because it is the right of the people to have the freedom of speech. Due to this freedom these artists have the right to use nude images in artwork as they please. One real world example of this idea is shown in this quote, can be sued in France for removing a account after he posted an image of a 19th-century painting of a genitalia, a Paris court has (Beale). This is one example of artists claiming their right to express themselves as they see fit, even if the image may be deemed inappropriate by some due to nudity, the court decided that the artist could publicly display it on a social media site due to their freedom of speech. In Conclusion nudity in art should not be censored due to freedom of speech, it is a way for people to express their cultural identity, and the nudity in art should not be considered sexual because we as a society are the ones who oversexualize these images. As we continue to grow as a society more and more people will wish to express themselves and hopefully it will eventually become accepted. As in the case of work becoming more accepted over time is just one successful example of the struggle of artists to express themselves in the nude form, but this quote gives a simple answer as to why we may have a problem with the idea of nudity in artwork, nude in art has always been, unsurprisingly, a problematic signifier. Its evident lack of concealment made it an obvious choice for the iconographic representation of (Lilley, 57). Lilley believes that we avoid having a problem with nudity in artwork due to its representation of truth, but what if we could change that perception and embrace the truth?