Jessica Paul Professor Penuliar Composition II 8 April 2017 Charles Darwin once said, love for all living creatures is the most noble attribute of The fact that consuming meat causes harm to animals leads many people down the path of vegetarianism. People will argue that they, live without a weakness for and meat to While they have the right to chose their own lifestyle, their arguments that most people hear in relation to vegetarianism is that they should feel bad for eating animals. While PETA believes that the meat industry has a of animals there are other issues with meat consumption (PETA). There are logical arguments that need to be addressed, without involving guilt or morality. There is more that you need to know about vegetarianism, there are reasons why you should care about vegetarianism, and there is something you can do to start, in the smallest part, to be involved with vegetarianism. Within the last century, a large problem developing is the health of the Earth. Car hybrids, solar panels, and power-saving light bulbs came into the picture. However, going vegetarian, we can reduce the impact of climate change, rainforest destruction, and pollution, while saving water and other precious  according to ChooseVeg.com. Raising animals uses more resources and creates a larger carbon footprint than personal transportation Meat and the ) This is because of the carbon dioxide released from all the processes used in meat production, the elimination of forests for increased grazing land, and the release of methane from the bovine populations all create greenhouse gasses (Top 10 Reasons). Health is another major reason why people choose to become vegetarian. Health Department Compared with meat eaters, vegetarians tend to consume less saturated fat and cholesterol and more Becoming a ) Many cultures follow diets that lack red meat, and their focuses are on plant-based foods. In fact, the Mediterranean diet, which people sometimes associated with and a lower chance of getting a certain illness, does not use meat that much in their diets, they actually focus on plant alternatives such as beans and rice. (Harvard Health) Multiple resources from above focus on the term and in relation to vegetarian diets because it can be a health risk if you forget to use alternative protein sources. A cheese pizza help reduce your chances of a heart attack, but having a healthy version of pasta or even a hand-made pizza with healthy choices just might. We are well aware now of how vegetarianism benefits the Earth and your body, but I can hear your major question: does this matter to After years of watching all the animal rights ads and propaganda, many have a bitter view towards vegetarianism, but begging for this change, not for the animals, even if they do benefit from this, but for you. By switching to a meatless diet, we can help preserve our Earth and our people. Currently, a major issue sweeping the nation is world hunger. Chooseveg.com, an advocate for vegetarianism, claims that 70% of the arable land found in the United States is used for animal agriculture. If people switched to a meatless diet, we could easily use that land for crops and produce much more food for the land mass. This would help feed many of the starving Americans living on the street. They also claim that over eighty percent of the land found in the Amazon has been destroyed and turned into fields in which cattle can be raised. By reducing the amount of meat consumed, as a result of people becoming vegetarian, we can also reduce the amount of carbon dioxide and methane emissions into the atmosphere. Animal agriculture creates more carbon dioxide emissions that all of the transport vehicles combined, in fact, the United Nations has argued that to best battle this climate change, a change in diets around the globe is necessary! (PETA). Another reason this issue should matter to you is the medical benefits. By eliminating meat from your diet, your risks for certain chronic diseases are reduced. The Committee claims that by removing meat your risks for heart disease drop the most dramatically of all. In a more realistically tangible note, many countries that do not consume meat also have a reduced amount of kidney stones, which are extremely prominent within meat consuming countries. Health department also explains that by switching to a meatless diet you can reduce your risk of colon cancer as well as Type 2 diabetes. These are issues sweeping the United States. This is why this pressing issue is of the utmost importance to those who have a family history associated with chronic illnesses, this might give them the edge to reduce their risks. live without this is a statement many people claim when they argue against vegetarianism. They think that to become vegetarian they have to go all in, and cut meat out completely. This is not the case! I totally understand that people love bacon and know any other ways that they could get their protein, which is why I am pleading with you to help in the smallest way possible. I am only asking you to try to make one day a week completely meatless. I am calling for Meatless Mondays. There are plenty of delicious and simple meals we already eat in society that have no meat such as mac n cheese, salad, and alfredo sauce on top of fresh pasta. There is a program, literally called Meatless Mondays, that is reaching out on a global standard to focus on, innovative ways to make meatless and vegetarian dishes part of their everyday culture, customs and (Meatless Mondays). They have spread their reach to over forty-four countries and trying to go even further. They also provide a multitude of possible recipes for people to enjoy without any meat. This is a simple start towards the beginning of a large movement. While I am only asking you to try this simple start, and move on as you see fit. The power to change the world is in your hands. I bet that steak sitting in front of you smells absolutely delicious, but I know that your body will respond much better to fresh sweet fruit and a fresh crisp salad. For the benefit of mankind, I implore you to try cutting out the meat. Not only for the idea of animals lives, but for the elongation of survival and for the reduced risk of disease in your own lives. It cannot be that hard to cut out meat for one day a week, and I know that as a country that developed from rural ways into the tough suburban society can develop a system to benefit our hungry and unhealthy, but really pushing forward these Meatless Monday. not easy to change an entire way of life, which is why I am arguing a simple start. calling out to people of all kinds, to take this first step, and together as a society we can move further and even on a global scale we can move forwards towards a better, healthier and longer tomorrow. My Sources Anonymous. Vegetarian Foods: Powerful for  The Physicians Committee. N.p., 09 July 2015. Web. 03 Apr. 2017. Get Ready to Save the  Environment. ChooseVeg.com, 20 May 2014. Web. 03 Apr. 2017. The Global  Meatless Monday. N.p., n.d. Web. 03 Apr. 2017. Meat and the  Meat and the Environment. PETA, n.d. Web. 03 Apr. 2017. Publications, Harvard Health. Becoming a  Harvard Health. Harvard Medical School, 1 Oct. 2009. Web. 03 Apr. 2017. Top 10 Reasons Why Green to Go  Down to Earth Organic and Natural. N.p., 20 Dec. 2016. Web. 03 Apr. 20