Lyford 1 Nate Lyford Professor Roth 04/09/17 Legalizing medical marijuana For years, marijuana has been demonized by the media and the government, even though it has many curative, healing properties. been discovered that marijuana can help ease many symptoms of some of the worst and most painful diseases and conditions known to mankind. It also results in less deaths worldwide than both alcohol and cigarettes yearly. The economic benefits of legalizing marijuana are also numerous as well, as the united states could save billions on law enforcement, and make almost as much money in taxes, and assuming it were to be taxed the same as other substances like tobacco and alcohol. It is understandable how marijuana became so looked down upon. Movies like reefer madness in 1936 (IMDB), are the kinds of propaganda that led to the complete demonization of marijuana by the media and the government. Back in that time, marijuana was completely unstudied. This left the PTA and government with nothing to do but immediately condemn it, as it is human nature to fear and sometimes, unfortunately, hate the unknown. This kind of ignorance coupled with the image of marijuana being immediately linked with hippies. In the 1970s hippies were the go to scapegoat. So, when marijuana started gaining popularity, it was automatically seen as something negative. On this note, marijuana became associated with frying the brain and essentially turning it into mush. However, this line of thinking should no longer prevail. We live in a day and age where medicine has become increasingly advanced and useful in the treatment of illnesses. Lyford 2 There are many, many economic benefits to legalizing medical marijuana in all fifty states. Think for a second about all the men and women imprisoned on charges related or pertaining to marijuana. Now consider all the police officers that must be paid for arresting people for using marijuana. Then add all of that to the fact that the state must pay lawyers to defend the person with the marijuana charge, that eventually adds up to a total of approximately 7.7 billion dollars of expenditure on law enforcement every year (Cannabid Commerce). If medical marijuana was finally legalized, it would allow the government of the United States to have 7.7 billion dollars of funding to reallocate to more important areas. Some people argue that cannabis use can lead to psychosis later in life. It is true that studies have long shown that the overuse of marijuana can lead to instances of schizophrenia and other mental illnesses (Moreau J. Hashish and mental illness, 161). However, these cases are few and far between. In addition to the rareness of the cases, most of the mental illnesses linked to cannabis usage were from recreational use, coupled with a preexisting mental health condition which had its symptoms exacerbated by the usage (NCBI). Compared to things like alcohol and tobacco which are perfectly legal, and are known to kill hundreds of thousands of people worldwide, the few instances of the negative side effects of marijuana should not prevent something that can do so much good from being legalized. The key part of the medical marijuana debate is the word medical. The medical implications of medical marijuana are vast and many of them are still undiscovered. Early in the history of marijuana we knew it could be used for its medicinal properties, but the extent of those properties was unknown. We now know that marijuana can perform amazing feats like significantly slowing the progression of disease (ACS publications). THC, the active ingredient in marijuana, neutralizes some of the enzymes that cause Upon Lyford 3 uncovering information like this, medical marijuana use becomes more and more widespread. Further research on marijuana has been supported because it can help a whole host of problems included but not limited to, glaucoma, cancer, seizures, muscle spasms, anxiety, insomnia, and even multiple sclerosis. Although marijuana is not a cure for any of these, it relieves pain and helps to give a higher quality of life to those who would otherwise be suffering every day of their lives. Alcohol and tobacco are known to individually kill millions of people worldwide every single year and yet they are still legal (CDC). Out of tobacco, marijuana for medical purposes, and alcohol, marijuana should be the legal one. Smoking tobacco and drinking alcohol have done nothing but harm society. Alcohol and tobacco are directly linked to many of the cancers and other ailments medical marijuana has been shown to treat. In conclusion, medical marijuana should be legalized because the benefits far outweigh the costs. The United States has nothing to lose, and everything to gain by legalizing medical marijuana. Lyford 4 Works Cited Reefer Madness  IMDb. IMDb.com, n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Miron, Jeffrey A . The Budgetary Implications of Marijuana  N.p., June 2005. Web. 12 Mar. 2017. Chen, Angus. Pot Can Trigger Psychotic Symptoms For Some, But Do The Effects  NPR. NPR, 06 Mar. 2015. Web. 02 Apr. 2017. Os, J. Van, M. Bak, M. Hanssen, R. V. Bijl, R. De Graaf, and H. Verdoux. Cannabis Use and Psychosis: A Longitudinal Population-based  American Journal of Epidemiology. Oxford University Press, 15 Aug. 2002. Web. 02 Apr. 2017.