Sutton 1 Brandon Sutton Professor Ashely Tisdale ENC 1101 9 April 2017 Gun Control Gun control has been a highly controversial topic since their mainstream use began. Some people abhor the idea of gun control, while others praise it for protecting citizens. Stricter gun control is a necessity in mainstream America. There are so many problems in this country as a result of the lax gun control laws in place today. People are dying due to guns at an alarming rate and this needs to be stopped. Murder rates in cities are problematic and there are many mass shootings. Congress has repeatedly taken steps to make gun control laws more lax, which can do more harm than good, considering the political turmoil the United States is currently in. There is too much access to handguns in this country. In fact, 2006, handguns were used in 60% of all (Bogus, 441-82). This concludes the fact that gun violence in this country is an epidemic and must be stopped. Gun control in America should be more strict due to mass shootings due to overabundance of guns, to end the targeting of people of color, and to make certain groups feel safe. First, there are too many mass shootings due to the overabundance of guns in this country. Cities have a major issue with gun violence in this country. There is a high rate of homicide overall in this country, but adding guns into the equation is not always the best idea. Mass shootings in America create chaos and stress on the citizens of America. With the rise of twenty four hour news coverage, it seems that news about shootings do not ever end. Socially, Sutton 2 Americans are accustomed to these issues and they should not be afraid that they will be shot. Sandy Hook, Columbine, The Pulse nightclub shooting in Orlando, the Aurora movie theater shooting, and the Virginia Tech shooting are some of the many examples of gun violence in America. This should not be normalized, but instead, controlled by the American government. There are not harsh enough laws in place to protect people from guns. The Senate and House of Representatives are overwhelmingly conservative and have a harsh stance in favor of more lax gun control laws. In fact, an article written by William J. Vizzard states power of such opposition is intensified by the bicameral nature of Congress and the Republican structural advantage at the state and federal level, resulting from 2010 redistricting and a lack of active public support for gun (Vizzard 879-904) Basically, the Republican party has an overwhelming majority on just about every issue in the United States, thus making gun control laws impossible to pass. America also has way too many guns for its population. The ratio of guns to people in the country is astonishing and alarming, compared to the statistics around the world. In fact, according to an article written by Charles W. Collier, has than five percent of the population and nearly half of the 102-31). This is a disturbing statistic, which needs to be dramatically changed to get rid of this epidemic of gun violence in the United States. The next issue to be discussed is the issue of people of color in the United States. Amongst other people of color and white people, there is a lot of violence and controversy regarding guns. People of color (black people, Lations) in poorer neighborhoods deal with guns quite often. It is disproportionately this way in the United States and it is indeed an issue that must be fixed. It has become normalized in these areas and people have given up on trying to fix Sutton 3 this rough and terrible situation, as it some way of life. They are just accustomed to this idea and have no means to get out of these hard situations. There is an article written by Gary Younge that supports this by stating that poor black and brown people are shot dead in areas deprived of resources, the media, the police, and a sizable portion of the political class are confirmed in their view that these are dysfunctional places where dysfunctional people live and die. It challenge their worldview; it confirms (Younge, 12-15) This basically states that poor people of color are stigmatized to be the victim and shot in these violent confrontations amongst themselves and with police. People need to change their mindsets about people that are different from them; this involves the idea of making guns less accessible for the common man. Finally, not everyone agrees with the idea of lax gun control laws, unlike most people in political power. Somewhere around half of Americans disagree with the idea of more relaxed gun control laws, considering America is roughly half politically liberal and half politically conservative, thus the divide in the country. There have been quite a few surveys taken from people from both perspectives about this issue. As stated previously, the nation is pretty split. In fact, it has been said that females, urban residents, non-criminal justice majors, and non-gun (Payne, Reidel Jr. 314) are for stricter gun control laws as opposed to their white, male, rural, criminal justice majors, and gun-owning counterparts. There is always more than one side to the story, however. There are more conservative people who disagree and believe in more relaxed gun control laws, which could be right. The late Supreme Court Justice Scalia could inferred to be a Constitutionalist. The influential Justice believed arguments and historical evidence [was for interpreting the Second Amendment broadly to protect non-military use of (Rostron, 383-418). He is right about preserving the Sutton 4 Constitution in that regard. However, the statistics do not lie, and some more politically liberal opinions disagree. Guns do not necessarily solve problems. In conclusion, gun control must be stricter due to a surplus of guns in the country, the issue with people of color and gun violence, and the fact that guns tend to cause more harm than good overall. Gun in this country a major issues and need to be discussed so the people in this country can make stricter gun control laws. Guns create mass shootings and chaos throughout America, and America really needs to resolve this. There need to be more restrictive policies in place so not just anyone can have access to handguns, perhaps stricter guidelines on who can get a gun permit, and a limit to the amount of handguns one can purchase. Sutton 5 Works Cited Bogus, Carl T. Gun Control And Cities: Public Policy And  Albany Government Law Review 1.2 (2008): 441-482. Index to Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 13 Feb. 2017. Collier, Charles W. The Death Of Gun Control: An American  Critical Inquiry 41.1 (2014): 102-131. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 20 Feb. 2017. Payne, Brian K., and Riedel Jr., Robert Gun Control Attitudes And The Criminal Justice Student: Do Differences  Student 36.2 (2002): 314. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Rostron, Allen. Gun Rights and Improving Gun Control after District of Columbia v. & Clark Law Review (2009): 383-418. to Legal Periodicals & Books Full (H.W. Wilson). Web. 13 Feb. 2017. Vizzard, William J. The Current And Future State Of Gun Policy In The United  Journal Of Criminal Law and Criminology 104.4 (2015): 879-904. Academic Search Premier. Web. 20 Feb. 2017 Younge, Gary. Why The Gun-Control Movement  303.19 (2016): 12-15. Academic Search Web. 5 Feb. 2017.