Bishop 1 Lora Bishop Jubalee Penuliar ENC 1102 14 April 2017 Defend Planned Parenthood When I was in 8 th grade, I went on birth control for the first time. been on it ever since. Thanks to Medicaid and Planned Parenthood, always been able to have access to birth control and been able to afford it. However, not everyone understands why I went on birth control at such a young age because of misconceptions of the use of birth control. This is a reoccurring theme in the debate of whether Planned Parenthood should be defunded. But some people who say that they want Planned Parenthood to be defunded even truly know what that means. If they truly understood, they would see how important to everyone that women have access to affordable birth control. We need to fight for a right to be able access birth control now. important to educate yourself, understand how this issue affects you, and take action to make a change. Not everyone knows that there is more than one type of birth control. There are in fact a lot of different methods including: implants, pills, shots, sponges, rings, cervical caps, and intrauterine devices (IUDs). A misconception about birth control is that it is only used to prevent pregnancy. In reality, most women use it for the other health benefits that come with it. For me, it prevents the terrible effects of premenstrual syndrome (PMS). At only 14, I was experiencing the full swing of symptoms of PMS. I would have such terrible cramps that I would be crying and laying on the floor until I puked, to the point where I had to miss multiple days of school. Bishop 2 My dad is conservative and did not want me on birth control, but my doctor told him that there was no way to relieve my symptoms without it. So, he gave in. But there are lots of young girls whose parents would rather them stay in pain than let them be on birth control, and luckily, Planned Parenthood can help these girls receive access to this important drug. Besides the misconceptions about just normal methods of birth control, there is some confusion about what Plan B is considered. considered a type of birth control, but falls under a different label of being an emergency contraceptive. Finally, one last thing that some people may not understand is that abortion is never considered a method of birth control. important to understand the basics behind birth control so you can better understand the controversy that is the defunding of Planned Parenthood. The first thing you need to know about the relationship between birth control and Planned Parenthood is that over one third of Planned services is providing birth control. Right now there is a debate about whether Planned Parenthood should be defunded. What does this truly mean? It means that the 60% of Planned Parenthood patients that depend on public health programs like Medicaid and Title X would be unable to receive their preventive and primary care from Planned Parenthood (NPR). Besides birth control, this includes STD tests and pap smears. Why is it important that Planned Parenthood can continue to support its patients? important because Planned Parenthood serves 1.5 million people under Title X every year (NPR). If Planned Parenthood supported and gets defunded, it will affect over a million people. easy to think to yourself that because either a female who go to Planned Parenthood or because a male, that you need to care and the defunding of Planned Parenthood affect you. In fact, according to a 2017 National Survey conducted by the non-partisan polling group Perryundem, 52% of men feel that they benefit from women Bishop 3 having access to affordable birth control. However, they do because when women have unintended pregnancies, it costs all taxpayers. Two million births were publicly funded in 2010; of those, about unplanned. A publicly funded birth in 2010 cost an average of $12,770 in prenatal care, labor and delivery, postpartum care and 12 months of infant care; when 60 months of care are included, the cost per birth increases to $20,716 (Guttmacher Institute). As well, this affects families nationwide. According to Adam Sonfield, Kinsey Hasstedt, Megan L. Kavanaugh and Ragnar Anderson in their article, Social and Economic Benefits of Ability to Determine Whether and When to Have they found a lot of important information relevant to birth control. For one, close birth spacing and large families are linked with decreased investment in parenting (Sonfield et. Al 51). Also, unplanned births caused increased conflict and decreased satisfaction between the two parents (Sonfield et. Al 51). These two findings are the negative outcomes that could happen for many women if they afford their birth control and unintentionally become pregnant. A comedic but effective way that Planned Parenthood has recently received help is, than 50,000 donations have been made to Planned Parenthood, a US non-profit group promoting reproductive health, in the name of anti-choice Vice President-elect Mike Pence in a show of creative resistance and organising against the incoming Donald Trump (GreenLeft). Now, difficult for college students to come up with enough money to feed themselves, so making a donation may not be feasible for you. easy to think to yourself, just a college student. nothing I can do to help the However, there are a lot of things that you can do, with no financial cost to you. The most impactful thing you can do is become a Planned Parenthood defender. The defenders are a group of people who have agreed to donate their time to defend Planned Parenthood, the help that they provide, and the people that Bishop 4 rely on that help. On their sign up page it says that, weeks, ask you to help flood a key member of Congress with calls. Sometimes it might be writing a letter, showing up for a rally, or inviting friends over for an emergency meetup. Whatever it is, it will be truly needed, right when needed most and give you the detailed instructions you need to take This is the easiest and simplest way that you can get involved and make a real difference in the fight for affordable birth control for all women. Whether a female or a male, the fight to keep Planned Parenthood funded is something we should all be fighting for. This is a controversial issue that we all need to be a stakeholder in. Now that educated with the facts and armed with the power to be a Planned Parenthood defender, you can make a difference by standing with Planned Parenthood. Birth control should not be a privilege, it should be a right. Bishop 5 Works Cited Kurtzleben, Danielle. Fact Check: How Does Planned Parenthood Spend That Government  NPR. NPR, 05 Aug. 2015. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. PerryUndem. PerryUndem Gender and Birth Control Access  Scribd. Scribd, n.d. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. Prupis, Nadia. 50,000 Planned Parenthood Donations in  Green Left Weekly. N.p., 24 Nov. 2016. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. Sonfield A., K. Hasstedt, M. Kavanaug, and R. Anderson. Social and Economic Benefits of Ability to Determine Whether and When to Have Conscience. Summer, 2013, Vol. 34 Issue 2, p51, 1 p. 24 Feb. 2017. Sonfield, Adam, and Kathryn Kost. Public Costs from Unintended Pregnancies and the Role of Public Insurance Programs in Paying for Pregnancy-Related Care: National and State Estimates for  Guttmacher Institute. N.p., 06 Apr. 2016. Web. 17 Apr. 2017.