Student 1 Student Instructor L.E. DuBois ENC 1102 15 April 2017 Do you know what Type of Crops You are Using in Your Lunches? Nutrition is a vital part of any life, controlling many aspects of development, health, and overall quality of life. Usually the primary way to make sure loved ones are receiving the best possible food is buying the healthy and organic foods at the supermarket. But what about the crops used to make this Food? GMOs are becoming more common within the supermarket, often without any indication that the product does use it. This means even without your knowledge, your trip to the grocery store could result in a majority of GMO products. While GMOs are praised for their possibilities of greatness, genetic engineering of organic life has its risks as well. A further look must be taken into GMOs to weigh the risks and benefits, and to see who really controls what you and your loved ones are eating. While GMOs could be useful, there is still significant risk that they might be harmful. With the possibility that loved-ones might be in danger, effort must be taken to ensure that they will be safe through making sure companies are transparent with what they use inside their food. GMOs, or genetically modified organisms are a large topic of debate, but what are they exactly? GMOs are organisms where their genomic DNA is altered through multiple processes such as genome editing or genetic engineering (U.S. Food and Drug Administaration). The goal of such processes is to expresses the traits that are most desired, ranging from bigger yields to Student 2 increased pest resistance. One of the more prominent features of GMO engineering is the expression of genes that allow for herbicide-tolerant crops, as they allow farmers to spray fields with harsh pesticides (Green America). The companies that conduct such experiments and market these crops to farmers are referred to the (Pesticide Action Network of North America) due to their majority control over GMOs, effectively dominating the worlds pesticide and seed industries (ETC Group). Even the U.N. has stated the dangers of these companies control, as has far-reaching implications for global food security, as the privatization and patenting of agricultural innovation (gene traits, transformation technologies and seed germplasm) has been supplanting traditional agricultural understandings of seed, rights, and  (Olivier Matringe). Such crops are used more commonly then expected, as the most common types of GMO crops include corn and soy (Green America), used commonly in commercial products. Large companies such as Coca Cola, General Mills, and Heinz use GMO crops within their products, often without any labeling indicating that they do (Eat Local Grown). Although the benefits of GMOs can seem attractive, a further analysis must be taken to view the risks, such as environmental and health. GMOs can pose possible environmental risks such as breading of stronger strains of pests, this can be seen with many types of GE corn crops, show that cross-resistance exists between Cry3Bb1 maize and mCry3A maize and is associated with severe injury to Bt maize in (Aaron J. Gassmann1 5141-5146). Additionally, it was shown that due to GM crops, pesticide use has increased as well, crops have increased overall pesticide use by 318.4 million pounds over the first 13 years of commercial use, compared to the amount of pesticide likely to have been applied in the absence of HT and Bt (Benbrook 4-5). GMOs also pose possible health risks, especially for Student 3 children. Children are even more susceptible to harmful effects of GMOs. Due to their developing bodies, children turn their food to cells and building blocks, introducing foreign or unknown molecules within GMO crops could have unpredictable or harmful effects on the child (Smith). Furthermore, due to their young age children are more susceptible to developing allergies, a minute increase in foreign substances within GMOs could cause unusual reactions and even affect development through disruption of hormones and the endocrine system (Smith). Although these toxins or foreign particles might be present in small amounts within GMOs, it must also be considered the usual diet of a child. As diets consist of mostly corn and soy, the risk of encountering such dangerous particles is larger than adults (Smith).This is only worsend when considering that even baby formula has toxic particles, or nanoparticles, present, found tiny, engineered nanoparticles in six of the most popular baby formulas sold in the United (Green America). This problem can even be an issue before feeding a child baby food or formula, as potentially widespread use of GM food products as food additives and staple foods, including use in baby foods, may lead to earlier introduction of these novel proteins to susceptible infants either directly or via the presence of the maternally ingested proteins in breast (The Royal Society of Canada). Action needs to be taken to ensure that families not willing to take the risk with GMOs can buy food knowing that free of any possible genetically modified crops. Legislature was introduced to allow labeling of GMO products, although it must be taken into account that many of the has led strong campaigns against this, pouring money to prevent legislature (Organic Consumers Association). Although some legislature has taken affect, it is limited to small text on the back of the packaging or within a QR code needing a phone app to read it (Charles). Student 4 A major area of concern is not using GMO within products, but the unknowing and unlabeled used of GMOs. There are multiple ways to take action against GMO usage. There are multiple pro labeling sites that try to support legislature and action for companies to label whether their product contains any GMOs. Projects such as the Non-GMO project provide third party verification of non-GMO products for many foods, ensuring that the contents are devoid of any genetic modification (Non-GMO Project). These can be easily found on the label on products within grocery stores, allowing the individual to provide safe non-GMO food for their family and support the producers they want. Boycotting is also an effective method of stating personal opinion about the commercial use of GMOs. This is an effective method due to the ability to sway company policy by capitalism, as the consumer chooses the product they trust and prefer. Sites such as GMO Inside, a campaign of Green America take inventory of many popular brands to educate which ones should be avoided and who to contact with your complaints (Green America). While GMOs can seem like the next step in science, there still exist major risks. Although since GM crops do pose a risk it should be the consumers choice of what to feed their family. This becomes difficult as many of the producers of GMOs and users of GMOs try to stop legislation or hide the fact that they use GMO crops within their products. Due to this, it must fall upon the consumer to take action for their right to know what they are purchasing. Through boycotting GMO products, supporting non-GMO labeling and non-GMO producers, change can be incited. Green America has even seen victories with large companies such as Smuckers, Sabra, and Campbells, seeing them either offer non-GMO products or cease use of GM Crops (Green America). Change is possible if action is taken. (WC: 1230) Student 5 Works Cited Aaron J. Gassmann1, Jennifer L. Petzold-Maxwell, Eric H. Clifton, Mike W. Dunbar, Amanda M. Hoffmann, David A. Ingber, and Ryan S. Keweshan. Field-evolved resistance by western corn rootworm to multiple Bacillus thuringiensis toxins in transgenic  Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America (2013): 5141-5146. Print. Benbrook, Charles. Impacts of Genetically Engineered Crops on Pesticide Use in the United States: The First Thirteen Years. Experimental. New York: The Organic Center, 2009. Electronic. Charles, Dan. Congress Just Passed A GMO Labeling Bill. Super Happy About It. 14 July 2016. Website. 15 4 2017. Eat Local Grown. Blacklisted: GMO Supporting Food Companies to Avoid. 18 4 2015. Website. 15 4 2017. ETC Group. Who Owns Nature? Corporate Power and the Final Frontier in the Commodification of Life. Investigative. New York: International civil society organizational report, 2008. Print. Green America. Nano In Infant Formula. 25 1 2017. Online. 15 4 2017. Victories! 1 3 2017. Website. 15 4 2017. What are the Most Common Types of Genetically Engineered (GE) Crops? 5 4 2014. Website. 15 4 2017. What is Genetic Engineering? What is a GMO? 2 3 2016. Online. 15 4 2017. Why GMO Inside? 6 3 2015. Website. 4 3 2017. Non-GMO Project. Non-GMO Project. 23 6 2016. Website. 16 4 2017. Olivier Matringe, Irene Musselli Moretti. United Nations Conference on Trade and  Study. 2006. Print. Organic Consumers Association. Who Opposses GMO Labeling. 13 3 2015. Website. 15 4 2017. Pesticide Action Network of North America. Chemical Cartel. 2 July 2012. Website. 15 4 2017. Smith, Jeffrey M. Genetic Roulette: The Documented Health Risks of Genetically Engineered Foods. Fairfield: Yes!, 2007. Print. The Royal Society of Canada. Elements of Precaution: Recommendations for the Regulation of Food Biotgechnology in Canada. Expert Panel. Ottawa, Ontario: Health Canada Canadian Food Inspection Agency and Environment Canada, 2001. Print. Student 6 U.S. Food and Drug Administaration. Intentionally Altered Genomic DNA in Animals and Plants. 18 1 2017. <https://www.fda.gov/AnimalVeterinary/DevelopmentApprovalProcess/GeneticEngineering/>.