Salvinien 1 Camille Salvinien Professor Ashely Tisdale Composition I 9th April, 2017 Teenage Trauma Amongst Social Media: Cyberbullying, Mental Illnesses and Suicides. Social media platforms have tremendously expended over the years, especially to a younger audience. Yet has society ever stopped to think about the consequences it could have on a more fragile audience. According to Lenhart in a study done for the Pew Reasearch Center, it was discovered that 32% of adolescents have been bullied online and the consequences of this bullying can be fatal (Lenhart, 2007). Social media, as stated by Mark Hopkins, has been separated in to two kinds: the new and the old (Hopkins, 2008). Monetizing and marketing the primary ideas behind the platforms but rather the fame, followings and fortunes that comes along with it. In many different cases, this has led to very tragic circumstances. As social media reached a younger audience it was undeniable that bullying rates, mental illnesses and suicide rates were going to rise. The bullying rates have considerably aroused around the past decade. In 2007, Lenhart discovered that teens have experienced online in a form or another. Such as spreading rumors across the media outlet, sending threatening messages, posting a picture of someone without their consent or even forwarding a private conversation (Lenhart, 2007). Social media, has become and easy platform to embarrass and humiliate others. The platforms are commonly anonymous therefor protecting the bully, behind the brightly light screen of their phones, more than the victim of the harassment. This cyberbullying is what has led to an increase of mental illnesses (such as anorexia and self-harming) and suicides amongst 13 to 18 years old. Salvinien 2 In an article for the National Center for Children in Poverty written by Schwarz, an average of 20% of the teenage population had been diagnosed with a mental illness (Schwarz, 2009). As kids, teenagers and adults have begun to struggle turning their phone off, more and more have become overwhelmed and insecure due to the pressure of keeping up with appearances. Technology has now gained a total and full control of society. In a study conducted for Medical News Today, Catharine Paddock discovered that of respondents said social media sites has changed their behavior, with half of those saying the impact has been (Paddock, 2012). These numbers have revealed that people know the damage and the harms social media has but are so addicted that they continued to constantly surf them. The main concern that has reached parents, doctors, family members and even teachers, is the growing rate of suicide. All mainly due to the bullying, threatening and humiliation on every kind of social media platform. This has gone so far that suicide is now the third leading cause of death amongst teenagers annually according to Schwarz (Schwarz, 2009). A very famous story of teen suicide was discussed by Norton in Dangerous Impacts of Social Media on Mental where the case of Tim Piper was unrevealed (Norton, 2014). The teenager had already been diagnosed with self-harm and depression, through the internet he found advice of how to commit suicide and decided to end his own life. In the same article, Norton explains how there is billion Facebook users and 450 million people suffering from mental and how these numbers around reducing in the near future. The Prevention of Cruelty to Children found that over 19,000 teenagers had been admitted to a hospital for self- harming in 2015 to 2016, this is 14% increase since 2013 to 2014 (Watts, 2016). Recently, a bigger discussion on what the real source of this issue has opened up. People have realized that society has been the one dictating the norms of social media rather than simply blaming the platform. Social media was molded by the social context it lives in. Society forces people to fit into molds they belong, pushes people against each other and has truly Salvinien 3 become the survival of the fittest. In an article from The Independent, are consumers, needing to compete successfully in the market from an ever earlier age or (Watts, 2016). Yet, in more and more cases people have found allies in social media. The platforms have allowed teenagers who feel depressed or even anxious to connect to one another and help each other through it. Others have shared their story, through blogs and different accounts, openly to maybe help one person in the future. The social is currently rebecoming part of the media, and finally it has found voice again. From the rise of cyberbullying, mental illnesses to the rise of suicides social media has been blamed for a while. The abundance of social media amongst the younger population has increased the bullying rates which has led to an increase in cyberbullying and mental illnesses. Yet, who else than society is to blame? If society create norms for people and if everyone was taught for a younger age to respect and love one another, maybe it have become anti-social networks. Overall, social media has been made to bring people together, but more in the past few years it has separated people and brought them up against each other. Salvinien 4 Work Cited Hopkins, Mark. What is Social Media, Mashable. N.p., 18 Nov. 2008 Web. 20 Feb. 2017 Lenhart, Amanda.  Pew Research Center: Internet, Science & Tech. N.p., 27 June 2007. Web. 13 Feb. 2017. Norton, Mariel. The Dangerous Impacts of Social Media on Mental  The Next Web. N.p., 27 Sept. 2014. Web. 13 Feb. 2017. Paddock, Catharine. Use Feed Anxiety and Inadequacy Says Small Medical News Today. MediLexicon international, 10 July 2012. Web. 13 Feb. 2017. Schwarz, Susan W. Adolescent Mental Health in the United  National Center for Children in Poverty. Mailman School of Public Health Columbia University, June 2009. Web. 20 Feb. 2017 Watts, Jay, Dr. Social Media Make Teenagers Self-harm, Neoliberalism  The Independent. Independent Print Ltd, 9 Dec. 2016. Web. 05 Feb. 2017.