Petropoulos 1 Maria Petropoulos ENC 1102 John Williams 16 April 2017 Black Lives Matter Black Lives Matter is the term used by those who are opposed to the actions they have witnessed the government, government officials, or police officers take towards minority groups, especially blacks. Lives Matter is a call to action and a response to the virulent anti- Black racism that permeates our According the black lives matter website, this is a moment, but a This movement is about more than the racism that has stemmed from the events of the senseless killings that have taken place since Trayvon, it sticks up for any person who is black as well as a part of some other minority group, whether it be blacks in the LGTB communities, disabled persons, and those with questionable pasts (blacklivesmatter). They want the white privilege that they have witnessed their counterparts indulging in for long before their time; they are about the ways in which Black lives are deprived of basic human rights and (blacklivesmatter). They blame white supremacy for their discrimination and merely want to be equal, and for the accomplishments and safety of the minorities to be just as important as everyone Racism is a topic that has been relevant throughout American history. Civil Rights has been a popular topic of discussion since the Martin Luther King Jr. was around and gave his famous Have a speech. Half a century has gone by and discrimination is still an issue within out society. More recently, the term Lives sprung in 2012 and is mostly used on social media sites, such as Twitter, for people to comment on their thoughts and Petropoulos 2 opinions of the recent events. The hashtag was created by three sisters a call to action for Black people after 17-year-old Trayvon Martin was post-humously placed on trial for his own murder and the killer, George Zimmerman, was not held accountable for the crime he committed. It was a response to the anti-Black racism that permeates our society and also, unfortunately, our (blacklivesmatter). Because it is mostly used on social media sites for people to comment on their thoughts and opinions of the recent events, #Black Lives Matter has spread awareness of the discrimination towards the vast majority of minority groups with support. This has a large young adult and, of course, minority support. But, because it draws this sort of audience, of course there are those who oppose the action and its cause. two examples of this are #Blue Lives Matter and #All Lives Matter. These terms have come to show that there is no racist actions taking place, but, rather, that the police officers have acted in their own best interest and safety, for the stakeholders on the #Blue Lives Matter side. The #All Lives Matter side believes that no life is more important than and that no other life is more important than These differing sides have caused many riots and outbreaks of racial violence, only causing more danger in neighborhoods. While these opposing side have good points, they do not acknowledge the fact that discrimination towards Blacks is a major pressing issue. Of course All Lives Matter, no one is more important than another person; we are all people trying to live our lives to the fullest. #BlackLivesMatter saying that blacks are more important than whites or any other race, this movement is fighting to show that they are equally as important as others. And because they are just important, their voices need to be heard. . By refusing to say #BlackLivesMatter and saying #AllLivesMatter instead, they supporting those in need of help and not speaking against Petropoulos 3 the oppressor causes the oppressor to believe they are not at fault. basic premise behind Lives = we should not highlight that black lives matter because all lives (Damiani). Not only are there news coverage of the increasing police brutalities, but there are statistics to prove the disproportionality between the deaths of blacks and other minorities versus whites from the police (Gaines et al.). The purpose of the Blue Lives Matter movement is to place police officers safety over those they have authority over, whether it be a typical citizen or a violent criminal. This supports the police and their actions, believing that what they are doing is right and for the ultimate safety of their communities, recognize the actions of law enforcement, strengthen public support, and provide much-needed resources to law enforcement and their (bluelivesmatter). What many people that point fingers at the officers realize is that they are also people doing their jobs, and that job is for them to maintain peace in our streets and homes. Police officers have a dangerous job and the safety of the public is their main priority. Within the Blue Lives Matter Mission Statement, it is stated that those who stand with them offer their never- ending support and will keep the safety of law enforcement their priority (bluelivesmatter). It takes a special type of person to be a police officer, and that makes them very valuable to the safety of the communities that they protect. Of course a police safety is incredibly important, but so are the people they are supposed to be protecting. How can they be protecting their communities when they are the causing fear in the hearts of minorities? In order for there to be peace in our communities, a compromise must be made to put an end to meaningless violence and racial injustice. #All Lives Matter attempts to compromise by saying we are all equal, but right now it is the Black Lives that are in this most danger and need the support from society. This can start with simple acts of kindness throughout our Petropoulos 4 communities; a coming together of people to combat these discriminations and stand up for what it right and just. How can we dream of world peace if we do not take the steps necessary to make it happen within our own country? If we can overcome this issue, our will be able to focus on more pressing issues, such as global interactions. Works Cited Larson, Eric D. Lives Matter and Bridge Building: Labor Education for a Jim Labor Studies Journal 41.1 (2016): 36-66. Business Source Alumni Edition. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. #Black Lives Matter. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 Blue Lives Matter. N.p., 24 Jan. 2017. Web. 29. Jan. 2017. Lives CNN. Cable News Network, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Damiani, Jesse. Every Time You Say All Lives  You Are Being an Accidental  The Huffington Post. TheHuffingtonPost.com, 15 July 2016. Web. 14 Feb. 2017. Petropoulos 5 Gaines, Larry K., Roger LeRoy. Miller, Don R. Hopkins, Neil Stratton, and Marc Neithercutt. Criminal Justice in Action: The Core. Belmont, CA: Wadsworth, 2014. Print