Michael Wiggs ENC 1102 Due- April 16, 2017 John Williams Everyone knows that it is much better to give than to receive, and we have all heard this saying around times like Christmas ever since we were young children. Right now however, the National Football League is in dyer need of receiving all the help and support it can get so that players themselves can continue to give both on and off the field. Every year, hundreds of Professional athletes in the form of football players donated to and serve communities across the country in a multitude of ways. Whether it be through charity events, community service projects, or simply going out and playing with kids, many of the guys people watch on Sundays find some way to give back. Unfortunately, finding time to give back is not always easy because playing in the NFL is a job that if very demanding, both mentally and physically. The game certainly takes a toll on the body, which is a reason that there should be a push to make it safer. However, despite efforts from actual teams, very few impactful changes have been made, which is why the National Football league is imploring the help and support of communities all across the country. The Communities of America must make it their business to begin a petition to make game safer so that NFL athletes can continue to work, build up, and better communities across the nation. The Game of football takes a lot out of those who participate in it. No matter what role you play, the sport can be very taxing. Unfortunately one of the biggest impacts of the game of football is the physical toll it takes on players. This game is one of hard knocks and big hits as athletes work to give fans all the entertainment they can handle. However, there is a desperate need for the game of football to be made safer. If such as change is not made, there will be fewer and fewer people seen playing the sport as time progresses. If fewer and fewer people in general play the sport then there will surely be a decline in those that can support the NFL as a league. Once the NFL as a league disappears, there will be a sudden change that comes and what an enormous change it will be. There are so many different possibilities of the possible outcome, but one of the largest impacts will be on the local communities and neighborhoods, as there will be a large decrease in the services and contribution made to the surrounding areas. So with such a fait depending on whether or not people support a change for a safer sport is something that will surely only reward those who support a cause to help better the environment around them. It takes a village to raise a child. But what type of child would a broken and torn down village raise? Inner city youth all across the country face many struggles, often having to make choices and decisions that will affect them for the rest of their lives. In cities around the nation, there are so many people that struggle both young and old in so many different ways. Unfortunately community service just like the game of football often requires a lot from many people to be effective. Fortunately Over the course of the past few decades the NFL has been in a position to lend a helping hand. Millions of dollars over the course of several years have been donated to people in need all across the U.S. as a result of community service efforts led by the NFL and its teams. The NFL plays a huge roll in the betterment of local communities in a multitude of way. Whether it is fighting cancer, hunger, or obesity, the NFL has found a way to contribute and make a difference. A few examples seen on a large scale year in and year out is the donation of meals during Thanksgiving or gifts to kids on Christmas as the teams work with many outside organizations to make sure that those in need in the local community have the happiest holiday season possible. The NFL foundation has taken efforts even higher heights as they have donated upwards of $45 to projects like USA Football to increase health and safety at the lower levels of the game (Goodell, 2014). Aside from the small town community projects, the NFL also plays a hand in supporting huge causes through campaigns such as the to which honors and helps those who have served or are serving in our United States Military as well as Crucial which is the league form of breast cancer awareness month that takes place the whole month of October. The NFL plays a crucial role no matter how you look at it in the development of and build of communities all across the nation. The league as a whole is able to use its platform and its wealth to build up the areas surrounding the organization on a widespread basis. Due to the fact that communities around the football teams that make up the NFL benefit so greatly from their efforts to enhance the community it is only right if the communities work to support making the NFL No, the saying has not changed: for it is better to give than to receive. However, the National Football league and all of its employees desperately need to receive the help of each and every citizen across this great nation. The NFL is fighting an uphill battle in making the game safer as it continues to wear and tear on players through the years. Injuries and problems will continue to plague the athletes that chose to play until something is done about the problem. The solution? The Community! Each and every helping hand can do themselves and those around them a huge service by starting and signing a petition that will hopefully make the NFL a safer place. This effort will in hope allow the professional athletes to continue to make their millions and use their resources and platform to give back to the communities from which they came. But if this project is to be a success, the only way to start making a difference is to sign on the dotted line.