Karelia Francis Professor John Williams ENC 1102 April 13, 2017 Affirmative action. Affirmative action is necessary for the advancement of disadvantaged groups to reach the same level as is the policy within the United States that allows for minorities and underrepresented/ disadvantaged groups to have access to equal opportunities as everyone else in society. Affirmative action is a controversial topic with various opposing arguments that only intensified over the years. The pros/positives that come from this policy strongly outdo any cons associated with it. There are common misconceptions that it creates more inequality or reverse racism but these are opinions formed on a biased basis. In approaching the argument from an educated perspective, both sides have to be understood in order to make a decision. Generally after understanding this and having some sort of compassion within the heart, people tend to see why affirmative action is more than necessary for the advancement of everyone in our society. When it becomes much harder for underrepresented group to gain employment or gain access to higher education, it is more likely that they will turn to a life of crime. Both employment and higher education allows individuals in society to be able to provide for themselves and their families adequately. This makes it a lot less likely that people will engage in theft, robbery and even murder. students are underrepresented by at least 20 percent at 79 percent of the research universities and hispanic students are underrepresented by at least 20 percent at 82 percent of the public research according to the most recent data available from the U.S. Department of Education and the Census Bureau. Several studies and sources show that states that have an affirmative action ban have a lot less enrollment of african-american and hispanic students. According to the Understanding Prejudice website, affirmative action the percentage of Black students at many selective schools would drop to only 2% of the student body (Bowen & Bok, However crime is not a characteristic of just minorities but most humans no matter what race or gender would be more inclined to commit crimes to survive if they are not given equal opportunities to succeed and take care of themselves. While the crime rate increases, another concern is the lack of diversity within workplaces and educational systems. In terms of workplaces, everyone has different life experiences and different viewpoints that can help to build a workplace with the most innovative ideas possible. Having a corporation with only one type of person would lead to very monotone environment with little inventions or diversity of thinking. In terms of educational systems, the lack of diversity that would be caused by banning affirmative action would mean that good universities are going to end up taking steps back and there is going to be a need for more historically black colleges and therefore going back in time to segregation and before you know it we will be back at square one in terms of racism and inequality. According to an article by the Civil rights organization, President Lyndon Johnson explained the rationale behind the contemporary use of equal opportunity programs to achieve equal opportunity in a 1965 speech: You do not take a person, who for years, has been hobbled by chains and liberate him, bring him up to the starting line of a race and then say are free to compete with all the and still believe that you have been completely  This is a perfect quote to combat the misconceptions held by those against affirmative action. Those who say it is reverse racism tend to not remember slavery happened and discrimination still exists. Just because it exists in different ways and people allowed to keep others in chains anymore, it has become less apparent to people that racism still exist. The problem is by having equality across the platform is a great thing but it does not make up for the historical chains and mindsets that still exist today. Affirmative action itself was made to put underprivileged groups at the same level as everyone else given the struggles presented. At no point does the law state that non-minorities should be discriminated against, it just gives everyone a leveled playing field. Another misconception is that white people will be adversely affected by the use of affirmative action, again, hence the created term reverse The race breakdown of the United States shows that there is a much larger amount of caucasians than african americans. According to the U.S. Commerce Department, there are 2.6 million unemployed Black civilians and 114 million employed White civilians (U.S. Bureau of the Census, 2011). This means that in the unlikely event that every black person became employed it would only displace around 2% of white people.Another thing is that affirmative action literally only applied to qualified applicants hence never will and unqualified minority ever displace a qualified worker of any race. The point is to reach an equal level for those with equal qualifications. While this is a huge itself is a misunderstanding, another common myth is that the law actually promote diversity especially in regards to gender. There is still a lot of discrimination against women in the work force but it is way up from how it used to be before affirmative action was put in place. According to a report from the U.S. Labor Department, affirmative action has helped 5 million minority members and 6 million White and minority women move up in the workforce Reverse  1995). There are also a ton of publicized cases that have shown that women can move up in the workforce now, huge corporations are increasing the gender diversity and allowing for more managerial positions for qualified women in the workplace. This has helped to challenge gender roles in society and allowed women to see that their voice does matter, their education is valuable and there are opportunities for them to excel in life. They have to be housewives or secretaries, they can be lawyers, doctors and engineers with promising jobs. In summation, it should be apparent that the effects of affirmative actions are purely positive and while it is not going to fix every social problem over night, it is a great start to equality. There is a reason why 70% of americans agree with this policy staying in place. It definitely helps disadvantaged groups to have an actual chance at leading a good life and does not affect non-minorities adversely. Sometimes, walking a mile in another shoes will allow a point to be seen with no bias. Caring about the advancement of all humans should be all of our concern. Works Cited. Bowen, W. G., & Bok, D. (1998). The shape of the river: Long-term consequences of considering race in college and university admissions.Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press. U.S. Department of Education and the Census Bureau. 2016. Print. Why You Should Care about Equal  The Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights. N.p., n.d. Web. 13 Apr. 2017. Hemdash. What Happens When You Ban Affirmative Action In College  FiveThirtyEight. FiveThirtyEight, 23 June 2016. Web. 13 Apr. 2017. one question emerging as the Supreme Court decides whether the University of Texas should stop considering an race as a factor in admissions. What happens to college diversity if you kill affirmative  CNNMoney. Cable News Network, n.d. Web. 13 Apr. 2017. Ten Myths About Affirmative  Understanding Prejudice. N.p., n.d. Web. 10 Apr. 2017. Reverse discrimination of whites is rare, labor study reports. (1995, March 31). New York Times, p. A23. U.S. Bureau of the Census. (2011). Statistical abstract of the United States: 2011. Washington, DC: U.S. Government Printing Office. Available at http://www.census.gov/compendia/statab/2011/tables/11s0586.pdf