Student 1 Student Professor DuBois ENC 1102 16 April 2017 End Human Torture Today Water boarding. Rape. Sleep deprivation. Mutilation. Solitary confinement to the point of insanity. Although these things are hard to think about and even harder to talk about, they are all tragic realities some people must face in their lives. Human torture is not just something seen in movies- it is a real issue that plagues the world even though there are universal laws against it that many countries agreed on. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights was created after the tragedies of World War II in hopes to prevent such violations, however many countries ignore this document. In 2014, Amnesty International recorded and investigated human rights abuses in 160 countries and territories worldwide (Human Rights Facts). Although some may feel it is necessary and useful in interrogations, torture violates universal human rights laws, leaves victims with PTSD, and should not be condoned in any situation despite the circumstances. In 1948, after World War II, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights was created and agreed upon by a commission, created in 1946, made up of various leaders from various countries including Mrs. Eleanor Roosevelt, P.C. Chang, Frenchmen Rene Cassin and Dr. Charles Malik of Lebanon (The Creation of the UDHR). They each had seen the travesties man can do to each other, and all felt human rights were something that needed to be formulated into a document. This document, applicable to every single nation and territory, outlined specific human rights that everyone has and cannot be taken away. According to Amnesty International, 82% of the countries that violated human right laws in 2014 also tortured or otherwise ill-treated Student 2 people (Human Rights Facts). One of those countries that conducted torture is in fact the United States. Like with most victims, the tortured may not be able to stand up for themselves or have a voice in this issue. This is why it is up to the public to raise awareness and stand up for those who cannot stand up for themselves. Some may say that torture is a necessary evil that can be effective in time-sensitive interrogations. One scenario used in a blog called Defense of by Sam Harris is an instance where a known terrorist is in your custody and is suspected of planting a bomb somewhere in your city. This is also known as the (In Defense of Torture). This sticky situation makes one really question whether torture is justified, but look at it from all perspectives. An American citizen, maybe even someone you know, is in another country, being held in custody because of suspicions of a terror act. Would you want someone to torture them? What if they have the wrong person? What if it was you? Both sides of the argument can be justified, which is why this is such a tricky situation to think about. However, there is set-in- stone international laws against any form of torture, making it illegal to conduct. If leeway is given in this scenario, there is no telling how far people will take it. Police might end up thinking it is okay to torture anyone being held in interrogation because it would be the easier way to get answers. The disastrous possibilities are limitless, which is why no form of torture should ever be accepted. Human torture is simply wrong for a plethora of reasons. For one, it is illegal. It clearly violates international law set by the Universal Declaration of Human rights. The downside to this is no one is holding these violators accountable for their actions, which is where the need for support comes in. Human torture is ethically wrong. If you do it to your own friend or Student 3 family, then you should not do it to a stranger. No one deserves to be held against their will and beaten- it is ethically not okay. Imad, which may or may not be the victims real name due to confidentiality issues, was a lawyer in Syria who was arrested three times and tortured. When conflict broke out in Syria, Imad, along with his family, fled their home. Imad was arrested after fleeing home but was then released. After being released, Imad went back to his home and was arrested once more, accused of treason. Luckily, he was recognized by a guard and released again. Later, at a random checkpoint, Imad was arrested for the third and last time. He was thrown into prison where he was beaten and hung, although he had no information to offer. There is no way to imagine the horrible things he had to go through, the physical and mental pain he suffered through. Eventually he was released and fled to Jordan. Thankfully, Imad was courageous enough to get in contact with the Center for Victims of Torture (CVT), where he was able to get into a rehabilitative therapy program and be able to tell his story Story). Although Imad did complete therapy, the things that he endured will always be a struggle to deal with. A positive from this whole situation is that courage to speak up will give other victims courage and hope to confront the things they have been through. A great organization to get involved with is Amnesty International. They fight violations of all forms of human rights including torture. Donations will allow for Amnesty International to continue fighting human rights violations by keeping their global offices running. There are many ways to volunteer such as monitoring the international press, translating, raising funds assisting our human rights education, or loaning your own specialist expertise to an area of our work (Volunteer). These volunteer opportunities may be time consuming, so for those who do not have time to volunteer can still support the fight against torture in many ways. For one, Student 4 staying updated with what is going on in the world is a wonderful way to support the movement against torture. Simply being educated and informed about these violations can aid the movement because the more people that know, the more voices that will be heard. A sad fact of our world is that human torture exists and it is not declining. Although it is illegal and ethically and morally wrong, many countries use torture methods in interrogations and prisons. The victims are not always able to stand up for themselves, which is why it is our responsibility as fellow humans to make a stand for them. Everyone should consider just visiting Amnesty website to learn more about how they can help and read testimonies from torture victims. If we take a stand, who will? (WC:1205) Student 5 Works cited Harris, Sam. In Defense of  The Huffington Post. TheHuffingtonPost.com, 17 Oct. 2005. Web. 13 Apr. 2017. Human Rights Facts & Figures For  HUMAN RIGHTS FACTS & FIGURES FOR 2014. N.p., n.d. Web. 13 Apr. 2017.  Story Center for Victims of Torture. N.p., n.d. Web. 13 Apr. 2017. THE CREATION OF THE UNIVERSAL DECLARATION OF HUMAN  UDHR - History of human rights. N.p., n.d. Web. 13 Apr. 2017.  Amnesty International - International Secretariat Careers - Volunteer. N.p., n.d. Web. 13 Apr. 2017.