A l a h m a d i 1 Muataz Alahmadi Prof. John Williams 16 April 2017 English Composition II The Issue of Transportation For thousands of years taxis has been our only way to transport short distance, but it is not anymore. With the evolution of businesses and technologies. New companies developed to compete for a share in the market. Which now led to some issues in the transportation market. Nonetheless with the evolution of technology requesting rides became easier and more convenient. One and a major example of new businesses is Uber, the application is a peer to peer business model which is also known as the sharing economy. The reason its peer to peer is an attempt to get lower prices and rates than other competitors. Uber has been offering very good prices and a lot of more services than Taxis. For an example, in phone application there are four options of what kind of ride to request. Also there is a live GPS to know where the exact location is and it always gives a fair estimation for the price. The eventually made it really hard for the Taxis to compete with Uber for a share in the market. This issue has put a lot of taxis out of work or made them switch to Uber, which later on led to taxis protesting Uber and much more issues. The purpose of this assignment is to convince readers with the problem. Also to try to convince the readers to take action to end the issue once and for all. Not to mention, in 2009 with the launch of Uber changed a lot of things, with an easy to use application and cheaper rates. Uber rates are 0.90 dollars per mile and a base fare of zero dollars, with a minimum fare of 5.15 dollars (Dough, 2016). In the other hand Taxis in Los A l a h m a d i 2 Angles cost 2.7 dollars per mile and the base fare is 2.85 (Los Angeles Taxi Cab Company). With the cheaper prices and easy to use apps. The competition did not become fair anymore. Which led to Uber being banned in many countries and cities like South Korea, Spain, Las Vegas and Israel (Malhotra, 2014). The competition between Uber and Taxis has been really intense that some cities tried to fix the issue between Uber and An example of that is Broward County, Florida where Uber was suspended at first for not following the regulations. Later on the Broward County suggested a compromise to satisfy both sides. The compromise was, The city proposed compromise gives transportation network companies the option to register their own drivers or vehicles or allow the county to do it, while giving the county authority to audit records to make sure county standards are met, the Sun Sentinel reports (Mendoza, 2015). The compromise was to register all Uber drivers in the system, because Uber drivers are not registered like Taxis. With this compromise that Broward County reached helped both sides. It reinstated Uber in the county while in the same time by eliminating some of the drivers the Taxis could compete in the transportation market again. Furthermore, this issue has been hurting both taxis and Uber for a long time now. Also it looks like every solution that is found by anyone, only restricted in one area. So some people might think, what would the solution would be or how could this issue get fixed? Well the answer is not that hard. For an issue of this size to get fixed the DOT or what is also known as the department of transportation has to get involved. So in order to take action as a part of this assignment. A website has been designed and published. The website has all the information about the problem, a photo gallery that shows the impact of the issue. It also has a take action button. After pressing the button the website opens a A l a h m a d i 3 blank space that people can write what they want in it and afterwards it gets sends to the Department of Transportation. Hopefully if the website get enough recognition and enough people to take action. The Department of Transportation will take action regarding this issue that has been unsolved for a long time now. A l a h m a d i 4 Works Cited Dough. How much does Uber cost? Uber fare  RideSharingDriver. N.p., 09 Jan. 2017. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Malhotra, Arvind, and Marshall Van Alstyne. The Dark Side Of The Sharing Economy ... And How To Lighten  Communications Of The ACM 57.11 (2014): 24-27. Business Source Premier. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Mendoza, Jessica. One Florida county works to find compromise between taxis and Uber (  The Christian Science Monitor. The Christian Science Monitor, 12 Aug. 2015. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Rates and Services - Los Angeles Taxi Cab  Rates and Services - Los Angeles Taxi Cab Company. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017.