Professor Roth ENC 1101 April 9, 2017 From the beginning of time humans and animals have shared earth and we have coexisted together since, not interfering with each other. The past few decades that has changed and humans have intruded many parts were wild animals live, both populating and destroying habitats from the great depths of the Pacific Ocean to the tallest trees in the jungles. Considering the horrible destructions of wildlife taking place, groups of scientist and people looking to protect the so vulnerable animals being affected created societies to shelter and help these animals in need. Those societies became not only a way to help but a way to educate people about animals. From these places came bigger major tourist attractions such as zoos, and amusement parks, they became places where tourist could enjoy beautiful shows and thrilling rides while also being able to interact with and enjoy the wide variety of animals. With the change in size and focus of these places they became more concerned about customer satisfaction then animal satisfaction, because of that a question arouses and research on these animals started, as time passed and more new evidence arouse on the way captivity is harming the animals more than helping them, scholars that once believed captivity was a great way to help endangered animals are now wondering if captivity is doing more harm than good to these animals. Considering all the evidence we have on the negative effects captivity has on animals, changes to animal captivity regulations should take place, from the restricting of certain animals in places more focused on tourist and only keep them in centers focused on the care of the animals, and make stricter regulations for the care of animals in these places so the animals can feel more comfortable. By doing so we enable more positive profound effects on the lies of the species. An increase in the regulatory enforcement for captive animals can in fact positively affect the animals, in the article killer whale (Orcinus orca) The survival rate for not foreign facilities for orcas was lower because the regulations of those facilities were not as strict as those in the U.S. Orcas captive in sea world have been big headlines last few years getting bad rep that started from the death of some of the trainers by the orcas. In the documentary as they interviewed some of the past trainers they said that getting a job as a trainer there was very easy that not degree of any type was needed, just good This being a possible reason to why the attacks on the trainers happened, they were undereducated and needed more experience. With better regulations, the park would only be allowed to hire more educated trainers so the animals were in better hands. Apart from more strict regulations some parks should just be banned from keeping certain species as tourist attraction, in an article To End Orca Breeding Program In Partnership With Humane sea world sated that the were going to end the breeding of these great whales in captivity within the next few years and focus on the rescue and care of sea creatures. If more facilities did as sea world is starting to do and focus more on why they began all the efforts with captive animals, to help and aid them, not to use them as attractions, then a change can be made and no more possible harm can be done to these animals. Work cited - SeaWorld To End Orca Breeding Program In Partnership With Humane  All Things Considered, 17 Mar. 2016. Literature Resource Center, go.galegroup.com/ps/i.do?p=LitRC&sw=w&u=tamp44898&v=2.1&id=GALE%7C A447612451&it=r&asid=915c0a37db4cde71adcb0e80c7996fa4. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. - Jett, John, and Jeffrey Ventre. Captive killer whale ( Orcinus orca )  Marine Mammal Science 31.4 (2015): 1362-377. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. - Hopper, Lydia M., Hani D. Freeman, and Stephen R. Ross. Reconsidering coprophagy as an indicator of negative welfare for captive  Applied Animal Behaviour Science 176 (2016): 112-19. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. - Tanimoto, Ann M., Patrick J. Hart, Adam A. Pack, Richard Switzer, Paul C. Banko, Donna L. Ball, Esther Lisa Komarczyk, and Miyako H. Warrington. Changes in vocal repertoire of the Hawaiian crow, Corvus hawaiiensis, from past wild to current captive  Animal Behaviour 123 (2017): 427-32. Web. 16 Feb. 2017. - Moss, Andrew, and Maggie Esson. Visitor interest in zoo animals and the implications for collection planning and zoo education  Zoo Biology. Wiley Subscription Services, Inc., A Wiley Company, 23 Mar. 2010. Web. 22 Mar. 2017. - Captivity reduces hippocampal volume but not survival of new cells in a food- storing  Captivity reduces hippocampal volume but not survival of new cells in a food-storing bird - Tarr - 2009 - Developmental Neurobiology - Wiley Online Library. N.p., n.d. Web. 22 Mar. 2017.