Nannapaneni 1 Rohitha Nannapaneni ENC 1102 Composition II Professor Noah Pearlstone 16 April 2017 Eating Disorders Eating disorders are abnormal eating habits that can have harmful effects to you and your health. There are three types of eating disorders: anorexia nervosa, bulimia nervosa, and binge eating disorder. Although eating disorders have the highest mortality rate, not many people with eating disorders get the treatment they require. A recent study showed evidence that people between the ages of 15 and 24 with anorexia have 10 times the risk of dying compared to other people their age. Another study in Minnesota found evidence of anorexia increasing over the last fifty years in females (National Eating Disorders Association). Despite how big this issue is, not many people take this matter seriously. With media and advertising showing misleading preconceptions of body image, the risk of developing eating disorders becomes greater than ever. In order for people to take this matter more seriously and obtain treatment, they need to be educated about different treatment options that can be affordable and very beneficial to them. According to the American Psychological Association, certain traits like anxiety and depression are linked to different types of eating disorders. Research and various studies have often shown that eating disorders develop alongside mental illnesses, including mood disorders. Most people diagnosed with eating disorders suffer from low self-esteem, helplessness, and intense dissatisfaction from the way they look (American Psychological Association). A study involving a new diagnosis called Eating shows one-third of children Nannapaneni 2 with this disorder have a mood disorder, three-quarters have an anxiety disorder, and nearly 20% have an autism spectrum (National Eating Disorders Association). Genetics can even play a role in putting health at risk. In these cases, certain chemicals that control hunger, appetite, and digestion are usually found to be unbalanced. In other words, eating disorders may often run in the family (National Eating Disorders Association). There are multiple situations that can lead individuals to develop eating disorders. People who participate in sports that emphasize low weight have a higher risk at developing eating disorders. Once people start engaging in these behaviors can escalate. Research done by the APA shows that people diagnosed with anorexia have a mortality rate 18 times higher than people with no eating disorders. Eating disorders can even cause physical problems that can devastate the body. For example, physical problems associated with anorexia include anemia, osteoporosis, and even damage to the heart and brain (American Psychological Association). Research indicates that eating disorders often go untreated. It is estimated that in the United States only one third of individuals struggling with anorexia nervosa obtain treatment. Of those developing bulimia, only 6% of individuals obtain treatment. Close to 43% of individuals suffering from binge eating disorder will obtain treatment (Eating Disorder Hope). Leaving untreated can have serious consequences. Those consequences can be both physically and emotionally destructive. Getting an early diagnosis and intervention can enhance recovery. Eating disorders can also become chronic, debilitating, and even life-threatening. Psychologists play a vital role in the treatment of eating disorders. Of course, simply changing thoughts and behaviors be enough. To ensure lasting improvement, patients and psychologist work together to explore the psychological issues that underlie eating disorders. In most cases, eating disorders can be treated by trained health and mental health care professionals. Nannapaneni 3 But the treatments work instantly. For most patients, treatment may need to be long-term (American Psychological Association). Even though studies have shown that eating disorders can be successfully treated, there are various reasons for people diagnosed with not receiving any. A study done by G. Terence Wilson talks about infrequent treatment targeting the eating disorder. This study includes different factors why people seek treatment or stop seeking treatment. Those factors include unmet treatment needs, cost of illness, and cost-effectiveness of treatments. In regards to unmet treatment needs, studies find that the number of people with an eating disorder who receive disorder-specific treatment continues to remain high. Cost of illness shows that eating disorders are linked with financial burdens for individuals and their families. Hospitalization is a huge driver of medical costs. Only a handful of cost-effectiveness studies have been conducted, leaving policy makers with little information on how to allocate resources to help reduce the burden of suffering attributable to eating disorders (Weissman and Rosselli). Not having enough money for treatments can be a huge reason for people not getting the treatment they need. People diagnosed with eating disorders or any kind of disorder should take action by being educated of all the potential health and life-threatening risks and types of treatment that may be best for them. It is highly beneficial to know the risks and potential physical damage you are doing to your body. That way, you can get treated as soon as possible. There are various levels and types of treatments that people can choose from for improving their health. Outpatient treatment is the least restrictive level of care. This type of treatment is desirable for those who have the insurance to cover high levels of care but are looking for assistance in their recovery. Intensive outpatient (IOP) treatment is designed for men and women who need more Nannapaneni 4 support than outpatient treatment but still have some flexibility with their schedule. Residential treatment is when individuals are provided with 24 hour care at a live-in facility. This treatment program is usually very structured, offering a type of setting that allows people to focus mainly on physical or psychological healing. There is also inpatient or hospital treatment that offers continuing care 24 hours a day in a hospital setting. There are also major types of therapy that can be used for treating eating disorders such as cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) and medical nutrition therapy. By being educated of these different treatment options, more and more people will be able to get the chance at improving their health (Eating Disorder Hope). Nannapaneni 5 Works Cited American Psychological Association. Eating Disorders. October 2011. 12 February 2017. <http://www.apa.org>. Eating Disorder Hope. Eating Disorder Statistics & Research. 2005. 2 April 2017. <https://www.eatingdisorderhope.com>. Eating Disorder Hope. Types of Treatment & Therapy. 2005. 2 April 2017. <https://www.eatingdisorderhope.com>. National Eating Disorders Association. Factors that May contribute to Eating Disorders. 2016. 16 April 2017. <https://www.nationaleatingdisorders.org>. National Eating Disorders Association. Overview and Statistics. 2016. 16 April 2017. <https://www.nationaleatingdisorders.org>. Striegel Weissman, Ruth and Francine Rosselli. Reducing the Burden of Suffering from Eating Disorders: Unmet Treatment Needs, Cost of Illness, and the Quest for Cost-  Behaviour Research and Therapy, vol. 88, no. Expanding the impact of cognitive behaviour therapy: A special edition in honor of G. Terence Wilson Expanding the impact of cognitive behaviour therapy: A special edition in honor of G. Terence Wilson, 01 Jan. 2017, pp. 49-64. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.brat.2016.09.006. Nannapaneni 6