Spracklin 1 Ryan Spracklin Professor Fennel ENC 1102 15 April 2017 Lower the Drinking Age The topic about whether the minimum legal drinking age should be lowered from twenty one years old to a more reasonable age has been debated for many years. Many people are unaware but the United States has one of the strictest drinking policies in the world. While the majority of well established countries embraced the consumption of alcohol, the United States determined it an illegal act for people under twenty one years old to drink, giving alcohol the forbidden  effect for minors and young adults. However despite the United States attempts to enforce this senseless law, teens and young adults constantly and consistently find ways to obtain alcohol. If the United States lowered the minimum legal drinking age to a more appropriate age such as nineteen years old it would allow young adults to consume alcohol in controlled and monitored environments which would not only protect them from binge drinking but also encourage them to drink responsibly. To begin, the legal drinking age has always been a controversial topic. In nineteen twenty the United States made an attempt to reform American society by Spracklin 2 placing a nationwide constitutional ban on the production, transportation, consumption and sale of all alcoholic beverages. This nationwide ban was called prohibition. However after many failed attempts to monitor and prevent Americans from drinking alcohol, the United States realized they had very little control over the alcohol production and consumption within their country and rescinded the prohibition policy by the year nineteen thirty three. In fact, the prohibition era actually helped increase the crime rate and create a new illegal market for gangsters and criminals as they would make tremendous profit from selling bootleg alcohol. After the Prohibition era, most states set their legal drinking age to back to twenty one years old. However in the year nineteen seventy one, once the voting age was lowered from the age twenty one to eighteen the majority of the states lowered their drinking age to eighteen as well. The states reasoning behind lowering the drinking age was if United States citizens that are eighteen years of age or older were deemed responsible and capable enough to elect government officials, they were more than capable of responsibly consuming alcohol. In the nineteen seventies several states realized that in order to combat drunk driving they would need to raise their legal drinking to a more appropriate age such as nineteen or twenty years old. The newly introduced legal drinking age of nineteen and twenty helped noticeably and effectively reduce the total percentage of drunk driving incidents in their respected states. However in the year nineteen eighty four the United States Congress passed the National Minimum Drinking Age Act. This act practically forced all of the states to raise their ages for purchase and public possession of alcohol to twenty one. Congress gave all of the states an ultimatum, raise their drinking age by the year nineteen eighty six or the Spracklin 3 states would lose ten percent of their federal highway funds. No states could afford to lose their federal highway funding therefore forcing all fifty states to raise their legal drinking age. The drinking age has since remained at twenty years old and appear to be changing in the near future. To continue, having a legal drinking age of twenty one is dangerous for everyone involved. Unfortunately the drinking age policy in the United States promotes binge drinking for young adults under the age of twenty one. Binge drinking is consuming large quantities of alcohol in a condensed amount of time in an attempt to get as drunk as possible. About ninety percent of the alcohol consumed by youth under the age of twenty one in the United States is in the form of binge drinks What is Binge Drinking? Definition, Facts, Statistics & ). Young adults binge drink for a variety of reasons including the forbidden fruit effect. The forbidden fruit effect makes alcohol more appealing for young adults simply because the law forbids them to drink alcohol. In addition to that, young adults binge drink because they are not allowed to drink casually in public places. Due to the fact that they have to hide that they drink, young adults are forced to drink in unsupervised places like parties and frat houses. If the United States enforced drinking policies similar to countries in Europe such as Italy or the United Kingdom, our youth would be accustomed to alcohol and know what it is at a young age. In Europe when youth are still under the control, they introduce them to alcohol. This allows the parents to monitor their children and have the ability to control where and how much they can drink. When young adults become the legal age to consume alcohol they are not as excited or interested in drinking because they have been around alcohol since they were a child. Spracklin 4 However the United States does the opposite. The United States has a legal drinking age of twenty one, so by the time Americans are allowed to legally drink and purchase alcohol they are independent and have the power to drink whatever they want whenever they want. This combination of new and uneducated drinkers along with no supervision or guidance is a perfect combination for binge drinking. Despite the United higher drinking age, the percentage of automobile crashes and fatalities as well as the percentage of binge drinking among youth is much higher in the United States compared to countries in the Europe. Finally, now is your time to fight and defend your rights as well as the rights of young people in the United States. In addition we can properly educate youth to make responsible and mature decisions about alcohol consumption in their own lives Choose ). In the United States of America you are deemed an adult at the age of eighteen. Once you turn eighteen years of age, you receive the same Spracklin 5 rights and responsibilities as any other adult. This includes the right to vote, serve on a jury, purchase a handgun, purchase tobacco, be tried as an adult if you commit a crime and serve your country and join the military. If young adults are deemed capable enough to serve on a jury and decide legal fate, mature enough to be tried as an adult if they commit a crime and responsible enough to be able to purchase tobacco after being informed of the harms and risks, they clearly have shown the ability to be competent enough to handle and understand their own alcohol consumption intake Drinking ). Take a stand against this unfair and improper law and write to your elected government officials. If we create a youth movement that is properly educated and equipped to handle alcohol consumption we can prove to law makers that the American youth is responsible and prepared enough to consume alcohol at a more reasonable age such as nineteen. Organizations such as the National Youth Rights Association and Choose Responsibility wants young adults to fight for equality and be treated likely every other adult. In conclusion, lowering the minimum legal drinking age to a more appropriate age such as eighteen or nineteen years old will benefit everyone involved. Too many years have gone by with no change in sight for the legal drinking age in the United States. It time for young adults to stop being treated as second class citizens and take a stand. Other well established countries such as Italy or the United Kingdom have proven that it is possible to maintain a safe and efficient lifestyle even with a lower minimum legal drinking age. Spracklin 6 Works Cited Alcohol: Problems and  Minimum Legal Drinking Ages around the World. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Choose  Drinking Age - Choose Responsibility. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Drinking  National Youth Rights Association. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. The Debate On Lowering The Drinking  CBSNews. CBS Interactive, 11 Apr. 2010. Web. 27 Mar. 2017. Viewpoint: Why America Should Lower the Legal Drinking  USA Today. Gannett satellite Information Network, 17 Nov. 2014. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. What is Binge Drinking? Definition, Facts, Statistics &  - Drug-Free World. Web. 15 Apr. 2017.