Mousa 1 Mohamed Mousa Professor Noah Pearlstone ENC1102.024 16 April 2017 Student-Athletes and salaries A point of contention between student athletes and the NCAA is whether students- athletes should be paid for their work. Fitting the two lifestyles which are the academics and the athletics on student-athletes of all ages, had a huge impact on the sports society. To many, it is believed to be that student-athletes are the ones doing all the hard work, therefore they should be responsible for their decisions, deciding what they see for their wants and needs. Furthermore, to the NCAA age is just a number, which means that student-athletes can still be older than the age of standard graduates and still play, although a large number of these student-athletes are young, meaning that calls such as salaries and earning cannot be a topic they should discuss at such age Therefore, they require trustworthy representatives that will devote their time to provide the best rights possible to student-athletes. Although providing student-athletes with salaries may seem like the appropriate way of rewarding them for their effort, this will only encourage more greed and distract them from what is important, specifically training hard and focusing on their grades. Generating rules and rewards such as the amateurism and facilities that will provide them with all their wants and needs, and is not relates to salaries will empower, conserve and maintain a safe mentality for student-athletes. The term student-athlete revolves around a split of two worlds, academic and athleticism. According to CNN, spend more time on football than most other students spend on a part time (Isidore 1.), therefore, to CNN what student-athletes are doing throughout their Mousa 2 academic year is consider to be a job, however, not specifically labeled as a job. Student-athletes are being prepped to become professionals, they are required to go through a certain plan to lead them into the path of professionalism, however, to the NCAA before they become professional they are required to have a degree if they are to pass the NCAA program. The National Collegiate Athletic Association(NCAA) is an organization that tends to look after these student- athletes and provide them with all the needs necessary. The NCAA are very strict with their beliefs, their main aim is to provide student-athletes with the best facilities possible and to provide them with all the help they need to succeed both academically and athletically. A rule was imposed by the ncaa called the Amateurism, which basically involves a set of restrictions that the student-athletes are not allowed to do or receive, mainly salaries (Amateurism). The purpose behind amateurism is to not allow any sort of payment to student-athletes, as what they need at that specific time is enjoy and develop themselves, both mentally and physically. Since there are risks such as greed and distractions when it comes to salaries, the NCAA should remain firm on their rule of not rewarding student-athletes with any form of physical money as it will decrease the distractions, therefore student-athletes are completely focused on what is best for their future. Since the idea was first established in 1964, the aim of the idea was based out of morals and achievement, a hope that student-athletes are the new phase of the sports industries. They are athlete but with degrees, showing that they are respectable, committed, educated human beings. According to the NCAA there are other benefits to college athletes that does not involve money such as; scholarships, student-assistance funds, academic and support services, medical care and many more (NCAA). Those who believe in the importance of behavior and education more than money usually are the ones that want the best for their kids, other student-athletes or students in general. Providing student-athletes with salaries according to Mousa 3 the NCAA is unnecessary as the NCAA is only concerned with the personal, academic and athletic needs of the student-athlete and not all aspects of their lives. Schools are usually sponsored by sport representatives which provide them with the latest and best goods possible, as for their daily lifestyle needs, such as food, water and shelter, schools provide cafeterias made specifically for student-athletes to provide them with all the healthy nutritious needed, without them having to do anything on their own. Keeping the no salary rule will also help the NCAA save and benefit with the money in other factors, as they are providing the student-athletes with the best facilities available and to be able to cover all the expenses required. According to a sports blog called Deadspin stated that the amount that athletes could be paid at $5,000 was always a silly (Deadspin 1). Paying teenagers such money will only motivate them to concentrate on what they are worth and how much they should be paid, this will lead to unnecessary distractions. A high number of the American population are sports fans, they devote time and attention to whoever they support, better yet if one of their own is representing a school in a team in any sort of certified sport. Parents want to guarantee a future for their children and that is what the ncaa has promised when they turn students into student-athletes. Overruling the idea of salaries shows equality amongst all sports personals and the sports itself, it usually levels the competitions and help push student-athletes to provide their best on the field, other than thinking about what they should be receiving instead. Furthermore, every sport differs in its value and importance and the actions that may be taken to decide on what each sport is worth may not please all aspects involved in the matter (College Athletics and the Law). On the other hand, there are those opposing to the laws of the ncaa, thinking mainly about how the money could benefit their kids, so as some student-athletes themselves believe that receiving salaries is the appropriate response to all the hard work they are putting, however many Mousa 4 more are mistaken for wanting more than what they are already provided with as former College football players sued various collegiate athletics conferences and broadcast networks, claiming a conspiracy with the NCAA to collect billions of dollars, whilst the student-athletes upon which the system depended received only athletic (College Athletic and the Law). Rewarding student-athletes for all their hard work is understandable and very much deserved, however within the right terms. When a student-athlete is given a relatively large amount of money, this gives him or her the means to think of all the things restricted to them and cannot afford, therefore they will put themselves in a risk. Realistically not every student-athlete has the perfect intention, some may really want salaries for their own benefit to get more wants, however it is not what they need therefore, this is still considered part of their moral development ruling is a setback for those that believe college athlete ought to be (Daniel 1). Student-athletes are young and they have many aspects in their life that they need to consider and maintain at that time. As they are progressing in their lives they learn and develop more senses into their responsibilities towards the chance they have been given in being labeled student-athletes. The NCAA has a huge impact on setting a future for student-athletes, as promised. It is the duty to help balance the needs and the wants to avoid any unnecessary holds or distractions. As for the parents, they set an example for their children meaning that if the parent shows attention in the appropriate factors of the development instead of money then this will help maintain the right mentality for the student-athlete. Encouraging organizations such as the ncaa will help build a better future for student-athletes. Schools and private institutes should be well funded and carefully briefed on what they are supposed to teach the student-athletes as this is a very delicate age growing up and any information explained can Mousa 5 be a factor that affects their decisions in the future. If all personals influenced by the sport or the student-athletes themselves combine their beliefs and invested in this cause, the future of the student-athletes and the sport itself is in safe hands. The student-athletes will have the right mentality and be well-educated, making even more salary than what they were aiming for as once student-athletes. Works Cited Competitive nature of NCAA rules keeps student-athletes from being paid. (2015). College Athletic and the Laws, (8), 10. Dthomas. to College NCAA.org The Official Site of the NCAA. N.p., 03 Jan. 2014. Web. Farnum, NCAA.com Amy. Is Just a NCAA.com. N.p., 22 Dec. 2012. Web. Jcoram. NCAA.org The Official Site of the NCAA. N.p., 24 Apr. 2014. Web Roberts, D. (2015). Court strikes down the idea of NCAA paying athletes a small fee. Fortune.com, N. PAG.