Hansen 1 EJ Hansen Angelica Aranda ENC 1102 April 15 th 2017 Vote Yes for Medical Marijuana Medical Marijuana has been steadily sneaking into the United States economy over the years through the legalization in certain states. Medical Marijuana has created many opportunities for those in need. According to Forbes.com new report from New Frontier Data projects that by 2020 the legal cannabis market will create more than a quarter of a million (Forbes). This helps both the local and national economies by generating a new source of revenue. Medical Marijuana has been proved and tested to have many benefits according to the Medical Marijuana Association. The Medical Marijuana Association or MMA is an organization focused on making this incredible drug accessible to those who suffer from anything from disease to ADD. The process in which the patient is provided useful information about the Medical Marijuana so that the patient or person receiving it can have good conversation with their doctor. This process allows the Medical Marijuana Association to find the Marijuana that is right for the patient so they can properly treat the issue it is prescribed for. Medical Marijuana needs more expose for the peoples of America to give it a chance. This can happen through the education of Medical Marijuana, why Americans should care about Medical Marijuana and how people can support the legalization of Medical marijuana in the United States. Medical Marijuana is becoming more and more popular every year with legalization of the drug on the rise. Medical Marijuana like anything else is a cause that begins with the Hansen 2 education of the public about the topic. According to the National Institute on Drug Abuse Marijuana refers to using the whole, unprocessed marijuana plant or its basic extracts to treat symptoms of illness and other (NIDA). Medical Marijuana is used to treat a plethora of illnesses and symptoms and the Medical Marijuana Association can help find the strand right for you. The Medical Marijuana Association mission is promote and support medical marijuana producers, patients, and doctors by providing information about the benefits of medicinal (MMA). This Association provides a very valuable service that people should be allow to access if needed. Medical marijuana is changing the industry as we know it today with anything from jobs to income differences. According to Fox news 2016 alone, Fortune reports that the Colorado marijuana industry brought in over $1 billion in revenue as well as $150 million in tax revenue for the state but dispensaries and growhouses have the same kinds of margins or overhead as the dining industry, say (Fox). This is eliminating jobs in the restaurant business because the workers in the kitchens would be more likely to work out side with marijuana than in a hot restaurant and get paid less. In Denver, this is especially a problem but this is also a good thing because this means the Medical Marijuana market is growing and will be taken over by large companies in the future. Medical Marijuana is a market that needs to be taken advantage of now because it is just beginning. Medical Marijuana in the past has had a bad reputation with older age groups. However, millennials are the group of people that these companies are beginning to target because the millennials have the most influence on both voting and the acceleration of the Medical marijuana process. Medical Marijuana is producing jobs that are influencing the macro economy because it is effecting these companies on a large scale. The job market is only becoming more difficult as millennials especially get into their profession with their degree. Medical Marijuana is giving the Hansen 3 working man and the working student fresh out of college and opportunity to make something of themselves and provide. This Medical Marijuana according to Forbes said legal cannabis market was worth an estimated $7.2 billion in 2016 and is projected to grow at a compound annual rate of 17%. Medical marijuana sales are projected to grow from $4.7 billion in 2016 to $13.3 billion in 2020. Adult recreational sales are estimated to jump from $2.6 billion in 2016 to $11.2 billion by (Forbes). This will create national revenue and have a positive impact on our nations economy because it will provide more jobs and allow for a higher pay grade. These statistics also show that the economy is set to grow over the next few years. The medical side of medical Marijuana is that it can help control and treat symptoms of disease. This could be a huge breakthrough in the medical community. has become more apparent in recent times especially during the times of the baby boomer times. The millennial generations could possibly prevent these types of disease with the election to pass medical marijuana. This would help to further the human mind and possibly the human life span. While the legalization of this incredible drug is very important you need support groups and activists to help this dream become a reality. The Medical Marijuana association is a perfect example of an organization that wants to see this happen so they can help with people with every day symptoms on a larger scale instead of a very limited one. The MMA is there so when you go talk to a doctor about possibly receiving the drug the patient is fully informed about the decision they are making. National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws is also another great group to join if you are interested in the legalization of Medical Marijuana. NORMAL is one of the most popular and largest organizations promoting Marijuana legalization in the United States. These organizations have a plan for the future and how to use the legalization to their advantage. Joining one of these organizations is easy as 1,2,3. To sign up you go to ether web Hansen 4 site which are very user friendly and accessible anywhere and you can sign up for weekly news letters on what is going on in the fight to legalize Medical Marijuana. The participant can also make a donation towards the cause to help the process to move along. Participating in these organizations will not only impact your life but it will impact others as well. Medical marijuana has become a very popular topic over the last few years and it needs the help of everyone to get it legalized. Medical Marijuana has the potential to thrive in economy and modern day medicine. It has the potential to create thousands of jobs in a struggling market so when you are faced with the opportunity to vote, vote yes to medical marijuana because it could just help safe someone like you one day. Hansen 5 Works Cited Abuse, National Institute on Drug. Marijuana as  NIDA. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Borchardt, Debra. Marijuana Industry Projected To Create More Jobs Than Manufacturing By  Forbes. Forbes Magazine, 01 Mar. 2017. Web. 16 Apr. 2017 Denver Marijuana Industry Is Eating into Restaurant  Fox News. FOX News Network, n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Marijuana, Medicinal. About  Medicinal Marijuana Association. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Working to Reform Marijuana  The National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017