Miller 1 Brandon Miller Prof. Basil Composition II 16 April 2017 Financial Aid In a time where a college degree in the United States seems to be the difference between getting a job or winding up unemployed, the issue of paying for college could not be more relevant. As of 2016, a record setting 20.5 million students attended an American college or university. But as the attendance rates continue to rise, so to do the costs. As a public, american university, everyone in the USF community should be concerned with the cost of education. The goal of this paper is to educate, engage, and empower the USF community, particularly the USF Office of Financial Aid and the USF students. In order to evoke positive changes that result in more affordable educational opportunities, these two stakeholder groups must work together. By educating both sides on the issues regarding college expenses, they will be able to create a more effective system than the one currently in place. College free (and probably will never be free despite various political efforts) but it can be made more affordable/less expensive. In order to implement a revised financial aid policy that will achieve this goal, a comprehensive overview of the current system must be examined. This examination will target which areas of financial aid policy are in need of improvement. In order to fully understand the expenses associated with college, both communities must be educated on the costs of college attendance both nationwide and at USF. By comparing these figures (nationwide costs vs. USF costs), one gets an accurate picture of the areas that USF Miller 2 financial aid succeeds and that it fails. As of 2016, the average overall costs of attending a 4 year public institution were $9,410 for in-state and $23,893 for out-of-state. Compared to USF, those figures are quite low. For a student who attended USF in the Fall of 2016, the estimated overall in-state cost was $21,410 and the estimated overall out-of-state cost was $32,324. What do these statistics indicate about USF? That students who attend USF in-state and out of state are paying roughly $12,000 and $8,431 more than the national average, respectively. This highlights a critical area in which the USF Office of Financial Aid must improve. The average student will graduate with an estimated $25,000 worth of debt upon completion of a 4 year degree. With this idea in mind, an overview of USF financial aid distribution must be conducted. This will provide important information in regards to the types of money being distributed, as well as the amount. When looking at how USF distributes money to its students, it is important to note that 54% is given as scholarship or need based loans and the other 46% is given as loans/work study jobs. To put it simply, USf gives out 54% of its total funds as free money to its students and the other 46% is either paid as interest or earned through a work study program. The average amount given to USF students in the form of scholarships/grants (aka free money) is roughly $9,183. This is much higher than the national average. The average amount of college scholarships/grant money given by public 4 year institutions is $6,720. means that USF gives roughly $2,463 more in scholarships/grant money than the average 4 year public institution. Upon review of the USF financial aid system, two conclusions can be state. One, the overall cost of attending USF is much higher than the nationwide average. Two, USF gives out more aid in the form of free money than the national average. With these two thoughts in mind, Miller 3 an effective call to action can now be created. Since many people in the United States want to, and will, attend college, creating a more affordable experience will benefit the USF Office of Financial Aid and its students. In doing so, more students will be able to attend USF. This will help the college make more money with increased attendance. In order to do so, the USF Office of Financial Aid must decrease its overall costs of attendance. Since USF gives out more free money to its students than the national average, the only real improvement that can be made is a cut in the overall price. In order to save students the most money, I believe that USF should lower its cost of attendance for in-state and out-of-state to match the costs of the national average. With so many students unable to attend college due to the costs, an epidemic has been created that needs to be addressed. The USF community needs to do its part to properly address the issue associated with its system of financial aid. The main issue with the system is simply the fact that students are paying much more than the national average to attend school. The USF Office of Financial Aid and the USF students must work together to form a solution. The students have many options including signing a petition, forming a protest, staging a rally, etc. But they must provoke the USF Office of Financial Aid to lower the overall costs.