Henshaw 1 Tamara Henshaw 12 April, 2017 Angelica Aranda ENC 1102 The Silent Hero When you were a kid did you ever want to be a superhero, like Batman or Wonder Women? Well what if someone said that you can be a hero, just by speaking out or helping someone in need. In a survey taken from 24 different high schools, it showed that 10-20% of adolescents between the age of 10 and 24 are bullied online and 20-30% admit to being involved by either being the bully, the victim or the bystander (Litwiller Brausch 2). Everyone has witnessed at least once someone being bullied, harassed, or hazed. The Stop Bullying organization is working with schools grades k to 12th and letting the word be known that bullying needs to come to an end. Stop Bullying will be holding a support group to give children the chance to speak up about being bullied or harassed. This support group will be called the Silent Heros and will be held every weekend noon to seven If you see someone in need of help, please tell them to come, and if you are someone in need to know that you are not alone come to the support group. Bullying is serious issue that have resulted in depression, suicide, and children harming themselves in ways like cutting their arms and legs. In a journal article Bullying and Physical Bullying in Adolescent Suicide: The Role of Violent Behavior and Substance Use written by Brett Litwiller and Amy Brausch it states, behavior, substance use, and unsafe sexual behavior were tested as mediators between two forms of bullying, cyber and Henshaw 2 physical, and suicidal behavior. Data were taken from a large risk-behavior screening study with a sample of 4,693 public high school students (mean age = 16.11, 47 % female). The findings showed that both physical bullying and cyberbullying associated with substance use, violent behavior, unsafe sexual behavior, and suicidal There are many different types of bullying some being cyber bullying, harassment and hazing. Cyber bullying using any electronic device to disown or discredit someone. This type of bullying is happening more and more now that electronic devices are more popular. Harassing someone is the act of intimidating or pressuring someone. Hazing is a type of bullying that happens a lot in sororities and fraternities or even trying to join groups. This is the when a person is singled out or forced to do something to join into a group that humiliates someone. These things cause pain to not only the bullied but also the bullier. In a study done by the National Bullying Prevention Center, students who are bullied are at risk of depression, poor school adjustment, sleep difficulties, and anxiety. Students that are being the bully also experience harm to themselves, that being the risk for academic problems, substance use, and violent behavior later in adolescence and adulthood. The thing about bullying is that only a select few actual speak up and say anything. Those 39% of people who do speak up and get help have any issues. Even if the victim speak up, a bystander could say something. Did you know that more than half of bullying situations (57%) stop when a peer intervenes on behalf of the student being bullied The reason behind why children would refuse to speak up is because they are told not to tattle or they do not want to be a tattle tell. The problem with no one speaking up is that now people being bullied in anyway feel alone and as if they have no one that will help them and that is when they start to Henshaw 3 hurt themselves. Something that many may not know are the groups that are popular for being bullied. The saying the skin is something that comes to mind when a person is being bullied. Studies show that people who are bullied are bullied 55% about how they look, 37% about the shape of their body, and 16% about the color of their skin Being that people go after a person just by the way they look, they are also bullied because of the gender that person may like or even how they dress. Some of the group of people that are harassed are those of the African American, the Asian, and the Hispanic descent. For these reasons people hate what they look like and who they are. This is why bullying, harassment, and hazing must end. The Silent Hero program is to help all of these children and young adults to seek the help they need. It is to help them be aware that they are not alone and that there is someone listening and would like to help them. It is a support group that has activities that will allow the student to come out about what they are going through and be able to know what to do to stop being bullied. This program also give insight on what to do when being a bystander to someone being bullied and how they could help. This program is not just for victims but anyone wanting to lend a helping hand to lowering the suicide numbers, to lowering the depression in children, and to helping take one step closer to ending bullying. The Silent Hero is a place for students to find their safe haven. Everyone wants to know they are not alone, anyone can make that first step to help end bullying, someone must speak out. Who would you like your super hero to be? Henshaw 4 Work Cited Litwiller, Brett1 and Amy2, amy.brausch@wku.edu Brausch. Cyber Bullying and Physical Bullying in Adolescent Suicide: The Role of Violent Behavior and Substance  Journal of Youth & vol. 42, no. 5, May 2013, pp. 675-684. doi:10.1007/s10964-013-9925-5 Litwiller, B., & Brausch, A. a. (2013). Cyber Bullying and Physical Bullying in Adolescent Suicide: The Role of Violent Behavior and Substance Use. Of Youth & 675-684. National Bullying Prevention April 16, 2017