Guillermo Fuentes Sarah Basil ENC. 1102 15 April 2017 Alcohol Abuse in College When people think of the typical college party scene, they usually think of a fun filled night full of both unforgettable as well as forgettable memories. But what people think about is how a fun filled night can turn into a deadly one due to the dangers that arise when alcohol becomes involved. As documented by the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse, there are an estimated 1,825 deaths for college students between the ages of 18-24 due to alcohol use. The University of South Florida, being a college campus, is also a part of this demographic. Although the students are a part of this statistic, there is an alarming indifference about the problem that is alcohol abuse in college. This only affect legal age drinkers, but also those drinking underage. I believe that in order to have responsible drinkers and to drastically change the alcohol abuse trend found on any college campus, specifically USF, then we must educate the public and make sure that there is accountability between students. This is not a paper advocating against the use of alcohol indefinitely for college students. But rather a paper meant to bring attention to a problem that is often neglected until the public is reminded of its negative repercussions. Some examples which are real threats to college students include death, assault, sexual assault, and academic problems. Everyone is shocked by the loss of such young lives because of the involvement of alcohol, but the truth in the matter is that if the problem remains as is, and people turn a blind eye to an obvious problem, then as a community, they are allowing the abuse of alcohol to continue and affect more students. The most effective method to combat this problem would not be to try to Guillermo Fuentes Sarah Basil ENC. 1102 15 April 2017 prohibit alcohol to students, but rather to educate the public of how to be responsible and safe in potentially dangerous situations. The USF community is, unfortunately, all too familiar with the negative consequences that come with drinking. On February 9 th 2014, four of University of South frat brothers were instantly killed in wrong way collision caused by a drunk driver (TBO). Events like this normally on the minds of hundreds of college students enjoying their nights of drinking, although the truth is that I can happen to anyone. Another alcohol related death comes from a rather dangerous practice known as binge drinking. Binge drinking is the excessive consumption of alcohol which can lead to alcohol poisoning which may result in death if not taken care of. The abuse of alcohol in many cases can also cause assault as well as sexual assault. There is are thousands of students nationwide that are assaulted in of 2 ways in cases where alcohol has been involved which the actions of the accused. Alcohol is a substance which intoxicates and blurs the guidance of those the users. I believe that it is incredibly important for the USF community to be involved and informed of the growing and consistent problem which is alcohol abuse on a college campus. Through involvement with their students, they can ensure that the safety of the students is in their hands. Because underage drinking is something that is seen more frequently in college than it is anywhere else, there is a risk of serious addictions being formed by constant misuse of such substance. As explained by the addiction center, college students informed of the potential consequences of substance abuse can ensure they are able to make the best Guillermo Fuentes Sarah Basil ENC. 1102 15 April 2017 decisions for their (AC). With alcohol abuse, it is not only the individual that is effected, but also the people around them. One unhealthy habit can endanger those around them, and because of this, it is important to ensure that the majority of students understand the precautions that must be taken in any situation involving alcohol. In order to provide safety to their students and community, the University of South Florida has already taken steps towards helping to develop generations full of responsible and accountable students when it comes to the use of alcohol. Drunk driving accounts for 29% of total traffic deaths (MADD). After the loss of their four frat brothers in the horrific car accident (as mentioned above) they took a step towards raising awareness to the dangers of drunk driving. In the following months of the accident, the USF community came together to join in the Walk Like MADD, an event organized to help fight against drunk drinking. Another example of involvement in their safety would be their mandatory program called Alcohol Edu. which incoming freshman are required to take before beginning their first year. The program itself is used to educate their students about their new environment and their potential exposure to alcohol. As stated by USF, you drink or not, the course will provide information to help you make informed decisions about alcohol as well as negotiate the drinking behavior of your (USF). Some ways in which individuals can help change the drinking culture of a college campus would be to learn about what alcohol abuse is and how to help those affected by it. On an individual scale, one can be sure to learn how to drink safely and moderately. Socially, students can work together to end the social stigma that comes with Guillermo Fuentes Sarah Basil ENC. 1102 15 April 2017 alcohol, such as the belief that the drunker one is, the more desirable or likable one becomes. Not only this, but with an educated student body, they can be sure to not only keep themselves accountable, but also their friends. Many of those which are facing addiction, are not aware of their own problem, therefore it is of great help to have someone looking out for them, and no one is better than a friend. Referring someone to the right people to help them early on in their addiction can decide the path of their lives. Many things can be found in college, such as friends, sense of purpose and oneself. But there are also many other things which can come way which can negatively affect students. Amongst these things is alcohol abuse. The University of South Florida has taken a step towards the deterrent of alcohol abuse through educating their students through various programs and events which help fight against alcohol abuse. Not only this, but there is also an individual promotion of self-accountability and responsibility. There is no way to control the distribution of and use of alcohol, but through educating the community, in this case USF, then there are responsible consumers which can care for themselves. Guillermo Fuentes Sarah Basil ENC. 1102 15 April 2017 Works Cited USF Joins Fight against Drunk Driving with Walk like  LifeSafer Ignition Interlock. N.p., 02 Apr. 2014. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. (MADD) College Drinking - Changing the  College Drinking, Changing the Culture. N.p., n.d. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. Florida, University Of South. Student  University of South Florida. N.p., n.d. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. (USF) Anastasia Dawson Times Staff Writer, and Eddie Daniels Tribune Staff. Friends Mourn USF Frat Brothers Killed in Wrong-way Crash on  TBO.com. N.p., 10 Feb. 2014. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. (TBO) Preventing College Drug and Alcohol  Addiction Center. N.p., n.d. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. (AC)