Sherer 1 Julie Sherer Professor Pearlstone ENC 1102 26 March 2017 Educate Before You Vaccinate According to the World Health Organization, vaccines are biological preparation that improves immunity to a particular Within the past few decades there has been a serious concern of whether or not vaccines are completely safe. Even though something is administered by a doctor does not necessarily mean that it is safe. Companies spend millions of dollars researching vaccines in hopes of creating a cure to contagious diseases, but they do not publish the side effects that vaccines can have on the human body. This controversy can be attributed to the health concerns that are associated with the numerous toxic ingredients and the increased number of vaccines given to young children in America. Despite the fact that drug companies and doctors believe that vaccines are essential, research shows that some vaccines have caused severe negative impacts, and therefore, patients should consider conducting more individual research on their own to be as safe as possible. It is necessary for Americans to become educated on the negative effects of vaccines and to take action by supporting vaccine awareness groups. Essentially, the argument of whether or not vaccines are completely safe will always be up for debate. The questioning began in 1986, when the National Childhood Vaccine Injury Act was passed, which conflicts the point that vaccines are completely safe. This law acknowledges that vaccine injuries and deaths are real and those who are injured and their families should be Sherer 2 financially compensated. By passing this law it created a legal bubble around the companies creating the vaccines and the doctors giving the vaccines, there by establishing a no-fault compensation policy. Within this court system, two out of three applicants are denied compensation. So far, three billion dollars has been given to families of the injured, and that is only a third of the applicants. This shows that medical professionals are aware of the risk that vaccines hold and choose to ignore it. National Vaccine Injury Act of Since there are potential health risks associated with vaccines, it is important for doctors to inform their patients so that they can be fully aware of what is being put into their bodies and the possible side effects that come along with being vaccinated. The primary health concerns are toxic ingredients in vaccines and the increase of disorders connected to the increase of vaccines. Some of the most toxic ingredients known to mankind are delivered into our bodies through vaccines including: Bovine Cow Serum, Formaldehyde, Aluminum, Egg Protein, and Human Albumin (Wells). For instance, Formaldehyde is a fluid that is used to embalm corpses and has also been named one of the most hazardous compounds to the human body. It can cause liver damage, respiratory discomfort, kidney damage, reproductive issues, and cancer (Wells). Another health risk associated with vaccines is the direct correlation between the increase of vaccines given and the increase of Autism in America. In 1950, there were five doses of vaccines given per person; compared to in 2017, there are now sixty-eight doses of vaccines given by the age of eighteen amount of Vaccines has Increased over 400 With the extreme increase in vaccinations, there has been a drastic increase of children diagnosed with Autism. In 1978, the prevalence of Autism was about 1 in 15,000 children From Cover-Up to According to the National Vaccine Information Center, CDC estimates that 1 Sherer 3 in 50 children, between the ages of six and seventeen, have been diagnosed with an Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) Reports 1 in 50 American Children Diagnosed with This array of toxic ingredients being put into bodies at such a young age is resulting in an increased rate of Autism in America. Honestly advertising the ingredients and the possible negative side effects will lead to an increased awareness and will potentially increase the research of vaccines. Not all research is released to the general public, and most research is hidden from the public by federal agencies, such as the CDC due to unfavorable results. For example, just recently in 2016, a film was released called Vaxxed: From Cover-Up to Catastrophe which explains in great detail that the CDC had committed fraud on the research of the MMR vaccine. William Thompson, a scientist from the CDC, recently admitted to knowing that the MMR vaccine was causing an increased rate of Autism in African American boys From Cover-Up to He revealed that he had falsified the results from his original research ten years prior. Federal agencies and drug companies withholding accurate research from Americans is the main reason why America is so misinformed. Those who run our health agencies have an obligation to make sure that the research is complete, thorough, and accurate. Therefore, it is crucial that companies are honest and make their research available so consumers can conduct more accurate individual research in order to be fully informed. With that being said, this will bring awareness to the issue of the safety of vaccines which will ultimately provoke more research to be conducted and honestly reported. Sherer 4 Although there are many risks when it comes to vaccines, there are also many advantages that have created a great impact on the world. When effective, vaccines not only prevent terminal diseases, but they also prevent the spreading of infectious diseases. For example, the prevention of Polio is not taken lightly and has shown to save many lives. Polio is an infectious disease that is causes by a virus in the throat and intestines. Some symptoms include: fever, upset stomach, sore throat, and flu like symptoms. In 1988, there were 350,000 cases of Polio reported, versus in 2015, there were only seventy-four cases of Polio reported. Not only has the Polio vaccine shown to prevent cases of widespread diseases, but the Measles vaccine has as well. The Measles is an infectious virus, usually found in children. Some symptoms include: fever, dry cough, runny nose, sore throat, skin rash, and spots on the inside of the mouth. Globally, deaths caused by the Measles has decreased approximately seventy-nine percent from 2000 to 2015. Overall, the Measles vaccine has prevented an estimated 20.3 million deaths between the years 2000 and 2015. These statistics shows that vaccines do in fact help prevent diseases from spreading and initially starting in the first place (World Health Organization). Never the less, consumers still need to investigate the wide array of chemicals being put into their bodies. While some vaccines have shown to be helpful, not all lead to favorable results. Americans should take action by becoming more educated on the possible risks of vaccines and supporting vaccine awareness groups. Americans have a right to know what is being put into their bodies and the potential side effects. Consumer research is a must in order to form an educated opinion on vaccines. Therefore, demanding honest reports from vaccine research companies is essential in order to be able to conduct individual research. Americans should take advantage of the research on this topic that is readily available online and in books. Sherer 5 Taking the time to become educated on vaccines is extremely important and can help motivate others to become informed as well. Simply spreading the word by mouth or through social media can help increase the community of those who are informed. In addition, by supporting vaccine awareness groups consumers are supporting organizations like the National Vaccine Information Center, is dedicated to the prevention of vaccine injuries and deaths through public education and to defending the informed consent ethic in Through their non-profit work, the NVIC works to inform the public by monitoring vaccine research, development, regulation, and policymaking. They believe vaccine safety and protection should be a human right and informed consent to vaccination should be a national health policy priority in America. Through their outreach, they have successfully created many databases so people are able to get involved and share their stories. Overall, informed consent is an ethical foundation for American rights and ensuring product safety. Sherer 6 Works Cited CDC Reports 1 in 50 American Children Diagnosed with Autism - NVIC  National Vaccine Information Center (NVIC). N.p., 10 Apr. 2013. Web. 29 Mar. 2017.  World Health Organization. World Health Organization, Mar. 2017. Web. 02 Apr. 2017. Our  National Vaccine Information Center (NVIC). N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Mar. 2017.  World Health Organization. World Health Organization, Apr. 2016. Web. 02 Apr. 2017. The amount of Vaccines has increased over 400  VIC Fellowship (Vaccine Information Coalition). N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Mar. 2017. The National Vaccine Injury Compensation Program -  National Vaccine Information Center (NVIC). N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Mar. 2017.  World Health Organization. World Health Organization, n.d. Web. 29 Mar. 2017. Vaxxed: From Cover-Up to Catastrophe, Andrew Wakefield, and Performances by Del Matthew Bigtree, Mark F. Blaxill, and Micheala Blaxill, Cinema Libre Studio, 2016. Wells, S. D. Health Basics: The 11 Most Toxic Vaccine Ingredients and Their Side  Natural News. N.p., 29 Feb. 2012. Web. 29 Mar. 2017.