Student 1 Student Instructor Dr. Gaspar ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Fight for the Arts and Growth Most are not aware of the national impact fine arts studies and career fields have on youth. For years now, the fine arts community and advocates have been striving for the continuous of art education in schools as well as sustaining support for fine arts across the nation. It has become a re-occurring social concern whether or not to eliminate the arts as a whole due to financial support from the government being unreliable. Unless a person is a participant in the fine arts community then it could be said that some people are unfamiliar with what the broad fine arts term means or what type of art it includes. First of all, fine arts is defined as, art, especially visual art whose products are to be appreciated primarily or solely for their imaginative, aesthetic, or intellectual (Oxford Dictionary). However, fine arts is also defined as, activity requiring great skill or (Oxford Dictionary). In relation to fine arts as a part of curriculum, it has been found that the arts is a key aspect in the success and achievement of students inside and outside of school. The problem that needs to be confronted is the suspension, or lack, of funding for the arts in education as well as for the arts opportunities within communities. Though some academic professionals consider the arts a designated core subject in curriculum, student who participate in arts learning have shown mastering other subject areas and in the future become more successful in work and life; therefore, joining voices together is the best way to fight for and advance the communities fine arts opportunities in America. Student 2 It was not until the late and early that research was done to discover the influential value of the arts in education. Some studies have suggested, fewer than half of adults report having participated in arts lessons or classes in school- a decline from about 65% in the (Maguire et al. 368). Most Americans would probably be shocked to know that one of famous presidents had a great attraction for the arts. An article that discusses art in history mentions that, vision for the developing nation involved a strong interest in the arts. He assembled his own art collection that was the first significant art collection in the United (Zalewski 49). Since most of the arts history has shaped this great country, the issue of the arts existence in communities is taken very seriously. The main reason the arts in education and communities is a current public concern is because the arts, in general, are about to be eliminated from education due to the government deciding to cut off funding. In result, fine arts communities will no longer have financial support to stay a successful business and arts learning opportunities in schools will then become unavailable to youth. If a solution is not found then the people lose the backbone of cultural diversity, innovation, and creativity. The counterargument that has been made by the side regarding the funding of fine arts is towards the NEA (The National Endowment for the Arts). The NEA has been a federal agency since 1965 that supports the arts and their funding creates the opportunities for participation and development in the arts. According to The Heritage Foundation, eliminating funding for the NEA would help start bring America out of debt since, $99.5 million that funds the NEA also represents the entire annual tax burden for over 436,000 working-class American (Jarvik 4). Another reason why the government wishes to cut off the funding for the NEA is because over the last couple years the NEA has lowered the Student 3 quality of American art. In addition, in the beginning of the the NEA started to fund pornographic material and since then has continued funding pornography due to the fact that the agency is allowed to fund whatever type of art it chooses. Even though the government displays some logical evidence towards their reasoning, the whole fine arts communities does not have to take the punishment for the NEA. It has been explained by other organizations, such as the Americans for the Arts Action Fund and the Arts Education Partnership, that the support of the NEA is not entirely necessary for the continuous of arts education and communities. However, the need for permanent funding of some sort is required for the arts as a whole to remain successful in education and society. In order to show how important arts learning really is for students and communities, there have been various studies done where research has proven the many benefits to students who are involved in arts classes. For example, in 2005 The College Board came out with an article related to the SAT scores of student who study the arts. The results show that, who took four years of arts coursework outperformed their peers who had one half-year of less of arts coursework by 58 points on the verbal portion and 38 points on the math portion of the (Ruppert 9). On top of students in arts education succeeding in other subject areas, research has also showed how students in arts education learn other skills and abilities that will be very helpful in the long run. integration has been shown to enhance a number of functionings and capabilities including cognitive engagement among students, facilitating a sense of ownership in learning, improved attention, engagement, attendance, and perseverance, as well as providing positive avenues for community involvement and (Maguire 381). Student 4 Work Cited the The National Endowment for the Arts, https://www.arts.gov/about-nea. Clowney, David. of Art and Fine Historical The Journal of Aesthetics and Art Criticism, vol. 69, no. 3, 2011, pp. 309-320. a little about Americans for the Arts Action Fund, 2015, http://www.artsactionfund.org/about/about-us. Maguire, Cindy. a life one has reason to value: the role of the arts in fostering capability development in four small urban high Cambridge Journal of Education, vol. 42, no. 3, 2012, pp. 367-390. Arts Education Partnership, 2017, http://www.aep-arts.org/about- aep/missionoverview/. Reeder, Laura. Yes We Teaching Artist Journal, vol. 7, no. 2, 2009, pp. 115- 122. Ruppert, Sandra. Evidence: How the ARTS Benefit Student National Assembly of State Art Agencies, 2006, pp. 1-17. We Stand Americans for the Arts Action Fund, 2015, http://www.artsactionfund.org/pages/what-we-stand-for. the Arts Americans for the Arts Action Fund, 2015, http://www.artsactionfund.org/pages/why. Zalewski, Leanne. art collections- United Journal of the History of Collections, vol. 27, no. 1, 2015, pp. 49-55.