[Type [Type Serau 1 Lucas Serau April 18, 2017 Composition 1101 Black Gold Oil Companies have made a substantial amount of revenue throughout the last couple of decades. In recent years, oil companies have been extracting an immense amount of oil from the Earth using various methods due to an increase in demand for the refined product, gasoline. Yet the combined and individual revenues for companies in the industry have not increased accordingly. This is due to the increasing concern for climate change. Oil companies have been selling more oil over the past decade, yet due to new regulations these oil companies have been compelled to spend more money on creating new methods for extracting oil in a more environmentally friendly way, new technology for renewable energy, or simply paying fines for improper performance under these new regulations. Many of the items used every day in this society are tied to the production of oil and its distribution including common items such as asphalt, shampoo, and antibiotics. It would be extremely complex to give up oil as a commodity because of our ties to the product. With the increase demand there should be an increase in revenue, but climate change seems to be the money-guzzler for the oil companies. Climate change has had a negative effect on the oil industry by causing revenues and profits to be compromised. Oil companies are adapting to climate change by finding new ways to extract oil from the earth and transport oil in a more environmentally friendly way. One major problem that concerns many individuals is the ever growing carbon dioxide emissions caused by refining oil. Increasing levels of carbon dioxide is detrimental to the environment because it causes temperatures to rise. [Type [Type Serau 2 A company in Norway, Statoil, has developed a process in which they have decreased the amount of carbon dioxide (CO2) released into the atmosphere by pumping the CO2 into the rock formations deep underground (Global CCS Institute). One of the most infamous disasters involving an oil spill is the Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill, which occurred in the Gulf of Mexico and began on April 20, 2010 and was finally under control after 3 months. Since then, the agency overseeing offshore drilling in the region has changed to a more authoritative organization, the number of offshore inspectors doubled, and oil and gas companies are required to complete extensive safety audits (Associated Press). But the environment is not the only one facing the consequences; many of the oil companies who have caused disasters or have been involved in oil spills have faced consequences with agencies in charge of safety guidelines along with government actions. On November 15 th , 2012, British Petroleum (BP) reached an agreement of $4 billion with the government and the Clean Water Act (Feder pg. 1). Just a fraction of the costs of the damages caused by the spill. As time progresses, oil companies continued to be taxed and fined an increasing amount to cover damages. Along with having to pay for the fines and fees to cover the clean water act, BP also had to cover most of the $28 billion in clean ups, conservation efforts, and compensations (Gush). Since the Deepwater Horizon explosion, the oil rig has no longer been in service; being forced to shut down operations. Although many people believe that climate change does have a negative effect on the advancement of the oil industry, many others believe that oil as a form of energy is no longer necessary. Therefore, many of the oil companies are constantly decreasing the production costs and the price per barrel of oil ultimately decreasing revenues and profits in order to compete with different industries. The price per barrel is determined by the supply and demand of the industry. [Type [Type Serau 3 With the United States producing almost double of what it used to produce there is now more supply than there is a demand (Breene). Many people are turning towards renewable resources instead of oil, slowly diminishing the need for oil. Although the United States is progressing towards a future of renewable resources such as solar power, and wind power, oil is a commodity that an industrialized society such as the United States cannot completely abolish or ban. Almost all of everything that is done in our society is someway intertwined with the oil industry. To many, climate change is thought to be a myth. To others, it is a wake up call for them to begin living their lives in a more environmentally conscious way. To the oil industry, it is their natural enemy. Climate change has had a negative effect on the oil industry by causing revenue and profits to be compromised. Oil companies are constantly changing the way that they drill, transport and reduce carbon dioxide emissions to adapt to climate change. Those that refuse to abide by the standards and regulations tend to face fines and are penalized by the government. Much of society also believes that climate change is not to blame on the performance of oil companies. Instead oil companies have to accept that because of the new technologies and the advancements that the oil industry has made, oil has become readily available causing the demand to go down, which in turn effects the price per barrel. Yet with all of the problems that the oil industry faces, there is no other resource at the moment that can completely replace oil, and this is why oil will continue to be drilled and distributed for many years to come. [Type [Type Serau 4 Works Cited Feder, Toni. National Academy of Sciences to Run Environmental Program from BP  Physics Today, vol. 66, no. 1, Jan. 2013, pp. 22-23. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1063/PT.3.1852. a Lot of Life in a Barrel of  a Lot of Life (2006): n. pag. American Petroleum Institute. API, 11 June 2006. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. Staff, OE. Statoil, Norway Agree CO2 Storage Study - OE  Home - OE Digital. OE & AtComedia, 05 Jan. 2016. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Sleipner CO2 Storage  Global Carbon Capture and Storage Institute. Global CCS Institute, 20 Sept. 2016. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Associated Press. 5 Years after BP Spill: A Look at Changed in Offshore Drilling in the Gulf of  Fox Business. Fox Business, 20 Apr. 2015. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Grush, Loren. BP Fined a Record $20.8 Billion for Oil Spill  The Verge. The Verge, 05 Oct. 2015. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.