Maria Tato ENC 1102 Dr. Fennell 16 April 2017 Concealed Carry on Campus The second amendment of the constitution protects the rights of citizens to keep and bear arms. This is an amendment right that has had people involved in long lasting debates for decades. The interpretation of this amendment varies from stakeholder to stakeholder and has caused stakeholders to create all kinds of campaigns and ads to support their side of the debate. A more specific subject regarding the second amendment is that of concealed carry on campus. This is a prevalent issue that many people just cannot seem to come to an agreement about and is continuously brought up by legislators. Each year new gun-related incidents happen on college campuses that fire up each side of the concealed carry on campus debate. This debate continues to grow each year as new research surfaces and more and more people begin to join the cause of either side of the debate. Even with the growing support, nothing significant is being done to solve the issue because neither side will budge. People should be joining the cause, not in a radical way, but in a moderate way in which they can help both sides come to an agreement so that something could be done. The issue of concealed carry on campus is a very complex one with many different parts that are all interconnected with each other. The argument often has two extremes: Allowing concealed carry on campus will help students protect themselves from school shooters and concealed carry on campus will bring more school shooters to campuses. According to Students for Concealed Carry, there are two main reasons why concealed carry should be allowed. The first reason is an entitlement to self-defense that is given to them by the constitution and the second is actual need for self-defense due to the dangers of college (Crimes on College Campus in the U.S.). This stakeholder presents the reasons for allowing concealed carry very simply, which include and take into account common worries that people may have about their safety and their rights. An article that talks about stakeholders that are against concealed carry on campus mentions that a main argument made by the opposition is that research shows that a good person with a gun usually does not have the ability to stop a bad person with a gun (Defilippis). This shows the main differences between the sides of this debate and how they view the subject. Both sides are quite set on their opinion and are not really willing to come to a compromise. With the strong tension between both sides of the argument, it is important that the public becomes aware of the importance of this issue and decides to join in. Most importantly, the public should join with a mentality of positivity and willingness to resolve this issue in a civilized manner. All that is needed is for a majority from both sides to agree to a compromise and make it happen. With added support from the public on either side, more can be accomplished with constant cooperation from everyone involved. Anyone that is slightly concerned with the safety of students on campus should be looking to get involved in this debate. Students are the future, and if they do not feel safe going to school, it will not help anyone, not the school, the students, or the parents. The safety of students should be a priority for everyone because those are the people that will grow up to be doctors, lawyers, economists, etc. Most people know someone who attends college or will have a child that will attend college so it is in interest to get involved in this matter as soon as possible so that legislators can feel the pressure to come to a solution. There are many ways to get involved with either side of the argument. The Students for Concealed Carry organization has a page for volunteers and various different ways in which people can contribute to their cause. They have opportunities for firearms instructors, campus leaders, state directors, and for people who want to write the state representatives. One of the most important and easiest is writing to the state representatives (Concealed Carry). This shows the representatives how much the public cares about this subject and puts pressure on them to do something about it in the state legislature. On the other hand, The Campaign To Keep Guns Off Campus has information about how to register to vote against laws allowing guns on campus as well as information about their national petition that they want the public to sign. They provide several links to numerous petitions for different states as well as already written letters that people can use and send to their representative (Take Action Archives). This organization wants people to join their cause by protesting and sending letters to the state representatives, just as the other stakeholder does. Taking action in this matter is very important for the success of either campaign. No matter the side, any support matters and helps to make something happen so that people can come to a solution. The more people that audibly join in on either side, the faster that something is done about this problem and the better the outcome is. This is why every citizen should be concerned with becoming a part of the argument and pressuring legislators to make a move and come to an agreement with each other. Nothing will be accomplished if people do not get involved in the matter because there will be no pressure to do something about it. Ultimately, the most important thing people can do is learn about the subject, join a side, and look to come to a compromise that will satisfy most. Works Cited Crime on College Campuses in the  Students for Concealed Carry RSS. N.p., 2009. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Defilippis, Evan. The Numbers on Campus Carry Show Risks Outweigh  The Trace. The Trace, 09 Nov. 2015. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Take Action  Keep Guns Off Campus. N.p., 23 Dec. 2016. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.  Students for Concealed Carry RSS. N.p., 2011. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.