Tate 1 Spencer Tate Professor Williams ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Gun Control: Time for Action Due to the second amendment in the United States Constitution, American citizens have the right to own a gun, but should this law allow guns to fall in the wrong hands and give someone the chance to do massive harm? This issue on whether there should be less or more laws on gun restrictions has been debated ever since founding fathers wrote the United States Constitution. Many organizations have been created on this single issue when really all organizations just want to protect American citizens. In recent years, there had been too many innocent Americans dying by firearms and nothing has been done about this issue due to organizations that strongly support the second amendment The second amendment was created over 230 years ago, which means that certain weapons that we now have available where not yet created. Assault rifles are very powerful and deadly guns that were designed for military use and not designed for civilians to own even though the second amendment says American citizens have the right too. As citizens of this great country we need to think about if it is right for a person to be able to walk into a movie theater or elementary school and so easily take the lives of innocent people. Every day a loved one can be taken away from a spouse, mother, father, brother, sister, or family member. In order to make a change for good, there has to be stricter regulations on firearms. If American citizens come together and raise awareness of the harms done by guns, donate to gun control organizations, and vote for representatives that support stricter gun control laws, then America will be a safer place to raise a family. Tate 2 The second amendment states that American citizens have the right to bear arms, but certain guns that are now available were not yet created. Militaries around the world have created assault rifles not just to kill a lot of people, but also kill people fast. A typical father protecting his family does not need a weapon that can kill multiple people in just a matter of seconds just to keep his family safe. The Brady law bans powerful weapons such as machine guns and shotguns and also requires mandatory background checks on anyone wanting to purchase firearms. This law expired in 2004 and has yet to be reinstated If this law would be enforced again the number of guns owned in America would drastically decrease and impact America by making it a safer place. Last year the number of deaths due to firearms was over 33,000 This number steadily increases every year and will continue to do so if something is not done about it. In 2013, the number of rifles owned in America was 110,000,000 and the number of shotguns owned was just over 86,000,000 If the Brady law were to be reinstated then this would lower the enormous amount of guns rifles and shotguns owned and therefore keeping it out of the hands of people willing to do harm. The number of people killed in America each year should not be looked at like as just another number but instead as a representation of a family member who never came home. Every day we wait to pass laws on gun control, more family members die every day by the improper use of guns. The number of children who did not come home to their families after the Sandy Hook elementary school shooting is unbearable. This shooting involved a 20-year old man who openly walked into an elementary school took the lives of 20 precious elementary school students all of which who did nothing wrong 1). Try putting oneself in the shoes of a parent child was lost to gun violence, why is it okay for someone to be able to legally own an assault rifle and walk into a public school to take so many lives? Not only can people Tate 3 walk into schools and take lives but also any crowded place such as a movie theater. Perhaps if there were strict gun laws those 12 people who died for absolutely no reason during the Aurora movie theater shooting may be still alive today (Frosch 1). Just try and imagine coming home and hearing the news that a shooter has killed one of your loved ones. This can happen to anyone and no one is safe unless American citizens come together to resolve this long lasting issue. Something needs to be done in order to make America a safer place. Many Americans think that this issue has to be resolved in congress and they cannot get involved. Similarly, some Americans feel that this issue does not involve them at all. This issue does involve everyone because no one knows who will be affected by the dangers on gun violence. Little things can be done every day to bring positive social changes. An example of this would be to increase awareness of the harms done by guns by doing things such as joining organizations that raise awareness as a unit or even just wearing apparel that will make citizens aware of these harmful acts. Another action that can be taken is to support congressmen and representatives of the house who support stricter gun control laws. This can be done by voting for them during elections and also possibly writing to them asking them their preference on gun control before voting for them. Local representatives can be found at www.house.gov/representatives/find/, on this website anyone can type in where they live and a link will appear with their local representative and their email address. Donating money to organizations that support gun control is one final action that can be taken. Some organizations that support gun control are the Brady Campaign, the American Bar Association, Stop Handgun Violence, the Joyce Foundation, Moms Demand Action, and the Defense Fund. When these organizations receive more money, they will be able to get their views out to the public and hopefully persuade legislature to pass laws that puts more restrictions on firearms. Many of these organizations are located in major cities around America such as Tampa Bay and allow visitors to come in and see what they stand for. Tate 4 These organizations also have websites where the public is free to explore and sign up to be on their email list to find out more information to donate and get involved. The Brady website is www.bradycampaign.org and the Stop Hand Gun website is www.stophandgunviolence.org, both sites can give a plethora amount of information on how to get involved. Every day America grows more into a dangerous place and the number of people killed by guns increases every year. It is time for a change and it can only happen if America comes together and works towards a common goal, which is to make America safe. If new laws are passed that puts more restrictions on guns such as banning assault rifles, then it will be harder for guns to fall into the wrong hands. These laws can only be passed if people come together and show their support for gun control and also vote for men and women who have the same goals. If these laws are to be passed and more people are elected who support gun control, then America can be a safe place to raise a family and a place people can live the American dream. Tate 5 Works Cited Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun  Brady Campaign. Brady Campaign. Frosch, Dan. Gunman Kills 12 in Colorado, Reviving Gun  NY Times. 20 Jul 2012: n. page. Print. www.nytimes.com. Sandy Hook Elementary School Shooting  Department of Emergency services and public protection. <cspsandyhookreport.ct.gov>. United States Gun Facts, Figures and the  Gun Policy. International firearm injury prevention and policy. www.gunpolicy.org.