Liam Hemsley ENC 1102 Project 3 Intermediate T. Poston 4/14/17 Syrian Refugees Syria has been in war for 5 years now and the situation is not getting any better. The people of Syria have been punished for crimes they did not commit and it is the duty of Americans and the American government to help these people in need because we are part of the reason they are being hurt. People may think that there much we can do here in America to help out Syrian refugees but that is completely wrong. One thing people can do is simply just donate money to organizations that help Syrian refugees by providing shelter, food, water, and medicine. The war in Syria began in March of 2011 when 4 protesters were killed by state security forces. This started a chain reaction of events which eventually led to Russia, America, the Kurds, ISIS, the Syrian government (led by Assad), and Syrian rebels to all fight amongst each other. Over 100,000 innocent civilians have lost their lives and millions more have lost their homes and way of life. The fighting started between the Syrian government and the rebels in 2011, and after 3 years, fighting started to break out between the rebel forces, which led to ISIS (Islamic State of Iraq and Syria) starting to take power. Once ISIS started to get stronger, and released a video of them beheading an American journalist, America joined the fight and started to use air strikes on ISIS hideouts. Since 2011 over 4 million people have fled Syria and gone to other countries because of the bombings and fighting, with most of them going to neighboring countries like Lebanon, Jordan, and Turkey. America and European countries need to open their borders for refugees so that they can have a fair chance at creating a life again. Anyone that is forced to leave their country in order to escape war should be allowed in to any country they want because they have lost everything to no fault of their own. What has happened and is still happening to the people of Syria is completely atrocious and everyone in the world should be trying to do help these people in any way possible. Just recently on April 4 th the Syrian government used chemical weapons on the rebel forces. The production, stockpiling, and use of chemical weapons has been banned around the world since the Chemical Weapons Convention in 1993. The use of chemical weapons is so horrible because of the way it kills its targets, many of the chemicals weapons used cause a very painful and ugly death. This chemical attack on the Syrian people by their own government prompted nearly immediate retaliation by the American government. On April 7, 2017 America launched a missile strike on the Shayrat airbase controlled by the Syrian government. This chemical attack was only the latest attack on the Syrian people. The people of Syria have had to fight for their lives for the past 5 years from threats like ISIS, their own government, and air strikes from countries like America and Russia. Living in America it can be hard to empathize for the people of Syria because it just seems so far away from any problems Americans have to deal with, but the fact of the matter is they are human beings just like us and cannot be forced to live in situations as terrible as they are currently living in. Some Americans fear that when refugees move from their country terrorists will come in with them, and that is a good enough reason to not let any in, but this is something you just cannot simply do. All Syrian refugees cannot be punished because of the actions of a few people. Another reason some people do not want Syrian refugees to come to America is because they are worried they will not be able to adjust to our society and they will just cause problems, but when refugees come to other countries they are just trying to start a new life and be able to make a living again. refugees have undergone forced migration and are often living in destitute conditions, they still are productive and can interact with their host economy in positive (Taylor 1). There are a few ways people can help out the refugees in Syria, the first being donating money to organizations like doctors without borders. Donating to organizations like doctors without borders is such a great thing because they help the people of Syria directly by going there and giving them shelter, food, water, and medicine. Another way people in America can help out Syrian refugees is by talking to their state legislators and getting them to support the immigration of refugees into America. The people of Syria desperately need our help because they have endured so much already and it is our duty as fellow humans to help them. Sources: Am, and A. Sakuma. The U.S. Is Way Behind Its Goal of Accepting 10,000 Syrian  NBCNews.com. NBCUniversal News Group, 07 Apr. 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Connor, Phillip. U.S. Admits Record Number of Muslim Refugees in  Pew Research Center. N.p., 05 Oct. 2016. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. GPB. Mai Piu  Mai Pi Cristianofobia. N.p., 21 June 2014. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Quick Facts: What You Need to Know about the Syria  Mercy Corps. N.p., 19 Dec. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Agencies Express Hope US Will Continue Long Tradition of Protecting Those Fleeing Conflict, UN News Center. United Nations, 28 Jan. 2017. Web.29 Jan. 2017