Stamm 1 Melissa-Lynn Stamm Kristin Gocinski ENC1102.078 21 April 2017 Saving One GMO Label at a Time Taking your usual trip to the grocery store you would never think that it is necessary to look over the ingredients in everything you buy. However, with the amount of dangerous chemicals used to genetically modify food and other products today it is necessary, but it sure would be helpful if the companies just provided a label to tell you whether or not it is a GMO. This is exactly why the U.S. needs mandatory GMO food labeling laws, so that people can know what exactly is in the food they are buying. The first plant to be a genetically modified organism was discovered by scientists in the southwestern region of Asia. This was thousands of years before Charles Darwin introduced the theory of artificial selection to explain how GMOs first came to exist in dogs from domesticated wolves (Rangel 3-5). A genetically modified organism means that the organism has altered by adding multiple genes that naturally would not be found. Some of these altercations include the addition of acids, aspartame, ascorbic acid, canola high fructose corn syrup, soy (lecithin), MSG, and more (Poncavage 1). Now it is common to find that most of our crops and food consumed today have been modified with different traits, and chemicals. This is exactly why we as a country need mandatory labeling laws so that groups people like More4kids, an organization dedicated to bettering the world as a whole by providing parents with information and resources to help their children grow physically, intellectually, and emotionally (More4kids). GMO Stamm 2 labeling laws should be mandatory in the United States, because people such as parents who are trying to provide the best for their kids to grow healthy should know what exactly is in the food they are buying. With GMO labeling laws in action, not only would this help parents reduce health risks in their children, but also it will have the same effect all across the U.S. Out of the 64 countries that carry mandatory labeling laws, the United States along with most of Africa and the Middle East do not carry any laws on genetically modified food labeling (Ettinger 2). This is giving the government free range to modify as many crops as they want, which the majority of popular crops have already been modified 90 percent of the canola, corn, cotton, soybeans, and sugar beets grown in this country are genetically (Poncavage 1). Many modification include ingredients like aspartame which is a chemical known to cause neurotoxicity, yet this is commonly used as an artificial sweetener in many products such as Advil, Yoplait, fiber one, nesquick, and more. It is also very common to find aspartame in many vitamins, such as Advil chewable. Aspartame once ingested will break down into aspartate, methanol, and phenylaline. Methanol will further convert into formaldehyde which is a toxic substance also found in cigarettes, so are parents must be feeding their kids food that contain the same ingredient in cigarettes. The organization more4kids, should include this information on their website so that concerned parents may also agree that it is crucial to have labels on products, the fate of their health is at stake. More4kids is a family owned profit organization created with the sole intention of helping children through a multitude of online resources and help. Through this company, a team of writers and bloggers work very hard to find the most important and Stamm 3 up to date information and resources to provide for parent. More4kids has also made it their mission to bring the attention on children who may be looking for support, but need some guidance or help through the available sources this company provides via internet. This company provides short articles discussing up to date problems that are happening all over the world with children such as preventing sickness at school or in daycare, and homework tips for parents and kids. The only article missing from there website would be one on why GMO labeling is important, and how to avoid dangers GMOs. If the organization More4kids takes part in supporting GMO food labeling laws in the U.S. they will greatly benefit, because they will be able to meet their goal by providing parents with information on GMOs and how it is dangerous for their children. With More4kids supporting GMO labeling and publicly acknowledging the topic, more people will want better food and products, this will help to reach more people across the country who also want to join in and learn more about how to make a change. Some other companies have taken similar steps such as Chipotle, a worldwide known fast food restaurant has become first national restaurant chain to voluntarily disclose GMO ingredients amd pledged then to move to non-GMO not result in significantly higher (Horovitz 12). If chipotle was able to take the steps towards a healthier GMO free lifestyle, then More4kids will have no problem following similar steps. More and more people everyday want more natural Non-GMO ingredients 92% of consumers believe that genetically engineered food should be this goes to show the world really is changing, and it is up to the public to spread awareness (Horovitz 7). Stamm 4 To get involved in GMO labeling, all you have to do is say yes to change, look into what type of GMOs there are, how to avid buying them, and how make an impact by spreading awareness. The first step to take is learning as much as you can on the topic, the rest is easy due to the fact that More4kids is supported by a team of writers and bloggers, getting the information out to the world be so hard. As a company goal is to bring parents the most relevant information, GMO labeling will be a very important topic that they will want to hear about. One of the most important parts of a childs life while they are young and growing a lot is the food they are consuming. Most people are looking for organic Non-GMO verified products in local grocery stores and markets today, and with More4kids posting information on the best products to buy that are Non-GMO, where to buy them from, and more will be sure to bring the website lots of views. There are so many parents looking for information online to tell them what is safe for their kids to eat, and how GMOs can hurt their health as they grow, but there really is not an abundance of sites like this, which makes More4kids the perfect option. GMO labeling in the United States has been a controversial topic for years, and now more people and companies are starting to see why it is so important to have these laws. The company More4kids can provide an immense amount of information that will be very helpful to parents through there online website, and meet their mission in helping children grow as a whole. Stamm 5 Work Cited More4kids, http://www.more4kids.info/about-us/. Accessed 16 April 2017. NON GMO Project, https://www.nongmoproject.org/about/. Accessed 29 January 2017. Rangel, Gabriel. Corgis to Corn: A Brief Look at the Long History of GMO SITN, 9 Aug. 2015, http://sitn.hms.harvard.edu/flash/2015/from- corgis-to-corn-a-brief-look-at-the-long-history-of-gmo-technology/. Accessed 29 January 2017. Poncavage, Joanna. Deception About Mother Earth News, Issue 271, Sept. 2015, pp. 11. Ogden Publications, http://eds.a.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?sid=df09 9645-c165-4942-8b17-cd6e9170b394%40sessionmgr120&vid=15&hid=4103. Accessed 10 April 2017. Americans Embracing Plant- Based, Organic & Non-GMO Nutraceuticals World, Vol. 19, Issue 8, Oct. 2016, pp. 16. WORLD Health Organization, http://go.galegroup.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/ps/retrieve.do?tabID=T003&resultLis earchForm&currentPosition=1&docId=GALE%7CA468699852&docType=Articl e&sort=RELEVANCE&contentSegment=&prodId=AONE&contentSet=GALE% 7CA468699852&searchId=R1&userGroupName=tamp44898&inPS=true. Accessed 10 April 2017. Stamm 6 Dr. Edward Group. top 20 GMO Foods and Ingredients to 24 July 2013, Global Healing Center, http://www.globalhealingcenter.com/natural-health/top- 20-gmo-foods-and-ingredients-to-avoid/. Acessed 16 April 2017. Horovitz, Bruce. leads the way by kicking GMOs to the USA Today, 28 April 2015, pp. 5B. http://go.galegroup.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/ps/i.do?p=AONE&u=tamp44898&id =GALE%7C0RXA&v=2.1&it=aboutJournal&authCount=1. Accessed 16 April 2017.