Student 1 Student ENC 1102 Professor Lewis 26 March 2017 A Better Place for the Homeless Homelessness is a growing issue within society, especially within the United States. In 2012 alone, 633,782 people within the United States experienced homelessness, and numbers have only increased since then (Sheffield 9). As the rates of homelessness rise, the government is struggling to figure out how to solve the issue. The response many states and individual cities are turning to is criminalizing the homeless in order to get them off the streets. An important stakeholder within this issue is The National Coalition for the Homeless (NCH), an organization who insists that criminalization is not the correct way to go about solving the issue of homelessness, but instead believes the solution is to create more city, state, and federal programs directed at stabilizing and reducing the homeless population. Another important stakeholder is the Venice Stakeholders Association (VSA) who believe criminalization is a useful strategy because it simply removes the homeless from the streets. Both stakeholders see the growing rates of homelessness as a high priority concern, though their ideas about solutions are viewed from different perspectives. Approaching the idea that both stakeholders would like for the the homeless to be off of the streets and out of neighborhoods could help to propose a compromise and employ a collaborative effort to solve the growing problem of homelessness. A key stakeholder in the issue of criminalizing the homeless is the NCH, whose main goal is to build a movement to end homelessness NCH believes that one of the Student 2 key aspects of ending homelessness is to stop criminalizing laws put in place by governments, and to build more housing. Criminalization is viewed by NCH as innocent conduct of 235). Such inhumane treatment should therefore be stopped. Homeless that sleep in public areas such as on benches or those lying in parks tend to be affected the most by criminalization, leading the NCH to propose public housing. Because of lack of affordable housing, hundreds of thousands of people are forced to live in public spaces (Tars et al 739). In order to reduce the number of people living in the streets, NCH calls for construction of more public housing, aiming to stop homelessness through housing for all. The stakeholder NCH views criminalization as harmful toward the homeless population, and is fighting against it through the plea for construction of more public housing. Another stakeholder within the issue of criminalizing the homeless is the Venice Stakeholders Association. This main goal is to improve neighborhood safety and beautification within Venice, California the The VSA shares beliefs similar to many middle class world citizens. They fear that homeless people will push them out of their communities if they do out push homeless people out first (Udvarhelyi). The organization fears that letting homeless live on the streets without punishment will cause the area of Venice to become unsafe and unattractive. The VSA calls for to occur, a form of criminalization involving fines or potential incarceration when the law is broken, a strategy commonly used throughout other countries such as Canada (Chesnay 163). Penalization of the homeless would involve them being fined when sleeping in public and disobeying other regulatory laws. The stakeholder would like for the homeless to be off of the streets and out of Student 3 their neighborhoods by any mechanisms necessary, and have found that pushing criminalization and penalization to be successful. Both the NCH and VSA advocate for the homeless to be off of the streets, but in different ways. The NCH wants to help the homeless get into affordable public housing and calls for the construction of such housing, meanwhile; the VSA advocates for homeless to be removed through criminalization and penalization. Efforts have been proposed previously to form a solution, such as the creation of tent cities, temporary structures that provide simple shelter to the homeless (Loftus-Farren 1038). Though tent cities are a good short term option, more renovations would be necessary for tent cities to become a realistic solution, and a more permanent solution to the living situation of homeless is of high priority. The idea of tent cities also currently only appeal to one stakeholder, the NCH. The VSA is left to deal with the often unsightly tent cities within their neighborhoods. A compromise between the NCH and VSA has the potential to be more effective at solving the problem of homelessness. A compromise between the two stakeholders could consist of the creation of a housing community for the homeless. While there are current public housing locations, often referred to as throughout all large cities in the country, only one housing community seems to exist. Camp Quixote is a tent-site turned homeless community in Olympia, Washington that has had great success in providing a place for homeless to live and create a sense of community (Reslock 35). The site features many tiny houses for each individual homeless person or family to sleep, a communal building with showers, a kitchen, a laundromat, as well as a community garden. Such a community not only presents the homeless with a place to live, but it provides for networking with other homeless, relationships to be formed, and a safe and comfortable place to Student 4 better their lives. A potential compromise between the NCH and VSA could be formed based upon the structures of Camp Quixote. A solution based upon a slight tent-site approach could potentially appeal to both stakeholders. Creating a more permanent and sightly house with many tiny houses could appeal to both the NCH and the VSA because the homeless would be off of the streets and appear as just another suburb, only made of tiny houses. The site would have strict regulations for upkeep and behavior, as well as a pleasant appearance. To maintain the site, rules would be put in place requiring every person to be sober and keep up with the maintenance of their area, as well as the communal areas. The rent would be income based, such as 30%, and each resident would have to maintain a clean criminal record while at the facilities. While the site appears to be costly, $8,000-$10,000 would be saved per year for every homeless person housed, due to fewer emergency room visits, hospital stays, jail time, and ambulance rides (Reslock 38). Simple mathematics indicates that savings of at least $8,000 multiplied by the 633,782 people experiencing homeless is well worth the costs of building the sites. Logistically, the costs needed for the sites would include land, construction costs, permits, and other services - some of which can be donated, but most of which would be funded through tax dollars. No new tax would be implemented, but the funding previously listed before that would decrease due to housing would be cut, such as jail funding and potentially military expenditures. Cutting the funds would only be temporary, because once the sites are running, the utilities will be funded through the rent paid. The tiny house communities would be beneficial to both stakeholders, as they remove the homeless and place them into effective and sightly communities, instead of the dirty and unattractive streets. Student 5 Although the NCH and the VSA have differing views about how to properly deal with the homeless, they would both like to get them off of the streets in some way or another. A collaborative plan between the two stakeholders would provide for a solution that benefits them both through the removal of homeless from the streets. Creation of a tiny house community for homeless would benefit the NCH, since one of their main goals is to provide housing for the homeless. The sites would also benefit the VSA, since the homeless would no longer be roaming their neighborhoods, and instead would be placed into housing units with strict regulations and cleanliness standards. The eventual potential for tax dollars to be saved would also appeal to the VSA. If the collaborative plan is ignored by one or both of the stakeholders, then the rates of homelessness will only rise, and safety levels of cities will decrease. If collaborative efforts are attempted and addressed, rates of homelessness will decrease, community tax dollars will eventually be saved, and cities will begin to become more beautiful and attractive, causing more revenue from tourism. (WC: 1,378) Student 6 Works Cited About  Coalition for the N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. www.nationalhomeless.org/about-us/ Chesnay, Catherine T., Cline Bellot, and Marie-ve Sylvestre. Taming Disorderly People One Ticket at a Time: The Penalization of Homelessness in Ontario and British  Canadian Journal of Criminology & Criminal vol. 55, no. 2, 2013., pp. 161-185. Accessed 24 Feb. 2017. the Swamp, Mike, and Stop Attracting More Homeless to Stakeholders Association. n.d. Web. 5 Mar. 2017. http://www.venicestakeholdersassociation.org/2016/11/drain-swamp-mike-and-stop-attracti ng.html Loftus-Farren, Zoe. Tent Cities: An Interim Solution to Homelessness and Affordable Housing Shortages in the United California law vol. 99, 2011., pp. 1037. Accessed 24 Feb. 2017. Elizabeth M. M. The Cruel and Unusual Criminalization of Homelessness: Factoring Individual Accountability into the Proportionality Texas Journal on Civil Liberties & Civil vol. 12, no. 1, 2006., pp. 233-275. Accessed 24 Feb. 2017. Reslock, Debbie S. Housing for vol. 82, no. 2, 2016., pp. 34-38. Accessed 24 Feb. 2017. Student 7 Sheffield, Jonathan. Homeless Bill of Rights: Step by Step from State to Interest Law Reporter, 19, no. 45, 2013., pp. 8-17. Accessed 5 Mar. 2017. Tars, Eric S., et al. Can I Get some Remedy?: Criminalization of Homelessness and the Obligation to Provide an Effective Columbia Human Rights Law vol. 45, no. 3, 2014., pp. 738-771. Accessed 24 Feb. 2017. Udvarhelyi, va T. We Push Homeless People Out, We Will End Up Being Pushed Out by The Criminalization of Homelessness as State Strategy in vol. 46, no. 3, 2014., pp. 816-834. Accessed 24 Feb. 2017.