Maningo 1 Malia Maningo ENC 1102 Professor Staiger 16 April 2017 Preserving Fish Populations Millions of tourists flock to Florida every year. With a beach always being at least within 2 hours of visitors, no wonder that the state of Florida, with the help of tourists, generates billions of dollars every year. A popular aspect of the Florida coastline is the local fish population. Charter boats and fisheries alike utilize this resource in order to fund their business. However, recently, the fish population has been in decline to to over harvesting. One may think that the community or themselves will be impacted, but that is incorrect. Doctor Jerald Ault discussed the hazards of overfishing, and stated, is a serious issue, as it impacts the ecology, economy, and global food (Ault 1). USF students can get involved in this cause by learning the repercussions of overfishing, taking pride in their local environment, and signing petitions for stricter laws with harsh fines. After reading about the possible hazard of overfishing, many will think exactly is In reality, there are more than one communities harmed when it comes to overfishing. In order to maintain a balanced ecology, there must be no disruptions in the food chain. When large amounts of fish are harvested, this will rattle the hierarchy of predators, causing one species to be more abundant than the other. Not only is the ecology a concern, but also the economy. According to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, commercial and recreational saltwater fishing generated more than $199 billion in sales and Maningo 2 supported 1.7 million jobs in the economy in (NOAA). Without a steady supply of fish, the fisheries will have less supply of fish. Less amount of fish means less workers, resulting in civilians losing their jobs. The economy would also have a large hole where fishing supplied much of the income. As if ecological and economical disturbance was not enough of the disaster, there is also a large loss of biodiversity that results from over harvesting fish populations. Biodiversity, according to Ian Swingland, a renowned conservationist, biodiversity can be defined as genetic, and ecosystem diversity in an (Swingland 1). A loss in biodiversity would result in less exotic and genetically different species. This would lessen the value of Florida waters for fishing, reducing the amount of tourists interested in the area, and ultimately lessening the income generated from tourists. Being educated about a topic is one thing, but there is also the subject of being engaged. So why should USF students care about overfishing? One of the unique features of schooling in South Florida is the beaches being so close to campus. The beach is often a quick drive, and a fast way to destress from school or work. It is also a hot spring break destination that is less than an hour away. The beaches near USF are a blessing, and should be cherished as such. A hobby that many students participate in at Florida beaches is fishing. However, without a vast fish population to support this hobby, the future of recreational fishing is unknown. Without the fish population, other local species are sure to go down as extinct also. For example, the coral reefs near Florida shores. Coral reefs are not only beautiful to look at, but they also provide homes for fish populations. When fish need to lay their eggs, coral reefs are a popular go to, as they provide shelter and safety to the unhatched eggs (McClenachan 1). They are not only beneficial to the local fish populations, but also the economy too. According to the World Wide Fund of Nature, Maningo 3 the coral reefs surrounding the Florida Keys alone generates three billion dollars to the economy (WWF). Without this federal funding, everyday hassles such as potholes and streetlights would not be fixed. This is a cause that all of USF could get behind, as it is happening right in their backyard (National Priorities). There are many things that USF students can do to help out this cause. One of the most beneficial ideas to reduce the amount of fish being harvested is to petition the government for stricter fishing regulations. In order to begin a petition, one must first understand how the petition process works. First, a referendum must be filed. This referendum will stimulate a vote to be included on the ballot to be decided by the political officials deciding the law. The lawmakers will then decide on if the law should be changed or not, and with compelling evidence, the right decision is sure to be made. Another way to change the state laws is to call a state senator and discuss a revision to the current law. To call a local senator, visit the office of the state the law resides in, and request to be transferred to the office. Be sure to have key notes to hit to effectively argue the point. Also an important change that does not require a law revision is safety in recreational fishing. A biological conservationist named Mark Chiappone highlighted how little things such as fishing wire or lose bobbers can affect the population as a whole. According to his article of lost fishing gear on coral reef sessile invertebrates in the Florida Keys National Marine Sanctuary, 84% of documented fishing gear harmed 321 different breeds of sponges and cnidarians (Chiappone 1). If every person was mindful of their gear and belongings, something as big as a life could be saved. Maningo 4 Overfishing is not something to be looked over. It is a severe and serious problem affecting the world. Not only does it result in a disturbance to the ecology, but also the worldwide economy. Without a sustainable source of fish, millions of people will be affected. Although this is a global issue, any one person can lend a hand. USF students should hold this topic near and dear to their hearts, as the beach is a hot commodity that is less than an hour away. One can help by becoming educated on the subject of over fishing, engage in causes that benefit this cause, and spread awareness of the topic so that others may also get involved. Hopefully this will spark nationwide change to the fishing laws, and create a continual economic and ecological source that will last forever. Maningo 5 Works Cited Ault, J.S., et al. Indicators for Assessing the Ecological Dynamics and Sustainability of Southern Coral Reef and Coastal  vol. 44, no. Tools to Support Ecosystem Based Management of South Coastal Resources, 01 Sept. 2014, pp. 164-172. doi:10.1016/j.ecolind.2014.04.013. Chiappone, Mark, et al. Impacts of Lost Fishing Gear on Coral Reef Sessile Invertebrates in the Florida Keys National Marine  vol. 121, 01 Jan. 2005, pp. 221-230. doi:10.1016/j.biocon.2004.04.023. Coral Reefs:  N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Federal Spending: Where Does the Money  Priorities N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 201 McClenachan, Loren and John N Kittinger. Multicentury Trends and the Sustainability of Coral Reef Fisheries in and  & vol. 14, no. 3, Sept. 2013, pp. 239-255. doi:10.1111/j.1467-2979.2012.00465.x. Fisheries, NOAA. NOAA Report Finds Commercial and Recreational Saltwater Fishing Generated $199 Billion in 2011 :: NOAA  N.p., 07 Mar. 2013. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Swingland, Ian.  - Business Plan for New Company, Business Plan for a New Company, It Company Business Plan Sample Si Inca 31 De - N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.