Jovica Gasic 05/26/17 Angelica Aranda ENC 1102 Global Warming With problems that affects us as a group, the general view of the people would be to take on the challenge together to solve the problem as efficiently as possible. However, in the case of Global Warming, the problem is not recognized among certain groups in the population, or is not seen as a problem that humanity caused so it human responsibility. Global Warming is a true phenomenon caused by the recent increase of carbon emissions from the burning of fossil fuels. This can be seen by the trend of temperatures rising in correlation to the increasing use of fossil fuels, and the people who tend not to believe it are the ones who know little about how the world functions as a system to change climates. Popularly called change or these people tend to be far right conservatives and less educated people who research the topic on their own. Thus, the best way society can begin to combat a changing climate is to educate more people on the actual process of which climate is changing and how humanity contributes and how scientists know that people do contribute. People cannot begin to start reversing climate change if only a piece of the population is aware of the problem and is convinced of it. Afterward, people can begin to take matter into their own hands by taking the challenge to reduce their own Carbon footprint within a month. The World Wildlife Fund have been fighting to lower the carbon foot print but have not been successful alone. They need more help from the other half of America. Climate change is a very complex issue with multiple factors attributing to it that skeptics need to understand. One of which is that Climate change is not an entirely new thing. For a series of hundreds of million years, the Earth has shifted from warm sessions and Ice Ages for the entirety of the time. Currently, Earth is still under the last Ice Age. NOVA, a governmental science education program, mentions that to Antarctica, the temperature of the water near the surface dropped to between 5 and 8 degrees which was about 10-14 degrees Celsius during the Eocine period of warmth which was just a few million years prior (Maasch). The main point is though that the change took a good 20-million-year period of time to have a change of about 6 degrees. In comparison, at the current trend the oceanic temperatures as a whole will change 6 degrees in only 900 years, .6 degrees Celsius or 1 degree Fahrenheit per century (Warne). That is a vastly accelerated warming trend that people, animals, nor plants have no chance to adapt to. In addition, Climate change is heavily influenced by gasses in the atmosphere called greenhouse gasses. Greenhouse gasses are molecules in the air that absorb radiation from the sun and emit it out into the atmosphere. The Environment Protections Agency noted that it is a very crucial to Earth Greenhouse gases keep the Earth warm the greenhouse effect as it keeps Earth from freezing (EPA). It does this by capturing heat energy from the sun and storing it in the chemical bonds of each molecule in the atmosphere. Carbon Dioxide works very well to store in heat in its bonds and releases all of the infrared radiation at night to warm Earth when the heat of the sun does not reach a part of Earth. However, too much of this effect leads to too much warmth affecting Earth both at night and in the day. If there is too much warmth in the atmosphere, a tiny amount of that energy can affect the following heat index. This leads to a progressive warming over a long period of time. With a higher temperature, the Earth can end up dealing with a several effects of the climate change. Some of these effects are, water in the ocean changing in pH (acidity or alkalinity of a substance like water), the water in ocean expanding with more energy which causes coastal flooding, extended hurricane, and monsoon seasons from a faster evaporation of water on the surface of the Earth, and more. The many issues that come from a higher heat content has the potential of devastating millions to billions of lives along coasts with flooding that is expected to be due to sea level rising which is rising 3.2 millimeters per year and accelerating (National Geographic). This thermal expansion leads to the higher evaporation rate from the ocean due to the extra heat and room to expand into causing the ocean water to more readily want to achieve a gas state. This becomes dangerous in areas of already warm waters like the Caribbean which in 2005 has had the most storms it has ever had in recorded history (Dunbar). This is a serious threat, if global warming continues to accelerate then the threats will only escalate. At that point extinction events are very likely. All of the effects of Climate Change are serious and need to be dealt with, especially since people do contribute to it. Since the when the industrial revolution began to take over the European economy, the amount of Carbon Dioxide in the atmosphere increased steadily and began to increase to the point where the increase of temperature began to also increase. When you burn any hydrocarbon, like oil or coal, the natural results of the reaction are Carbon Dioxide and Water (or Dihydrogen Monoxide) and as such the amount of Carbon Dioxide in the atmosphere is increasing with any fossil fuel burned (American Chemical Society). Lindsay Wilson, a researcher from that says that over 2000 gigatons of Carbon Dioxide has been released into the atmosphere since the and when this data is compared to the trend of temperatures, they correlated (Wilson). The Data shows that the average global temperatures from that time period increased with the change of Carbon Dioxide. Though, it not a causal experiment, it is substantial experiment showing that we have a heavy impact on the environment, especially the climate. It is not too late to begin making the change. You are the other 50% of America and because of that, you hold half of the power within your communities and your decisions. The other half could not reduce the United States consumption of Hydrocarbon fuels on its own. You can start by taking the Your challenge, where the challenged person is to take a questionnaire at Nature.org to get your current carbon footprint and is to work on reducing it within a week. If you are able to do it, you are to nominate 3 other people to do the challenge. If you fail you still nominate 3 people but you also donate 50 dollars to World Wildlife Fund. This way you can do a part in learning how much we do depend on Hydrocarbon fuels and how much we need to start replacing them with cleaner energy sources. ACS. Chapter 6, Lesson 1  Multimedia: Balanced Equation Chapter 6, Lesson 1 Middle School Chemistry. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Dunbar, Brian. 2005: A Hurricane Season  NASA. NASA, n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. The Greenhouse  EPA. Environmental Protection Agency, n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Greenhouse  American Chemical Society. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Maasch, Kirk A. What Triggers Ice  PBS. Public Broadcasting Service, 01 Jan. 1997. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Society, National Geographic. Sea Temperature Rise -- Pristine  National Geographic. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Warne, Photograph by Kennedy. Sea Level  National Geographic. N.p., 14 Apr. 2017. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Wilson, Lindsay. Global carbon emissions and sinks since  Shrinkthatfootprint.com. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.