Student 1 Student Instructor Lewis ENC 1102 26 March 2017 Finding A Compromise in the Energy Market People need energy, and this makes the commercial energy market a very big and profitable market. However, there is a debate that is on going in the field of commercial energy production today. Renewable vs nonrenewable energy is the question that is being asked. Most energy providers are trying to use renewable energy sources, but this is a costly endeavor. First and foremost, ACORE is an organization based around making renewable energy the main source of power in the United States of America. While they are not an energy provider, they do have considerable influence in the government and host multiple conferences and forums to help spread their message and push their agenda Energy companies like Duke Energy are implementing renewable energy powered plants but still use many coal and other nonrenewable energy run power plants as well Where these stakeholders may need to find a compromise is how much renewable energy should be implemented and in what time frame. ACORE is intent on getting all power plants in the USA to be renewable energy powered. On the other hand, Duke Energy is implementing renewable energy where they can, but still has many nonrenewable energy powered plants that they upkeep. Even though these two stakeholders have slight incompatibilities in their goals of bringing reliable and safe energy to the consumer, by compromising and creating a joint agreement in which both companies assist each other, both companies could still achieve their goals while satisfying the energy needs of the consumer. Student 2 First off, main objective is to unite business, policy and finance to accelerate the transition to a renewable energy economy They are based in Washington D.C. and want to bring renewable energy into the mainstream American life They can accomplish this using the many forums and conferences that they host, annually. These include the ACORE National Renewable Energy Policy Forum held in Washington D.C. and the Renewable Energy Finance Forum held in New York City. At these events, ACORE gathers many leaders and stockholders in the renewable energy market. Having access to this many potential backers gives ACORE a great influence in the energy market. These events also provide many networking opportunities for stakeholders in the rewable energy market. As reported by Roussel, ACORE has small international partnerships and is a part of the World Council for Renewable Energy and the Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency Partnership (Roussel). ACORE has many programs that push for complete reliance on renewable energy. They also work with the US Department of Defense to help transition the military to renewable energy as well. ACORE is a well-positioned organization to influence many companies and government institutions to further their goals. On the other hand of this debate is Duke Energy. They are one of the biggest electric power company in the United States. Duke mission statement is: the lives of our customers and This reflects how they want to be able to provide reliable, and safe energy to their customers. While Duke Energy is not in direct contrast to ACORE, who also wants to provide safe and reliable energy to the consumer, they have different plans for doing so. Duke Energy currently has over 80 power plants in the United States and most of them are currently nonrenewable energy powered. They are either coal burning or natural gas burning. The company also has multiple nuclear and hydro electric power plants in Student 3 addition to the wind and solar plants that have been built recently Plants - Our Duke Energy is also in the process of closing old, retired coal plants and either modifying them to be reused or scraping them completely All of Duke coal powered plants undergo a test that is designed to make sure that the power plant is in working order and that any waste is being collected and stored properly. This test is performed annually (Guimaraes). However, Duke Energy had a small mishap when attempting to store coal ash from a cleaned and decommissioned coal plant. In May of 2014 Duke Energy released coal ash into the Dan River in North Carolina. This cost the company around three million dollars to fund the clean up in partnership with the Environmental Protection Agency (Weisinger). Although Duke Energy does not completely rely on renewable energy, they are in the progress of gaining a foothold in the renewable energy market. However, both of these stakeholders share common ground. They both want to use renewable energy powered plants to lessen the impact on the environment, and both stakeholders have concerns about the future of the energy market. Currently Duke Energy has multiple renewable energy run power plants and is in the process of decommissioning old and retired coal power plants. ACORE could use this opportunity to help fund the renovating of these decommissioned coal power plants and turn them into renewable energy power plants. ACORE could present new funding and other incentives for companies, like Duke Energy, to build renewable energy run power plants. This could work out as a compromise between ACORE and Duke Energy. ACORE could raise funds at their conferences and forums and then grant these funds to Duke Energy through a business deal. Duke Energy would then put the funds to work in renovating their old and retired coal run power plants to be renewable energy run power plants, Student 4 thus driving the United States towards being more reliant on renewable energy, which is primary goal. In fact, this compromise benefits both stakeholders and helps them stay on track with each mission statement. This compromise benefits ACORE by giving them a company that is big enough to make noticeable change in the energy market, as well as help push their goal of making renewable energy the standard in American life. By partnering with one of the biggest power providers in the United States, ACORE would have a new platform to spread their message as well as a company that can do practical work in the furthering of their goal. Duke Energy also has international connections in South America, this would give ACORE a foothold into the South American renewable energy market. This compromise benefits Duke Energy by giving them resources to fix and maintain the new renewable energy based power plants. If Duke Energy were to partner with the leaders in renewable energy market, they could receive numerous grants and other support the build many more renewable energy run power plants. By partnering with ACORE, Duke Energy could also get insight into the European energy market as ACORE is a part of multiple international renewable energy organizations(Roussel). At this point, to practically implement this compromise both ACORE and Duke Energy would have to agree on a deal or form a mutual partnership. This could be done by the company executives at managerial level. Then ACORE and Duke Energy would work together to fund and build more renewable energy run power plants. First and Duke Businesses teams could meet and discuss how and where the funds would be used. Then ACORE could raise the funds at a forum or convention and use the funds to assist Duke Energy in modifying and maintaining the new power plants. Duke Energy is assisting ACORE in this manner by giving Student 5 ACORE a platform to show how great renewable energy is and gives the organization a tangible example to show to other companies that may want to partner with ACORE. Finally, what if Duke Energy were to become the largest energy company in the Western Hemisphere? They have many plants based in South America already. If ACORE was partnered with them they would gain significant influence in the energy market. Even thought these two stakeholders have slight incompatibilities in their goals of bringing reliable and safe energy to the consumer, by compromising both companies could still achieve their goals. If this compromise were to happen, then the world would be one step closer to full reliance on renewable energy. (WC 1342) Student 6 Works Cited ACORE, ACORE, 2017, www.acore.org/about. Accessed 24 Feb. 2017. Blanchet, Kevin. The Sustainability  Sustainability: The Journal of Record 1.1 (2008): 78- 81. Accessed 3 Mar. 2017 Guimaraes, M., and K. Ladwig. Duke Energy Coal Combustion Product Management  (2016). About Us - Duke Energy, Duke Energy, 2016, www.duke-energy.com/our- company/about-us. Accessed 19 Feb. 2017. Plants - Our Duke Energy, 2016, www.duke-energy.com/our- company/about- us/power-plants. Accessed 3 Mar. 2017. Roussel, Jodie. American Council On Renewable Energy (ACORE): Building Domestic and International Partnerships for the Success of Renewable OSTA - Office of Science & Technology Austria Washington DC, OSTA, 2014, ostaustria.org/component/k2/item/671-the-american-council-on-renewable-energy-acore- building-domestic-and-international-partnerships-for-the-success-of-renewable-energy. Accessed 24 Feb. 2017. Weisinger, Keith. Summary: Duke Energy Agrees to $3 Million Cleanup for Coal Ash Release in the Dan EPA, Environmental Protection Agency, 25 Apr. 2016, www.epa.gov/enforcement/case-summary-duke-energy-agrees-3-million-cleanup-coal- ash-release-dan-river. Accessed 24 Feb. 2017. WORKING@DUKE STAFF. Forum Addresses Benefits of Proposed Power Duke Today, Duke University, 28 Oct. 2016, today.duke.edu/2016/10/public-forum- addresses-benefits-proposed-power-plant. Accessed 24 Feb. 2017.