Mohammadi 1 Mehdi Mohammadi Ms. Poston ENC1102 4/16/17 Globalization Globalization is the fact of our world which was excited from centuries ago however in the last century because of the new technologies and development in the transportation people could be more connected than every which caused globalization in the new century to be faster than ever and have effect on the culture and economy of the world. Globalization during this era has effect on every person the world and can make peoples life better in my ways such as living and economy of people in the world. Globalization has an effect on every person on the world which because of the developing the of the technologies in the last centuries; all the people in the world have to involve in the globalization because in the future will have more effect on our life and every people in the world. Globalization is the part of our life and is involving everyone in the world.in the new century the transportation between courtiers have been easier than ever because of the inventing trains and airplanes countries are more contented together than ever and it makes all the countries to become one more connected together. The organization like WTO are making the trades between countries easier than ever which help all the nation to have better trade between each other; Which helped all the government to develop all the nations equally which is imperative for people all around the world. One of the biggest and most important companies which helping country for trading between each other is WTO (World Trade International) Mohammadi 2 which make rules for all the government and helping many countries to have peaceful trade between each other and the rest of the world. In addition, Improving the communication between people in the world is the one of the most important reason of the globalization; Social media connected people from all around world which is makes the new global culture for new generation in the world. Nowadays people are around globe are more connected than ever which helps all the people from anywhere in this world to have information about anything in the world. Nowadays in this world every person is involving in the globalization because people around world is causing globalization after all. People all around world by trading between each other are making their life in different countries better so all the people are involving in globalization. Globalization is making poor people life better all-around world and it educate people all around world by making the countries to involve in global economy it can make job for many people for many people all around world. By social media education is almost free for every person in the world which make all people from all the nation to become aware of their rights and defend it against of the people who want to use them and it make our world better place for living. By globalization our people are more connected together and make all the countries to become one in the world without border which everyone is free and have same kind of life style. All the people around world by sharing their life and knowledge with together can help each other to have better life. Globalization is already part of our life by using in right way we can help each other as human and make our world better place to live. As we can see everyone only by connecting to internet can have free education around world and can help children all around world to have better education. By sending technologies around world we can make job Mohammadi 3 for people in undevelopment countries and it helps poor people to make money for their family. People by travelling around world can share their culture together and peoples will learn to respect every person with different culture in the globe and find true about each country in the world which make racism less in the world. In conclusion every person in the world is involved in globalization. Globalization got faster during the last century because inventing new and advance technologies compare to past which helped trading between countries to be easier and social media which caused people to share their coulter in each part of the world and have better idea about different culture in the world and make connection in the world. Globalization should be important to everyone because life is involved and it can have their life in the better situation in the future by helping and using it correctly in the right way which is helping all the human around globe. By helping globalization, we help next generation to have better life however it depends on us who to use the globalization in our life, it can have advantage for us or it can have disadvantage for us. Mohammadi 4 Work cited Pettinger, Tejvan. What caused  Economics Help. N.p., n.d. Web. 11 Apr. 2017. Writer, Leaf Group. The Effects of Economic Globalization on Developing  Chron.com. Chron.com, 04 Aug. 2010. Web. 11 Apr. 2017. Steger, Manfred B. Globalization: A Very Short Introduction. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2009. Print. World Tourism Organization  Who we are World Tourism Organization UNWTO. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Society, National Geographic.  National Geographic Society. N.p., 09 Oct. 2012. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.