Taylor Smith ENC 1102 Gocinski April 21, 2017 A study conducted by Brett Carter found 79% of young self-esteem decreased after playing with Barbie dolls (Carter 6). Barbie dolls and Disney princesses have unrealistically thin body ideals and have been under criticism in recent years. These unpractical and unhealthy body types have been noted for strongly influencing young girls, which have led to eating disorders. Mattel, manufacturer, has been producing dolls since 1962, and on average, the body shape would come about to be a woman weighing in at 116 pounds, whereas the average United States woman is weighing in about 140 pounds (Coren). United States National Soccer team is another great influence on young girls as they actively speak out for a healthy body image. The U.S. National Soccer league could partner with Disney and Mattel in order to convince the two brands how crucial it is on young girls to empower themselves opposed to tearing them down with unattainable ideals the companies, and society have placed. Ruth Handler, th4e owner of Barbie originally said Barbie should be one girls can look up to and relate yet with the way the company has carried himself for so long, with excessively thin, small footed, narrow limbed dolls is not relatable to six-year-old girl (handler). Prichard, a psychologist, watched 100 four to nine-year-old girls play with both an original Barbie and another toy and 31% of the girls were found to talk down about themselves when asked if they believed they could relate to either toy. Many were noted for calling themselves and (Prichard 3). This study only emphasizes the negative impact the company has on a mental health. As society, and body images are ever-changing, it is difficult for girls to find the beauty within themselves that pair up with the image society has placed on them. With influential brands that are aimed for young kids, like Barbie and Disney, it is easy to relate unrealistic body types with what young girls believe they should look like. The women of the soccer league are endlessly encouraging other team players to eat well and exercise, as one teammate should. If this body empowerment were used on young girls, then it can be hoped that the girls would understand that eating well and eating minimal to obtain a body are two very different aspects of life. The soccer team should care about the subject at hand, as they were once young girls themselves and can understand the pressures young girls today face. The women on the team have daughters of their own and can see the hardships they ensure day to day. It is planned that the United State Soccer League would be able to follow their busy schedule as they play other teams across the country, and while they are other cities and countries, they would speak to classroom and clubs on the difference between healthy eating and eating disorders. This would positively impact both the children and the women of the team, as the students would see role models instructing them that Barbie and the princesses, such Belle, Ariel and Jasmine are fiction, yet their health is a reality and each should be treated as such. As for the soccer team, the women will benefit through a widening fan base and a chance to influence youth. In addition, the women of the National League will have the opportunity experience a multitude of schooling system throughout the nation and world. As Barbie and Disney are targeting young kids, especially to have a body type that is both unachievable and extremely unhealthily. Multiple studies have shown an increase in body dissatisfaction when watching a Disney television show and/ or playing with an original Barbie doll. This issue has only increased over the years and unless action is taken, will continue in the future. As this is a global worry, a global stance will better the issue. The United States National Soccer League will travel the nation and globe while on their soccer tour in order to not interfere with the soccer games and impact young girls of today. This tour will take place a multitude of schools and young girls clubs to encourage healthy eating and discourage the common belief that Disney princesses bodies are natural and should be the way all girls look. http://www.newsmax.com/US/average-weight-man-woman-obese/2015/06/15/id/650546/ Carter, Brett; Crighton, Gabrielle; Pidgeon, Aileen; Stapleton, Peta. Esteem and Body Image in The Humanistic Physcolosgist. American Phycological Association. 9 Feb. 2017, pp.1- 17. http://eds.a.ebscohost.com/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?sid=f4fc204e-70ed-4cc8-a175 ce2201fec5a2%40sessionmgr4008&vid=2&hid=4111. Accessed 09 April, 2017. Prichard, Ivanka; Rice, Karlie; Slater, Amy; Tiggeman, Marika. to Barbie- Effects on Young Girls Body School of Psychology. Elsevier. 30 Sept. 2016, pp. 142-149. http://ac.elscdn.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/S1740144516300730/1-s2.0 Accessed 10 April, 2017. Knafo, Hannah. Development of Body The New School Psychology Bulletin, vol. 13. 01 Jan. 2016. http://eds.a.ebscohost.com/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?sid=4105ad27-9eb2-4be5 914b-dee910c2151b%40sessionmgr4008&vid=10&hid=4111. Accessed 10 April, 2017.