Daley 1 Patrick Daley Bob Botkin ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Intermediate Draft What is the first thing that comes to mind when one thinks of winning the lottery? Is it a life of luxury and leisure? Maybe travel and adventure? Perhaps financial stability and a good future for progeny? It is indeed true that the idea of winning the lottery is often synonymous with an individual seeing the fruition of their dreams. However, under this veneer, there is a more complex interplay of issues and stakeholders occurring behind the scenes. On one hand, there is the political aspect of the lottery organizations, which are tasked with dedicating a portion of their proceeds to give to education, which is why the government allows them to function at the scale they do. On the other hand, the human aspect, such as what demographic is spending the most, and thus providing the most funds for the lottery, and by proxy, the educational system, as well as what happens to someone that actually wins. Taking these things, even very briefly, into account might just shatter perceptions of the lottery. In North America, lotteries, which can be seen as a form of government-sponsored gambling, are run at a state or provincial level, depending on whether they are in the United States or Canada, respectively Lotteries and are founded for the purpose of raising public funds for education among a number of other causes authorized by the relevant legislature of that state or province. The Florida State Lottery, for example, was founded with the mission statement of revenues for education to allow the people of Florida to benefit from significant additional monies while providing the best lottery games Indeed, Florida boasts a sum of over $31 billion raised since it began operating over Daley 2 twenty-eight years ago That is not to say that the lottery contributions have always raised the amount of money provided to a educational system. In fact a 2007 report by CBS found that, at that time, in 21 of 24 states that utilize lottery proceeds to fund education, the total for state education, combined from both the state budget and the lottery, had stayed the same or decreased since the inception of the lotteries Is The Lottery Shortchanging ). This means that a sum equal to or greater than the proceeds from lotteries for their education had been redirected to other state programs or even corporate tax breaks. Now, it is important to mention that this happened back in 2007 and that, since then, there have been a number of states, like California, that have broken this trend as is noted by the Los Angeles Correspondent for America Magazine, Jim McDermott, in an article that points out the dissemination of outdated information on the subject (McDermott, Jim, S.J.). However, it does rather belie the notion that our representatives always have our best intentions as their priority, an idea which particularly helped when one takes into account the burden of the lottery upon the consumers. Research from the 1999 National Gambling Impact Commission (NGIC) showed that those making less than ten thousand dollars a year spent almost six hundred dollars on lottery tickets annually, a greater amount than any other (The National Gambling Impact Study Commission: Chapter 7, page 10). It also found that those who had failed to attain a high-school degree spend, on average, four times as much on lottery tickets as college graduates, as well as the fact that black individuals five times as money as white individuals (The National Gambling Impact Study Commission: Chapter 7, page 10). Then there is the matter of what happens to the winners; in 2002, a study by the National Endowment for Financial Education found that as high a portion as of all people who suddenly receive large amounts of money will lose that money within a few (National Endowment for Financial Education). Even if the numbers were now half that, that would Daley 3 still mean that about one in three people would lose everything they won and would, at best, go back to their previous socioeconomic standing. It take too hard a look to begin to notice the cracks in the facade that is the popular image of the lottery. There is a good chance that, at some point, most will come into contact with state education, whether having attended a public school, planning on sending own children there, or ending up teaching or working in the public school system. Thus, some might find it a bit disheartening to hear that, globally, the United States ranks 24 th in science, 24 th in reading, and 39 th in mathematics, well behind many other developed and industrialized countries, according to the 2015 report from the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development Programme for International Student Assessment (DeSilver, Drew). For a country that boasts one of the highest qualities of life, the most powerful military, and the greatest influence on the global economy, one would think the US should be doing far better in terms of education to remain a competent force on the world stage, especially if it has these lottery programs in place for the express purpose of providing additional funding. And even more so because it is an industry that raked in over $68 billion in total sales within the United States in 2013, which was more than was spent that year on movie tickets, music, NFL and MLB tickets, video games, and adult entertainment combined, as was reported in the program Last Week coverage on lotteries Week Tonight with John Oliver: The If lotteries, like the Florida Lottery, have been founded as a means of increasing the funding for education, then not a good sign when making a majority of their money off of minorities, the impoverished, and, most alarmingly, the least-educated as was mentioned in the findings of the NGIC. This is, perhaps, why the lottery has sometimes been referred to as tax on the  and that it is After all, it does seem bit rich for a system to receive a majority of their funding from those who have been failed by that very same system, especially there have been periods in the last ten years where twenty-one Daley 4 out of twenty-four states that have these systems in place have simultaneously reported no increase in the sum awarded to the education compared to the amount it had been awarded before receiving lottery funds. The classification of more easily-accessible and addictive forms of gambling, such as video lottery machines, which are little more than slot machines run by the lottery companies, and smart phone apps, under the umbrella of lottery games makes this issue even more daunting to deal with as more and more people are enthralled by the nigh-impossible prospect of winning a fortune, as is mentioned in Last Week coverage on lotteries Week Tonight with John Oliver: The And when one considers that in the instances where individuals do in fact end up winning a fortune, it is a tad unnerving to find there is a the probability that seven of those individuals would be back to their financial starting point as a best case scenario. And, unfortunately not uncommon in many less-than-optimal scenarios, those unlucky lucky individuals could end up bankrupt, divorced, addicted, in all likelihood to gambling, or perhaps even deceased (Kelley, Michael B., and Pamela Engel). It can take some scrutiny to recognize a worthwhile issue especially when it immediately advertise itself as a problem in an obvious and simple way. However, it also takes conviction and concern for an individual to take a stand on that issue. If one were to endeavor to take action to bring about change, there are several avenues through which they might effect that change. Congressman should be sent letters requesting that they put the money due to education into education as they would without the aid of the lottery. The next step would be to create a petition to accomplish the same purpose. On a different front, lottery officials should be contacted to say that they should withhold the amount they raised for education until the state has put in its part for education. Petitions should be created to have lotteries use the money they would use to advertise and expand into more aggressive forms of gambling, instead to fund education and lobby for more responsible state education Daley 5 funding and budgeting. There should also be a call for mandatory financial literacy counseling and tests for lottery winners, especially if they choose to accept their reward as a lump sum. This would help winners use their prize money more prudently, and make it last, so they so often have to go through the agony of losing everything they won. Mitigating the riskier aspects of the lottery and refocusing it on the causes their funds are meant benefit might eventually break the vicious cycle of the solution feeding the problem. The impetus of a well-thought-out action towards progress, personal or otherwise, is preceded by first knowing where progress needs to be made, then why that progress needs to be made, and finally how to make said progress. Knowing that the lottery necessarily do as much for education as initially-intended, that the funds are disproportionately provided by those who have already been failed by the educational system, and that, for those who do win, it is just as likely that they will lose all they have gained, if not more in a fraction of a decade, provides a variety of places where progress can potentially be made. Understanding that these factors create a cycle where the purported solution to a problem actually helps feed the problem, but in a way that benefits the state, provides ample reason why it might be the prerogative of the individual readers to help make progress in the places where there is a problem. Finally, knowing the public channels and procedures through which one can go in order to improve the situation, provides an idea of how the individual readers can help make this progress. Because if someone is going to take a chance, it should be on the lottery and not on public education. Daley 6 Works Cited DeSilver, Drew. U.S. academic achievement still lags that of their peers in many other  Pew Research Center. N.p., 15 Feb. 2017. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. <http://www.pewresearch.org/fact-tank/2017/02/15/u-s-students-internationally-math- science/>. Kelley, Michael B., and Pamela Engel. 21 lottery winners who blew it  Business Insider. Business Insider, 11 Feb. 2015. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. <http://www.businessinsider.com/lottery-winners-who-lost-everything-2015-2>. McDermott, Jim, S.J. Blowing The Dismount: Last Week Tonight Fudges Its Lottery  America Magazine. N.p., 21 June 2015. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. <http://www.americamagazine.org/content/dispatches/blowing-dismount-last-week- tonight-fudges-its-lottery-story>. About  Florida Lottery. N.p., n.d. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. <http://www.flalottery.com/history>. Is The Lottery Shortchanging  CBS News. CBS Interactive, 17 Sept. 2007. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Week Tonight with John Oliver: The HBO. 9 Nov. 2014. Television Program. National Endowment for Financial Education. Financial Psychology and Lifechanging Events Financial Windfall. N.p.: National Endowment for Financial Education Press, 2002. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. The National Gambling Impact Study Commission: Chapter 7. Washington, D.C.: The Commission, 1999. Govinfo.library.unt.edu. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. <http://govinfo.library.unt.edu/ngisc/reports/7.pdf>.