Qihang Zhou Professor Poston ENC1102.027S17 April 16, 2017 Increase Tobacco Tax is A Good Way to Reduce Smoking Smoking has been regarded as the chronic suicide since scientists had proved that tobacco, which contains harmful substances such as tar and other radioactive material would increase the risk of conceiving hypoplasia and deformed fetus, getting lung cancer or other kinds of related diseases. Besides, nicotine, which is the main component of tobacco burning could addict human to smoking gradually. Nicotine will stimulate brain and generate happy feeling. So, it is hard to quit smoking once people engaged to smoking. Some people need cigarettes when they under high pressure. But gradually it deviated from the original purpose of release force. Adolescents are the biggest victims of this activity. They were smoking naturally because they think smoking make them looks cool, but the indirect damage is much more than they could afford. People get used to smoking even they do not need it. The government in different countries were starting intervention to help the public stay away from cigarettes since tobacco products had become a real problem. Based on previous experiences, increase tax of tobacco products was the best way to restrict smoking. It is still in use and regarded as one of the most efficient ways to keep the public health. Everybody knows that cigarettes could cause a lot of adverse effects. More specifically, it will hurt our body. According to Tsai, et al., Smoking is the main reason for raising the second largest risk of death (1). There are many kinds of diseases are mainly resulted from smoking tobacco products. take a detailed example to see how tobacco products hurt body. Professor Tomashefski referred in his paper that tobacco products damage our health, fetus are particular evident (3). As is mentioned previously, lit cigarette will produce a lot of harmful gasses. Carbon monoxide is one of them. Red blood cells are more easily combine with carbon monoxide than oxygen. When cigarettes smoke breath into the body of pregnant women, as time goes by, pregnant women always hypoxia. Even worse that most of the time, they cannot feel it, because they gradually get used to hypoxia state. The state of hypoxia in the pregnant women directly reflected in the living environment of the fetus. The fetus will obtain low oxygen if maternal body do not have enough oxygen. It will slow down the development of the fetus so that hypoplasia and deformed fetus appeared at a higher rate in smoking pregnant women. Not only the tobacco product hurt the next generation, but it also hurt us. According to the paper write by Tomashefski, the generated harmful substance from cigarettes even causing lung cancer. Nicotine also makes people addicted to cigarettes and thus trying to quit. As we gradually realize the adverse effect from consuming tobacco product, it is just the time for smokers to stop smoking. It is a simple economic concept that increases the price for one product will decrease the consumption of the related product. Cigarettes are luxury goods. Tobacco products are different from daily necessities so that people do not rely on the smoke for the living. The public will pay for foods or drinks whatever the prices are. Because human cannot survive without food or drinks. However, the cigarette created for additional recreation. We would like to try to consume tobacco product when we have extra money. Whereas when the price of cigarettes goes up. The public will turn to other supplement and give up smoking. For example, some people smoking because they are under higher pressure. If they notice that price of cigarettes is much higher than they could afford, they will try to find another way to relax. Go hiking, shopping, swimming or other kinds of exercises considered as better and healthy way to release stress. Consult a psychiatrist is another way to relax. Lots of companies and organizations provide free psychological consultation. Lots of people prefer to get help there because psychological consultation would not cost much and convenient to make the reservation. Also, the increase of tax are jointly that happens on all kinds of brand of cigarettes. Most cigarettes have the same level of pricing. There is no significant difference in price between good cigarettes or harmful cigarettes. So, there is no chance for smokers to shift to cheaper kinds of cigarettes. Consequently, this policy makes sense from the economic perspective that increases tax helps to reduce the number of cigarettes consumption. It is a great benefit from the government that they decided to increase the tax on the tobacco product. Some people think inflation tax is purely for the purpose of growth income of the state. However, this policy more issued as health care. Cigarettes were causing great harm to the body, but hard to quit. People are easy to addict to cigarettes. It has such high impact that government no longer stand by opponents. One of the most efficient policy is increasing tax for tobacco products. This conclusion is not just saying by the government; lots of experts support it. A paper that published by Salt, et al. found that imposed tax on tobacco products could help the people to reduce consumption of tobacco Similarly, Emmanuel Guindon. Et al. Think that imposed tax on tobacco products will cause the significant decrease in the smoking of the public (1). Professors Carpenter and Michael even found more detailed results that poor people who are living in the relatively prosperous place tend to respond to the price of cigarettes (3). Not only those papers addressed such conclusion, but most of the historical experiences and analysis also supported this policy. There should have no doubt or suspicion on such policy. What we should understand is that government published this policy is for the purpose of caring our health. What we need to do is accept this policy and make this system to be gladly agreed to by the people around us. In conclusion, smoking could help to reduce stress from our daily life, but the caused damage to our body is even more than its benefit. There should exist some way to guide smokers a better lifestyle. From both economic perspective and the historical experience, as well as the academic research, raising the tax on tobacco product is an effective way to reduce smoking. This policy is not for the benefit of government but the good of our health. Because the less consumption of tobacco products, the healthier life, we would have. Work Cited Carpenter, Christopher S. and Michael T. Mathes. New Evidence on the Price Effects of Cigarette Tax  Public Finance Review, vol. 44, no. 3, May 2016, pp. 291-310. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1177/1091142115605375. Emmanuel Guindon, G., et al. The Impact of Prices and Taxes on the Use of Tobacco Products in Latin America and the Caribbean/El Impacto De Los Precios E Impuestos Sobre El Consumo De Productos De Tabaco en America Latina Y El  Revista Panamericana De Salud Publica, no. 4, 2016, p. 272. EBSCOhost, doi:10.2105/AJPH.2014.302396. Salti, Nisreen, et al. The Health, Financial and Distributional Consequences of Increases in the Tobacco Excise Tax among Smokers in  Social Science & Medicine, 2016, p. 161. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.socscimed.2016.10.020. Tomashefski, Amy. The Perceived Effects of Electronic Cigarettes on Health by Adult Users: A State of the Science Systematic Literature  Journal of the American Association of Nurse Practitioners, no. 9, 2016, p. 510. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1002/2327-6924.12358. Tsai, Shu-Lan, et al. Cigarette Smoking and Health-Promoting Behaviours among Tuberculosis Patients in Rural  Journal of Clinical Nursing, no. 17-18, 2016, p. 2511. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1111/jocn.13289.