Raekwon Scott 4/16/17 Enc1102.016S17 Composition II Should Division 1 Athletes Be Paid? The growing debate on whether or not the NCAA (National Collegiate Athletic Association) should have to pay Division 1 athletes for their performance and participation in collegiate sports is a debate that has been causing a lot of controversy for many years. Division 1 athletes deserve to be paid. Every year Division 1 athletes get taken advantage of and mistreated by the NCAA. Division 1 athletes have time to get a job. Every day their names are being used as marketing schemes for profit. These athletes are putting their well being and in some cases even their lives on the line every time they step onto a field and participate in their sport. When trying to determine if student athletes should be paid, it is important to remember that Division 1 athletes are not just athletes, they are students as well. Many of these athletes have time to get a job, because they are so busy almost everyday devoting hours to their sport. According to an article published on USAtoday, a study was conducted that found that the average division 1 college football player devotes an average of 45 hours a week to their sport, and that is not even including the time spent traveling. On top of that they still have to make time for their classes and school related responsibilities. The NCAA fails to realize that although college athletes are not professional athletes, the level of intensity in which they compete in is still relatively high. Which leaves them extremely vulnerable to injury. College athletes are putting themselves and their lives at risk every single time they participate in their sport. In many instances if an athlete on scholarship were to suffer a grave injury while competing in their sport, majority of the time that athlete is going to lose their scholarship, and may even be forced to leave the institution they are attending. The NCAA is a multi- billion-dollar franchise that for many years has been consistently accumulating an average annual revenue of six billion dollars. This statistic alone is enough to make the NCAA one of the most profitable business-franchises in the world. It is important to remember that the primary purpose of a business franchise is to make as much money as possible. The NCAA is accumulating millions upon millions of dollars by exploiting these athletes and selling their names in newspapers, commercials, video games and even on merchandise. All of this is being done without any form of permission, or compensation. Yet so many people still wonder, how does the NCAA make so much money? Hundreds of thousands of people are curious to know their secret. Discovering the to the continuous success over the years is as simple as turning on the television to any collegiate sporting event. With nearly half a million NCAA certified student athletes competing and participating in collegiate sports, it is very easy to tell where the NCAA is bringing in all their money from. According to an article on the New Yorker by Ekon N. Yankah, the NCAA believes that paying Division 1 athletes is a grave mistake, because it fails to recognize the value of sports as part of an education. The NCAA believes that if they start paying Division 1 athletes then there would be no way to come to terms with a coherent amount to pay individuals throughout different sports. The NCAA argues that it be fair to pay a tennis player the same amount of money that they would pay a top football player, when football is usually bringing in much more money than tennis. Joe Nocera, a sports business columnist for the New York Times stated that some ways the NCAA could begin to pay College athletes would be through the implementation of endorsements and salary caps. When looking at the situation from this perspective and trying to form a compromise, a possible way the NCAA could decide how much to pay different athletes would be to pay athletes based off of a percentage of the income that their sport is bringing in during sporting events, that way there would be a fair and concise amount of pay being dispersed throughout all sports. More people around the world should care about this issue, because it is a very serious and pressing issue. Division 1 athletes work very hard and make extreme sacrifices on a daily basis. Many of these sacrifices are some that the average student just would not be able to handle. Yet they are still taken advantage of on a daily basis. An article published on the Huffington Post by Matt Hayes found that 86 percent of Division 1 college athletes live below the poverty line. How can the NCAA be pocketing 6 billion dollars a year entirely from the exposure of their athletes yet 86 percent of college athletes are living below the poverty line? This is a pressing issue that needs to be addressed. The discussion on whether or not division 1 athletes should be paid or not is a topic that has generated a lot of controversy for many years, and will probably continue to generate controversy for many more years to come. The only way that a topic as controversial as this one would ever reach a compromise would be if we as a people united together and started a petition in favor of paying student athletes. Until such compromise has been made, the topic of whether or not a division 1 athlete should or should not be paid will continue to be a topic that will generate much controversy and speculation, and College athletes will continue to be abused and taken advantage of for many years. Annotated Bibliography A Way to Start Paying College  NYTimes. N.p., n.d. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. <https://www.nytimes.com/2016/01/09/sports/a-way-to-start-paying-college- This article was published on the New York Times website by Joe Nocera a sports business columnist for the New York Times. This publication is talking about why the NCAA should start paying Division 1 athletes. Then the second half of the article goes on in detail discussing methods to which the NCAA can devise a way to start paying Division 1 athletes. J Barbash, Louis. Pay or play: paying college athletes just fair to players; it could improve college  Washington Monthly 2013: 13. Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Garda, Justin D. Paying College  Research Starters: Education (Online Edition) (2015): Research Starters. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Should Division 1 Athletes Get  Debate.org. N.p., n.d. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. Yankah, Ekow N. Why N.C.A.A. Athletes Be  The New Yorker. The New Yorker, 14 Oct. 2015. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. This paper discusses multiple reasons why the NCAA should start paying Division 1 athletes. More importantly this article discusses the advantages and disadvantages of paying Division 1 athletes from those the perspective of those opposed and in support of paying athletes. Sanderson, Allen R., and John J. Siegfried. The Case For Paying College  Journal Of Economic Perspectives 29.1 (2015): 115-138. Business Source Alumni Edition. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. This article is important to include in my paper because this article goes in great detail about paying division 1 athletes, and it presents the negatives and the positives of paying division 1 athletes.