Student !1 Student Professor Lewis ENC 1102 26 March 2017 Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) An Outdated Notion or a Condition Unique to Military Veterans? Upon their return from war, a large number of American troops are diagnosed with Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD). The question is not whether they do or do not have a mental illness. Rather, it is whether PTSD is a label applied too broadly, for everything from combat, to car accidents, to the death of a pet, and whether that might affect the effectiveness of the treatment received by veterans more combat veterans. A stakeholder on PTSD aid is The Wounded Warrior Regiments (WWR). The WWR releases yearly updates on aid progress and, in their 2016 release, noted that PTSD was one of the top four medical issues that the WWR worked with veterans on to aid in recovery (Quarterly, 5). Consequently, the stance on the disorder is that there is no doubt that it is present in a large portion of the Marines and Navy Corpsman who have seen combat. The WWR seeks to those who have been diagnosed and to the best of their ability, aid in a swift recovery. The opposing view, that PTSD is an overblown diagnosis too often applied by medical providers, is held by Professor Dinesh Bhugra, president of the World Psychiatric Association (WPA). Professor view is that PTSD is a construct that is a of the American healthcare system, which is dictated by insurance companies and pharmaceutical (Strudwick). While this view is at confrontational and off-putting, a further Student !2 look at his views is warranted. Professor point is not that event-driven mental trauma is not real, but rather that PTSD is likely the result of some underlying mental condition, triggered by trauma. Groups such as the WWR and WPA share a common goal - that is, the treatment of mental illnesses. The WWR gives veterans the aid needed for healing and recovery, fully acknowledging the presence of PTSD among combat veterans. The WPA is not a organization, although it does have a Military Psychiatry Section, but is more broadly focused on the mission promote the advancement of psychiatry and mental health for all peoples of the the World Psychiatric Though the two opposing views that PTSD is a serious mental illness affecting thousands of veterans, or that it is a diagnosis may seem at odds, in reality they are not. The compromise position is that the severe trauma of combat can itself cause mental illness, but that as it is used today to cover a range of symptoms is an construct and should be removed from everyday use. This approach is already being taken by some organizations. The International Society of Traumatic Stress Studies (ISTSS), for example, seeks to draw a line between PTSD diagnosis and combat veterans. Developing a more clinical diagnosis for the unique trauma of combat would allow for more tailored analysis of that unique clinical condition, and assist psychiatrists to focus on diagnosing and treating the underlying mental health conditions that might cause someone exposed to more routine events like accidents and deaths of close relations to suffer. The case for combat-related mental illness goes back more than a century. In the First World war, it was known as It was not until the Vietnam War that the term started to appear as a mental diagnosis. It was only after this point that non-combat Student !3 related cases of PTSD began to make an appearance. Richard McNally highlights some key questions to think about regarding the diagnosis of PTSD, in veterans. PTSD was covered in the National Vietnam Veterans Readjustment Study (NVVRS) in 1988. Through vague indicators of the new psychological phenomena, PTSD, the NVVRS found 31 percent out of 1,000 Vietnam veterans were suffering from this disorder (Kulka). Since then through the Gulf War and Afghan-Iraq Wars of the NVVRS have been used as the baseline for other studies and PTSD diagnosis. Gradually, PTSD crept into common usage to cover a wide range of mental health issues. Professor Bhugra of the WPA states that is being over- applied loosely, and doctors are diagnosing it much more readily than they People assume now that if you have a traumatic event you will get PTSD. People are looking for (Strudwick). Rather than discount mental illness associated with combat, the solution to this problem is to tighten the of the condition. Currently, the National Institutes of Health (NIH) PTSD as disorder that develops in some people who have experienced a shocking, scary, or dangerous which could range from the violence and death of combat to a frightening movie (National Institute of Health). Working with organizations such as WWR and leading experts in the of psychiatry such as the WPA, authorities should re- and probably rename, PTSD to more narrowly focus on the association exclusively of combat veterans. Combat-Related Stress Injury (CRSI) might be one suggestion. A challenge that would have to be faced when narrowly a mental health condition is stigma. Lipke argues that self-stigma is very damaging to the recovery process and results in failure to obtain needed help to overcome the pain of war and achieve civilian On the other hand, disassociating trauma-induced mental health complications common Student !4 in the civilian population from the broader category might lead medical experts to more readily identify and treat non combat-related mental health conditions without people questioning in general terms whether a car accident or the death of a pet could really trigger a disorder. The WPA and WWR will need to work together to further establish a CRSI diagnosis which separates those veterans from PTSD association. To do this will require both support from the Veteran Affairs, to get military personnel transitioning into the recovery process to the right place of treatment. It will also require lectures and brochures from both the WPA and WWR to be distributed to all military branches and service members in combat situations or areas of operation. By distinguishing CRSI from PTSD, the Wounded Warrior Regiment will be able to receive more incoming Marines and Navy Corpsman to aid in combat recovery, as apposed to treating them with all PTSD patients. By giving CRSI patients a more treatment, it could help with further their recovery and facilitate socialization with those in similar psychological or physical injuries. This project would help the WPA in that PTSD will no longer be over-diagnosed and misused. The diagnosis of CRSI will give both organizations the starting point to better research and treatment of combat veterans. While both organizations such as the WWR and some mental health experts like Professor Bhugra of the Would Psychiatry Association seem to be miles apart, the reality is that they are approaching the same problem from different angles. conditions such as PTSD (or CRSI) helps in the long run to assist patients and the populations that advocacy groups were established to assist. That, in the end, is the real goal. [WC: Student !5 Works Cited About the World Psychiatric  World Psychiatric Association. Psychiatric Hospital, n.d. Web. 23 Mar. 2017. Kulka, R. A., Schlenger, W. E., Fairbank, J. A., Hough, R. L., Jordan, B. K., Marmar, C. R., Weiss, D. S. (1988). Contractual Report of Findings from the National Vietnam Readjustment Study: Volumes 1-4. North Carolina: Research Triangle Institute. Lipke, Howard. Reducing Stigma for Veterans in Need of Treatment for the Destructive Psychological Effects of  Stress Points (2013): n. pag. International Society of Traumatic Stress Studies. Web. 26 Feb. 2016. <http://www.istss.org/education-research/ need.aspx>. McNally, Richard. PTSD Rates in Vietnam  Harvard University. 26 Feb. 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2016. <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lomqzc8lHXk>. National Institutes of Health. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Feb. 2016. Web. 23 Mar. 2017. <https://www.nimh.nih.gov/health/topics/post-traumatic-stress-disorder- ptsd/index.shtml>. Strudwick, Patrick. Connecting People Through  PressReader. The Mail, 1 May 2015. Web. 23 Mar. 2017. <https://www.pressreader.com/uk/the-mail-on-sunday/ 20150301/283141427214532>. Quarterly Update. Wounded Warrior Regiment. Http://www.woundedwarriorregiment.org. N.p., Jan. 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2016. <http://bit.ly/2iK4GL2>.