Sharif 1 Mahir Sharif Kristin Go cinski ENC1102.078 11 April 2017 Drinking age should be lowered or will remain the same It is not always easy to see people drinking line has crossed from moderate stage to a addicted stage. Alcohol is responsible for death of millions of people around the world. Nowadays drinking are like drugs. Many people in the world got easily addicted to it which is the major problem. However, taking small amounts of drinking is perfectly fine and in some cases , it healthy. On the other hand, drinking in large amount can cause serious health problems and millions of people die every day. Starting from high class people to low class people everyone consume alcohol. It became a social t hing to drink at the parties too. Since alcohol can be a poison if consume excessively now the question remains should the drink age be above or below 21. Alcohol should not be consumed under 21 because of effects but national youth rights and other organization suppo rt this but due to affects the national Youth organization should support 21 drinking. There are a lot of reason why alcohol age limit should remain 21.Alcohol causes serious effect on organs mostly on the kidneys and liver. Moreover, teenage rs and the people who are under 21 their brains are under develop than the adult so it effects them more because teenage brain that has been exposed to alcohol is at risk for being smaller in certain parts. Alcohol also effects the memory an d so the y have difficulties in thinking. Moreover, in USA 56% of drivers 15 to 20 years of age who were killed in motor - vehicle crashes after Sharif 2 drinking and driving were not wearing a seat belt s. Also, studies show teens those who take other substances such as weed. Students also having problems with studies for those who take alcohol than those who not. Furthermore, under 21 drinking can cause teens to have unprotected sex with people, they can also be the victims for sexual assault. Stakeholders from scientific, medical, and public health organizations have joined MADD to form the Support 21 Coalition. They believe that after drinking aged changed to 21 from 18 death rates significantly fell and it als o reduce the risk of car accidents in the streets. Research shows that the alcohol effected teen brain and the way their minds worked as well. MADD is a noncommercial organization which is in Canada and in United States. It was formed 36 years ago, in 1980 . Its main objective is to prevent people driving under the influence of alcohol and drugs. Also, to help innocent people who become the victims in these deadly crimes. One of their major goal is to prevent underage drinking. Also, if 18 year old are allow ed to drink then the 16 year old teens can get access to alcohol and they can also drink too. However, on the other side a lot of people support lowering the drinking age. The stakeholder here is the local law enforcements and other authorities. It talks a bout how students would not be binge drinking and most alcohol related casualties would decrease if the drinking age is lowered. This is a positive thing for the stakeholders because they must deal with less alcohol related issues. There are also associati on The National Youth Rights Association strongly supports lowering the drinking age. At the age of 18 teens are considered as adults and they have proper adult trail and they can also have driving license so they can also have alcohol too because they are considered as adults. Also in a lot of countries such as Europe they allow drinking after the age of 18. People also say that if drinking age is lowered then they can have drinks with their parents and they can learn to drink responsibly. Also 18 year old can vote so they can drink too. Sharif 3 People also say that drinking age can be 18 because of binge drinking. Binge drinking happens because when people drink too much and get intoxicated. It is because 18 years old people cannot buy alcohol so they when they have the chance they drink a lot. Also in the fraternity, e veryone get access to Alcohol. So one way or the oth er people can drink Alcohol . Also, they are a lot of parties that the teens can get into and can drink alcohol to the fullest. Just because they cannot drink legally in the bar so they have to go to the illegal parties to get alcohol. After the age of 18 t hey can sign up for war in the army and can give their life away for their country so they should also have the right to drink. Also, the 18 - year - old people can have easy access of Alcohol from the people since they have can be in the same institute . The d ebate of lowering the drinking age has been a hot topic among the youth, with people leaning more towards 18 being the cutoff point and there are some truths to this argument; Anyone under 21 sees alcohol as a The curiosity leads to more people under the age of 21 drinking anyway. If drinking is made legal for the 18 and older, it will serve much better as the curiosity as high and the fruit forbidden anymore. Peer pressure is another factor in why the drinking age should be l owered, college students are often pressured to drink as a method of initiation and social gathering activities often surrounded the aspect of drinking. Countries such as Italy, China, Greece are some of the countries where the legal drinking age is lower and they seem to have fewer alcohol related problems. Current law in terms of legal drinking age has caused more alcohol related deaths than there has ever been. According to a study, 22% of all students under 21 compared to 18% over 21 years of age are he avy drinkers. Among drinkers only, 32% of underage compared to 24% of legal ager are heavy drinkers. If the legal drinking age were to be 18, colleges would be able to regulate alcohol use so students get overly intoxicated. They Sharif 4 can be monitored whe reas when they are hiding and drinking and hence intervention can be made. Since the fraternities and other organization supports underage drinking but it is strongly recommended for everyone to drink after 21 because it is safer for them and for others w ho are around them. Sharif 5 Work Cit es: 1. Walters, Scott T. If the drinking age were lowered, what then? A view from the year  Journal of American College Health, May - June 2010, p. 579+. Academic OneFile 2. The Drinking Age: Should it remain at 21 or be lowered?. (2008). US NEWS AND WORLD REPORT, 145(6), 10. 3. MADD. against drunk Wikipedia. Date Accessed 26th February 2017. 4. MAAD, https://scontent - mia1 - 1.xx.fbc dn.net/v/t34.0 - 12th March 2017. 5 MAAD, http://www.madd.org/about - us/history/interactive - timeline.png. 12th March 2017 . 6.DeSimone, Jeff. Fraternity Membership and Binge  Journal of Health Economics , vol. 26, 01 Jan. 2007, pp. 950 - 967. EBSCO host , doi:10.1016/j.jhealeco.2007.01.003.