Scilabro 1 Richard Scilabro Instructor Poston English Composition II 15 April 2017 Project 3: Intermediate A myriad of generations have made strides towards ensuring that women across the United States can have the luxury of having reproductive rights. Furthermore, abortion is seen as something that ultimately grants women full liberty to govern their reproductive circumstances and those that support these rights are referred to as being pro choice. Fighting for over a century for reproductive rights, Planned Parenthood best represents the pro choice movement and is now at the center of this conflict in 2017. This organization has gained countless supporters, ample funding, and a superb record for integrity. However, the recent defunding of Planned Parenthood by President Donald J. Trump has threatened the future of reproductive rights and has dealt a substantial blow to the entire pro choice movement. Many pro choice advocates are outraged at the thought of one day a woman may never being able to control her reproductive circumstances in the United States. Abortion, is not only a decision, it is a necessary right for all women to have. Being able to control your pregnancy to the fullest extent not only maintains the health of the public but also guarantees full reproductive liberty to women throughout the United States. The absence of Planned Parenthood and reproductive rights eliminates freedom overall and threatens the future healthcare of the American people (Laguens 182). Many people are not aware of where Planned Parenthood arose from and what sparked the beginning of the pro choice movement. Planned roots can be traced back to a Scilabro 2 woman by the name of Margaret Sanger who opened a birth control clinic along with Ethel Byrne on October 16, 1916 The intent of this clinic was to provide health care, abortions, and advice to pregnant women across the country Moreover, Sanger and her peers often faced opposition from governmental agencies and were shut down on numerous occasions However, dedication to the health of women gave her the strength to prevail, and she and her group progressed into an organization that would be key component in the pro choice movement After the Supreme Court decision was made in the case of Roe v Wade on January 22nd of 1973 ruling that safe and legal abortions could be performed in the United States, the pro choice movement along with Planned Parenthood gained momentum (Laguens 181). Planned Parenthood, along with the practice, reached its peak of success under the Obama administration with ample government funding (Laguens 181). Furthermore, opposition from the pro life movement always presented a threat to the existence of the pro choice movement and reproductive rights overall (Brandhorst et al). On different occasions, legislation was presented to repeal Roe v Wade but was never passed (Brandhorst et al). Therefore, reproductive rights have always been something that has hung by a string and can be taken away at any moment. Recently, 82 abortion clinics were shut down as a result of the governmental decisions (www.npr.org). Of those 82 clinics, a third were Planned This was a deliberate attack on rights carried out by the Republican dominated legislature in Texas (www.npr.org). Adding to this, this act was carried from the government through technicality and the elimination of funds (www.npr.org). Many clinics were Scilabro 3 inspected and were shut down due to petty technical reasons such as a hallway not being wide enough, or a bathroom not being large enough (www.npr.org). Why should Americans be concerned? This is something that, regardless of viewpoint, will have some sort of effect on every American. If abortion was eliminated from our nation, then this would create a great social inequality. This is because women now do not have the right to make decisions over their own body (Linda et al). Whether you are pro choice, pro life, or maybe even care, we can all agree that everyone deserves the right to govern their own body (Linda et al). A woman is entitled to what she can do with her body (Linda et al). No one is crying soul when a male gets a vasectomy. You should care as an American because we are all united under one fundamental principle and that is that each person no matter what gender, race, or sexual orientation deserves equal rights. This is the same principle our Founding Fathers fought for and this is something we must protect before it is too late. With the absence of abortion clinics across the United States, the health of pregnancies and of the general public is sure to decline as a result (Medoff 160). This is because contrary to popular belief, abortion clinics do not just provide abortions, they provide contraception, and health advice to people across the United States In addition, abortion is implemented in cases of rape, incest, sexual defects of the baby, and is a measure that can be performed if a pregnancy is deemed to be hazardous to the health of the mother (Medoff 160). No abortion is stigma free and sexual irresponsibility represents a small number of cases where an abortion is needed (Medoff 161). We need abortion not only to guarantee our health but also protect the lives of women in the United States (Medoff 161). Scilabro 4 In conclusion, reproductive rights is crucial for maintaining the health of women throughout the nation. The prochoice movement has made brave and successful strides throughout the ages to ensure that women have access to something that is necessary to maintain not only the health of a pregnancy but also the health of our public. It is despicable to see what is happening to reproductive liberty. Donald decision to defund Planned is probably the first step to completely overturn Roe v Wade and it is the American job to make a bold stand before it is too late. I urge you to to get involved and express your concerns to our government by writing to administration and contacting your local legislators before this period in American history is known as the period where reproductive rights were taken away. I do not want my generation to sit idle in these times. We are the generation to end social inequality and and maintain it for future generations to come. Lastly, an America that is united under the principle of freedom and equality for all is an America that can set the precedents for the entire world to be united under freedom and equality for all. Scilabro 5 Works Cited Laguens, Dawn. Planned Parenthood and the Next Generation of Feminist  2013, eds.a.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/detail/detail?vid=4&sid=35293f6e-2b12-499 4-ba45-148d07be7d65%40sessionmgr4010&hid=4113&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWRzLWxpd Accessed 14 Apr. 2017. Brandhorst, Jaclyn K., and Freddie J. Jennings. Full length article: Fighting for funding: Values advocacy and Planned  2016, www.sciencedirect.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/science/article/pii/S0363811116300145. Accessed 14 Apr. 2017. Gordon, Linda, and Bonnie Mass. Body, Right: A Social History of Birth Control in  Philpapers.org, Phil Papers. Google Scholar, Accessed 14 Apr. 2017. 100years.plannedparenthood.org, Planned Parenthood. Google Scholar, /#e1916-1936/1. Accessed 14 Apr. 2017. Medoff, Marshall. Pro-choice versus pro-life: The relationship between state abortion policy and child well-being in the United  , 2016. of South Florida Scilabro 6 eds.a.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/detail/detail?vid=9&sid=35293f6e-2b12-499 4-ba45-148d07be7d65%40sessionmgr4010&hid=4113&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWRzLWxpd Accessed 14 Apr. Texans Try To Repair Damage Wreaked Upon Family Planning  WUSF Public Media, www.npr.org/2016/01/28/464728393/texas-tries-to-repair-damage-wrought-upon- Accessed 16 Apr. 2017.