Weiner 1 Emily Weiner Kristian Gocinski ENC1102.012 21 April 2014 Fight for the Future The wellbeing of Americas teenagers is at risk. Mental Illness has been silently preying on the youth of today for years and the problem is only getting worse. Most people know very little about the realities of mental illnesses. Many people do not realize how common mental illness is among teenagers, it is believed that 1 in 5 youth aged (21.4%) experiences a severe mental disorder at some point during their (About NAMI). This is one of the many misconceptions of mental illness, it is much more common than people believe. A few examples of mental illnesses that teenagers commonly suffer from are anxiety disorders, and depression. These mental illnesses affect teenagers daily. It is estimated that in 2015, 6.3 million teenagers had an anxiety disorder (Schrobsdorff 1). The pressures of school, social lives, extracurriculars, jobs, and developing as a person takes a toll. Mental health is a far-reaching issue that has great impact on youth, yet the school system does little to help the 1 in 5 teenagers who suffer from a mental illness (About NAMI). The mental health of teenagers is a very serious issue and the National Parent Teacher Association (NPTA) can make a positive difference in teenagers lives by supporting and creating policies to help teenagers with mental illnesses in schools and by educating parents on mental illnesses. The mental health of teenagers is a crucial issue. Many teenagers hide their mental illnesses from their parents. Suicide is the second leading cause of death for teenagers, yet many parents are not educated on mental health and little is being done in the school systems to help Weiner 2 the students that suffer from mental illnesses (VanOrman 44). It seems as if America is ignoring the silent cries of its youth. If changes are not made, the statistics of teenagers suffering will only rise. If left untreated mental illnesses will only worsen as adolescents grow into adults enter the real world. The youth of today is our future. The National Parent Teacher Association is a group of parents, teachers, administrators, and community leaders who are devoted to the betterment of educational system, health, and safety for all students (National PTA History). This association has been around for over 100 years, with the mission make every potential a reality by engaging and empowering families and communities to advocate for all children (National PTA The National Parent Teacher Association is the volunteer child advocacy organization in the nation (National PTA The National Parent Teacher Association promotes the involvement of parents in their education (Warner 708). This association thinks that the closer home-life is to the school-life is intertwined, the better the education will be. This is because parents and teachers can communicate about the child to achieve the best results for the child. The NPTA is committed to helping children be successful. Their values reflect this. They stand for collaboration, respect, accountability, and diversity. They use collaboration by pairing with organizations to create programs that promote the well-being of students. This leads into accountability. The NPTA believes that each member is obligated to do whatever they can to help achieve the associations mission statement. The members of this group look out for students and want to make positive changes in the academic system to help these students be healthy, happy, and successful. The National Parent Teacher Association should engage in the conversation of mental illness in teenagers because it aligns with their mission statement. They want to be advocates for Weiner 3 children and help children reach their highest potential. To achieve their mission statement, they must take in consideration the mental health. The NPTA stands for the responsibility of each member to help promote the success of each student. It becomes very difficult for students to succeed academically when they have problems functioning daily. If the NPTA raises awareness on the mental health of teenagers by educating parents and teachers, then it will help identify the children who are secretly suffering from mental illnesses and open a dialog that potentially be life-saving for a child suffering from a severe mental illness. Another way the NPTA could make a positive impact on the lives, is by creating and promoting policies for the school systems to help students suffering from mental illnesses. Advocating for mental health awareness and promoting mental health policies in schools benefits the National Parent Teacher Association in every possible way. Anything that benefits the children, benefits the association. The children are the future. By helping the children with their mental health, you are creating more mentally well adults. It is a ripple effect. By helping NPTA will be creating a happier healthier future for America. To help save the children the National Parent Teacher Association needs to take a few steps. First, they need to become educated. They can partner with any of a variety of mental health organizations. One example of an organization the NPTA can collaborate with is the National Alliance on Mental Illness or NAMI. After they become educated they can create documents and send out memos to members that educate parents on mental illness and encourage to be accountable for their mental health. Education is key to helping teenagers who suffer from mental illnesses (Casale 212). They can also create and promote policies that help children who are suffering from mental illnesses. Before they can create the policies, they must meet with the organization they choose to partner with to learn what policies would have the Weiner 4 most positive effects. NPTA has the power to make a difference. All they must do is follow their mission statement and look to their values for guidance. If they do not act now, the NPTA is condemning teenagers to suffer from mental illnesses. They are allowing the rates of suicide to increase. They are allowing are future to dimmer. Mental illness is a serious topic that is often overlooked, especially when it comes to the youth. The school systems does nothing for this cause. The National Parent Teacher Association has the power to make a difference in lives. They can make a positive difference in teenagers lives by supporting and creating policies to help teenagers with mental illnesses schools and by educating parents on mental illnesses. It aligns with their mission statement and if they do not act, they are going against everything they stand for. Weiner 5 Work Cited National Alliance on Mental Illness, www.nami.org/About-NAMI. Accessed 22 April 2017 Casale, Del. and education on mental disorders in teenagers reduce stigma for mental illness: a preliminary Journal of Psychopathology, vol. 19, 2013, pp. 208- 212. Accessed 22 April 2017. PTA PTA. http://www.pta.org/about/content.cfm?ItemNumber=3465&navItemNumber=4581. Accessed 22 April 2017. Parents Advised to Talk to Teenagers, Young Adults about Mental  Health Weekly, 2004. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx ?direct=true&db=edsgao&AN=edsgcl.122183318&site=eds-live. Accessed 22 April 2017. Schrobsdorff, Susanna. The Kids Are Not All Right. (Cover  Time, vol. 188, no. 19, 07 Nov. 2016, pp. 44-51. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx ?direct=true&db=aph&AN=119124256&site=eds-live. Accessed 22 April 2017. VanOrman, Alicia and Beth Jarosz. Replaces Homicide as Second-Leading Cause of Death Among U.S. PBR. http://www.prb.org/Publications/Articles/2016/suicide-replaces-homicide-second- leading-cause-death-among-us-teens.aspx. Accessed 22 April 2017. Weiner 6 Warner, Carolyn. Payers Need to Know - Schools Do Vital Speeches. 2003: pp. 708-712. Accessed 22 April 2017