Puneet K Singh ENC 1102.027 T. Poston 4/16/17 Project 3 Intermediate Draft The conversation about gun control has varied throughout history. The founding fathers declared in the Bill of Rights that well regulated Militia, being necessary to the security of a free State, the right of the people to keep and bear Arms, shall not be (NRA-ILA 1). In 2005, congress added that the rights of individuals who own guns will be protected regardless of if they are part of the military (NRA-ILA 1). This law that was added is called the Protection of Lawful Commerce in Arms Act. Gun control has been a topic that has spanned over the lifetime of America and continues in various forms with every state, county, and city. The crimes that have occurred over the past few years have been documented and studied in order to create new laws that will benefit the people safe. The issue is that there is a large population that refuses to vote on these laws due to lack of knowledge on the topic or indifference. When tragedy strikes, those who stay silent are those that contribute to the side of the oppressor. If every person that is of age voted on this issue, there would be a better population sample that could accurately depict wants. Ignorance is not bliss when it comes to the safety of those surrounding one another. By joining the conversation about gun control, those who are indifferent or ignorant of current policies can choose what they are in favor of and ultimately help change the world one person at a time. The controversy behind gun control policies has ramped up in recent years as mass shootings have rampaged across the nation. According to a research study by the 2010 World Health Organization exposed that Americans are seven times more likely than any other high income nations to perish due to gun violence, and six times more likely to be killed by accident by a firearm (Preidt 1). Both the National Rifle Association (NRA) and the Brady Campaign express that something needs to be done, but they go about discovering solutions in very different ways. The NRA wishes to uphold the Second Amendment towards self defense, hunting, and also as a basic right. The regulated that is mentioned in the amendment itself, is commonly confused as a phrase referring to the Federation and States responsibility but is actually meant to be directed towards as in citizens of the United States. This can mean that people can be armed with firearms, swords, spears, or any other weapons they seem fit in order to organize a group- Another misconception that the general public has, according to the NRA, is that more gun control will only affect law abiding citizens rather than criminals. On the other hand, the Brady Campaign believes that gun control should be enforced more heavily on citizens that are trying to obtain firearms. They represent the idea that gun control is more directed towards gun manufacturers rather than criminals (Brady 1). A popular campaign that they are currently involved in is Bad Apple Gun Guns fall into the wrong hands the second that a gun manufacturer or dealer profits off of the criminal market. The Brady Campaign has set in place the Brady Bill in 1993. The Brady Bill states that when a vendor makes a sell, they must tell the Federal Bureau of Investigation in order to run the purchasers name through the National Instant Criminal Background Check System. Since then, it has prevented 3 million firearm sales to known offenders (Brady 1). However, with modern technology, guns can be purchased online or at gun shows where more often than not, background checks are not the priority (Brady 1). The Brady slogan is Prevent Gun and their aim is to reduce the number of gun related deaths in half by 2025. The NRA states that in order to reduce this number, people should focus on the problems that lead to higher crime rate rather than using firearms as the scapegoat of accidental deaths. This issue calls to average Americans to make a choice. Time and again, The People of the United States are given the opportunity to voice which side they identify with. However, those who lack an understanding of the issue or choose to willingly stay oblivious of this topic often refuse to pick either dominant side of the spectrum. If less gun control is more appealing to one, then they may decide to sign up to the weekly newsletter or join protests. If one finds more gun control the way to a safer world, then they can select to join the Brady newsletter and call their state and county legislatures to state their opinions on the topic. The biggest problem regarding gun control is that The opinions are not heard accurately. In order to create a safe environment, people must be knowledgeable about this topic and ready to defend their point of view. According to CNN, support for an increase of gun control laws has gone up 9% following the Orlando, Florida Pulse Nightclub shooting. The number jumped a whopping 55% after the Newtown, Connecticut shooting (LoBianco et al 1). Although the number has increased, there is not enough people expressing their concerns to be heard from both sides of the issue. If more people articulated their views, the United States could become a country that supports both safety and rights. Works Cited Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun  Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence. 2016 Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence, n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. <http://www.bradycampaign.org/?gclid=CI6VqsPemNMCFQsRgQodzYoEtg>. LoBianco, Jennifer Agiesta and Tom. Poll: Gun Control Support Spikes after  CNN. Cable News Network, 20 June 2016. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. <http://www.cnn.com/2016/06/20/politics/cnn-gun-poll/>. Moore, Maloy, Megan Garvey, and Evan Wagstaff. Deadliest U.S. Mass Shootings, 1984-  Los Angeles Times. Los Angeles Times, 20 July 2012. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. <http://timelines.latimes.com/deadliest-shooting-rampages/>. NRA-ILA. Second  NRA-ILA. 2017 National Rifle Association of America, Institute for Legislative Action, n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. <https://www.nraila.org/second- amendment/>. Preidt, Robert. How U.S. Gun Deaths Compare to Other  CBS News. CBS Interactive, 03 Feb. 2016. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. http://www.cbsnews.com/news/how-u-s- gun-deaths-compare-to-other-countries/>.