DeLisle 1 Lexi DeLisle Noah Pearlstone ENC 1102 3.28.2017 Choose Non-GMO or foods altered genetically, cause damage to the environment and those consuming them (Lallanilla). Genetically modified organisms have become a staple in the world of food science as agriculture scientists and industry leaders search for ways to create more of a certain crop, or modify it to resist disease and insects. Throughout the world, the use of has been a topic of discussion and concern. In several countries, the use of is banned, while in others, there are heavy restrictions. Several companies use on their products for economic benefit, but are harmful to the health and well-being of consumers and future generations, therefore consumers should choose non-GMO products and use their dollar to support companies that choose not to use Using is becoming more and more popular in food production as companies strive to be the most profitable on the market. The process is becoming easier and more accessible for companies to complete as well. Modifying DNA is a scientific process that takes a genetic trait from one organism, isolates it, the inserts into a different organism to create the desired modified organism (Powell). There is a wide list of foods that have utilized for a variety of purposes. For example, corn has been inserted with bacteria and other species of corn for tolerance to herbicides, increased lysine level, and resistance to insects (Powell). GMO use has been around for over 50 years and has gone through several tests and regulations, but is still DeLisle 2 harming consumers as it modifies the product being consumed. In the guidelines were created for a safer use of this genetically modified DNA Timeline- A History of Genetically Modified These guidelines leave room for incidents where the contaminated threshold exceeds allowed amount which results in high risks materials in human food, animal feed and supplements, along with cleaning products and other seeds. These guidelines help the GMO contamination issue, but do not prevent an excess in contamination. Choosing foods in their whole, natural form is essentially the best option as consumers aim for healthier lives for themselves and their future generations. The human body was not meant to ingest modified and contaminated food that have been worked through various scientific processes, which is why modified foods have been linked to toxic and allergic reactions, sick, sterile and dead livestock, and damage to virtually every organ studied in lab (Lallanilla). The foods consumed by humans should not have a link to any possible diseases that are due to a reaction caused through genetic modification. Consumption of either plants or animals should be nourishing and lead us to healthier and sustainable lives. Although studies on human GMO feeding effects are rare, studies have been done on animals and show a lengthy list of disorders resulting from consumption of GMO contaminated food. The results from these tests on animals add support to the discussions regarding how within the last couple years of genetically modified foods being used in American industries, the amount of Americans with over three or more chronic diseases doubled from the exposure to the (Schaacter). This is a staggering percentage increase and is hurting the generation now and in the future. Studies have shown that a certain toxin injected into corn that punctures the digestive tract of humans was found in 93% of pregnant women tested and about 80% of their unborn children (Schaacter). By choosing non-GMO products, consumers are assured of what exactly is in the DeLisle 3 product they are buying and will essentially have healthier outcomes for themselves and those in the future, as the product consumed is in a more whole and natural state. On the other side of the debate, industry leaders and scientists that support genetically modified organisms and their place in the world of food, fight for the idea that are not any more harmful than other food products and that using has helped agriculture and farmers. The use of has allowed farmers to create more crops to sell, which benefits them economically and also allows for more product to be sold in the market which creates a bigger supply to fulfill the demands of consumers (Lallanilla). Even though farmers are able to create more product, it is not worth it if the product created is harmful to those consuming it and has essentially created more of a problem. Also, the demands are met in a sense of having enough to supply the consumers, but as a nation, we should be striving to supply our citizens with natural and whole foods that will benefit them and their health in the future, not modified crops and foods that have been altered for economic purposes. The American Association for the Advancement of Science stated that improvement by the modern molecular techniques of biotechnology is and a variety of other organizations such as, the World Health Organization and the American Medical Association have stated that consuming genetically modified crops has no greater risks than consuming crops using other conventional plant improvement techniques (Lallanilla). Even though there is no clear causal relationship between ingesting the modified organisms in the foods and diseases caused, numerous studies have been done by several different countries showed eating organic foods being linked to lower pesticide exposure (Walia). Most nations do not consider safe and have restrictions on these products These nations have placed restrictions on GMO products based on possible links to life threatening diseases such as the Roundup herbicide being linked to cancer DeLisle 4 by the World Health Organization (Walia). Several countries throughout the world have done studies to show relationships between consuming the contaminated product and the health or environment effects following. The U.S. has also done studies and found that are okay for use, but these studies are done by the same corporations that are gaining the profits. Steps should be taken by American citizens to stop the use of on products we are consuming by choosing non-GMO foods and supporting companies that use non-GMO products. The scientists and industry leaders involved in the production of have simplified a very scientific process and made it easier for producers to use, but as a nation, we should not want to have such a simple way to modify the foods we are producing and consuming and inserting them with genes they were not meant to have. These modified foods will hurt our health and our health as the chemicals ingested genetics in the body and lead to possible causal of diseases in children (Walia). By consuming products that have modified genes in them, there is no true answer to how these genes will eventually react in the natural genes in the human body. Modifying genetics has been used for economic purposes to help create more product and benefit the economy, but the economy and product production amounts should not be put ahead of a health and life. Supporting non-GMO companies and choosing non-GMO products will lead to a healthier life and long term benefits. DeLisle 5 Works Cited The Non- GMO Project. 2016. Web. 28 March 2017. Timeline- A History of Genetically Modified GMO-Awareness. 2011-2014. Web. 28 March 2017. Lallanilla, Mark. Facts About Genetically Modified LiveScience. 11 Jan. 2016. Web. 28 March 2017. Powell, Chelsea. To Make a Science in the News. 9 Aug. 2015. Web. 28 March 2017. Schachter, Raluca. GMOs are NOT the Future of Wakeup-world. Web. 28 March 2017. Walia, Arjun. Why 19 Countries in Europe Just Completely Banned Genetically Modified CollectiveEvolution. 7 Oct. 2015. Web. 11 April 2017.