Donovan 1 John Donovan Noah Pearlstone Composition 2 4/16/17 Project 3: Final Draft PTSD or Post Traumatic Stress Disorder is a disorder that can develop among people who have experienced a shocking, scary, or dangerous event (National). The most common way PTSD can be found in our society is in the men and women who have previously served in the Military. The struggles of trying to adjust back to civilian life can be linked to PTSD and some of its symptoms. The people in the military did their time serving and many walked away with PTSD. Now it is the responsibility of Americans to take the time to serve them back, by being there and letting them know they are cared for, whether its donating their money or their time. Although PTSD is an unstoppable effect of war, being there to help those who helped to defend this country can be way of giving back to them and our country, which is why those suffering with PTSD deserve our full attention and efforts to try and cure them and put them at peace. The Administration is the puzzle, the small contributions of Americans are just the missing pieces. In 1980, the American Psychiatric Association added PTSD to the list of Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (PTSD). Since then, an average of 30% of veterans have returned home from battle to suffer from Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD). This has led to roughly twenty-two veterans committing suicide every day, which means there is one veteran ending their life every 65 minutes to escape their suffering with PTSD (Times). The first step to Donovan 2 stopping PTSD is being able to recognize it. The signs and symptoms of PTSD can be broken down into three categories, re-experience, avoidance, and arousal. Re-experiencing symptoms can include aspects such as flashbacks, nightmares, and frightening thoughts. Avoidance symptoms include staying away from places, events or objects that are reminders of a traumatic experience and avoiding thoughts or feelings that are related to a traumatic event. Arousal symptoms can mean certain fast acting feelings such as being easily startled, feeling constantly tense, having difficulty sleeping, and exhibiting anger outbursts (National). Being aware of PTSD is only the first step in the right direction for caring for these ill veterans. PTSD is a condition that is more common than is recognized. Americans are united, and if one of us falls it is our American duty to be there to pick one another up. This is only more accurate when talking about someone who has already risked their life to fight and defend another man. Going to war and coming back alive is an immense achievement, we must not let these veterans return home just to suffer with PTSD and take their own lives. The Veterans Administration (VA) was a program created in the under the Hoover Administration which helps gather money to set up many hospitals around the country where veterans can receive free care. While this is a great care taker for veterans, we still see large numbers of veterans not getting the care they need in time, which leads to many of them taking their lives. This is why more work needs to be done. Americans cannot just sit back and let the Veterans Administration do all the work because, frankly, that is not enough. It should be an American duty to help fight against PTSD by giving time or money to either with or Foundation of Both of these organizations are non-profit organizations with the sole mission of eliminating the invisible suffering that PTSD causes in many Veterans across the country. Donovan 3 There are many ways to get involved in the fight against PTSD. However, one particular way that will have a large impact is by getting involved with with Their mission statement is, families connect despite but that all starts with your help (Get). If looking to donate, you can set up a reoccurring donation to the with or just make a one-time donation. If you want to do more than donate, the Military with PTSD provides three ways from you to lend your hand to those suffering. These three ways are called it from both and of To learn about these methods of getting involved, check out militarywithptsd.org. Another well respected, national organization that will give you many opportunities to get involved is the Foundation of The PTSD foundation of America has set their mission to bring healing, raise awareness, and network, all to aid those suffering from PTSD (Our). The PTSD Foundation of America has the advantage of helping you get involved in ways more than just donating and providing funds. You can also donate your time at which is an organized camp for those who are suffering. let 400,000 service men and women live with their invisible wounds of war, spread the message and get involved with Camp Hope. To learn more about Camp Hope and the PTSD Foundation of America, check out ptsdusa.org. PTSD is a result of traumatic events often times from serving country in war. The VA has been working effortlessly for almost a century to remove the pains of PTSD from our land. However, PTSD is a problem too large for just one Administration to solve. PTSD is unstoppable, but with the additional help of Americans across the country, we can make great steps in the right direction. To make these steps occur, one should be sure to become active in the with and the Foundation of This can be way of giving back to veterans and their country. miss this great opportunity to make a difference. As Donovan 4 the great American President John F. Kennedy once said, not what your country can do for you, ask what you can do for your Donovan 5 Work Cited: About  US Department of Veterans Affairs. VA I CARE Program, 22 Dec. 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Get  Military with PTSD. N.p., n.d. Web. 02 Apr. 2017. National Institutes of Health. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, n.d. Web. 02 Apr. 2017. Our  PTSD Foundation of America Combat Trauma Support Groups, Camp Hope Houston, Warrior Shield Fort Hood, Shield Radio. N.p., n.d. Web. 02 Apr. 2017. PTSD: National Center for  PTSD History and Overview - PTSD: National Center for PTSD. N.p., 31 Jan. 2007. Web. 02 Apr. 2017. Times, Military. New VA Study Finds 20 Veterans Commit Suicide Each  Military Times. N.p., n.d. Web. 02 Apr. 2017.