D e m e l i e n 1 Feline Demelien April 16, 2017 Composition II Ms. Hannah Lay End second smoke among kids The mission to ban public smoking has been around since the early The reason for this mission is the danger secondhand smoke causes among the general population. Most importantly second hand smoke among kids is an even bigger issue because of the harmful effects. not just because of advertisements, being drawn to being cool or wanting to be independent that causes smoking in the first place, it is also the parents that lead the start of smoking. Once this trend of smoking began, then you have secondhand smoke. All in all, a never-ending cycle and it all begins at home. Essentially, second hand smoke is a mixture of the smoke exhaled from the user and the smoke from the butt end of the cigarette itself. The specific name for what was described in the previous statement is mainstream smoking and side stream smoking. Side stream smoking is extremely dangerous mainly because of what is contained in the smoke released. In the smoke released from the butt end of a cigarette, cigar, etc., contains high concentrations of causing agents (carcinogens) and is more toxic than mainstream (American Cancer Society). When there are nonsmokers around a user and they are exposed to the second-hand smoke it is then called involuntary smoking or passively smoking. The same way a user breaths in nicotine and the toxic chemicals into their body is the same way a non-user does as well. As stated on the CDC regarding second-hand smoke, is no risk-free level of secondhand D e m e l i e n 2 smoke exposure; even brief exposure can be harmful to (CDC). Second hand smoke is in fact damaging in many ways. To begin with, that smoke inhaled affects the heart and the blood vessels. By inhaling smoke there is an increase of heart attacks and strokes in not only just the user but the non-smoker as well. Secondhand smoke as well contains more than 7,000 chemicals and more than a hundred of those as mentioned before are extremely toxic and about 70 of those chemicals can cause cancer (CDC). Aforementioned, smoking can begin at home, which begins a trend pf never ending smoking habits. Almost half of the U. adolescents try attempt to smoke by the time they reach their freshman year of high school. In addition to that approximately 90% of adults began smoking by the time they turn 18 or even before that. A study conducted as mentioned in article on the University of Washington page describes how, who had parents who smoked around them are two times as likely to begin smoking cigarettes daily between the ages of 13 and 21 than were children whose parents use (University of Washington News). It goes on by saying that parental attitudes and behaviors on the issue of smoking is the key factor is delaying the onset of daily smoking. Activities including having the parent sending their child to get their pack of cigarettes, just plain out smoking in front of their kids or having their kids light their cigarette are factors in what causes children to smoke in the first place. What is also astonishing is that parents do not realize that they are the ones that indirectly cause their children to smoke in the future. By the parents smoking around their kids they are making their kids susceptible to a plethora of diseases. It is the young kids in fact that are most affected by second hand smoke and the ones who are unable to avoid at all costs. Children who are surrounded by smoke has an increase in trigger of asthma attacks or making asthma symptoms worse, get sick more often, D e m e l i e n 3 often have more lung infections, are likely to get respiratory infections and ear infections. To understand the gravity of this situation, approximately 73.8 million of kids make up the U. S population and about one in every five kids die because of second hand smoke. Of course, a lot of children die because of second hand smoke mainly because it is kids who are still growing and development and by being around smoke it stunts that development which of course increases the amount of exposure to diseases. As mentioned previously secondhand smoke in children causes a lot of respiratory health issues, in addition to those health issues, second hand smoke is known to cause low birth rate and Sudden Infant Death syndrome, asthma, bronchitis, and pneumonia (Americans for Nonsmokers Rights). Second hand smoke is also known to impair cognitive growth. It is the smoke that aids in lack of oxygen in the brain which then leads to impairment in the brain. Since the child ability to learn is impaired it makes it difficult for a child to learn. It is approximated that more than 21.9 million of children are at risk of reading deficits because of the exposure to secondhand smoke (Americans for Nonsmokers Rights). Once a child becomes an adult, that child now adult could deal with some serious repercussions because of dealing with second hand smoke as child. For once, since that child now adult has been around second hand smoke the now adult has decreased lung function. This adult now must continue with the respiratory issues they dealt with when they were a child. Furthermore, the increased exposure raises the risk of metabolic syndrome, which is basically increases the risk of heart disease, strokes, type II diabetes and excessive belly fat going into the adult age. For women, who grew around second hand smoke, once entering adulthood they are 68% greater of having a difficult time conceiving and is more likely to suffer more miscarriages (Americans for Nonsmokers Rights). D e m e l i e n 4 As parents, there is a lot that could be done to prevent such issues from occurring. For one it would be great to establish a good foundation in terms of communication with the kids in the household (Kids Health). Attempt to not lecture or when you giving advice to you kids to make it become a sermon or else your child will not appreciate it. Touch bases on the positives of not smoking such as not having to deal with an addiction. Parents who do smoke admit that you have made a mistake and that if you had a chance to start over, you would or try to quit. If you do what was mentioned in the previous statement, try not to get your children involved in your habits. Try not to have you child gather you pack of cigarettes or have them light your cigarette for you. By attempting to do some of the suggestions, there is a chance you can cut down on the amount of issues your child might have in the future. You could cut down the amount of respiratory, cognitive, and behavioral issues your child may gain just from you smoking around them. You also prevent your child from themselves smoking in the future or them dealing with the repercussions of secondhand smoke once they enter adulthood. By doing just a few small things, you could decrease the number of children who die because of smoking. D e m e l i e n 5 Works Cited American Cancer Society. What is second hand  13 November 2015. https://www.cancer.org/cancer/cancer-causes/tobacco-and-cancer/secondhand- smoke.html. 2017. Americans for Nonsmokers Rights. Health Effects of Secondhand Smoke On Chiildren  September 2009. http://no-smoke.org/document.php?id=212. 2017. CDC. Secondhand Smoke (SHS)  21 February 2017. s/. 2017. Kids Health. Kids and  June 2016. http://kidshealth.org/en/parents/smoking.html. 2017. University of Washington News. Children whose parents smoked are twice as likely to begin smoking between ages 13 and 21 as offspring of  28 September 2005. http://www.washington.edu/news/2005/09/28/children-whose-parents-smoked-are-twice- as-likely-to-begin-smoking-between-ages-13-and-21-as-offspring-of-nonsmokers/. 2017. D e m e l i e n 6