Nguyen 1 Nhi Nguyen Andrew de Carion ENC 1102 April 16, 2017 Animal testing: A painful procedure With a mass amount of animal testing procedures used in research, there is no surprise that arguments arise among these techniques. The disagreement leads to various sources of information, resulting in different beliefs. While some people believe that animal testing is essential for research, others consider this procedure as cruelty and unnecessary. According to the article use in pharmacology education and research: The changing are being subjected to painful procedures in education and training (Badyal and Desai 1). This information suggests that while animal testing may seem to be a potential procedure, its outcomes seriously affect the mental and physical health of nonhuman living animals, resulting in a severe loss of animals each year. Therefore, immediate actions should be taken to stop the cruelty and save the innocent animals from animal testing procedures. Although the primary goal of animal testing is to help study and find treatment to various diseases, its outcomes provide negative effects to the subjected animals. According to Carbone from the article in Laboratory Animals: The Ethical and Regulatory valuable scientific experiment requires that animal pain be left (1). Since the pain of the subjected animals is left untreated, it may be extremely hard for animals to survive. Moreover, the repeated painful procedures may damage the mental health of the animal subjects by causing them stress each time these tests are performed. According to Balcome et al from the article routines cause animal changes in physiologic parameters Nguyen 2 correlated with stress pressure. . . were associated with all. . . procedures in multiple (42). This article suggests that animal testing procedure is highly correlated with the stress subjected animals experience throughout their lives, resulting in a low rate of survival. Because the animal subjects are cruelly treated during animal testing procedure, immediate action should be taken to stop this inhumane technique. While animals are inhumanely treated during animal testing procedure, many people are unegaged in this topic because of the incomplete information provided by popular media. In fact, the majority are unengaged in the fight against animal testing, because many people may be misinformed by the massive information provided online, resulting in the support for animal testing. Without sufficient knowledge, one may not find how detrimental and dangerous the animal testing procedure is. However, the attitude about animal testing procedure changes once people are equipped with complete information. According to Festing and Wilkinson from ethics of animal research. Talking Point on the use of animals in scientific show that a high in 1999, 90% in 2002 and 89% in ready to accept the use of animals in medical research if the research is for serious medical purposes, suffering is minimized and/or alternatives are fully (526). This article indicates that people are engaged in animal testing topic only when they have complete information about how painful and dangerous the animal testing procedure is. Besides providing negative effects to subjected animals, animal testing procedure affects individual and society negatively. In fact, drugs developed from animal research may be extremely dangerous because of the significant difference between human and anatomy and physiology. According Akhtar from the article Flaws and Human Harms of Animal have been significantly harmed because investigators were misled Nguyen 3 by the safety and efficacy profile of a new drug based on animal (414). This article shows that the safety of human is in danger if tremendous amounts of drugs are evaluated by animal testing procedures. Moreover, the subjected animal can bite a scientist when he performs any experiment on the animal, resulting in injuries or infection. According to Rothe et al from the article and Human Bite risk of infection after a bite is (433). This relatively high percent indicates that animal testing procedure is not safe for both human and nonhuman animals. It is important that society pays great attention to this technique, because animal testing procedure affects both human and nonhuman well-being negatively. Although many people argue that it may be challenging for scientists to know how certain diseases work without animal testing, the outcomes of this procedure demonstrate the potential risks for human and nonhuman animals when these tests are performed. In particular, animals suffer from pain and stress after each trial of test, while safety are threatened by the drugs developed by animal testing procedure. According to Sharma et al from the article of Animals in Drug Research: An Approach Towards Fulfillment of animal testing is expensive, time consuming, and dangerous (1). Despite the fact that animal testing is dangerous and time consuming, government spends billions of dollars from tax expense each year for the irrelevant and failed animal research that interferes with many other social problems that need special attention such as building shelters for homeless people or protecting the environment. The article suggests that more people should be educated and engaged to stop the threat and cruelty animal testing brings to society. This leads to the question how people can be empowered to change perspectives and act now. Nguyen 4 Because the safety of human and nonhuman animals are in danger as a result of animal testing, immediate actions need to be taken to stop this dangerous and painful procedure. People can help millions of animals suffering from animal testing right now by sharing videos and websites such as peta.org, pcrm.org, and crueltyfreeinternational.org, etc to help educate others about this topic, since getting more people be engaged in animal testing can help fight against the violent happening to animals in laboratory research. According to Festing and Wilkinson, once people have a complete view about animal testing, they feel that animal testing is unnecessary, and animal welfare should be weighed against the benefits of the test (526). This article suggests that it is possible to stop the cruelty and change the world now if everyone takes a simple step to spread the information worldwide. Equally important, donation can help save millions of animals that suffer every day from animal testing procedures. In fact, animal right organizations can organize campaigns and help contribute to the development of animal testing alternatives if people donate money to support these groups. According to Sharma et al, alternatives such as computer simulation can provide the that animal models will never be able to (1). Alternatives like computer simulation can be a breakthrough in fighting against diseases. Therefore, it is feasible to protect human and nonhuman animals from the dangerous and painful animal testing procedures if each person contributes a little to the development of alternatives. Another potential way to end animal testing is to donate your posthumous body. Posthumous body can be donated to humane charities such as Anatomy Gifts Registry (AGR) and International Institute for the Advancement of Medicine (IIAM) to help researchers find breakthroughs treatment to serious diseases such as AIDS. According to Saha from the article Donation after Death: The Mental Setup of Educated it is very difficult to teach Nguyen 5 and study human body without dissecting cadavers (5). Therefore, donating posthumous body can help study body and find treatment to various diseases such as and cancer, bringing a possible end to animal testing procedure. In conclusion, while animal testing may seem to be a potential procedure, its negative outcomes outweigh the pros; therefore, imediate actions need to be taken to stop this procedure. In fact, animal testing techqniue leaves the subjected animals with pain and stress each time a test is performed, resulting a low survival rate. Moreover, humans are directly harmed by animal testing, because drugs developed by this procedure often fail to represent all possible side effects as a result of different anatomy and physiology between human and nonhuman animals. Therefore, society should care more about this topic. Immediate action such as sharing videos and websites, donating money and posthumous body can be possible ways to help stop the cruel and dangerous animal testing procedures. Nguyen 6 Works Cited Akhtar, Aysha. The Flaws and Human Harms of Animal  Cambridge Quarterly of Healthcare Ethics 24.04 (2015): 407-19. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. Badyal, Dineshk, and Chetna Desai. Animal Use in Pharmacology Education and Research: The Changing  Indian Journal of Pharmacology 46.3 (2014): 257. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. Balcombe, Jonathan P., Neal D. Barnade, and Chad Sandusky. Routines Cause Animal 43.6 (2004): 42-51. Web. 11 Feb. 2017 Carbone, Larry. Pain in Laboratory Animals: The Ethical and Regulatory  PLoS ONE 6.9 (2011): 1-6. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. Festing, Simon, and Robin Wilkinson. The Ethics of Animal Research. Talking Point on the Use of Animals in Scientific  EMBO Reports 8.6 (2007): 526-30. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. Rothe, Karin, Michael Tsokos, and Werner Handrick. Animal and Human Bite  Continuing Medical Education 112.25 (2015): 433-43. Web. 2017. Saha, Anubha. Body Donation after Death: The Mental Setup of Educated  Journal Of Clinical And Diagnostic Research 9.6 (2015): 5-9. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Sharma, Kk, T. Arora, V. Joshi, N. Rathor, Ak Mehta, Kd Mehta, and Pk Mediratta. Substitute of Animals in Drug Research: An Approach towards Fulfillment of  Indian Journal of Pharmaceutical Sciences 73.1 (2011): 1. Web. 14 Apr. 2017.