Nate Ferguson Professor Lay ENC 1102 April 18, 2017 INTERMEDITE DRAFT A study has shown that concussion rates have double within a decade as the years go on. Among all sports, 47% of concussions are caused during a game of football. A concussion is a head injury that happens when you take a blow to the head area, causing your brain to alter some functions at a different rate. Repeated head traumas can result in chronic traumatic encephalopathy also know as (CTE) which is a degenerative disease in the brain that eats it away. Another study looked at and they found out that at least one player receives a concussion from every American football game that is being played. If the game of football was played smarter, this will make the game a lot much safer. We need more people willing to think with their head and not lead with it. are supposed to be tough. You are supposed to play through pain. You are not supposed to cry. We are taught that early on in the game as kids. Tough sport. Brutal sport. like the gladiator. People want to see the big hits. They wind up on Sports Center. And as a player, you want to admit you are of Fame running back Eric Dickerson. This is probably the best quote I could find because this is exactly what goes through my mind when on the field. A lot of players risk their life by staying on the field hurt. Just so they can look tough to the crowd or coaches. Soon as you tell your coach that you are injured they began to look at you sideways like your lying or something, so players tend to try and play trough the injury. Kevin Turner was a worldwide known running back that played for the eagles in He was later diagnosed with most advanced stage of CTE in 2010, which was associated with repeated head trauma. Kevin Turner ended up dying March 24, 2016. Some people also believe that its because we do wear helmet, counterintuitive which means no helmets, no headfirst collisions. They would be terrified to lead with their head. If they did they would be unconscious and be able to play anymore. Former browns wide receiver tells a story about how a guy on the other knocked him down team and returned to his feet in a daze. When he came to the sideline, cribs knew he could possibly have a concussion. The staff then started to question him asking him questions like are you guys playing If he named the wrong team that would make the doctors and staff to ask more questions and do more test. That Sunday Cribs got hit so hard he even remember what team he was going against. When the doctors asked him the question began to stall and breath hard to waste time as if tired. They then asked him again and then he stalled again. Seconds after that they said he heard a whistle and jump up from the bench point in the direction the whistle was coming from as if he seen something super happen. He then glanced at the scoreboard and when the staff gave their attention back to cribs he then replied That same answer that was so prolong was good enough for him to come back on the field and play. This story right here goes to show that the protocols for NFL concussions are very weak and help safety. A lot of people have been getting serious head injuries in football because they are leading with their head when they tackle people. A saying a seen in a article that stuck out to me was lead with your head, think with This is a good saying and pretty true because if you think with your head instead of leading with it, the game of football will be a lot safer. Half of the that happen in the game of football are head related. I feel like they can make the game a lot safer if you people started to think smarter before reacting. Nothing good happens when you lead with your head in the game of football. The damage that football players have in one year need not be debated at this point. Will Smith made a movie called concussions and shows how the sport makes people life much shorter. Even though these million dollar companies try to make equipment to better everything still work when your brain is sloshing against your skull. The real damage is happening inside your brain not the outside. The game as it is played, kills people who play it. Concussions are very difficult in many ways. They happen to players of all type of ages and all level of play. You may feel like all of the athletes who get concussed are okay but the ones who get them treated who are affected by it. Players, coaches and parents must be cautious when a player is concussed. With so much testosterone in the bleachers and a win at any cause play a major role on to why people get concussed. You are dealing with human flesh and bones. The fans also play a big role in it because the fans are the players motive most of the time. The doctor from Dave Berry column said that he could see a future in He said its not around the corner but he can see it, this would require wholesale changes in the way the game is played.