Mourra 1 Saskia Mourra Ms. Gill ENC 1102 077 16 April 2017 Protect Your Baby You, as a parent, know what is best for your baby. You know about the importance of car seats, baby proofing, and other ways to keeping them safe, but did you know that one of the best ways of protecting your baby is by making sure they have all their vaccinations? As a matter of fact, vaccinations are the only effective way to protect your baby from multiple diseases spread around the world and can save your life. Vaccines.gov states because of advances in medical science, your child can be protected against more diseases than ever They also state the fact that some diseases that killed thousands of children in the past, have been eliminated completely while others are on the verge of being eliminated as well due to effective vaccines. According to a study at the Pediatric Academic Society, child vaccinations have prevented about 10.5 million cases of infectious disease and have saved about 33,000 lives per year since they were implemented. Imelda Celine Hanson, M.D., of Texas Hospital states that children under the age of 1 exposed to measles, mumps, and other vaccine-preventable diseases before being vaccinated are less likely to survive the disease (Hanson, Imelda C.). Vaccinations are very important because they provide protection not only for vaccinated individuals, but also for those who are unable to be vaccinated due to multiple reasons such as cancer, pregnancy, Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) and newborns. needs to be seen as a shared community value. Communities value litter-free neighborhoods and do not shy away from Mourra 2 promoting this value. Communities also need to come together to say that vaccinating children is important. Parents should be proud that they have protected their children against preventable disease and should let others know that they are doing their part to keep outbreaks out of their says Karen Ernst, the director of the organization of Voices for Vaccines. The Voice for Vaccines want to prevent diseases from other countries by taking vaccines and inform parents about the safety, importance, and benefits of immunizations such as preventing disease. This organization is a parent-led organization supported by scientists, healthcare professionals, and public health officials. Voices for Vaccines want to give parents who vaccinate a chance to speak up about their choice since the majority of voices speaking on the behalf of parents who vaccinate, are those who oppose of vaccinations (Voices for Vaccines). VICNetwork states the fact that the success of vaccines has resulted in a misguided belief that vaccinations are unnecessary because that these diseases no longer exist (VICNetwork). Skipping out on a vaccine not only puts your child at risk, but also the kids and adults around them, including yourself. Vaccines must be administered on a timely basis in order to provide your baby as early as possible, since they are most vulnerable at such as young age. Approximately 95% of American parents keep up with a schedule of vaccinations. Vaccinate Your Baby is an campaign that targets families with messages about the importance of timely vaccination of and pursues to guarantee to make the right choices for their families and others. Vaccinate Your Baby mentions that vaccinations are recommended for very young children because their immune systems are not yet fully mature which makes it easier for viruses and bacteria to multiply (Vaccinate Your Baby). Whooping cough, influenza (flu), chickenpox, and many other vaccine-preventable diseases can range from minor to life- threatening where there is no way to know beforehand whether your symptoms are mild Mourra 3 or severe. Measles is known to be one of the most contagious diseases and spreads quickly among those who are not vaccinated, meaning one case can cause concern throughout a whole community. Herd immunity is a form of immunity that occurs when the vaccination of a significant portion of a population provides a measure of protection for those who are not vaccinated (VaccinesToday). In other words, the more people who are vaccinated compared to not vaccinated, the less likely anyone will catch the disease and the more protection the whole community gets. When people do not get vaccinated, herd immunity fails and there can be disease outbreaks. This makes everyone more likely to catch the disease and can be very dangerous for people who have weak immune systems and cannot be vaccinated. The risk of your baby catching a disease is reduced to 0% when vaccine, but when your baby is not vaccinated, there is a great risk of your baby catching the disease in the situation of a disease outbreak. These preventable diseases are extremely dangerous and painful. Amy Parker, who vaccinated as a child, wrote in an article for Slate that seen people who have experienced complications from preventable childhood illnesses than I have ever met with complications from These complications vary between deafness from measles and death from meningitis. never had these illnesses, you know how awful they are. I Parker wrote. discomfort, the inability to breathe or to eat, or to swallow, fever and nightmares, itching all over your body so much that you stand lying on bedsheets, losing so much weight you walk properly, Parker continues to list examples of the pain and discomfort that comes along with catching a disease. What these diseases have in common is that they are serious and proven preventable. Mourra 4 The ability to vaccinate children is one of the greatest medical breakthroughs to be achieved by mankind. They have the ability to save your baby along with tens of thousands of lives each year while making the world a safer place. Vaccinations are important for not only your baby, but also for the whole society and world. The effect of vaccinations is not limited to just one country, due to people traveling more often, they are exposed to various diseases and can easily cause an outbreak in other countries such as their own. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, as a reason of vaccinations, measles is not very common in the United States of America. However, measles is still common in other parts of the world and can easily be brought into the United States by unvaccinated travelers who are infected while abroad. With vaccinations, if enough people in a community are vaccinated, a disease will not be able to spread from person to person and will eventually die out. For example, this is how smallpox was eliminated as well as the removal of polio from many countries. Mourra 5 Work Cited Call to  VICNetwork. N.p., 2010-2015. Web. 13 Apr. 2017. Five Important Reasons to Vaccinate Your  Vaccines.gov. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, 11 Oct. 2006. Web. 13 Apr. 2017. Parents Who  Voices For Vaccines. N.p., 2015. Web. 13 Apr. 2017. Parker, Amy. Growing Up  Slate. Slate Magazine, 06 Jan. 2014. Web. 13 Apr. 2017. Rivas, Anthony. Vaccines For Children: How Do We Convince Anti-Vaxxers Immunizing Their Kids Is  Medical Daily. IBT Media Inc., 18 Jan. 2015. Web. 13 Apr. 2017. Vaccinate Your  Vaccinate Your Baby. Every Child by Two (ECBT), 2015. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. What Is Herd  VaccinesToday. N.p., 07 Feb. 2015. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. What Are the Reasons to Vaccinate My  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 15 Aug. 2016. Web. 13 Apr. 2017. ZincSaucier, Reno NV. Vaccination  Teen Ink. Emerson Media, n.d. Web. 13 Apr. 2017.