Zhen Tian ENC1102.027S17 Ms. Poston 04/16/2017 It Is Time to Pay Attention to the Electric Vehicle With the development of society and technology, automobile industry becomes more diversify. At the same time, more and more attention is focused on electric vehicle. We all know that there are many obvious advantages about electric vehicle, like no emission, saving non- renewable energy. However, there are still many people do not care about how the electric vehicle has transformed our lives. They do not see the protection of environment by electric vehicle and never consider to buy one. In short, some people are not aware of the electric vehicle. In other words, they do not want to understand it at all. There is no doubt that, not only electric vehicle is developing, gas vehicle also makes great progress. With the development of technology and the control of the government, the gas vehicle tends to lower emission and high efficiency in recent years. Many people think the carbon dioxide emissions and the consumption of non-renewable energy are not the trouble anymore. However, lower emission is not equal to no emission. Even the emission by gas vehicle is lower, the amount of gas vehicle is larger. average global temperature has increased by about 1.4 degrees Fahrenheit (0.8 degrees Celsius) over the past 100 years, according to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (Confronting the Realities of Climate Change-impacts). The emission by gas vehicle is still a main source of carbon dioxide. At the same time, high efficiency is not equal to the no consumption either. the share of renewable energy consumption in the total energy consumption is still too We still have no way to create non-renewable energy, to International Energy Agency (IEA) statistics, the ratio of the renewable energy consumption to total energy consumption is 12.7% in 2011. From the Kyoto Protocol became effective in the renewable energy consumption has risen by only 3.2%, whereas non-renewable energy consumption of the world has risen by (Aviral et al. 1) The most effective way is to use renewable resources. So electric vehicle is the key to deal with these thorny problems. However, there are still some person think these problem could not affect them, because the coal oil be consumed in this century. In addition, the global warming caused by carbon dioxide destroy the world in this century. But do you think of your children? Do you think of the future of the world? mission is to accelerate the transition to sustainable they devote to make the world better, instant torque, incredible power, and zero emissions, products would be cars without (About Tesla paragraph 1). The earth gives us conditions to live, wo should also make it live longer. In fact, the electric vehicle deals many realistic problems, which are influencing us right now. Human health problems are closely related to life. the survey of these literatures, it can be concluded that, CO2 emissions is posing risks to human population health and this can lead to a decrease of the economic For example, emission can lead many diseases about lung. There is an advertisement image of Tesla. It is a lung made of flowers. The left part of the lung withered, but the right part is full of vitality. This left part is main caused by the hazardous substance in emission. Sometimes, it is not just choosing a vehicle, it is choosing a mode of life. Electric vehicle is high technology and more health. Not only Tesla, every kind of electric vehicle can contribute to the human health. After knowing the features of the electric vehicle, some people still pay no attention to it. like the automobile industry seem especially immune to the threat of new entry and upstart (Stringham et al. 1). They feel that electric vehicle is far away from them. In fact, at the time of electric vehicle just started, the price of the electric car, like Tesla model S, is too high to accept for average person. However, with the developing of technology, the cost has decreased. There are different kinds of electric vehicles can be chosen. People can buy them by different price in term of their desired and economic conditions. Besides the worry about price, some people also think that, electric vehicle pay too much attention to the energy, they may ignore the smoothness, safe reliability and amenity. However, these aspects are also the benefits of electric vehicle. can treat a Tesla car as an App that can be upgraded on the fly when bug or better algorithms are at the same time, experience for different drivers with car seat, climate control, and other (Katzor paragraph 2). In a way, people will feel more comfortable in electric vehicle if they want the feel of the science and technology. Model S has won multiple car of the year awards and earned an all-time top rating from Consumer (Stringham et al. 2,3). In addition, the electric power is the most safety energy in current stage. It will not cause the explode or other serious event. Last but not least, charge position is usually a trouble to electric vehicle. Many people think it is not convenient enough, because they do not see many charge position around them. In fact, the amount of charge positions is increasing every year. No matter in downtown or outskirts, markets or school, there are enough charging position there. is now attempting to address network effects in the electric car industry by building distribution service, and charging centers and encouraging other firms to enter the (Stringham et al. 2,3).So people completely do not have to worry about the after-sales problem. Works Cited About  About Tesla Tesla.N.p., n.d. Web. 23 Feb. 2017. <https://www.tesla.com/about>. Chaabouni, Sami, et al. On the Causal Dynamics between CO2 Emissions, Health Expenditures and Economic  Sustainable Cities and Society, vol. 22, 01 Apr. 2016, pp. 184-191. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.scs.2016.02.001. Katzor, Elana. is competitive Quora. 26 Jun 2014.Web.29 Jan.2017. Stringham, Edward Peter, et al. Overcoming Barriers to Entry in an Established Industry: TESLA  California Management Review, vol. 57, no. 4, Summer2015, pp. 85-103. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1525/cmr.2015.57.4.85. Tugcu, Can Tansel and Aviral Kumar Tiwari. Does Renewable And/Or Non-Renewable Energy Consumption Matter for Total Factor Productivity (TFP) Growth? Evidence from the  Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews, vol. 65, 01 Nov. 2016, pp. 610-616. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.rser.2016.07.016. Union of Concerned Scientists. Confronting the Realities of Climate Change-impacts.  Web.29 Jan.2017.