Ruble 1 Courtney Ruble Ms. Poston ENC 1102 16 March 2017 Physician-Assisted Suicide In society, saving the lives of patients as been a top priority among doctors. We have been able to advance our medicine to cure diseases that have killed hundreds of thousands of people. But, there are still some diseases that we have not been able to find a cure for. These diseases causes an enormous amount of pain to the life, and often times, the pain goes beyond being just physical. To help ease the pain of patients, a pathologist named Jack Kevorkian, invented a machine that would assist terminally ill patients end their lives. This act would go on to be known as physician-assisted suicide. Physician-assisted suicide is the act of a ill adult requesting a prescription medication from their physician for the of ending their life (Death with Dignity para. 1). A majority of society sees this act as something that is immortal or a form of a slippery slope. But, Terminally ill individuals in extreme pain should be granted the choice in dying on their own terms, with their dignity. Physician-assisted suicide is commonly confused with euthanasia. Euthanasia refers to the act of intentionally killing of a patient by a physician, through means a lethal dose of medication through injection. This sounds similar, but with euthanasia, the physician himself injects the patient, killing him. By the physician prescribing the medication to the patient, it is completely voluntary and up to the patient to administer it. Physician-assisted suicide allows the patient to take the medication if they so choose to, in the time and place of their choosing. In a Ruble 2 2015 data report of assisted suicide act, not all the patients that are administered the lethal dose take the medication (para. 7). But, the Death with Dignity Act gives patients a sense of ease knowing that if things were to become unbearable, there is a option for them. In both cases of physician-assisted suicide and euthanasia, the patient has been deemed six months or less to live. Within the United States, Oregon was the first state to pass the Death with Dignity Act in 1997. This act allows Oregon residents to partake in physician-assisted suicide under certain parameters. In 2014, Brittany Maynard was 29 when she was diagnosed with a terminal brain cancer (The Brittany Fund para. 1). It was later found that the specific cancer Maynard had was a grade IV glioblastoma, which is the most aggressive cancer of the brain. She was given six months live. Unfortunately, this is a form of cancer that doctors do not know much about or have much research on. For Maynard, this would mean months of radiation and chemotherapy, which comes with many negative side effects. After careful consideration of her options, she decided to partake in Death with Dignity. But, this act was not originally available to her in her home state of California, so she uprooted up her life to move to Oregon where it was available. This is something that could happen to any of us. We do not know why certain people get cancer and others do not. In an interview, Maynard said she has had the medication for a few weeks, and she is not closed to any options of a cure. She told the interviewer, do not want to die. But I am dying. And I want to die on my own terms (Maynard Since the passing of Death with Dignity Act, six other jurisdictions in the United States have legalized physician-assisted death, including home state of California. Washington D.C was the most recent addition to the list, signing this into law last December. Ruble 3 This is a heavily debated issue, one that has been brought to light by people such as Brittany Maynard. As a nation, we need to create a movement that not only brings it to light among the people of America, but to the very legislators that make up our government. The population can only do so much to advance information about physician-assisted suicide, but it will be up to our government to pass a Death with Dignity law nationwide, which will make this end of life option available to more people around the United States. As a healthy human with no known disease, we cannot pretend to know the agony these patients feel and this should realized by the public, the medical para. Physician-assisted suicide allows a terminally ill individual die on their terms, rather than on the terms provided to them by their disease. In physician-assisted suicide the already are dying and therefore are not choosing death over life, but one form of death over another As a nation, we should not let these patients continue to endure extreme amounts of pain for the sake of a slim possibility for a cure to their disease, we should be able to offer different end of life options to these individuals. Ruble 4 Works Cited Compassion & Choices. (2014). The Brittany Fund About. Retrieved from http://thebrittanyfund.org/about/ Death with Dignity. (2017). Terminology - Death With Dignity. Retrieved from https://www.deathwithdignity.org/terminology/ Gogal, E. (2017). Final Options Illinois - Death With Dignity. Retrieved from https://www.deathwithdignity.org/terminology/ Maynard, B. (2014, November 2). Brittany Maynard: My right to death with dignity at 29 - CNN.com. Retrieved from http://www.cnn.com/2014/10/07/opinion/maynard-assisted-suicide-cancer-dignity/ NCHHIM. (2015, August 3). Intro to Physician Assisted Suicide Physician Assisted Suicide. Retrieved from OREGON DEATH WITH DIGNITY ACT: 2015 DATA SUMMARY. Oregon Death with Dignity Act, https://public.health.oregon.gov/ProviderPartnerResources/EvaluationResearch/Deathwit Smith, N. (2011, December 15). The Positive Aspects of Physician Assisted Suicide. Retrieved from