Shah 1 Riya Shah Noah Pearlstone ENC 1102 30 March 2017 Human Cloning The world of science and the general public were astonished and excited about the declaration in a journal called about the fact that Ian Wilmut and his colleagues had successfully created a clone from a single cell of an adult sheep (Brock 160). But numerous people, including many scientific and political leaders, were terrified and troubled at the fact that the same process could possibly be used to clone humans as well. Human cloning refers to production of genetically identical (Bryon and Gurdon 154). Due to the scientific and ethical reasons, the debate over human cloning has been intense as to whether human cloning must be banned or not. Even though human cloning is the future of mankind and science, it cannot continue without harming humans and exploiting them. Hence, for ethical reasons, human cloning must be banned not only in America but all around the world by taking a stand against cloning. The United States, as well as other countries, must promote ethical, scientific and medical research and must ban all potential research that could lead to human cloning. The main reason for banning human cloning is due to its ethical reasons. Human cloning would affect the mankind as it actually hands the power of creating a human clone according to the preferences of the creator of the clone. It would violate the mere cause of the existence of the human race as its primary purpose is to reproduce. Evolution is a key to the survival of mankind and reproduction results in evolution. It is also said that cloning violates will by Shah 2 creating an infant in a way that does not depend on human sexual (Leon and Wilson 63). As racism is one of the ethical issues in the world, as said by the European Parliament, racial issues also arise if human cloning is permitted- cloning of human beings is contrary to the principle of equality of human beings as it permits a eugenic and racist selection of human race, it offends against humanity and it requires experimentation on (Resolution on Cloning). While there have been ethical concerns, there are various health complications and scientific glitches that might also show how dangerous human cloning could be. The New Atlantis Journal states that the most straightforward reason to oppose human cloning is due to the concerns of safety of those involved such as, the women donating the egg and the child created through cloning. Collecting eggs from the women for mere research purposes would be complicated and unsafe for the woman. According to the book and human cloning procedures would lead to intolerable risks to the clone. The clone could also be vulnerable to psychological harms. The director of the National Institutes of Health, Harold Varmus, extended the concern that cell many years old from which a person is cloned could have accumulated genetic mutations during its years in another adult that could give the resulting clone a predisposition to cancer or other diseases of (Weiss 1997). Cloning could not only cause personal harms but also social problems. It would diminish the worth of individuals and lessen the respect for human life as cloning would allow seeing humans as replaceable. Not only that, but it might also be used by the government or other groups for immoral and exploitative purposes. Theoretically, cloning would also enable rich or powerful people to clone themselves several times over for their own purpose. In this way, it Shah 3 would indirectly or directly harm the future generations or maybe not have future generations at all; if people continued to clone themselves. While there are cons to human cloning, it also has its pros. Scientists say that exploring the world to cloning would mark a milestone in science and would provide many answers to unsolved mysteries. Human cloning would access the right to reproductive freedom and might even solve the problem of infertility (Brock 146). Couples who have a high risk of having a child with disorders could decide to have a clone of their child to avoid any deadly genetic disorders due to family history. Working on cloning technique would create wonders in the understanding of human biology. Studying about the early human embryo has the capability to provide with answers to various defects and developmental diseases. (The Threat of Human Cloning Ethics, Recent Developments, and the Case for Action). Couples could have their children cloned so that if and when in need of genetically identical tissues or organs, the child could always have a perfect match and the doctors would not have to worry about finding a medically suitable donor. Human cloning could open the scientists with answers that the mankind could never know or would take ages to know. Even though cloning would open gates for underlying secrets in the medical field, the potential uses of it are controversial. As the National Bioethics Advisory Commission said, production of embryos to aid as tissue banks would be an ethical issue due to the sacrifice of embryos created solely for that (Robertson 119-112). Organizations like WHO and UNESCO consider cloning of humans to be derogatory and unfair to mankind. Human integrity and dignity would be under a question if cloning were to be continued. Also, since potential pros of cloning could be appealing to the scientists, it could also be equally perilous and the risk is heavy as it could compromise one or many human lives. There Shah 4 is no assurance that the cloned child could lead a healthy human life and would have no complications in its future. Cloning would affect the mere essence of being human. Also, if fallen into wrong hands, like those of the terrorists, cloning could have unwanted threatening impacts on the society that would be hard to control. As the famous saying goes, is better than and therefore, human cloning must be prevented and banned worldwide, before there is any harm to the mankind. Therefore, human cloning must not only be resented but banned worldwide and Americans, as well as people all around the world, must be educated about the potential risks if cloning is allowed to be continued. Americans must be educated about what human cloning does and it could impact the surroundings. According to a survey conducted by The Genetics and Public Policy Center, terms of knowledge of cloning policy, more than half of respondents incorrectly assumed that the government already regulated the cloning of (Nisbet). Because not everyone understands the scientific details and the effects of human cloning, media would play an important role in helping the people understand. Through social media, news channels, newspapers, the internet and other mediums, the awareness of the issue of human cloning must be raised as to why cloning would be dangerous instead of helping the mankind. As the senator of the state is elected by the American people themselves; Americans must write open letters or reach out to the senator and inform them that the Americans are against human cloning. The Americans must then vote for the senator who stands by the decision of banning human cloning as due to their political influence, the senators could help a little as to where human cloning would stand. Strict rules and regulations must be set for scientists in the field of genetics, and if any irregularities occur, their research must be confiscated if there is any attempt Shah 5 to clone a human. In the United States, there are no federal laws specifically regarding human cloning. More than 30 countries have formally banned human cloning for reproductive purposes (NPR). Several European countries, including France, Germany and Switzerland, have banned the creation of cloned human embryos for reproductive or therapeutic purposes. The United States must also follow this approach before mankind has to suffer through the perils of human cloning. Shah 6 Works Cited Brock, Dan W. Cloning human beings: an assessment of the ethical issues pro and  Clones and clones: Facts and fantasies about human cloning (1998): 160. Byrne, James A., and John B. Gurdon. Commentary on human  Differentiation 69.4-5 (2002): 154-157. Kass, Leon, and James Q. Wilson. The ethics of human cloning. New Delhi: Scientia, 2002. Print. Robertson, John A. Human cloning and the challenge of  (1998): 119-122. Nisbet, M. C. Public Opinion About Stem Cell Research and Human  Public Opinion Quarterly 68.1 (2004): 131-54. Web. NPR. NPR, n.d. Web. 02 Apr. 2017. Special Issue: The Threat of Human Cloning Ethics, Recent Developments, and the Case for  The New Atlantis 2015: 9. JSTOR Journals. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. The European parliament. Resolution on cloning. Motion dated March 11 1997. Passed March 13 1997.