RaeAnn Atkinson Angelica Aranda ENC 1102 April 15, 2017 Make the Switch Do you put on make-up, wash your hair, or use any products while getting ready in the morning? If so, you are probably supporting products that test on animals without even knowing it. Many companies that people use everyday test on animals. Most of the time, when purchasing a product, a consumer will not think twice about the testing that this company has done. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) is in favor of stopping animals testing. PETA gives people knowledge about what is really going on in laboratories and how endangered these animals really are. In one article, PETA says, suffer and die every day in laboratories with little or no protection from (peta.org). If it is called then the torture animals are put through will not be stopped. We can do something about this! When deciding which products to use in the morning, make-up consumers should research each company and choose the ones who do not test on animals. Make the switch to cruelty free products next time you shop. Animal testing kills and tortures many animals every year. Make-up products test on animals to make sure that the product is safe for human use. One myth often heard is, they did not test on animals, they would test on humans which is People think it is not quite as bad to test on animals, but testing on animals is also unethical. Innocent lives are lost because the make-up companies do not chose another form of testing. A fact from PETA states, 2010 and 2014, nearly half a million mice, rats, birds, and cold-blooded subjected to painful experiments and not provided with pain (peta.org). If testing on a pet does not seem okay, why would it be okay to do on any other animal? Companies do not think they have another option when testing their products, but this is not true. Today we have technology that can help us see how a certain product will work on human skin. NEAVS gives a list of alternatives to animal testing, which include a model of reconstructed human skin, test tube methods and even computer models (neavs.org). None of these methods can cause harm to humans or animals and there are no known effects. This means that the company can do the proper testing to make sure their product is safe without harming a life. Making the switch from companies who do test on animals, to those who does not have to be a hard change. Many companies make very similar products. For example, you could switch the type of mascara that you use, from Maybelline who does test on animals, to Wet n Wild who does not test on animals. These two different mascaras are very similar so you may not even be able to tell the difference. Also, the prices for cruelty-free products do not usually differ from the other brands. This switch can be so easy, if the time is put into researching it. Some brands that test on animals include Almay, Vicks, Revlon and Cover Girl. Instead of using these products, consider switching over to E.L.F., Lush and Eco Tools. These companies are against animal cruelty and by buying these brands of products you are not supporting testing on animals. These brands have very similar products so making the switch does not have to be hard. A blog from the Huffington Post tells how important it is to switch over to cruelty-free products, consumers we have purchasing power and we can make a difference in the lives of innocent animals if we purchase in an informed and ethical (Cole). As consumers, you have the power to change the way the companies test their products. If the company is making money off their products they may not care to change, but once they see that consumers are against animal cruelty, that is when they will want to make a difference to make their customers happy. When searching products that do not animal test, start with websites such as Bunny which is a site that is completely devoted to informing consumers on which beauty products are cruelty-free and how to switch over. You can ever search the brands that you use now and read about them and how they test. Not only does this website name beauty products, but they name any products that are cruelty free, such as jewelry and cleaning products, so even if you are not a make-up consumer, you can still find helpful information on this site. In conclusion, animal cruelty is unethical and it can be stopped. By using products that are cruelty-free, make up consumers can stop supporting brands that test on animals and start spending their money on brands that are cruelty free. It is not hard to make the switch to brands that are cruelty free because many brands have similar products at the same price. It is also easy to research the brands that are best to use because there are many resources out there to give consumers the knowledge they need. Make-up brands can easily stop testing on animals because of the technology that we have today. Stop buying products that test on animals so that we can safe their lives. Works Cited Cole, Natacha. Switching To Cruelty-Free Cosmetics Is Easier Than You  The Huffington Post. The Huffington Post, 01 Mar. 2017. Web. 16 Apr. 2017 Leapingbunny.org Neavs.org Peta.org