Loos 1 Megan Loos Noah Pearlstone ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Animal Rights During Animal Testing Whether or not animals should be allowed rights during animal testing is a topic that has been fought over for many decades. Animals are of suffering and have an interest in leading their own which is why many people see animal testing as wrong About Although animal testing is done to make sure products are safe for human use, other options like in vitro testing, computerized models and simulations, or microfluidic chip testing could be used to make products safe for human use and to keep animals unharmed. Taking a stand against companies who use animal testing, offering other ways of testing, and working towards animal testing being banned will help to keep harmless animals from suffering and still keep products safe for human use. There are still numerous amounts of popular companies that continue to test on animals and it is very easy to not even realize it. Beauty companies like Covergirl, M.A.C. Cosmetics, Maybelline and Pantene all do regardless of the fight against it. It is great to know that these companies want to make valuable products and keep them safe for consumer use, but those against the harm of animals want to show these companies that there can be other ways of testing their products. On the other side of the debate, organizations like PETA (People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals), ECEAE (European Coalition to End Animal Experiments), CCIC (Coalition for Consumer Information on Cosmetics, PCRM (Physicians Committee for Responsible Medicine), and CAAT (Center for Alternatives to Animal Testing) are all working Loos 2 to the issue of animal testing and its possible (Sindicich). There has been an act placed called the Animal Welfare Act which addresses standard of care animals receive at research but this act roughly 95% of the test upon (rates, mice, birds, fish and Testing and the Gratefully there are some changes being made but as consumers can see, it does not include all animals which is why consumers are still trying to end the act of animal testing. The harm on animals is not only causing the animals to suffer for the sake of our products but is also very inhumane. Most consumers might picture lipstick being tested on a lips or shampoo being used to wash a fur but that is not even close to how the testing is actually done. Legal tests in laboratories include starving, forced smoking, blinding, drowning, and dissecting without and many animals are also neglected, and harmed in ways that violate the Testing and the Animals obviously do not understand what is happening during the test and cannot speak for themselves when something is painful or uncomfortable and thousands of animals die each year from these tests Tests That Use Even after the pain and suffering of testing the products, most animals are rarely provided with pain relief and are killed at the end of each Tests That Use It is unfair to cause harm to an animal that is unable to speak up for itself and speak up when it is feeling sick or uncomfortable like a human would be able to if they were being tested upon. Many organizations are working towards the banning of animal testing rather than just limiting what you can do to animals. With there being some guidelines to animal testing, it is easy to have a grey area where some companies might cross the lines but it is just looked over. With animal testing being banned, it will be easier to enforce because no animals will be allowed in testing facilities whatsoever. Loos 3 On the positive side, there are alternatives that help to keep products safe and animals safe. One example would be in vitro testing which is where cell and tissue samples are taken from animals or humans and these samples are used for drug research, and testing toxicity of chemicals and products on the samples. This test is seen as a better option for animal testing because permits simplification of the system or disease under which helps the researcher to focus on a smaller number of components. Another option would be, microfluidic chip testing. This also deals with tissue samples from different parts of the human body and they are linked together by microchannels which mimics the pathways of your real body to This method is perceived as better than animal testing because it imitates the human environment better and can skip over the lengthy process of animal testing, which really give us information relevant to (Thomas). Another method using computers and simulations virtualizes the human body to study its structures, functions and reactions to products. Through a study using these computerized models, researchers found that was a better understanding of the mechanisms of action of the drugs, gained in a shorter (Badyal, Modgill, Kaur). Although all of these alternatives seem well thought out, there are companies that say these methods just cannot catch the whole biological perspective that animal testing can. Animal testing is able to test the drug or product on the body as a whole, not just pieces but researchers are still working towards more alternatives. So not only do these alternative methods keep animals safe from harm, but some of them can even work better than animal testing in different ways. On the other side of the argument, those who are for animal testing would state that animals are necessary for the safety of consumer products and that there are no alternative methods that will find out as much information as testing on animals does of the Loos 4 The main reason animals are used is because they are able to show researchers what might happen to the body as a whole not just what will happen to smaller parts of the body. This can be difficult to imitate in some other type of testing, and is scientifically more beneficial within an body especially because a lot of animals have similarities to the biology and anatomy of humans. Humans and animals also are able to contract some of the same illnesses and diseases so if certain medications can work on animals with those diseases and are safe, it is likely that those same medications will be okay for use on humans. For example, cats can suffer from similar visual impairments, dogs can suffer from cancer and diabetes, and rabbits can suffer from emphysema Models to Study Lastly, even though medications and products can be tested in vitro, which was the use of tissues, it legally and ethically be tested in a suitable animal model before clinical trials in humans can take Animals Are Although it seems like animals are needed for certain testing reasons, many new alternatives are developing and the suffering the animals are put through is still considered inhumane and the animals need to be put into safer testing environments. Consumers that see the issue with the harm of animals and want to make changes are able to by joining organizations that are against animal testing and by buying only from companies that do not test on animals. A lot of popular brands do test on animals but there are many other companies like Bath&Body Works, Wet n Wild, Urban Decay, and Lush who do not test on animals Companies Test on Consumers need to try and focus on buying only cruelty-free products and companies who use animal testing need to work on switching to other alternatives. If consumers and companies were able to accomplish these tasks, we would all be able to save thousands of animals and still use our favorite products and Loos 5 medications to help ourselves be happier and healthier people and keep our animals happier and healthier as well. Loos 6 Works Cited About Peta. Peta. 2017. Web. 30 Mar. 2017. to The Hastings Center. 42, no. 6. 2012. Web. 30 Mar. 2017. to Animals in Neavs. Neavs. 2017. Web. 30 Mar. 2017. Testing and the Animal Legal Defense Fund. ALDF. 2012. Web. 30 Mar. 2017. of the Procon.org. 24 May. 2016. Web. 30 Mar. 2017. Badyal, DK., Modgill V., Kaur., J. Simulation Models Are Implementable as Replacements for Animal PubMed.gov. Apr. 2009. Web. 30 Mar. 2017. Tests That Use The Humane Society of the United States. HSUS. 2017. Web. 30 Mar. 2017. Sindicich, Stephanie. Organizations Fighting to End Animal One Green Planet. 7 Apr. 2014. Web. 30 Mar. 2017. Companies Test on Peta. Peta. 2017. Web. 30 Mar. 2017. Thomas, Jeremy. Technology Could Replace Animal Energy.gov. 1 July 2016. Web. 30 Mar. 2017. Animals Are AnimalResearch.info. Animal Research Info. Web. 30 Mar. 2017 Loos 7 Loos 8