Negron 1 Isaiah Negron Pearlstone ENC 1102 04/01/2017 Project 3 Intermediate Draft Whether or not video games are a positive or negative thing is something up for debate based on the many arguments presented. However, it is apparent how the negatives of playing video games such as lack of sleep, higher levels of aggression, and decreased academic performance heavily outweighs the very few positives possibly presented. There is really nothing wrong with playing video games occasionally but becoming addicted to them, which is a real growing issue, needs to be something that parents and gamers themselves are aware of, especially if still in school. It is important for everyone to become educated about the detrimental effects that come with playing video games for an unnecessary portion of the day, multiple times a week. In order to reduce the influence of gaming on school work, judgement, and health, action must be taken on preventing video game addiction. Parents and gamers need to agree on certain guidelines that will not allow them to spend too much time in front of the TV with a controller in their hand. Essentially, the debate of people against video games and the people for video games are between parents and either their kids who do the gaming or the video game industries themselves. The Mothers Against Videogame Addiction and Violence (MAVAV) is an organization that has fought since 2002 to educate parents about what they believe is the fastest growing addiction. Based on an article, it is not yet recognized by the Negron 2 American Medical Association as a diagnosable disorder, video game addiction is a very real problem for many people. According to the University of New Mexico, recent studies suggest that 6 to 15 percent of all gamers exhibit sings that could be characterized as (psychguides.com). Since 1994, ESRB has been providing content ratings and does not legally allow retailers to sell video games to the inappropriate age groups (esrb.org). For example, if a game is rated M for Mature people under the age of 18 are not allowed to purchase and must provide their ID before they can buy it. If the gamer is under the age of 18 and their parents are buying it for them, the retailer must inform the parent that the game includes content that ESRB has rated inappropriate for their age and ask the parent for their consent before purchasing. Since there are legal precautions before allowing under-aged gamers to play inappropriate (for their age) video games, this makes it difficult for parents to fight against video gaming industries. Hence why the best action to prevent video game addiction and to raise awareness for the negative things that come with playing video games would be best if communicated between the parents and their kids. Since there is an abundance of risks that come with video game addiction and some of the excessive violent content included in many of them, it is especially important for parents to set restrictions on the amount of time that they allow their kids to play video games. Depending on the parent and how they feel their child may handle the content viewed, they can filter what they may find unsuitable for the youthful mind to process. There have been many cases where video games are linked to attention problems and generally led to a recession in academic performance. Researchers found that those who kids who had more than two hours of screen time per day were twice as likely to have trouble paying attention in Negron 3 school. (healthcentral.com). Video gaming should never come before school in the first place but based on this information, not only can it affect a gaming education, it also influences attitudes and judgement. Video gaming can be damaging to social life. There are many reasons for why this is, including the aggressive behavior from the violence in video games, influencing judgment by taking things less serious because of the freedom granted in the video game world, and kids simply choosing to stay home and waste countless hours in front of a TV instead of hanging out with or making new friends. According to an article on health central, studies indicate that young people who show more rapid desensitization to violent pictures are going to be more accepting of violence, which is dangerous to the community at (healthcentral.com). Being exposed to the content on some video games so frequently allow for younger people to get used to what they are seeing and not think anything of it. In games such as Grand Theft Auto, the gamer is able to control a character in a free world format that allows them to shoot innocent people, steal cars, rob stores, and many more explicit and inappropriate things. Other games such as even racing games promote the wrong idea when it comes to handling vehicles. In video games the user is able to simply restart anytime you mess up or crash without any consequence. If this is the case and kids are playing these car games frequently, imagine their mentality when getting behind the steering wheel of a real vehicle one day. In addition to the harm coming from video games, the violence included, and the possibility of it becoming an addiction, they can cause many health issues. Based on the article from psych guides, the short-term effects of this may include hunger and fatigue, it Negron 4 could eventually lead to a sleep (psycheguides.com). This is not good because the recommended maximum for the amount of time that one should be limited to playing video games is just one hour. Knowing that some people are willing to give up sleep and deprive themselves of rest is alarming and shows the severity of some addictions. Video games are directly linked to childhood obesity and inadequate activity (healthcentral.com). These are just a few of the many reasons why parents and gamers need to come to a solution immediately. Action must be taken on this global issue and can be done if parents become more educated on the risks and content of all video games before allowing their kids to play them and by setting stricter rules and guidelines for how often video games should be played and their limitations. Gamers can contribute to this issue by being obedient to their parents and by better understanding the risks of their education, their judgement, and their social life if gaming becomes too big of a part in their life. It is time for parents to realize what allowing their kids to view and all the potential negative effects that can come with simply being exposed and witnessing some of the things presented in the gaming universe. According to Understanding and Preventing Video Game Addiction, should provide ongoing supervision and limits on the time children spend playing video games to prevent compulsions from (newbeginningsdrugrehab.org) Parents need to put their foot down and remove unnecessary and excess amounts of time in front of the television and promote a healthier lifestyle for their kids that will better their support their education and overall future. By parents and gamers coming together to end video game addiction, future generations will have a better grip on Negron 5 reality and not get caught up on things that are a distraction from either their responsibilities or other more important matters than entertainment. Works Cited Surprising Benefits of Playing Video http://mentalfloss.com/article/65008/15- surprising-benefits-playing-video-games CRegal, Ways Video Games Are Bad For Your Web. 1 Apr. 2017 http://www.healthcentral.com/slideshow/8-ways-video-games-are-bad-for-your- health#slide=1 Erica Loop, Video Games Contribute to Childhood May 2015, Web. 1 Apr. 2017 ESRB.org, http://www.esrb.org/about/chronology.aspx Mothers Against Videogame Addiction and Violence, mavav.org and Preventing Video Game http://www.newbeginningsdrugrehab.org/video-game-addiction Game Addiction Symptoms, Causes, and http://www.psychguides.com/guides/video-game-addiction-symptoms-causes-and- effects/