Magliola 1 Fiorenza Magliola Noah Pearlstone ENC 1102 10 March 2017 Gender Equality While it is true that men and women often are expected to play different roles in society, their rights should be the same and not change. The term has been widely discussed throughout history and has been presented with many different definitions as to what this term is. For the purpose of this essay, the definition used is the state in which access to rights or opportunities is unaffected by gender Equality and Throughout the world, there are cases such as health, and education that are not equally available for both men and women. For society to prosper, both males and females need to have access, equally, to both education and health opportunities and have to be equally protected from violence. Advocating for and supporting gender equality is the only way to ensure that and rights are protected. An equal world starts with an equal chance at a healthy life. Issues with substandard maternal health care, HIV/AIDS, and the harmful effects of child marriage have a damaging effects on women and girls Both males and females should have the right to make their decisions about bodies, partners, and families. According to WHO, being a man or a woman has a significant impact on health opportunities, as a product of both biological and gender-related differences. The health of women is of particular concern because, in many societies, they are at a disadvantaged by discrimination stemming from social factors Magliola 2 The factors that cause this gap in maternal care are the unequal power between men and women, decrease in education, and violence. While poverty is a significant barrier to health outcomes for both males and females, poverty tends to produce a greater strain on women and girls health due to malnutrition and use of unsafe cooking fuels In comparison, men also suffer a different kind of issues related to this health gap. The Global Burden of Disease study showed that from 1970 to 2010 women have had a longer life expectancy than men (Wang, et. al.). This disparity has received little to no attention or acknowledgment from national or global policy makers or healthcare providers (The Health Gap). Even though women have their problems in the health department, men also face different issues and challenges. To achieve total equality, both sides of the spectrum must be addressed individually. Just as health, violence is also very common and is regarded as an inequality in certain societies. The United Nations describes the violence as any act of gender-based violence that results in, or is likely to result in, physical, sexual or mental harm or suffering to women or men, including threats of such acts, coercion or arbitrary deprivation of liberty, whether occurring in public or private life Against Global estimates published by WHO (World Health Organization) indicate that about 1 in 3 (35%) women worldwide have experienced either physical and sexual violence from non-partner or intimate partner in their lifetime. Besides the obvious aftermath of violence on mental health, violence can also disrupt economic systems Against The social and economic costs of violence are huge and have ripple effects throughout society. Women may suffer isolation, inability to work, loss of wages, lack of participation in regular activities and limited ability to care for themselves and their Magliola 3 children. Not only does this affect the social structure of the country, it also affects the future as well. It is important to note, that even though women are at higher risk of being victims of violence, men are also at risk. In the US as of 1998, 2.78 million men have been victims of rape (attempted or contemplated) and about 3% of American men, 1 in 33, have rape in their lifetime (National Institute of Justice). To combat this situation, there have been many programs that have been growing throughout the US and worldwide to spread awareness about this problem and to try to lower those numbers. Most of them have been involved in educating the masses about the repercussions of violence and the issues that precede it. It is essential that no matter what gender one is, each and every single person in society has to stand with and protect any such person that has been a victim of violence. If one were to take the problems above, health and violence, and carefully analyze them, one would find that both problems stem from the lack of education. Education is a human right and should never be taken away or suppressed by any group or government. Today, education continues to be an inaccessible for millions of children throughout the globe. More than 72 million children do not attend school, and 759 million adults are uneducated and do not have the necessary knowledge to enhance both their living circumstances and those of their children (Vassanelli, Eleonora). Some children do not have access to basic education because of inequalities that stem from being a certain sex or being part of a specific cultural identity (ethnic origin, language, religion). A very touching, but real example of this inequality is Malala, the Nobel Prize winner in 2014, was shot on a bus when travelling home from school. She and her friends were both injured in this attack made by the Taliban. Thankfully, she pushed through and was able to accept her Nobel Prize and $500,000 that went to opening a secondary school in Magliola 4 Pakistan (Fund, The Malala).The relationship between inequality and education is that the less education available, the more inequality there is. In some countries women are not to get an education, but in the countries where they are, gender inequality is less prevalent. Even though, education is not the only factor in gender inequality, if women in underdeveloped countries were able to get an education, gender inequality would decrease (Jayachandran, Seema.). Education is a gift that every child deserves and the most effective way to improve society, create healthy communities, and eliminate inequality The main argument against gender equality is that and men are already Women and men do not have equal protections under the law. Transgender individuals even use the bathroom for their gender in most US states and women are not defended against sex discrimination at work (National Center for Transgender Equality). Equal Rights Amendment (ERA) amendment would make it unconstitutional to discriminate due to gender at work, and it has not been passed yet Rights Men have this right; women do not. Both men and women are suppressed in certain aspects of life, and it would not be true, or fair, to claim that they are equal. There are certain things that one can do to support or provide relief to those who have suffered because of gender inequality. The biggest thing that can be done is to re-educate. As previously stated, most issues (even ones that have nothing to do with gender), stem from lack of education. If we increased education in countries, through the use of media, schools, and new laws, we will see a decrease in gender inequality. Also, supporting or voting for any bill that supports equality, for women or men, will create a change in the social structure. Finally, Magliola 5 supporting any peaceful protest that is intended to protect equality. There have been many, especially this year, and it does not take much to go out and support them. important to understand that women and men are not the same, we were made differently from each other, but we should all be treated equally; it is a human right. It is our job, as part of society, to stand and support each other no matter what sex, color or religion we identify with. Only then, will we have gender equality. Magliola 6 Works Cited Equal Rights Amendment  N.p., n.d. Web. 31 Mar. 2017. Fund, The Malala. Malala N.p., n.d. Web. 31 Mar. 2017. Gender Equality and  United Nations, n.d. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. National Center for Transgender  Center for Transgender N.p., n.d. Web. 31 Mar. 2017. National Institute of Justice & Centers for Disease Control & Prevention, Prevalence, Incidence and Consequences of Violence Against Women Survey (1998).* Jayachandran, Seema. The Roots of Gender Inequality in Developing  (2014): n. pag. Web. The Health  World Health Organization, n.d. Web. 31 Mar. 2017. Vassanelli, Eleonora. UN General Assembly - Third Committee - Social, Humanitarian &  United Nations, n.d. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Violence Against  Health World Health Organization, n.d. Web. 31 Mar. 2017. Wang H, Dwyer-Lindgren L, Lofgren KT, Rajaratnam JK, Marcus JR, Levin-Rector A, et al. Age-specific and sex-specific mortality in 187 countries, a systematic analysis for the Global Burden of Disease Study 2010.  Health World Health Organization, n.d. Web. 31 Mar. 2017.