1 Richard Professor Noah Pearlstone ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Animal Rights Throughout the history of humans, animals have often been used for entertainment purposes. However, over the last decade several foundations such as Bornfree and PAWS have exposed the ethical issues that often come with using animals as performers for the sake of making a profit. According to PETA, an animal that is treated as a performer is often forced to perform silly tricks that, if not correctly executed, will often result in forms of punishment such as being fed less food than usual. Furthermore, once the animal has fulfilled its duties as a performer, they are forced to remain in boring, and filthy without any sort of stimulation until it is time to perform once again (PETA). Currently, it is considered to be ethical and legal to use animals as performers in amusement parks such as Seaworld when such ownership should be made illegal. Although animal performers hold entertainment value for theme parks, animal lives are not ours to dictate as we please and therefore the boycott of those theme parks should be considered. More often than not, the argument of how animals have their rights taken by being performers is often shut down by popular theme parks such as Seaworld. An example of this can be observed from the direct comments of Seaworld in terms of how Blackfish should not be considered a documentary but instead a form of propaganda. Additionally, Seaworld attempts to strengthen their argument by stating that the animals under their ownership receive the utmost care to ensure health throughout their lives as performers (SeaWorld Cares). The reason why 2 Seaworld was so quick to make a statement against the contents of Blackfish was due to how the theme park was being subject to the loss of their audience which in turn led the theme park to lose money (SeaWorld Cares). However, the argument provided by Seaworld essentially becomes null and void after considering how the park is no longer allowed to breed whales once the ORCA act was passed by Congressman Adam Schiff in November 2015. With the implementation of the new bill, the treatment of the animals was put into question given how there would implementation of the ORCA act would not have been necessary if the whales at Seaworld were treated as well as the theme park would claim. While there is no denying that performing animals are capable of capturing the attention of their audience and subsequently make their respective theme park financially successful, the ethicality behind owning animals as actors has been the recent subject of debate. The primary concern that comes into mind in terms of animal rights is whether their respective theme parks truly uphold them in terms of treatment and provided care. Examples of companies that have spoken up in favor of animal rights can be observed through CNN as they released the documentary of created by director Gabriela Cowperthwaite (Outside). Other examples of animal rights advocators may be observed through foundations that include PETA, Bornfree and PAWS. The main focus behind these foundations is to essentially expose the way animals are stripped away from their freedom by being forced to perform in theme parks until they are deemed to continue as performers (PETA). An example of how terrible the results can be from mistreating an animal can be observed through the story of killer whale Tilikum in the documentary of Blackfish. The killer whale was first introduced into the world of performance shortly after it was captured and separated from its family during its youth. The first captive site in which Tilikum was placed was under the name of Sealand of the Pacific. While Tilikum was 3 kept in Sealand, the whale was subject to living conditions that were nothing like its natural home in the ocean in the form of a small cramped pool with other whales that were acquired from different areas of the world. As Blackfish begins to look into the life of Tilikum, it becomes evident that living in such an unstimulating and cramped pool also resulted in being attacked by the other whales that were kept in Sealand. While it is true that the captive whales were all of the same species, the different parts of the world from which the whales were captured meant that the each individual whale communicate through specific sounds that could be considered as their respective language (Russian Orcas). Given how Tilikum was being exposed to such unnatural conditions in Sealand, it is of no surprise how such conditions resulted in the development of abnormal behaviors that could potentially lead to unexpected aggressive behavior from the whale. (Bornfree). Evidently, in the short amount of Tilikum was being held captive in Sealand, a trainer was killed by the whale and in turned raised some major concerns over the conditions of the establishment and the treatment that the whales would receive from the trainers (Blackfish). However, the issue of using animals as performers only gathered considerable attention from the world once a trainer from Seaworld was also killed by Tilikum in the middle of its performance. If theme parks such as Seaworld continue to hold animals captive for the sake of entertainment and making money, more tragedies such as that of both trainers are bound to occur once again. This especially holds true when considering how much bigger the orcas are in comparison to humans, who may be more mentally advanced than any other animal species but certainly not the most physically adept. By taking into consideration how ignorant theme parks can be regarding the care that their animals truly require, the boycott of these establishment is one that should be considered as a way to promote equal rights for animals. It is evident that ensuring every animals is given the 4 most natural treatment comes with immense difficulty so long as captivity advocators such as Seaworld remain in existence. Through the misinformation that Seaworld provides to its public as observed in the documentary of Blackfish, the only way the animals could be liberated from their demeaning status of performers was through the exposure of their unethical treatment. Despite the attempts that Seaworld made at claiming how the information that Blackfish provided were false, the documentary was able to gain enough traction within the pro-animal rights community after the ORCA act was passed to ban whale breeding programs shortly after the death of the Seaworld trainer. While the restrictions placed on Seaworld are certainly a step forward in terms of animal rights, the treatment of the animals that remain captive continues to remain in question when considering how the bill only applies to the whales. The issue of animal rights needs to be a concern for everyone around the globe in order to ensure the safety of the animals and humans, and to further the understanding of how animals naturally behave. As seen in Blackfish, the tour guides on Seaworld were providing misinformation regarding the typical lifespan of whales claiming that the average of lifespan of killer whales was often that of 30 years when the reality is that able to live up to 100 years in the wild (NOAA). This suggests that establishments such as Seaworld provide false information in order to be seen in a positive light. The world should take action against these establishments that have animal performers that are not properly cared for and are placed in unnatural environments. A way to take direct action against establishments that support the use of animal performers is through the boycott of those theme parks by not attending any of their shows or by not going to the park at all. Additionally, acquiring the attention of foundations that mean to protect performing animals such as Performing Animal Welfare Society or PAWS can lead to the exposure of theme parks 5 that have abusive tendencies towards their animals such as Sealand or Seaworld. With foundations such as PAWS coming into action, the public can be properly informed about the issues that come with keeping wildlife captive and subsequently forcing them to perform unnatural tricks that often do not meet the amount of stimulation they would typically receive in the wild (PAWS). 6 Works Cited Blackfish. Dir. Gabriela Cowperthwaite. CNN, 2013. Film Bornfree. and Performing Bornfree. n.d. Web. 30 March 2017 NOAA. whale (Orcinus NOAA Fisheries. January 2017 Web. 1 April 2017 Outside. Killer in the Outside. 30 July 2010. Web. 1 April 2017 PAWS. A Quick Performing Animal Welfare Society. n.d. Web. 1 April 2017 PETA. Animals Used for  PETA. n.d. Web. 30 March 2017 Russian Orcas. Whale Ecology and Russian Orcas. n.d. Web. 1 April 2017 Seaworld Cares. Blackfish is Propaganda, not a Seaworld. n.d. Web. 1 April 2017