Susan Adepoju ENC 1102 Angelica Aranda 4/11/17 Protect our animals and the environment Most people are unaware of how many animals are killed or captured in a day! Usually when they are killed they use their fur to make our clothes and other household items. This is causing certain species to be wiped from existence. The fresh water so fresh anymore! It is being polluted on daily basis and its killing the animals that live there. What is sad is that most do not know what is going with the environment. By creating more of an awareness, it educates more people about the ongoing issue. It is important to reach out to the young people of today because they will be able to have bigger impact in creating a change. Those who want to make a change should sign up a to be a WWF ambassador at their high school or university. Being an ambassador will allow them to hold meetings to inform those who want to be informed and it will also allow them to do community service to make a difference in this growing problem. For the past 50 years WWF has been working relentlessly to protect the future of nature. They work to make sure that they can meet the needs for people and nature, unique way of working combines global ensures the delivery of innovative solutions that meet the needs of both people and (worldwildlife.org) Even though humans are some of the main reasons as to why our wildlife is slowly deteriorating we still have needs that need to be met. WWF works in a way where the needs of people can be met in a more safer way that does not involve hurting any animals, polluting the water, and destroying our forests. By doing this it creates an equal balance between both groups. It allows all of nature to have a voice since they cannot speak for themselves. Darryl Fears states in his article Just about everything you buy came at the expense of an endangered animal, elements, which animals in shrinking habitats need to survive, are used in products made by 15,000 industries worldwide and consumed in 187 countries, disproportionately in the United States and Europe. More than 6,500 species of wildlife suffer because of Everything that is used on a daily basis by humans are taken from the habitats of animals or even from the actual animal. This is causing their habitat to slowly shrink in size which is driving many species of wildlife out because there is not enough space for all of them to live. Many of them are end up on the endangered species list because they are being killed for the personal use of humans. Over 5,000 species are suffering for no reason! The industries that take part in these acts are the one to blame because they are not letting the buyers know what is in their products out of probable fear that they will lose buyers which will cause them to lose money. It is also sad that most are not aware of this or the fact that they do not care enough to research this stuff on their own to make sure that what they are using is not harming their environment. They can also try to replace what is in the product with something that is more eco- friendly so that it is not harming the environment or any of the wildlife species. If every company was to do this it would save thousands of animals and also their habitants. When it comes to conserving the animals most people only want to help those that look more appealing. Sometimes physical characteristics played a role in whether the government wants to spend money on a certain animal. prompts the hypothesis that the chances of survival for many species depend as much on human preferences as on more biological Clayton 2) Humans play a huge role in saving many species so when it comes to accepting donations there will be some animals that receive more donations than other animals. This can seem a little absurd because the endangered species chance of survival is solely based on whether or not they look cute or have a lot charisma. This is sad because those species who are in more need of survival will not receive any help because they do not appeal to a lot of people. A study was done and it shown that people did not make their donations based on the ecological considerations such as how high they are on the endangered species list. These are things that need to be taken into consideration and a majority of people do not research this stuff before they go ahead and donate. It is important that donations are done for the right reason. The study concluded by stating that raise awareness about conservation issues and because of the urgent need to conserve more threatened but less charismatic species, more recommendations are needed on displaying species according to their charisma and conservation status Clayton 2) We need draw attention to those that are in desperate and on top of that we educate people more so that they do not make their choices blindly. Even though WWF is here to help all species there are some that are more targeted than others because of this it is causing there to be a decrease in their population size. One type of animal that is prone to this risk are the African rhinos. They are constantly being targeted by poachers mainly for their tusks. that the number of rhinoceros killed annually by poachers in South Africa to acquire their horns has more than tripled between 2010 (333 poaching incidents) and 2014 (1,215 poaching incidents), there is an increasingly urgent policy imperative to help save them from (Collins, Fraser 1) In order to stop the rhinos from going extinct is to first stop the poachers from hunting them. Main reason for poachers wanting the rhinos is because they can earn a lot of just by selling the tusks of the rhinos. These are the kinds of stories we need to be telling people so they are aware of the danger that the animals are in. Like stated before animals are being killed for personal use and it is not ok. Saving our environment and the endangered species should be something that everybody is aware of. That is why I want to bring all of this to high school and college students. They have a chance of being the voice for those that do not have a voice of their own. By signing up to be a WWF ambassador at their school will allow them to bring people together who are concerned about the growing issues and want to make a change. Doing this will bring more help to not only WWF but also to our environment and the species that are in need of help. Works Cited Agathe, et al. Human Preferences for Species Conservation: Animal Charisma Trumps Endangered  Biological Conservation, vol. 206, Feb. 2017, pp. 263-269. Collins, Alan, et al. Issues and Concerns in Developing Regulated Markets for Endangered Species Products: The Case of Rhinoceros  Cambridge Journal of Economics, vol. 40, no. 6, Nov. 2016, pp. 1669-1686. Darryl Fears about everything you buy came at the expense of an endangered Washingtonpost.com N.d. Web 5, February 2017 WWF - Endangered Species  WWF. World Wildlife Fund, n.d. Web. 05 Feb. 2017