Austin Stooks Dr Sabah Faraz Uddin English Composition 1 April 14, 2017 Browsing the Internet is as easy as a click and a type of a word. But what if your browsing history was being monitored and you were charged extra for movies and TV shoes? This is where net neutrality (the concept of all data being treated the same and privacy policies) comes into play to protect consumers. Net neutrality gives consumers the right to a stable, equal and non-discriminatory connection, protects the consumer from ISP throttling (internet service providers purposely slowing internet connections) and allows a competitive market for ISPs so there is no one big monopoly on internet services. Which is essential for the protection of consumers. A core principal of net neutrality that is so important to consumers is it protects their right to a stable and equal connection proportional to what they pay for. If a consumer pays $40 for a 10Mbps connection they are, under law supposed to have that rate no matter the situation or l ocation. However, there is a devious way providers can get around this. Under rates the lowest rate a month is $40 a month for 10Mbps but their highest is $70 a month for 150Mbps. For an extra $30 dollars more the rate of download speed and connection speed is increased by 1400%. This is a bit outrageous in the sense of speed. The can run all consumers that fast if they wanted, they just choose to put it behind a slightly higher pay wall to attract consumers to spend more for a significantly faster connection. But before net neutrality and major regulations providers could pretty much ignore the law up until that point. An instance of this was in 2007 Comcast a major ISP was blocking major downloads coming from BitTorrent (a file sharing service) and were later confirmed by the EFF(Electronic Frontier Foundation) and was a major scandal in the tech world. This was what caused the outcry for more regulation of and the push for Net Neutrality. This is only one of many instances of past abuse from before Net Neutrality was made official. However, a reasonable purpose for being against net neutrality would be data prioritization. The need for certain files and data types to, in essence, take the fast lane to the consumer. An example of these data types would be Skype calls, Facetime, and any services that provide voice calls or transfer of immediate data. This allows to better understand and identify the data in which they are sending to the consumers for effectively and in theory clear up internet traffic. In fact, the FCC does allow some traffic management, in their official statement to network management practice is reasonable if it is appropriate and tailored to achieving a legitimate network management purpose, taking into account the particular network architecture and technology of the broadband Internet access (FCC) Which should help the consumer in the long run if practiced correctly. But this is not always the case and in many instances the exact opposite of what should be done. The major push for Net Neutrality however came from Comcast in 2007. Comcast was the majority holder of most internet service therefore they could practically do what they want without any reprimands. So, they throttled the bandwidth of their customers. What that means is they purposely slowed down the download rate of their customers who were downloading files from peer-to-peer services. Which, at the time in 2007, was completely legal. After this incident however the FCC filed a formal complaint against Comcast and took them to court over this incident and many others like it in the past. Comcast had to give a description of a new data management system they had to work on and were ordered to enact it. They also had to abide by new FCC guidelines in the future. However Comcast petitioned this and had objections to some of the new policies that they had to comply by. This was the spark of change that lit the fires of net neutrality. But it until 2015 that the official bill of Net Neutrality was enacted to stop the shifty practices of major Officially known as the Bright Line Rules, the new regulations made it illegal for blocking, throttling and paid prioritization of data (FCC). This was a major win for net neutrality and all proponents of it. From these new regulations and guidelines had to abide by the law and could no longer go behind the consumers backs and block or slow down their internet on purpose. Ever since these new regulations there has been no recorded instance of throttling since 2015. Without these new regulations, Comcast and many others would just be doing what they had in the past and continue throttling internet. Most importantly however Net Neutrality promotes competition between and prevents monopolies from forming among If there was no Net Neutrality a majority ISP could own all the territory in Wyoming and charge ridiculous prices for sub-par internet and the consumer would not be able to do anything about it except move to a different state. With Net Neutrality, the consumer is protected by the Bright Line Rules and the consumer also has an option of just going to a locally owned provider instead of a company like Comcast. Another scenario is website owners would have to pay more money for a faster connection to their website. This inhibits and cripples new companies and ideas of the internet and rewards huge companies with plenty of money to make sure the connection to their website is fastest. However, with Net Neutrality there is no unreasonable data prioritization to the point of paying extra for a faster connection for a website. All data would be treated the same as if it were on a highway and the data all had to pay the same toll and there was no fast lane. However, to this day four major ISPs (AT&T, Verizon, CenturyLink, and Sprint) still own the majority of customers in the United States. It is just a fact of life that the internet has become an inelastic good that everyone needs and is willing to pay for no matter what. With Net Neutrality consumers are protected from data discrimination, throttling, and are given the right to a stable and equal connection to what they pay for. Without this law and many regulations companies like Comcast are prone to throttle and discriminate data over the smallest thing and make consumers pay exorbitant prices for slow internet. The counter of this is that without it companies can better prioritize data and clear up traffic faster. But that defies the whole point of Net Neutrality. The idea that all data no matter what it is or how small or big it is should be treated exactly the same under Net Neutrality. Bibliography Comcast Blocks Some Internet  The Washington Post. WP Company, 19 Oct. 2007. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. <http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp- dyn/content/article/2007/10/19/AR2007101900842.html>. Net Neutrality, Monopoly, and the Death of the Democratic  Motherboard. N.p., n.d. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. the-democratic-internet>. FCC, Federal Communications Commission -. Electronic Document Management System  EDOCS Search EDOCS FCC. FCC, 23 Dec. 2010. Web. 23 Apr. 2017. FCC. Open  Federal Communications Commission. N.p., 25 Aug. 2016. Web. 23 Apr. 2017. Svensson, Peter. Comcast Blocks Some Internet  NBCNews.com. NBCUniversal News Group, 19 Oct. 2007. Web. 23 Apr. 2017. Teran, Scott. Comcast XFINITY Internet  Reviews.org. N.p., 31 Jan. 2017. Web. 23 Apr. 2017.