Carandang 1 Elyssa Carandang Professor DeCarion ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Drunk Driving Drunk driving is known for being an illegal and careless crime. Back in the late awareness for driving under the influence was not as consistent as it has been nowadays. Through time, different laws have been passed in an attempt to decrease drunk driving across the nation. Even though statistics show that the amount of accidents have decreased, these intoxicated incidents keep on occurring. Ever since social media has become a popular communication platform, spreading awareness about drunk driving has become a popular genre towards all different varieties of audiences. Nowadays, drunk driving awareness has become a mandatory lesson throughout primary education in the form of informational presentations. School board administrators believe that young children and adolescents should be educated on a serious act of irresponsibility. In the year of 2017, generations Y and Z are the youngest of generations to be educated on drinking and driving. Most people know that operating a vehicle while intoxicated is a serious misdemeanor and will not disagree otherwise. However, people do not realize how serious the aftermath drunk driving has. Whenever a car accident due to driving under the influence occurs, society acknowledges the incident for a minute or two and go on about their day afterwards. Imagine knowing the person or people involved in that particular car accident. The person involved in this incident could be critically injured all because of an irresponsible choice. Through educating society about the severe consequences of drunk driving, Carandang 2 there could be a possibility to putting drunk driving to an end and ensuring the safety of the lives of innocent bystanders. As a whole, society has good knowledge when it comes to drunk driving. Due to the advancements of technology and other forms of communication, a majority of the population has insight on the effects alcohol has on an individual when they attempt to perform everyday tasks. As mentioned in the previous paragraph, schools all across the nation have brought in guest speakers to talk about the younger generation about how dangerous drunk driving is. In 2005, a systematic review was conducted by Randy W. Elder, James L. Nichols, Ruth A. Shults, David A. Sleet, Lisa C. Barrios, Richard Compton, and the Task Force on Community Preventive Services on the effectiveness of school-based programs for reducing drinking and driving and riding with drinking drivers. Elder et al. administered research on content and delivery of school-based instructional programs by discovering that and Stratton that programs based on in combination with refusal and/or general competency are more effective than programs focused on knowledge, alone or in combination with efforts focused on (Elder 291). Because of this research, it has been concluded that these instructional programs are beneficial for students in the long run. Even though administrators and other organizations go through different lengths in informing people on the dangers of drunk driving, people do not care about this issue as much as they should have. People are aware of drunk driving accidents occurring late at night due to a fun night of partying. However, people are not fully aware that they could be the ones involved in that dangerous situation. Drunk driving can happen at any given time of the day, on any street or highway, to any pedestrian, carpooler, or driver. College students are more likely to get involved Carandang 3 in these predicaments that include operating a vehicle while intoxicated. For example, a group of friends might go out to a couple of parties to celebrate the weekend. These college kids choose a designated driver During the party, the person who was appointed as the designated driver has two drinks. As the night comes to an end, the group heads back to the car to go home. The designated driver might appear to look normal while driving with a little alcohol in their system (compared to the other people in the group). However, they end up getting in a car accident with another group of people. Now imagine being the one who was appointed as designated driver. Not only are DUIs expensive and are on an permanent record, but if the people in the car are critically injured, then that individual would have to serve a lengthy sentence in jail. Educating people more on the dangers of drunk driving can prevent innocent families from going through heartbreak. If drunk driving ceases to a permanent end, innocent bystanders would not have their life in critical danger. Carandang 4 Works Cited Elder, Randy W., et al. Article: Effectiveness of School-Based Programs for Reducing Drinking and Driving and Riding with Drinking Drivers. A Systematic  American Journal of Preventive Medicine, vol. 28, no. Supplement, 01 Jan. 2005, pp. 288-304. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.amepre.2005.02.015.