1 P e e d Shawn Peed Sabah Firoz Uddin First Year Composition 4/20/17 Marijuana has been considered a federal offense in America since the and although there is an increasing relaxation on the drug in a legal standpoint, there is still certain states that consider even the medical use of marijuana illegal. Another issue America faces today is the fact that the economy is struggling with no hope in sight. The one way to help increase the income and to inflate the economy is to create a tax and a material that has the availability to be taxed is marijuana. Recreational marijuana should be legalized for positive economic purposes. If recreational marijuana were to be legalized, it could be taxed when sold creating a new source of revenue for the United States government and it would also cut back the amount of federal spending we use on prisons so that we can put that money elsewhere. Marijuana is a drug in the cannabinoid family of substances that is usually smoked or eaten. It is a plant based drug and is most times completely natural. According to Jon Gettman and his study Lost Taxes and Other Costs of Marijuana Laws, the average cost of marijuana in 2005 was$6.14/gr. Marijuana is known to have similar effects as alcohol like cognitive 2 P e e d impairment, numbing of the senses and memory loss. Many people use marijuana to help with mental illnesses like PTSD and depression. Kevin Hill states in his book Marijuana: The Unbiased Truth about the Most Popular Weed and marijuana-like drugs in the cannabinoid family have tremendous medical pg.99). It is mostly used for medical purposes whether or not someone has a medical prescription. The legality of marijuana is starting to change in a positive way. From a legal stand point, recreational marijuana is only legal in 9 states and medical marijuana usage is only legal in a 23 states. Medical marijuana has been considered for most states to be legal however some states still veto it from becoming legal. Most states still have some sort of law against recreational marijuana usage and some even acknowledge it as a federal crime and enforce it such as states like Texas, North Caroline, or even South Carolina. The United States still consider marijuana a class 1 drug which makes it a summary offense. The drug has been gaining support since the legalization of recreational marijuana use in Colorado around 2012. Ever since than states like California and Nevada have followed in foots steps. Recreational marijuana has gained a lot of ground since the early where it even legal for its medical usage and had just started to become decriminalized. With alcohol and tobacco having the same, if not worse, effects as marijuana, we should legalize it then use alcohol and tobacco as a model on how to tax it. Medically, this would be a safer alternative than either alcohol or tobacco. Kevin Hill States how damaging alcohol and 3 P e e d tobacco is by saying experience as an MD that has helped me understand just how damaging (Hill, pg.XII) and use is the number one preventable cause of death in the United States, contributing to more than 480,000 deaths annually The numbers for alcohol are considerable as well, with alcohol thought to contribute to at least 100,000 deaths each (Hill, pg.85). No were in Kevin Hills book about marijuana, did he mention alcohol or tobacco having similar or comparable medical benefits, however he states strongest evidence supporting the use of cannabinoids as a medication is for treating two other types of medical conditions. First is for use in treating pain: chronic pain, long-lasting pain that does not respond well to treatment, and neuropathic pain, pain from specific nerves that often leads to coldness or burning. Second, cannabinoids may be useful in treating the muscle spasticity, or tightness, associated with multiple (Hill, pg.105). So seeing as marijuana has a greater purpose with the same if not less risk than alcohol or tobacco, marijuana has merit of becoming legal. When legalized, marijuana would be taxed just like alcohol or tobacco and generate a tremendous amount of profit for the United States. The United States economy, as put by William McDonald in his book The Decline and Fall of the U.S. Economy, is failing. Mr. McDonald talks all throughout his book about the horrid state of the United States economy. He even talks about the need for change in the economic system, saying bottom line, however, is that unless we make the reforms outlined in Chapter 11, we will not likely cope effectively with health care, globalization, immigration, energy, or the environment. And failing to solve those problems, we will likely become a nation in steep decline, beset with internal political grid-lock, an inability to compete with China and 4 P e e d other countries, and growing international corruption and (McDonald, pg.XXI). The way the United States could implement an economic change would be with legalizing and taxing recreational marijuana. If the United States used the tax for tobacco and alcohol as a model for recreational marijuana then billions could potentially be made in revenue. To calculate the potential revenue, the average tax on cigarettes is $1.00 and you use that tax per gram of marijuana. Than according to Zachary Crockett, 13.7% of adults in America smoke marijuana which is about 28,650,549 people. If the average amount of marijuana is about a gram a day than the amount of money the United States would be getting threw taxes would be around $14,325,274.44 a day. Of course these are just hypothetical figures, however Colorado has real numbers on what there usual income is when it comes to the tax on recreational marijuana. According to department of revenue, the taxes they use is marijuana tax revenue includes the 2.9% retail and medical marijuana sales tax, 10% retail marijuana special sales tax, 15% marijuana excise tax, and retail/medical marijuana application and license With all of fees and taxes for marijuana, they have made $17,550,692 from sales made in February. According to entrepreneur magazine, in the fiscal year of 2016- 2017, Colorado made a total of $198.5 million in tax revenue and spent it in the following way first $40 million collected each year from the excise tax goes into BEST the Building Excellent Schools Today fund More than $18 million went to the Department of Public Health and Environment they include the Marijuana Education Campaign ($7 million) Another $6.7 million went to substance abuse prevention grants the Department of Agriculture received 5 P e e d $3 million The Attorney office received more than $1 million, including $286,766 for a special prosecutions unit the Department of Education received $8.4 million ... About half of the money went to the Early Literacy Competitive Grant Program the Office received magazine). With all these figures, hypothetical and authentic, it is irrefutable that taxing recreational marijuana would make a great and positive impact on the United States economy. With such a large amount of money coming out of one state, with the tax of marijuana, and being able to do so much good with it. The amount marijuana could bring in threw legalizing it nationwide could be immense. The amount alcohol and tobacco bring in from taxes according to Joseph Rosenberg, the amount of money alcohol made from taxes in 2015 was $9.6 billion, and the amount of money made from tobacco tax in 2015 was $14.5 billion. So if America were to implement the same kind of tax that we put on tobacco or alcohol, or even use the same tax as Colorado when it comes to recreational marijuana, imagine how much revenue would be made and how we could use that money. America could use that money from the new tax towards underfunded public services like schools and health care. The evidence is irrefutable when it comes to taxing marijuana and being able to make a substantial income off of it. Some might argue that marijuana is an addictive substance with health risks. One of these people who disapprove of recreational marijuana is Ashly Estoup and her book The Impact of Marijuana Legalization on Adolescent Use, Consequences, and Perceived Risk: Substance Use & 6 P e e d Misuse who states legalization resulted in significantly higher rates of marijuana use, abuse, and pg.3). She also states its dangers by saying marijuana use can result in impaired cognition, damage to developing areas of the brain, depression, and suicidal ideation in (Estoup, pg.1). However marijuana is by no means the most addictive drug and nowhere near as addictive as legal alternatives. According to Kevin Hill research has shown that the percentage of users becoming addicted to nicotine, heroin, cocaine, and alcohol was 32 percent, 23 percent, 17 percent, and 15 percent, respectively. 14 At a rate of 9 percent (for adults), marijuana is less addictive than these (Hill, Pg.37). Hill also points out the fact that it is healthier than other legal options by stating use is the number one preventable cause of death in the United States, contributing to more than 480,000 deaths annually . . . The numbers for alcohol are considerable as well, with alcohol thought to contribute to at least 100,000 deaths each (Hill, Pg.85). Obviously any drug someone uses is going to have some sort of health ris k yet marijuana is obviously much less lethal or addictive than alcohol or tobacco which are legal substances, they also serve a medical purpose rather than alcohol or tobacco. A lot of our government funding is going towards prisons and it help that they are overcrowded. According to Christian Henrichson, prisons and prisoners cost the United States tax payers a lot of money, saying more than 1.2 million inmates (of 1.4 million total people incarcerated in all 50 state prison systems), the total per-inmate cost averaged pg.11). So if according to McVay in his book Drug War Facts the amount of people incarcerated for marijuana related charges in 2015 was 643,121 people. If 7 P e e d recreational marijuana were to be legalized in 2015 and the figures are correct by both Mr.Henrichson and Mr. McVay than the amount of money America could have saved from prison cost is somewhere around $20 billion dollars. That amount of money, just like the taxes, could be focused elsewhere like healthcare or schools. Instead of wardens we could be funding teachers. With Recreational marijuana being illegal, it puts a burden on taxpayers due to the fact a lot of their money is going towards locking up people for using a mild drug. The legalization of recreational marijuana with taxation has been shown to have a potentially beneficial outcome for the United States. It would create a tremendous income from the tax for the United States like tax has been beneficial for its state. It would also lessen the amount America spends and the amount the tax payer spends on prisons due to the fact the United States has so many people imprisoned for marijuana related charges. All of this money that the United States is either saving or gaining, could go into underfunded government programs like schools or health care. The law on marijuana however can only be changed by lawmakers, not by the people. The best way you the best way you the reader could make this change is by talking to your local lawmakers and voting towards the legalization of recreational marijuana with taxation whenever you get the chance. 8 P e e d Bibliography 1. Bedesky, Baron. What Are Taxes? St. Catharines, ON: Crabtree Pub., 2009. Print. 2. Caulkins, Jonathan P., Angela Hawkin, Beau Kilmer, and Mark A.R. Kleiman. Marijuana  Google Books. Oxford University Press, 2012. Print. 3. Marijuana Tax  Department of Revenue. Colorado, Apr. 2017. Web. 21 Apr. 2017. 4. Crokett, Zachary. What Percentage of Your Country Smokes  Priceonomics. N.p., n.d. Web. 21 Apr. 2017. 5. Dispensaries.com. Where Colorado Spends Its Skyrocketing Pot Tax  Entrepreneur. N.p., 23 Feb. 2017. Web. 21 Apr. 2017. 6. Estoup, Ashley C. Substance Use &  The Impact of Marijuana Legalization on Adolescent Use, Consequences, and Perceived Risk: Substance Use & Misuse: Vol 51, No 14. N.p., 9 Sept. 2006. Web. 7. Gettman, Jon. Lost Taxes and Other Costs of Marijuana  The Price of Marijuana. Drug Science, 2007. Web. 21 Apr. 2017. 8. Christian Henrichson, Ruth Delaney, The Price of Prisons: What Incarceration Costs Taxpayers. New York: Vera Institute of Justice, 2012. 9. Hill, Kevin P. Marijuana: The Unbiased Truth about the Most Popular Weed. Center City, MN: Hazelden, 2015. Print. 10. McVay, Douglas A. Welcome to Drug War  Drug War Facts. ISBN, 2007. Web. 25 Apr. 2017. 11. Rosenberg, Joseph. What Are the Major Federal Excise Taxes, and How Much Money Do They  Tax Policy Center. N.p., n.d. Web. 24 Apr. 2017. 9 P e e d 12. Wallace, William McDonald. The Decline and Fall of the U.S. Economy: How Liberals and Conservatives Both Got It Wrong. Santa Barbara, CA: Praeger, 2010. Print.