Rebecca Lee Professor Uddin ENC 1101 26 March 2017 Project 3 Single Sex Education Even before the increased interest in single-sex education been debate on whether or not single-sex education is more beneficial for young ladies in contrast to co- education. A study based off a survey of 548 U.S. boys and girls from both single-sex and co- education high schools concluded that girls in single-sex schools had higher achievement motive and self-esteem than girls from co-educational schools. That same study found that women who primed with a reminder of their gender before taking a test, perform poorer on the test than women who which is known at the (ST). An experiment including both single-sex classes and co-educational classes, after a year, concluded that both sexes are more well-tended to in single-sex environments. Considering supporting studies, the intersexual benefits, the stereotype threat, the fact that parents are straying away from co-education, and the recent increase of single-sex public schools in the U.S., single-sex education is surely more beneficial to young ladies in contrast to co-education. Single-sex education is also known by names such as or even more commonly known as or Before the sudden interest in single-sex education, co-education was and would still be considered the U.S. norm. Backing up how certain countries, including the U.S. is starting to take interest in single-sex education in Janna article how single-sex schooling reifies false notions of sex, gender, and she mentions that world-wide representation at the European Association of Single-Sex recent conference, which Rebecca Lee Professor Uddin ENC 1101 26 March 2017 included Africa, Asia, and Australia, indicates an increasing global interest in single-sex schooling. On the other hand, in some parts of the world that have had strong traditions of state- sponsored single-sex education, the number of single-sex schools has decreased over time. For example, in the UK, the number of single-sex state schools has fallen from 2500 to 400 over the time span of 40 (Jackson, 2010) which also brings attention to an opposing argument against single-sex education about how we may be gaining interest in this method of learning but other countries that first adopted it are straying away from it which is something to consider when deciding whether or not the most beneficial method of learning for young women in contrast to co-education. The study determining whether single-sex education benefits women when it comes to exploring STEM fields did conclude that girls educated in an all-girls environment are not more likely to go into STEM fields than co-ed girls but did perform significantly better on math tests. This turnout was a result of (ST) The article describes how scholars actually study ST by specifically saying, ST studies, the researchers make a well- known stereotype salient before the participants take a test. This slight manipulation often leads to different test scores between those being exposed to the ST and those who are (Cherney & Campbell, 2010) That being the perfect explanation of why girls taught in single-sex environments would do better on math tests, the girls who were in a co-ed environment were primed with a reminder of their gender. Their results showed that girls demonstrated performance deficits in the ST condition only under the mixed-sex classroom condition, but not under the single-sex classroom Rebecca Lee Professor Uddin ENC 1101 26 March 2017 condition. This same study also concluded that Being outnumbered by men, leads women to increased awareness of their gender group and related stereotypes. Thus, these gender-based cues may be minimized in same-sex school settings. The outcome of the experiment did turn out to be that girls that were taught in all-girl environments did perform better but pursue STEM careers any more than girls that came from co-ed schooling but the article then mentions that is possible that for girls, single-sex, or home school settings might be particularly beneficial in terms of promoting interest in math and science topics or in reducing (Cherney & Campbell, 2010) Which agrees with my stance on the argument being that single-sex education does benefit American girls more than co-education short and long term. A different study that was a mixed-method approach examined the effectiveness of single-sex education on teachers in a large urban center in the southeastern United States. By the end of the study, the teachers reported back to the scholars over the study that it actually depended on a complex set of factors. This experiment addresses whether single-sex education is beneficial by assuming girls and boys learn different way which is stated here in the article boys and girls learn in different ways, then they should or must learn in environments specifically targeted for their different learning styles in a large urban center in the southeastern United (Spielhagen & Frances, 2011) which is an interesting thing to point out as most articles considered mostly stated that the presence of boys emphasized the stereotype that they are better in science and math, making girls feel pressured. That opened up a whole different possibility that girls even learn differently than boys. The study concluded that students of both Rebecca Lee Professor Uddin ENC 1101 26 March 2017 sexes were more served better in single-sex environments because they were treated more fairly resulting in better test scores because the distraction of competition with the opposite sex was absent. This led to many different states around the U.S. adopting single-sex schools and classes in middle schools. Considering both sides of the argument on whether single-sex education is more beneficial to young ladies in contrast to co-edcuation. Co-education has now been proven to lead to psychological deficits in girls as well as noticeably affect their performance in school. Single- sex education leads to higher self-esteem in girls resulting in better test performance. Girls have more opportunities to move forward when it comes to problems economically in single-sex environments. Although countries that are more familiar with single-sex education are trying other methods of learning, it is just the appeal of the unknown and discourage the U.S. when it comes to doing better for American girls. The stereotype threat is a big factor in test scores and class performance but it and have to be. Single-sex education is a big step in the right direction for young girls to go into more prestigious jobs with more confidence and just benefit more from the schooling system than in co-educational environments. Rebecca Lee Professor Uddin ENC 1101 26 March 2017 Works Cited Cherney, s. D., & Campbell, K. L. (2010). A League of Their Own: Do Single-Sex Schools Increase Participation in the Physical Sciences? Boston: Taylor & Francis Group. Jackson, J. (2010). how single-sex schooling reifies false notions of sex, gender, and sexuality. Boston: Taylor & Francis Group. Johnson, A. E. (2005). Single-Sex Classes in Public Secondary Schools: Maximizing the Value of a Public Education for the Students. The H.W. Wilson Company. Patterson, M. M., & Pahlke, E. (n.d.). Student Characteristics Associated with Success in a Single-sex School. Springer Science+Business Media. Spielhagen, & Frances. (2011). It all : Middle School Teachers Evaluate Single-Sex Classes. Newburgh: Middle Level Education Online.