Student 1 Student Dr. Richard F. Gaspar ENC 1102 April 16 2017 Nobody should have to live without a home In day and age, homelessness seems to be a widely recognized issue across the United States. Most people walk by or see a homeless person on the streets on occasion, if not every day. Many people do not take the time to stop and help someone who is homeless merely because there are so many people that need help that people have become accustomed to seeing the less fortunate and just walking by. Over 600,000 people are currently living without a place to call home in America, and a quarter of that number are children. (About Homelessness). Homelessness is a growing issue that needs to be addressed by new and larger platforms through advertising and personal service announcement in order to get the message out there of just how big of an issue homelessness is and why people should care and want to help. It is incomprehensible to know how big of an issue homelessness within our own country is and how few are willing to take the time to donate or volunteer to help to better the lives of those less fortunate than them. Last year in America one in every thirty children experienced homelessness at some point, which is equal to one student per public elementary school class (Thomas Friedman). When a child is homeless, it takes away a bit of their innocence because they are exposed to the harshness that can come with life, which no one should be forced to endure at a young age (Peter Rossi). Many stakeholders and organizations already exist with a target of helping those in need, whether it be for lack of food, abuse, or poverty. If the stakeholders who target these subjects also took on the target of homelessness, then the issue of Student 2 homelessness would decrease immensely due to the added publicity it would be receiving. Huge national nonprofit organizations like Feeding America, which is a nonprofit organization that focuses on ending hunger throughout the United States, and Kiva, which is a national nonprofit organization whose goal is to connect people through lending to the needy in order to help alleviate poverty, already reach vast audiences. There are multiple stakeholders that now exist throughout the country to help with different issues, and they all bring in thousands of volunteers throughout the United States every month (Sara Mcgraw, et al). If organizations that already have a large following for helping those in need across America would take on the task of helping with homelessness too, homelessness would begin to gain a lot more volunteers and those willing to help with the matter. The largeness of these preexisting platforms could play a crucial role in the key to finding a way that decreases the number of homeless people there are in America long term. Homelessness has been decreasing slowly across the country at a steady pace since 2007. Through nonprofit stakeholders, as well as multimedia platforms such as YouTube, the issue of homelessness has been getting more publicity than ever before (Sam Davis). People will see others helping through social media and video sharing websites, and it will inspire them to want to help the homeless as well. With the technology that is accessible in day and age, it would be beneficial for already existing organizations to add helping end homelessness to their list. For large organizations who already have a following of people who are volunteering and helping with other national issues, adding homelessness to the list of issues they assist with would help to publicize the stakeholder. By adding on to their companies and making homelessness an issue of focus, these stakeholders will reach an even larger audience and pull in those who already focus on the problem of homelessness. Student 3 It is a win-win situation for these stakeholders to bring homelessness on board for the fact that they will be able to reach and help an even higher number of those in need, as well as gain new followers for their entire organization. This will then not only be helping with the issue of homelessness but also with the other issues that the organizations promote and are working to end throughout the country. The positive publicity these stakeholders will gain is also an added benefit of taking on the topic of homelessness. By adding homelessness to their reservoir, these companies will gain exposure across different communities and be more likely to receive donations and volunteers from areas and people who had not helped in the past. It is not only up to the non-engaged stakeholders to bring on the issue of homelessness and the goal to end it. It is also up to people throughout the country to be willing and ready to volunteer or do what they can to help with the problem. Nobody can end homelessness alone; it will take the support of and mindset of the public and different communities throughout the country (Cassandra Gill). Homelessness has been one of the leading issues within America since the early 1960s, and the problem has only grown exponentially in size since then (Heather Larkin, et al). Anyone can get into a bad situation, and the result of that should not be being forced to live on the streets with nowhere to call a permanent home. Between non-engaged stakeholders and the general population of the United States, homelessness could be on a steady and fast decline in no time. All it takes is the efforts of everyone working together to get it to that point. If large preexisting, non-engaged stakeholders start to promote the importance of ending homelessness and the role homelessness plays in our country, the numbers and statistics of the issue could become more widespread among the public than ever before. According to Bryce Covert, homelessness should have never become as big of an issue as it is, and it is an issue that is relatively easy to put a stop to. Covert was homeless for Student 4 years and applied for hundreds of different jobs throughout his lifetime. Homelessness, according to him, is all about money, and with money there would be much less homelessness throughout the country because the homeless would be able to be provided with the items they need to get them into a positive mindset and motivate them to get back on their feet again. It is a simple solution, but money is not easy to come across in the quantity that is needed to effectively help the hundreds of thousands of people that are homeless. That is why it is important for non- engaged stakeholders to get involved and help spread the word to the people that can help to decrease homelessness throughout the United States, the public. Homelessness does not only affect people by forcing them to live on the streets but it also affects their mental well-being and gives them a loss of hope (David Moxley, et al.). Nobody should have to endure the struggles that come along with homelessness, and it is up to the people of the United States to make sure homelessness keeps declining. Through non-engaged stakeholders, as well as the public being willing to help, homelessness could become a much smaller issue than it is today. If new stakeholders use their preexisting platforms to spread the word on homelessness, people would become more aware of the issue and more inclined to help. Through hard work and determination, it is possible for the United Sates to significantly reduce the number of people that are currently living without a home (Word Count: 1253). Student 5 Works Cited About  National Alliance to End Homelessness. N.p., n.d. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. Cunningham, Mary, and Meghan Henry. Homelessness  MyScienceWork. N.p., 10 Jan. 2007. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Covert, Bryce. It Would Actually Be Very Simple To End Homelessness  ThinkProgress. ThinkProgress, 09 Oct. 2014. Web. 02 Apr. 2017. Davis, Sam. Solving Homelessness Obvious If Not  The Berkeley Blog. N.p., 16 June 2016. Web. 02 Apr. 2017. Friedman, Thomas L. Homeless in  The New York Times. The New York Times, 08 Nov. 2016. Web. 02 Apr. 2017. Gill, Cassandra. Homelessness: Issues by the Numbers and How You Can  OUPblog. N.p., 01 Dec. 2016. Web. 02 Apr. 2017. Larkin, Heather, Benjamin Henwood, Sondra J. Fogel, Amanda Aykanian, Katharine H. Briar- Lawson, Linda Plitt Donaldson, Daniel Herman, Samuel B. Little, Nancy Meyer-Adams, Deborah K. Padgett, Michael A. Patchner, and Calvin L. Streeter. . Responding to the Grand Challenge to End Homelessness: The National Homelessness Social Work  Families in Society: The Journal of Contemporary Social Services 97.3 (2016): 153-59. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Mcgraw, Sarah A., Mary Jo Larson, Susan E. Foster, Marilyn Kresky-Wolff, Elizabeth M. Botelho, Emily A. Elstad, Ana Stefancic, and Sam Tsemberis. Adopting Best Practices: Lessons Learned in the Collaborative Initiative to Help End Chronic Homelessness  The Journal of Behavioral Health Services & Research 37.2 (2009): 197-212. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Student 6 Moxley, David P., Olivia G. M. Washington, and Joe Mcelhaney. have a Helping Homeless People Through Faith, Spirituality, and Compassionate  Journal of Religion and Health 51.2 (2010): 431-49. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Rossi, Peter H. Troubling Families: Family Homelessness in  American Behavioral Scientist 37.3 (1994): 342-95. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.