1 Krishna Patel Dr. Sabah Uddin ENC 1101 04/25/2017 Does immigration have a positive impact on the U.S. labor market? Today, it can be said that the United States is a haven for immigrants. Historically, from 1860 to 1920, a total of nearly 30 million foreigners arrived in the United States. The amount of American immigrants has fluctuated over the course of the last century, due to political and economic circumstances. These immigrants move to the U.S. with different motives: for better labor market prospects (Cadena 910), unification of their families, and better lifestyles and job opportunities. Other immigrants are refugees suffering from persecution, civil wars, natural disaster, and economic inequalities in their home country, and others are in quest of freedom, better economic fortunes, protection, and benefits (West 427). As a result, this vast immigration has affected the U.S. economy, population, business, culture, politics, and many other aspects of the country in both positive and negative ways. Scholars have looked at how the U.S. labor market has been impacted by immigration. Taking this into account, one could argue that immigrants indeed positively impact the U.S. labor market. According to a survey it was found that immigrant workers and native-born workers generally complement each other rather than compete for the same job. This fact is most likely because immigrants tend to have different skill sets and therefore seek different types of jobs. For example, less educated immigrants often lack the necessary linguistic skills and thus, take jobs in manual labor-intensive occupations such as agriculture and construction. Whereas, low-skilled native-born workers take advantage of their superior communication abilities and shift into occupations where these skills are more valuable, such as personal services and sales. Similarly, in many cases, highly educated immigrants face a disadvantage in communication-intensive jobs, and tend to work in scientific and technical occupations. In contrast, highly skilled natives may receive promotions because of their communication skill expertise, in fields such as management, media, and other culture and language dependent jobs (Kugler and Oakford). Thus, it is evident 2 that immigrants are not increasing the labor market competition for native-born workers and in turn, do not negatively affect American earnings. Likewise, another existing study concluded that the rise in immigration between 1990 and 2006, which increased labor-force participation, also increased the earnings of U.S. workers by approximately 0.6 percent. Another reason that immigrants do not have any negative effect on the U.S. labor market is that many immigrants create their jobs by starting their own businesses. In fact, according to the 2011 Current Population Survey, research found that 7.5 percent of the foreign-born population was self-employed. Thus, it can be expected that under S. 744, between 600,000 and 840,000 of the newly legalized immigrants will be self-employed (Kugler and Oakford). Moreover, foreign founders launched 25.3 % of businesses in America. According to the polling data of the impression on immigration, it was found that 51 percent believe that immigrants take jobs away from native-born workers. However, 86 percent believe that immigrants are hard workers; 61 percent think immigrants create jobs and set up new businesses (West 432). Evident from these studies, the rate of unemployment can be decreased, resulting in a beneficial and positive effect of immigration has on the U.S. labor market. Furthermore, it can be assumed that immigrants will spend their increased earnings throughout the economy on assets such as homes, cars, and clothing. This increase in consumption means that businesses are more likely to thrive and will lead to higher earnings for American workers (Kugler and Oakford). Also, most of the immigrants come to the U.S. in their youth working period, when they are paying taxes, spending more time at work, and not drawing extensively on public pension. As a result, the U.S. labor market will show an appreciable growth in years to come (West 435). In support of the above research findings, author Hanson discusses similar ideas in his article and Economic which states that the majority of highly educated women are married to highly educated men; and in order for both to work outside the home, it 3 often requires hiring outside labor to care for children, to clean the home, to launder clothes, and to tend to the yard. According to a study of impact on the U.S. cities, low-skilled immigrants have lower prices for dry cleaning, child care, house cleaning, yard care, and other labor-intensive services. Lower prices for these services translate into more hours spent at work for high-skilled workers. Thus, low-skilled immigration indirectly contributes to productivity growth by raising the effective supply of high skilled labor. In contrast, there is existing research which argues that immigration causes the U.S. labor market to suffer due to various reasons. A recent study indicates that immigration does reduce the labor market prospects of natives, primarily those natives with few years of schooling. These low- skilled immigrants often accept any job at low wages. Because of this fact, many employers offer jobs to immigrants, and as a result, native workers struggle to seek jobs themselves. Thus, these studies conclude that immigration does not have a significant positive impact on the U.S. labor market (Steven A. Camarota). However, the contradictory studies have been proven wrong in some cases, and most empirical studies indicate that immigration can cause both massive effects and minor negative effects. Altogether, the research sources utilized concludes that immigration vitally promotes, strengthens, and stabilizes the labor market. 4 Work Cited Cadena, Brian C. Competition And Low-Skilled Immigration Journal of Human Resources, vol. 48, no. 4, 2013, pp. 910-944. Hanson, Gordon H. And Economic CATO Journal, vol. 32, no. 1, 2012, pp. 25-34. Kugler, Adriana, and Patrick Oakford. Immigration Helps American Wages and Job  www.americanprogress.org, 29 Aug. 2013, www.americanprogress.org/issues/immigration/news/2013/08/29/73203/immigration- helps-american-workers-wages-and-job-opportunities/. Accessed 10 Apr. 2017. Steven A. Camarota. The Labor Market Impact of Immigration: A Review of Recent  cis.org, May 1998, cis.org/articles/1998/back198.html. Accessed Apr. 2017. West, Darrell M. Costs And Benefits Of Political Science Quarterly, vol. 126, no. 3, 2011, pp. 427-443.