Agudelo 1 Maria Agudelo Andrew DeCarion ENC 1102 April 16, 2017 The Importance of Euthanasia According to the Merriam-Webster Dictionary, euthanasia is defined as act or practice of killing or permitting the death of hopelessly sick or injured individuals in a relatively painless way for reasons of Euthanasia is currently legal in six states, and considered a criminal offense in the remaining 44. It is legal in these six states, because of a series of laws called the Death with Dignity laws. These laws allow mentally competent terminally-ill adults to receive a prescription so they can die peacefully, in a humane manner in the place and time of their choice. It is important to note that the law does not allow every single terminally-ill patient to make this choice. The patient has to be deemed mentally competent by a doctor after a series of evaluations and tests, in order to be able to receive the prescription for the medication (Death with Dignity National Center). It must be noted, that the choice of euthanasia is something made by the patients after they have deemed their treatment un-helpful and/or their living conditions in-humane, as well as been diagnosed with a terminal illness and have less than six months to live. An example of in- humane conditions, would be someone with what is known as a condition in which people are unable to move any muscle of their body. These people are able to think clearly, but most of them live miserable lives and would rather utilize euthanasia because they believe in over (Wijngaarden, Leget, & Goossensen). Unfortunately, if these people live in any of the 44 states in which euthanasia is not legal, they must continue to live in Agudelo 2 those conditions until they die of natural causes. The law has been proposed in different states such as Massachusetts, but because there is a wide amount of Catholics who disagree with the act of providing someone the means to end their life it has failed several times. Euthanasia is currently legal in countries such as the Netherlands, Belgium, Colombia, Switzerland, Germany, Japan and Canada (Emanuel). These countries have had euthanasia legalized for at least a year, and so far, they have not encountered any major issues. So can it not be legalized nationwide in the United States? It can, but at this time it is currently being proposed in individual states and passed or failed depending on their choice. According to Norton and Miller, ending your own life by using euthanasia is not a simple process because it takes into consideration several different factors. A few of these factors include but are not limited to the values, their family and friends, as well as weighing the options; in this case the options would be to end their life, or if offered to continue to undergo treatment for their illness. The hospice social workers are another factor considered in this process, as they would be the ones aiding the patient to end their life. Euthanasia could be legalized nationwide if it was proposed correctly, with the correct guidelines. It is proposed that each individual case in which a patient wants to end their life through euthanasia, goes to a sort of trial. The trial will be run by a group of doctors and psychiatrist who have been pre-selected for the task. This group, will come together and determine whether or not the living conditions, the illness and the mental state of the patient qualify him or her for euthanasia. The trial should not take more than a week, and there would be one group of doctors and psychiatrists pre-selected in one hospital per state. By following this simple step, people who are adamant to end their life, because of their terminal illness, have the opportunity to get advice and guidance from knowledgeable professionals. Agudelo 3 Ending your own life is something that should not be condoned and it is concerning when someone with a healthy life choses to do so, when it comes to situations such as a terminal illness it is arguable that it is the best choice. People with terminal illnesses often suffer, because they feel they are a burden on their families or caregivers. They do not have the ability to do simple things such as using the restroom, eating their own food or brushing their teeth. Imagine living a life like this. Imagine sitting in a wheelchair all day, listening and seeing everything that goes on around you, but not being able to do anything other than blink and maybe say a couple words. Even worst, imagine being diagnosed with cancer and going through chemotherapy but no matter what you do it keeps coming back and attacking even more of your organs. There comes a point where it is not worth fighting anymore, because your body is so weak from all of the treatments that you are unable to get out of bed and are just living miserably waiting for your time to come. In cases like this, euthanasia would be the most viable option. With that being said, the fact that euthanasia is legalized does not mean that every person who has less than six months to live due to a terminal illness must utilize euthanasia. That is the benefit of legalizing it, does who want to utilize this mean to end their own life can do so and those who are against it can continue to live their lives. If you are interested in learning more about euthanasia, there are several organizations out there that raise awareness and advocate for it, such as the Death with Dignity National Center. The Death with Dignity National Center is a nonprofit organization that expands the freedom of all qualified terminally ill Americans to make their own end-of-life decisions, including how they die Us: Death with Dignity National If you are still unsure of why euthanasia should be legalized, I encourage you to visit their website. The legalization of euthanasia would simply mean providing those who are Agudelo 4 suffering a less painful and quicker way to die, instead of spending their last days suffering in misery. (Word Count: 1240) Agudelo 5 Works Cited Emanuel, Ezekiel J., et al. Attitudes and Practices of Euthanasia and Physician-Assisted Suicide in the United States, Canada, and  JAMA: Journal of the American Medical Association, vol. 316, no. 1, 05 July 2016, pp. 79-90. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1001/jama.2016.8499. Axel. Euthanasia and Mental Suffering: An Ethical Advice for Catholic Mental Health  Christian Bioethics: Non-Ecumenical Studies in Medical Morality, vol. 19, no. 1, Apr. 2013, pp. 72-81. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx ?direct=true&db=a2h&AN=86865818&site=eds-live. Merriam-Webster. Merriam-Webster, n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017 Miller, RB. Suicide And Euthanasia: Arguments For And Against Practice, Legalization And Journal Of Pharmaceutical Care In Pain 7 Symptom Control 3.3/4 (1995): 11-41. CINAHL Complete. Web 25 Jan. 2017. Van Wijngaarden, EJ, Leget, CW, & Goossensen, A 2016, Death Do Us Part: The Lived Experience of an Elderly Couple Who Chose to End Their Lives by Spousal Self- Gerontologist, vol. 56, no. 6, pp. 1062-1071.