Joseph Parker April 25, 2017, 2017 Project 3 Intermediate Draft Uddin Composition 1 Climatic data indicates there has been a steady increase in the global temperature over the last 150 years (Keating), a phenomenon now referred to as global warming. Most scientists agree that this recent change in climate is anthropogenic in nature, yet many American politicians make fallacious claims that any increases in temperature are due to random fluctuations and the unpredictability of nature. Even amongst those who believe global warming has been caused by industrialization there are debates on the issue of how to deal with it. I believe unless a paradigm shift occurs towards a culture of sustainability and we are as stringent as possible with carbon emissions global warming will cross a threshold yielding irreversible effects on various aspects of American society. In my opinion the criticality of climate change mandates mass implementation of renewable energy source infrastructure and new environment-friendly policies. The opinion of the scholars publishing on the issue of climate change changed from prior to 2010 to the present, besides an increase of the perceived criticality of the situation. In Potential emissions of CO2 and methane from proved reserves of fossil fuels: An alternative analysis, published in 2016, Richard Heede states: climate change presents a serious threat to the health, prosperity, and stability of human communities, to the stability and existence of non-human species and ecosystems, and to international political and military In an article published in 2009, Richard Tol says Weather affects agriculture, energy use, health, and many aspects of in turn affects everything and (1) showing how both these authors recognize not only how crucial the stability of the climate is to people and how the ones throwing it out of balance. Not much new data has been collected since 2010, because of the nature of the climate sciences necessitates an extended period of time to yield significant results, and the few recent discoveries made have only slightly skewed views and proposed solutions to this issue. Publishing prior to 2010 focus more on the effects of climate change than the newer writings, which have an emphasis on trying to mitigate the damage caused by climate change, as opposed to just chronicling in. These old sources detail agricultural, financial, and biodiversity consequences of climate change. Richard Tol says of the monetary impact effect of a doubling of the atmospheric concentration of greenhouse gas emissions on the current economy: few percentage points of GDP... From one perspective, roughly equivalent to a growth in the global suggests that over a century or so, the economic loss from climate change is not all that (5). He goes on to say benefits of a modest increase in [due carbon dioxide in the atmosphere reduces in plants and may make them grow (6) but this is followed by exponentially adverse effects as temperature continues to increase. Richard backlund states that livestock will be affected very negatively, experiencing feed intake, feed efficiency, reproduction, animal gain, and milk production. Increased disease susceptibility, and (Backlund 74). This source says there are a lot of severe repercussions to biodiversity about to be incurred if a change is not made, and many of these are already in progress. Ecosystems are at risk due to the reduction of keystone species, the most valuable in terms of maintaining the stability of the environment. Sources before and after both advocate for a switch to renewable energy, but more recent publishing have indicated that this transition be done on a more national scale than the older ones. In an older source, Renewable energy: tax credit, budget, and electricity production issues, the author describes how with metering allows customers with generating facilities to their electric meters when feeding power into the grid; they receive retail prices for the excess electricity they and how when the energy is distributed many of the large transportation fees are eliminated, (Sissine 9). Articles from after 2010 come with many more propositions for a wider scale implementation of renewable energy that involves replacing the fossil fuels infrastructure. In a journal article from February 2017, Green versus brown: Comparing the employment impacts of energy efficiency, renewable energy, and fossil fuels using an input-output model, Harold Garrett-Peltier writes number of researchers using input- output modeling have found positive employment impacts resulting from the growth of renewable energy and highlights the 7.49 full-time-equivalent jobs created per 1 million dollars of spending created by renewable energy compared to the 2.65 associated with fossil fuel (Garrett-Peltier). The author admits that current drawback of using I-O models to study clean energy impacts is that renewable energy industries and energy efficiency industries are not explicitly identified as industrial categories in national (Garrett- Peltier). Because we are now feeling the effects of carbon emission from decades ago, I share the view of most people publishing on climate change and believe the urgency of this issue mandates a new mindset and new climate policies including a shift to more renewable energy sources. I agree with majority of scholars and share belief that without a serious shift from already established culture of unsustainable behavior and new green legislation there will be serious financial and ecological consequences, including lives lost and damaged properties from increased catastrophic weather events and increased sea level. Needs to occur within next 30 years.