1 Taofeek Braimoh Sabah Firoz Uddin Composition 1 April 22, 2017 BIRTH CONTROL Birth control is a topic which has been identified as a relevant issue by scholars from all over the world, some will say birth control has positive effects and therefore it should be encouraged, others will say otherwise saying it has negative effects and as such it should be discouraged. Various studies have been carried by different scholars and they say birth control has both positive and negative effects. But the negative aspects of birth control have more effects than the positive aspects making birth control negative from my perspective. Birth control has negative effects on the health and well-being of human beings and on the modern day economy. There are various methods of birth control, some of which are safe and some which are considered unsafe but unfortunately the ones which are considered unsafe or mildly safe are the ones which are well known and used the most. One of these methods is abortion, abortion is one of the most widely known method of birth control, it is the deliberate termination of human pregnancy to prevent the birth of a child usually by surgical means or by ingestion of pills depending on the 2 stage. Abortion is considered unsafe because it is a dangerous process, sometimes with a fifty percent chance of the survival of the mother involved in the process. If the process is carried out successfully and the offspring is terminated, it could still lead to dangerous side effects in the future. But recent researchers have stated that they have come up with a solution to unsafe abortion by making abortion safer and reducing its effects. In David in young women and subsequent mental Fergusson confirms that abortion does in fact affect the mental health of a human being by stating that having an abortion had elevated rates of subsequent mental health problems including depression, anxiety, suicidal behaviors and substance use and Fergusson also concludes on the note that that in young women may be associated with increased risks of mental health (P.16-24). Fergusson also provides proof of this claim by providing results of a study carried out on the issue and stating that percent of women had become pregnant on at least one occasion prior to age 25, with 14.6% having an This supports the claim that birth control has negative effects, using abortion as a medium to explain why birth control has negative effects. 3 In contrast to this claim about birth control having negative effects, in Gilda abortion: estimated rates and trends Sedgh argues that there is a new safe way to perform abortions with a reduced risk rate thereby reducing the effects of abortion. Sedgh says present new worldwide estimates of abortion rates and trends and discuss their implications for policies and programmes to reduce unintended pregnancy and unsafe abortion and to increase access to safe (P.1338-1345). What sedgh is doing is that providing an alternative method to abortion to reduce the risks and make birth control safer. Another widely known method of birth control is the Oral contraceptive method or OCPs, Oral contraceptives otherwise known as birth control pills, or in most common cases known as is a form of birth control that involves the ingestion of pills in order to prevent pregnancy as a consequence of sexual intercourse. This method is known to have negative effects on the body such as headaches, mood swings, weight gain and more. Although an alternative to this is the use of protection during sexual intercourse, the pill used more than the use of sexual protection. In Dumitru Methods of Family Planning: A Comparative Study of Efficacy and Safety of Fertility Awareness Based Methods and Birth 4 Control Dumitru states that reports indicate that over 100 million women worldwide use the birth control pill (Oral Contraceptives, or (P.205), this proves that a lot of women worldwide use oral contraceptives as their primary means of birth control. She also states that are reported advantages to the use of both FABMs and OCPs, with the major difference being that the OCPs also come with a significant number of reported adverse medical (P.208), she confirms that oral contraceptives are advantageous as a means of birth control but it involves negative side effects and Dumitru also provides evidence to back up her claims. This also supports the claim that birth control has negative health effects. In contrast to this claim, in Trussell a contraceptive: efficacy, safety, and personal Trussell makes it clear choosing a contraceptive method is a very important decision that has to be made by both partners involved and he further states that the most popular contraceptive methods are oral contraceptive pills (11.6 million), female sterilization (10.3 million), male condoms (6.8 million), and male sterilization (3.5 (P.20). This identifies the fact that the use of oral contraceptives is the most used method but he makes people understand that it all depends on them and they should choose other less risky methods of birth control to avoid or reduce the negative effects involved. 5 Birth control can also affect the economic situation of a country or an area by reducing the population of that particular place, sometimes drastically. Population can be defined simply as the inhabitants of a particular area, town or country. When talking about population, the issue of overpopulation, optimum population and under population may come up. When birth control rate increases, the population rate decreases leading to under population which leads to low labor force but alternatively, under population leads to provision of adequate useful resources for the population. In Rosenzweig R, population control policies induce more human capital investment? Twins, birth weight and Rosenzweig states that suggest that the contribution of the one-child policy in China to the development of its human capital was modest at (P.1149-1174), this is referring to the implementation of the birth control policy in China and it is saying that the implementation of the law had no relevant effects, so why prevent the births of the next generation for nothing and it is also known that a general reduction in population of a country can lead to the general decrease in the labor force of that country. In contrast to this, in JinYing on the Effects of Birth Control Policy Since 1972 JinYing supports the idea of birth control in 6 China and saying, implementation of birth control policy lessened the burden for working (P.10), and also mentions that the implementation of the policy really helped and improved China and made the country a better place. In conclusion, birth control has both positive and negative effects on both the health of an individual and on the economic status of a country, but the negative effects pose more of a threat than the positive effects which prompted the conclusion that birth control has negative effects so therefore, birth control should be discouraged. 7 WORKS CITED: Dumitru, Ana Maria and Marguerite Duane. Behavioral Methods of Family Planning: A Comparative Study of Efficacy and Safety of Fertility Awareness Based Methods and Birth Control  Issues in Law & Medicine, vol. 31, no. 2, Fall2016, pp. 205-209. Fergusson, David M., L. John Horwood, and Elizabeth M. Ridder. Abortion in young women and subsequent mental  Journal of Child Psychology and Psychiatry 47.1 (2006): 16-24. Jinying, Wang. Estimation on the Effects of Birth Control Policy Since 1972  Chinese Journal of Population Science 5 (2006): 003. Rosenzwieg, Mark R., and Junsen Zhang. Do population control policies induce more human capital investment? Twins, birth weight and  The Review of Economic Studies 76.3 (2009): 1149- 1174. Sedgh, Gilda, et al. Induced abortion: estimated rates and trends  The Lancet 370.9595 (2007): 1338-1345. Trussell, James, and K. Guthrie. Choosing a contraceptive: efficacy, safety, and personal  Hatcher RA, Trussell J, Nelson AL, Cates W, Stewart 8 FH, Kowal D. Contraceptive technology. 19th revised ed. New York (NY): Ardent Media, Inc (2007): 19-47.