Elijah Todd Dr. Uddin ENC 1101 4/23/17 Decriminalizing Marijuana In America, the persisting war against drugs contributes to a negative image of the use of marijuana. For the past few decades, marijuana has been equally classified to be as damaging as heroine and cocaine. People caught in possession of marijuana faced heavy charges, and minorities seemed to be targeted the most. In recent years, the perspective on marijuana has shifted towards a more positive outlook. With the discovery of medicinal uses, people have come to realize the benefits of the drug, as well as realizing that it is not as harmful as the harder drugs noted above. Accordingly, some states are moving towards legalizing marijuana. With the legalization of marijuana in states such as Colorado and Washington, states that have not legalized marijuana should move toward decriminalizing the use of marijuana. Marijuana criminalization laws have been particularly harmful towards minorities. In her article, (And Whom) State Marijuana Reformers Forgot: Crimmigration Law and Carrie Rosenbaum states that marijuana laws were created against a backdrop of anti-Mexican bias and (Rosenbaum, 6) In Nick article, Prohibition was Racist from the Start. Not Much Has he states that the man who spearheaded the war on weed that we still face today, Harry Anslinger, was comfortable using racism to steer negative bias and stigmas towards marijuana. (Wing, 1) Wing says that Anslinger would say that most marijuana smokers were minorities, and that marijuana made minorities think they were as as white men. (Wing, 1) Rosenbaum states that the on drugs as led to, incarceration, over criminalization, and the continuing entrenchment of overlapping racial and economic disparities in throughout the United (Rosenbaum, 2) Rsoenbaum is basically saying that the laws on marijuana have disproportionately affected minority more severely than their white counterparts. Rosenbaum continues by saying that African- Americans and Hispanics are more likely to be arrested and sentenced longer for marijuana possession than White Americans. (Rosenbaum, 2) Wing adds on to this by stating that in 2010, blacks were four times as likely to get arrested for marijuana possession than whites. (Wing, 1) That was only seven years ago, and the racial disparity is still seen today. Not only that but Wing says that anyone convicted of possession or sale of a controlled substance cannot receive things such as grants, loans, or work assistance from the government. (Wing, 1) With so many minorities targeted and arrested for marijuana possession, the negative affect of so many of those individuals having such a charge is incredibly damaging to their families and communities. Marijuana criminalization laws have not only hurt minorities and their communities, but it has also put a strain on the resources of law enforcement and the criminal justice system. Many of prisons and jails are suffering from an issue called overcrowding. This means that there is not enough room in the facility to house all of the inmates that they have. According to Sledge, in his article, Prohibition Now Costs the Government $20 Billion a Year: he says that in 2011, the number of individuals arrested for marijuana-related crimes was around seven hundred and fifty thousand people in 2011 alone. (Sledge, 1) Over eighty-five percent of those individuals were arrested for solely possessing marijuana. Since marijuana is classified as a schedule 1 drug, meaning that it has no medical value and is highly addictive and dangerous, in most states individuals have to face mandatory jail or prison time, depending on the discretion, for possessing marijuana. With so many individuals being arrested for marijuana possession, it only further worsens the overcrowding issue jails and prisons face. Not only that, but the war on marijuana has gotten increasingly expensive. Sledge mentions that marijuana prohibition now costs both state and federal governme nts over $20 billion dollars a year. (Sledge, 1) In article, Rational Basis: The Pragmatic Case for Marijuana Law he says that marijuana laws and enforcement was costing state and federal governments around ten billion dollars annually around the year 2004. (Blumenson, 53) This goes to show that the cost that has gone into enforcing marijuana laws has only increased and continues to increase. This money could be better used towards programs to stop more serious crimes, or even education programs. Blumenson also states that marijuana criminalization laws have steered law enforcement from focusing on violent crimes to focusing on drug arrests. (Blumenson, 51) basically saying that because of current marijuana criminalization laws, law enforcement is focusing too much manpower on arresting people for merely possessing marijuana. These officers could be using their time to be more focused on stopping violent crimes instead. In article, An Evaluation of the Effects of the Legalization of Marijuana in Colorado and Washington from an International Law she says that legalizing marijuana would reduce black market sales, making it easier on law enforcement and allowing them to focus on other crimes. (Bushan, 192) There are many counterarguments as to why marijuana should not be legalized or decriminalized. One such argument is presented in an article by Joffe called, of Marijuana: Potential Impact on the Joffe basically states that decriminalizing marijuana or legalizing it will have a negative impact on adolescents. He mentions how studies have shown that marijuana use is linked to lower concentration and attention span, memory loss, and lower motivation and problem-solving abilities. (Joffe, 633) Joffe says that adolescents would be more likely to use the drug if there is a less perceived risk of punishment. (Joffe, 636) He also mentions that if marijuana were to be decriminalized, and parents in turn used the drug, adolescents would see it as being okay to use the drug as well. (Joffe, 636) In article, she counters Joffe by saying that the Department of Justice would place incredible focus on the restriction of the distribution of marijuana to minors. (Bushan, 193) Blumenson also counters Joffe by saying that marijuana criminalization actually, the risk that teenagers and others will abuse hard drugs by forcing marijuana experimenters to buy from criminal dealers who may also sell cocaine, methamphetamine, and other (Blumenson, 50) The current criminalization laws in states that have not legalized marijuana are unfit to remain as the policy in society. The current marijuana criminalization laws in these states are particularly damaging towards minorities and their communities, and are a drain on law enforcement and the criminal justice system. States that have not legalized marijuana should move towards decriminalizing the drug. Works Cited Blumenson, Eric. Rational Basis: The Pragmatic Case For Marijuana Law Virginia Journal Of Social Policy & The Law 17. (2009): 43. LexisNexis Academic: Law Reviews. Web. Bushan, Aparna. An Evaluation of the Effects of the Legalization o f Marijuana in Colorado and Washington From An International Law Canada-United States Law Journal 39. (2015): 187-201. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. Joffe, Alain and W. Samuel Yancy. of Marijuana: Potential Impact on Pediatrics, vol. 113, no. 6, June 2004, pp. e632-e638. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct =true&db=aph&AN=13164462&site=eds-live. Rosenbaum, Carrie. (And Whom) State Marijuana Reformers Forgot : Crimmigration Law and Depaul Journal for Social Justice 9.2 (2016): 1-52. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. Sledge, Matt. Marijuana Prohibition Now Costs The Government $20 Billion A Year:  The Huffington Post. TheHuffingtonPost.com, 20 Apr. 2013. Web. Wing, Nick. Marijuana Prohibition Was Racist From The Start. Not Much Has  The Huffington Post. TheHuffingtonPost.com, 14 Jan. 2014. Web.