Austin 1 James-Lee H. Austin Bob Botkin ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Non-Profits and What Can Be Done Throughout the country there are 5,564 registered hospitals, and out of those 2,919 are community non-profit hospitals (aha.org). That is a little over 50% of all hospitals are non-profit. What if that percentage was higher? If that percentage was higher, more and more patients can have the ability to be served with quality, affordable, and timely care. There is more than an ample amount of ways to increase the number of non-profit hospitals, and this will be explained within the content of this essay. When enough people are given the knowledge to make a change, and enough people care, there will be a change in the way those people act and the movement can start towards more non-profit hospitals. Now, one of the first things that needs to happen before the movement towards more non-profit hospitals can start is to educate. First of all, what are non-profit hospitals? Well, it is a hospital that usually is based on a charitable purpose and is organized as a non-profit organization. According to Modern Healthcare, the average one person owes in debt is about $5,178 and there are about 42.9 million Americans have these debts, and some have even more in debt (modernhealthcare.org). If there were more non-profit hospitals, then these debts may be minimalized or even eradicated for good. A majority of non-profit hospitals, more than 70%, pay for those bills that the patient cannot pay for (3623, Li et. al). This is one of the first reasons that non-profit hospitals should be more relevant in society. Some non-profit Austin 2 hospitals even pay for the whole bill, places like Hospital, St. Hospital, and even local Tampa hospitals, like Kindred Hospital. All of these hospitals have one more thing in common, that is the quality of care. On all of these hospitals webpages, there is at least one phrase about having the quality care that patients need (stjude.org). When a hospital pays for the patients bill and cares more than the money that is being made off of that patient, that is when the hospital is there for what it is supposed to be. If more hospitals showed the immense patient care that most non-profits are equipped with, then that hospital is one step closer to acting like a non-profit. Another amazing thing about non-profit hospitals is that they fund immense amounts of research. Without St. Hospitals, the cancer survival rate might still be at 20% than 80% (stjudes.org). Now, some of the most profited hospitals in the nation are non-profit hospitals, with the top profit being $302.4 million, according to Forbes (Lee). But, the good thing about this is that the money goes back to the patients. The hospitals put the money towards benefiting the patients and even opening more hospitals and building for the hospital that is already in place. Since non-profit hospitals are so helpful towards community and the patient makes them the best options for choosing a hospital. There are a lot of reason why non-profit hospitals are one of the better choices for hospitals. When someone is admitted into St. Hospital, there are no worries about having to pay for that stay, no matter if the child has cancer or is being seen for a simple broken foot (stjudes.org). That hospital takes care of everything. There are other organizations that do that as well. At Arnold Palmer, if a family does not have the means to cover the whole bill, the hospital then covers the rest of that bill (arnoldpalmerhospital.com). This shows that those two hospitals care for the patients and are there for the people. Also, people love to be cared for. Austin 3 When a hospital takes quality care of their patients, then it makes more and more people want to care for the hospital as well. This will influence those around to help support. People like to follow a cause, just like the fight for cancer. Millions of people provide funds to St. yearly, and this money is used to give back to the community by finding cures. These funds helped raise the survival rate of cancer, these funds have provided families with hospital visits, these funds can one day provide for the same people who help with charitable contributions (stjudes.org). If somebody follows their cause and helps by providing donations to a lot of the non-profit organizations, they are in turn helping out themselves and many other patients around the country. The world needs something to stand for and that one thing can be non- profit hospitals. Non-profit hospitals are made for the community, by the community and it needs all the help it can get. Now, the key to showing you care is to start to get involved with non-profit hospitals. Direct ways to help non-profit hospitals is to simply $19 a or whatever the organization calls for (stjudes.org). Those kind of things are direct and quick, and that is the way out if you have minimal time. But, if you can not necessarily afford that way out there are plenty of other ways. One way is to bring awareness, this can be done through making flyers, word of mouth, or maybe setting up a table and just making the people aware or everything that the hospitals, or organizations, are good for. These have been proven successful many different times. Organizations have used ways like 5k runs and 10k runs. These are easy to participate in as well, all that is needed is to talk to people and get sponsors to do the run. Then, just participate in the run. There are also even ways children help. There have been multiple cases where children host bake sales and things like lemonade stands. These are cheap Austin 4 ways to make a lot of product to make a great amount of profit. Even if you are not a child, having a bake sale, or doing something of that sort will help out in many ways, providing funds for the hospital and bringing awareness towards the cause. If time and money are n issue, there is even something that is easier and takes little time to do that makes a big impact as well and that is making a simple card. This makes the stay in the hospital that much easier. It makes the entire day better and makes the patient feel like somebody else cares, other than the doctors and nurses that are treating them. Even if things like bake sales, or charity runs, cannot be done due to time issues, there is always something that can be done. When more people start to become more aware that non-profit hospitals are a better way than a or-profit hospital, the word of medical care will change. The only way to do this is to educate the public on why the non-profits are so helpful, show the people why they need to care, and help guide the people to help take action towards making a change. It is easy to be that change in the world, all that is needed is a passion and a drive to make that change. If there is ever a drive for a cause, it is suggested to have that drive and passion for making the medical field a better place to be seen if it is ever needed, and the way to do that is through the making of non-profit hospitals. Austin 5 References: 1. Arnold Palmer Hospital for  Arnoldpalmerhospital. Orlando health, 2017. Web. 21 Apr. 2017. <http://www.arnoldpalmerhospital.com/>. 2. Fast Facts on US  American Hospital Association. Health Forum LLC, Jan. 2017. Web. 21 Apr. 2017. <http://www.aha.org/research/rc/stat-studies/fast-facts.shtml>. 3. Finding cures. Saving  St. Jude Research Hospital. St. Jude research hospital, 2017. Web. 21 Apr. 2017. <https://www.stjude.org/>. 4. Lee, Bruce Y. Very Profitable Nonprofit Hospitals...But Where Are The Profits  Forbes. Pharma & Healthcare, 8 May 2016. Web. 18 Apr. 2017. <https://www.forbes.com/sites/brucelee/2016/05/08/very-profitable-nonprofit-hospitals-but- where-are-the-profits-going/#78301bd36b22>. 5. Li, Chunhui, and Chuanhua, Yu. Performance Evaluation of Public Non-Profit Hospitals Using a BP Artificial Neural Network: The Case of Hubei Province in  Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 10 (2013): 3619-633. ISSN 1660-4601. Web. 19 Apr. 2017. <file:///Users/James-Lee/Downloads/ijerph-10-03619.pdf>. 6. Press, Associated. 42.9 million Americans have unpaid medical  Modern Healthcare. Associated Press, 11 Dec. 2014. Web. 21 Apr. 2017. <http://www.modernhealthcare.com/article/20141211/NEWS/312119987>. 7. Shriners  Shriners Hospital for Children. Shriners, 2016. Web. 18 Apr. 2017. <https://www.shrinershospitalsforchildren.org/>.