1 Student: Esteban Ruibal Instructor: Sabah Firoz Uddin Composition I 4/25/2017 The Impact of Debt on the Ability to Build Wealth in America With consumer debt at its highest levels in US history, this paper searches to better understand the impact that debt has had on middle-class America. By tracing the shift in American attitudes towards debt from the early 20 th century to present day, there is a strong transition away from a mentality of savings to one of excessive spending and growing reliance on the use of credit and borrowing. Financial institutions, government agencies, marketing and technology all have contributed greatly to this shift and have facilitated what is known as the and of credit in American society today. With low barriers making it easy to access credit and be approved for home loans with little or no money down, at the surface it may look like more tools than ever are available to help make the American Dream a reality, but beneath the surface it is a very different picture. It is a dark world full of over- indebted families whose incomes are consumed by car payments, high-interest credit card bills and exorbitant mortgages every month, leaving them with no money to save or invest in their future. It is in this spirit that this paper argues that easy access to debt ultimately limits financial freedom and opportunities for consumers to create long-term wealth. Though the definition of the American Dream has evolved over time, at its core, most would agree that it refers to the idea that everyone should have an equal opportunity to achieve a level of wealth and prosperity in this country. Today, there are many entities whose success is largely dependent on continued belief in the American Dream. Lois Lupica, author of The Consumer Debt Crisis and the Reinforcement of Class Position, claims that it is the incentives 2 put forward by these same entities that have the very structure of the consumer and consequently are the underlying cause of the consumer debt (Lupica 562). This group consists of politicians who create policies to make the American Dream more widely accessible, a financial industry that profits from consumers caught in the debt cycle, and retailers who market and make their products/services available to consumers anytime, anywhere. As a result, debt has become an increasingly common solution relied on by people looking for a way to move up the socioeconomic ladder more quickly, oftentimes at the expense of their ability to build long term wealth. This reality is particularly evident when it comes to the issue of homeownership. Owning own home is a commonly recognized pillar of the American Dream. To support this idea, Eric Best, author of Debt and the American Dream points out the role that government has played in helping make homeownership more accessible through government financing programs, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac (Best 350). However, the Great Recession of 2008 has shown us how homes can quickly go from asset to liability for those financing a lifestyle beyond their economic means. For this reason, personal finance expert Dave Ramsey, author of The Total Money Makeover, advises anyone that is considering buying a home to limit themselves to a 15-year fixed-rate loan with a monthly mortgage payment making up no more than 25% of their take home pay (Ramsey 177). This is an important warning to keep in mind as many consumers today are opting for a higher monthly mortgage payment to get into a new home with little to no down payment. Another consideration is the fact that loan officers frequently approve homebuyers for more house than they can actually afford. Eric Best demonstrates the impact that this trend has had on consumer debt levels and the housing market at large by stating, Dream legislation and incentives have created a market where homes have almost doubled in 3 (Best 350-351). This quote illustrates that when debt is easier to access it encourages homebuyers to consider more expensive housing options, oftentimes options they cannot afford. This is even more startling when you consider this along with the statistic from the Wall Street Journal that reported approximately 70% of Americans living paycheck to paycheck (Ramsey 11). With these things in mind, setting realistic financial limits is very important when buying a home and can help ensure financial stability and freedom over the long term. This will help safeguard you and your family from a situation where you find yourself enslaved to creditors, unable to save or make investments for the future (i.e. plan for retirement, save for college tuition, etc.), or even have a decent quality of life. Another potentially dangerous area where easy access to debt can stand in the way of long-term wealth is the use of high-interest credit cards and loans to finance consumer spending. This is especially true when it comes to the matter of using debt to pay for depreciating assets (i.e. technology, leasing or financing automobiles, etc.). In fact, according to Ramsey the average car payment in the US today is approximately $495 per month. That works out to approximately $6,000 per year of your income that is going toward something that continues to decrease in value (Ramsey 30). As it relates to consumer spending and easy access to debt, Mechele Dickerson, author of Vanishing Financial Freedom, points to the Great Recession in order to show how people the freedom to bury themselves in debt gives them an illusion of freedom, but ultimately deprives them of any true sense of financial (Dickerson 1080). This suggests that instead of relying on low barriers that perpetuate the debt cycle, consumers should change their consumption habits to be more in line with a lifestyle they can afford so they can save and build wealth over the long term. It only makes sense that in society, financial institutions and companies concerned about their bottom line are not going to keep 4 people from consuming their goods and services, and therefore the responsibility of setting financial limits ultimately falls on consumers themselves. There are critics, however, who argue that low barriers to accessing debt actually help consumers achieve financial freedom more easily. US Senator and author of Wealth creation in the new millennium: transforming poverty in America, Rick Santorum asserts that for most Americans the path to generating wealth is through owning a home, acknowledging that, most, it will be the largest single asset they have in their (Santorum 391). Santorum argues his belief that the government should be more present in helping struggling Americans more easily enter middle class by declaring, challenge is to make the American dream of home ownership accessible to all (Santorum 392). Pointing to government- sponsored enterprises Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac as successful examples of how to expand the opportunity of homeownership to more Americans, Santorum views homeownership as an important pillar of the American Dream and feels that low barriers that make it easier to own a home (in this case through government relaxing lending regulations) are helpful in building long- term wealth. Furthermore, although Dickerson acknowledges that low barriers to accessing credit enable irresponsible consumer spending, she also asserts that financial freedom (the freedom to make financial decisions) and the concept of the American Dream are inextricably linked by stating, consumers greater access to consumer credit, and the higher household debt levels associated with consumer credit, are not by themselves bad things since consumer spending is a key to both the and this economic (Dickerson 1096). Critics, Randy Hodson, Rachel Dwyer and Lisa Neilson, the authors of Credit Card Blues: The Middle Class and the Hidden Costs of Easy Credit also agree with Dickerson in the sense that access to credit helps provide consumers with increased flexibility and availability of 5 financial options. In support of this idea, the authors acknowledge the value that credit can provide by helping consumers, current consumption, either for necessities or for convenience or (Hodson 316). In this case, low barriers to credit give consumers the ability to choose, whether it be to build wealth or maintain a certain lifestyle, for some there is a perceived value in the freedom of choice and having control over financial destiny. Upon considering all the evidence above, it seems clear that easy access to debt often does more harm than good by limiting financial freedom and opportunities for consumers to create long- term wealth. In conclusion, although low barriers to accessing debt are intended to help make the American Dream more accessible, it seems that consumers need to be able to exercise a lot of responsibility and self-control in order for this approach to not be counterproductive. It is also evident that there needs to be more focus on the importance of financial education and helping people both learn the value of living within their means and how to make smart investment decisions for their financial future. 6 Works Cited Best, Eric. Debt and the American  Society, vol. 49, no. 4, 2012, pp. 349-352. Dickerson, Mechele. Financial Alabama Law Review, vol. 61, 2010, pp. 1079-1120. Hodson, Randy, Rachel E. Dwyer, Lisa A Neilson. Credit Card Blues: The Middle Class and the Hidden Costs of Easy  Sociological Quarterly, vol. 55, no. 2, 2014, pp. 315-340. Lupica, Lois R. The Consumer Debt Crisis and the Reinforcement of Class  Loyola University Chicago Law Journal, vol. 40, no. 3, 2009, pp. 557-610. Ramsey, Dave. The Total Money Makeover. Nashville: Thomas Nelson, 2013. Print. Santorum, Rick. Wealth creation in the new millennium: transforming poverty in  Notre Dame Journal of Law, Ethics & Public Policy, vol. 16, no. 2, 2002, pp. 383-393.