Black 1 Javares Black Instructor Uddin 20 April 2017 ENC 1101 From High School to the NBA There has been a lot of conversation concerning young, talented athletes going pro. In particular, The National Basketball Association (NBA) has been mentioned because there were many players such as Kevin Garnett, Kobe Bryant, and LeBron James who came straight from high school, who have gone on to have very illustrious careers. But then there were many more who came from high school that did not go very far at all like Lenny Cooke, Kwame Brown, and Eddie Curry, to name a few. Because of the NBA believing that these young players were not ready for the draft, they proposed the and Done where a player must attend college for one year before entering the NBA Draft. With a lot of opposition to this rule, I still believe the most elite high school basketball players should be allowed to enter the NBA Draft because it provides more financial opportunities, it allows them to invest time into immediate success, and the NCAA is a multi-billion-dollar industry in which the players are not properly compensated. To begin, the top basketball players out of high school should be allowed to enter the draft because it allows for more financial opportunities. The quicker these athletes get to the NBA, the quicker they can financially secure their friends and family, as well as themselves. For example, LeBron James signed a multi-million-dollar deal worth $12.96 Million straight out of high school to the league. Prior to this signing, he already had signed endorsement deals worth more than $100 million, with companies like Nike and Upper Deck Trading Cards. Following Black 2 closely behind came a deal with sports drink giant Powerade, who is owned by Coke (Rovell). With all these endorsements, which total up to be much greater than the NBA contract itself, it allowed for LeBron James to build his name not only for himself but for his family and close friends. These financial opportunities allowed for some his closest childhood friends, in particular Maverick Carter, Randy Mims and Rich Paul, to come along with LeBron on a very prosperous journey not only as friends, but also as business partners. Mav Carter was a guest speaker at the Harvard Business School back in September of 2015 and there, he shared story behind LRMR, the firm that James established with his friends in 2005 to manage all the marketing and business opportunities that came his (McMenamin). Correspondingly, the most elite high school basketball players should be allowed to enter the NBA Draft because it allows players to invest their time in immediate success and prosperity, rather than having it postponed by one year of college. Many of these athletes come from impoverished communities and if they are shown to have some sort of success coming from such a negative environment, then people will have hope and become more determined to be somebody and make the most out of their life, despite their upbringings. You see this with many young stars who were successful out of high school, for example Kevin Big Garnett who grew up in Greenville, South Carolina, which at the time, was still enduring racial tensions. He was arrested the summer before his senior year for witnessing a fight between white and black students. He was arrested for second degree lynching, but the charge was dropped through pretrial intervention. He went on to win an NBA Championship with the Boston Celtics in 2008 and became the highest paid player in NBA history after 20 seasons (Bunn). He also has donated $1.2 Million dollars to the Katrina Relief Fund. 11-time NBA All Star and 2007- Black 3 08 Defensive Player of the Year presented by Kia Motors is being honored for donating more than 600 Celtics tickets to Boston Public School students during the month of April through his Big Ticket Challenge. passion to help young people overcome obstacles prompted him to create a new initiative that encourages local at-risk students to excel in school, while offering them the opportunity to attend Celtics games and the chance to meet the (NBA). Lastly, the most elite high school players should have a chance to enter the draft because the NCAA makes billions of dollars off the athletes, who are the ones earning the revenue. If a player is destined for greatness and wealth from the NBA, why make them dedicate 40 to 60 hours a week to the game if they are not being properly compensated? It would be more of a benefit than a disservice to compensate these athletes, who perform in nationally televised games. television revenue, ticket and jersey sales, likeness promotions and other sources of income go to the NCAA, the schools, the coaches, the event staffs and everyone else involved in the for the athletes creating the value. Last year, the NCAA basketball tournament generated $1.15 billion in television ads, well beyond the revenue generated by the NFL and NBA playoffs, according to (Johnson). In contrast, the opposing argument is that these high school athletes should not go to the NBA because they are not mature enough, there are too many bad influences, and they do not have good enough work ethic, which will get worse as they get more money. Maturity is needed to manage all the wealth and finances, as well as not letting the wrong people take advantage of Black 4 the athlete due to his success. Many believe this immature attitude to flash money and spend outlandishly leads to players going bankrupt and losing passion, and work ethic for the game of basketball. Kwame Brown, a former first-overall pick, is the perfect example of a high school player with not enough maturity. He was a major laughing stock of the Los Angeles Lakers franchise, and his lack of readiness for the league led to a short career in the NBA (Bae). But he developed throughout the first three years of his career where he began to show dominance, hustle and determination, using his size to his advantage. Even though he came to the NBA physically unprepared, financially he was able to take care of the ones closest to him while he developed. If he were to stay in college, he would not have earned anywhere near the amount of money he made in the league. To concur, I believe the most elite high school basketball players should be allowed to enter the NBA Draft because it provides more financial opportunities, it allows them to invest time into immediate success, and the NCAA is a multi-billion-dollar industry in which the players are not properly compensated. The opportunities that lie ahead for these athletes are endless, as TV, and other branding is growing internationally. If they are destined for greatness, why hold them from that destiny. In the near future, the NBA can do a better job of presenting other options such as transitioning to overseas play. Black 5 Works Cited Bunn, Curtis. After Getting Arrested In a Race Riot, Kevin Garnett Drove Himself to Escape Rural S.C. and Become Highest-Paid Player In NBA  Atlanta Black Star. N.p., 24 Feb. 2015. Web. 20 Apr. 2017. Chung, Aaron. Top 10 NBA Busts Drafted Out of High  TheRichest. N.p., 26 Mar. 2014. Web. 20 Apr. 2017. Garnett Launches 4XL -- For Excellence in  THE OFFICIAL SITE OF THE MINNESOTA TIMBERWOLVES. N.p., n.d. Web. 20 Apr. 2017. Garnett Launches 4XL -- For Excellence in  THE OFFICIAL SITE OF THE MINNESOTA TIMBERWOLVES. N.p., n.d. Web. 20 Apr. 2017. Johnson, StudentNation Greg. The NCAA Makes Billions and Student Athletes Get None of  The Nation. N.p., 29 June 2015. Web. 20 Apr. 2017. LeBron Signs Max Rookie Deal with  ESPN.com. N.p., n.d. Web. 20 Apr. 2017. Friends Are Seeing Success,  ESPN. ESPN Internet Ventures, 30 Sept. 2014. Web. 20 Apr. 2017. NBA Draft  DraftSite: The Original Full Round Mock Draft Site. N.p., n.d. Web. 20 Apr. 2017. Rohan Oprisko June 12, Aanchal Johri Oct. 12, March 13, Josh Schmidt Feb. 6, Katelin Montgomery and Josh Schmidt Feb. 6, Claire Sleigh Feb. 2, and Claire Sleigh Dec. 19. Silver Chips Online : High School Athletes Should Go to College, Not the Pro Level. N.p., n.d. Web. 20 Apr. 2017.