1 Thiago Leal Figueira Instructor: Sabah Firoz Uddin ENC 1101 Composition I Labor market effects of high skilled immigrants Immigration is a polemic subject, particularly in the United States. The topic has been recently discussed in the country, but it is definitely not a recent phenomenon. Giovanni Peri says that from lower-income to higher-income countries has actually been a steady force operating at a roughly constant rate during the last 50 (Peri, 3). The polemic has two distinct aspects: one social and other economic. From a social point of view, immigrants come from other countries bringing different cultures, thoughts, and physical features. They can promote a healthy cultural exchange or they may not be well accepted and issues related to racism may appear. But one of the main discussions concerning immigration is about its economic aspects, and what effects it has on native wages and job opportunities. However, despite these concerns, the immigration of high skilled professionals in the United States has presented no labor market impact over the past two decades. These economic impacts of immigrant have been debated by scholars, with divergent positions. In Labor Market Competition and Individual Preferences over Immigration Policy, the authors Kenneth Scheve and Matthew Slaughter say that in a analysis, a framework often used by labor economists researching immigration, predicts that immigrants pressure the wages of similarly skilled natives (Scheve and Slaughter, 133). The the authors mention is a terminology for a closed economy model. In this approach, immigrants are considered perfect substitutes for native workers and they pose as labor market competitors 2 (Hainmueller et al., 194). The author April Linton, agrees with Scheve and Slaughter about the economic effects, when a competition scenario is present, and she says that increase in the number of comparably skilled would decrease the wages and employment opportunities of natives they (Linton 59). So, according to the authors, immigrants are predicted to have negative economic effects if playing a role of competitors. However, these predictions are made using a closed economy model, which does not take international trade market into consideration. If one uses an open economy model to study the impacts of immigration, the results may be a lot different. In the paper Do Concerns About Labor Market Competition Shape Attitudes Toward Immigration? New Evidence, Jens Hainmueller, et al. say that offsets the impact of immigration as the economy adjusts to any change in factor supplies by importing less of the goods that can now be produced locally at a lower (Hainmueller et al., 194). It means that the immigrants might supply a labor force that was not present in the country before, working in a sector that used to import some good or perform part of a service overseas. Their presence would make possible for this good or service to be performed within the country, thus, reducing costs. In this situation, the immigrants would play a role of labor market complements. The impact on U.S. born wages and job opportunities would be neglected and there would even be positive economic effects. Provided these theoretical predictions, it is needed to determine which of the roles high skilled immigrants have been actually playing in the United States labor market: or (Linton, 58). Despite divergent theoretical predictions, scholars have found that immigrants have had no economic impact over the last decades. The cited author April Linton, who works as an analyst at the Office of 3 Foreign Assistance Resources, Planning & Performance in the U.S. Department of State, say in one of her papers that occupational distribution of the foreign born is indeed quite different from that of (Linton, 59). It means that, within the United States, immigrants usually take job positions that are different from the ones that U.S. born workers do. This way, high skilled foreigners has been complementing the market, providing a needed labor force that was not full filled before them. Other scholars, like Noel Gaston and Douglas Nelson corroborate this position, and say that is essentially no consistent evidence of labor market effects from (Gaston and Nelson, 105). This claim helps to evidence that high skilled immigrants have not affected native wages and job opportunities in the U.S. Even the authors Malhotra et al., who support the counter argument that immigration is economic harmful, admit that the negative effects are not prevalent among population and there is no evidence found to support the claim (Malhotra et al., 392). One of the possible explanations for high skilled immigrants not affecting the U.S. labor market may be found in the way they enter in the country. Most of foreigners work with a H1-B visa or a permanent resident status. According to the United Department of labor, H1-B visas are only issued if the department certifies that the job position is going to be offered with income least equal to the actual wage paid by the employer to other workers with similar experience and qualifications for the job in (H-1B Program). Additionally, for the permanent residency, the department needs to issue a certificate stating that are not sufficient U.S. workers able, willing, qualified and available to accept the job opportunity in the area of intended (Permanent Labor Certification). It means that the U.S. immigration laws, which have not had big changes since the act of 1990 (History of U.S. Immigration Laws), assure that immigration happens when it is not harmful to U.S. labor force. This 4 way, high skilled immigrants that have been allowed in the U.S. pose as labor market complements and not competitors. In view thereof, the supporting evidence shows that high skilled immigrants has presented no effect on U.S. wages and employment opportunities in the last decades. Despite divergent theoretical predictions, they have been complemented the labor market in the country. Scholars agree that there are no evidence found of economic negative effects and the U.S. laws already contributes for that. High skilled immigrants fill positions that native labor force cannot fully supply and their presence contribute to meet the market needs. 5 Works Cited Gaston, Noel and Nelson, Douglas. Immigration and Labor-Market Outcomes in the United States: A Political-Economy  Oxford Review of Economic Policy, vol. 16, no. 3, 2000, pp. 104-114. United States Department of Labor. n,d. Web. 13 Apr. 2017. Hainmueller, Jens, Michael J. Hiscox, and Yotam Margalit. Do Concerns About Labor Market Competition Shape Attitudes Toward Immigration? New  Journal Of International Economics, vol. 97, 2015, pp. 193-207. of U.S. Immigration FAIR. Federation for American Immigration Reform. n,d. Web. 13 Apr. 2017. Linton, April. Immigration And The Structure Of Demand: Do Immigrants Alter The Labor Market Composition Of U.S.  International Migration Review, vol. 36, no. 1, 2002, pp. 23-58. Malhotra, Neil, Margalit, Yotam and Hyunjung, Cecilia. Economic Explanations for Opposition to Immigration: Distinguishing between Prevalence and Conditional  American Journal of Political Science, vol. 57, no. 2, 2013, pp. 391- 410.77 Peri, Giovanni. Immigrants, Productivity, and Labor  Journal of Economic Perspectives, vol. 30, no. 4, 2016, pp. 3-30. Labor United States Department of Labor. n,d. Web. 13 Apr. 2017. 6 Scheve, Kenneth F., and Slaughter, Matthew J. Labor Market Competition and Individual Preferences over Immigration  The Review of Economics and Statistics, vol. 83, no. 1, 2001, pp. 133-145.