Prem Patel 1 Prem Patel Sabah Firoz Uddin ENC 1101 04/24/17 The dangers of the internet and handheld technology devices on the children. The development of technology has become an important part of humanity, it keeps us connected with the outside world and each other with social media. With this development, the children of our time have adapted to it and are using more technology and handheld devices. The internet is a great tool to learn about things that are currently happening in the world and the unknown, when used in small amounts at a time and while supervised. The amount of technology and handheld devices that children are using now, lends them to become more and more dependent on the internet for information and everyday use. The use of too much handheld devices and the internet can also lead to emotional and physical problems over the years. While technology is a great tool to learn about the unknown, the amount of usage that the children have adapted to can be dangerous for their young and developing minds. Children have become more dependent on the internet for their everyday questions, they have started to use their handheld devices for anything and everything they need. This leads to the children becoming more dependent on the internet for any questions one might have. They will dependent on their handheld devices for homework questions. This leads to the children not learning anything because they just find the answer on or other websites. They will not learn how to solve the problem on their own and learn the steps to the math problem or the question to their history homework. While these children are using the internet for questions they might have they are also being exposed to millions of other things that is vulgar and Prem Patel 2 inappropriate for the children and their developing mind. The internet can access any type of information and when children are not supervised they are able to access all types of information like, violent media, sexual predators, and pornography. Information like this can be dangerous for children and their minds especially when their brains are still growing and developing. The children are also able to use the internet to contact and talk to people over the whole world. This can be harmful because they can be talking and engaging with predators and other dangerous people without even knowing. With this development of technology and the usage of technology on younger children it also leads to many emotional and physical problems. Children are able to enter chat room and talk to anyone and everyone in that room. This leads to predators being able to lure children and communicate with them. While the children are using these chat rooms that are also able to talk to other children which over time leads to cyberbullying. In the past years, the numbers for cyber bullying have increased. This is caused by children using the internet and handheld devices without supervision. This also leads to emotional problems for children because they are bullied and they inform anyone. Only half of the children bullied will report it to their parents or higher authorities. The numbers for this are extremely low because the children are scared of what will happen and the children do not communicate with their parents. Children are not developing social skills that are required to be developed at a young age. Children are isolating their selves from other children and even their families. They rather be playing on their handheld devices than talk to their families. They are also not going outside and interacting with other children and making new friends. They stay indoors and play on the internet and chat with the unknown strangers on the internet. This leads to mental and emotional problems like depression and loneliness. The fact that children are not developing social skills is Prem Patel 3 not the only problem of not going out and engaging with other children. Physical problems are another danger of not going out. Children are not getting the recommended amount of exercise a day. They are staying indoors and playing on their handheld devices and playing on the internet. This leads to children obesity, and other health problems. In the best 10 years, the numbers of the children not going out to play sports has decreases dramatically. This means that children are not getting the recommended amount of fresh air and exercises they need to be healthy, which also effects children growth at their developing ages. On the other hand, the internet is a great tool to learn about things that are currently happing in the whole world and the unknown. When supervised the internet is a great tool to learn about almost anything, it holds almost any type of data ever. It helps the people and the children stay knowledgeable about the world around them. It good for receiving live news about everything around them. The internet is also a great tool for education, in countries like Africa where education is rare and expensive the internet helps with the cost. Since all you need is a computer to use the internet it is a great cheap way to learn from. Countries like Africa use the internet instead of textbooks because it holds almost any information needed and it is always up to date, while textbooks get outdated over two to three years. As we humans evolve the amount of technology we use increases, and the children of our time have adapted to the amount of technology they use. The children have dramatically increased the amount of the internet and handheld devices they use. Children are becoming more and more dependent on the internet to answer all questions they might have including homework questions, which leads to them not learning but only finding the answer. The amount of technology they use also has a huge impact on their emotional, physical, and social behavior. These minds are adapting to only the internet and technology at a very young age with Prem Patel 4 can be harmful for the developing mind. While technology is a great tool to learn from, when unsupervised and too much of it is used at a time it quickly becomes an extremely dangerous tool for the developing minds of the young. Prem Patel 5 Work Cited Agarwal, Vivek. J. Indian Assoc. Child Adolesc. Ment. Health 2012; 8 (2):38-45 (n.d.): n. pag. ERIC. of Indian Association for Child and Adolescent Mental 2013. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Blumenfeld, Warren, and Richard P. Zemsky. Cyberbullying and Effects on LGBTQ Youth  The Good Men Project. The Good Men Project, 20 Apr. 2017. Web. 24 Apr. 2017. Cook, Jia-Rui. Digital Technology Can Be Harmful to Your  UCLA Newsroom. UCLA Newsroom, 29 Mar. 2016. Web. 24 Apr. 2017. Cyber Bullying  Bullying Statistics. Bullying Statistics, 07 July 2015. Web. 24 Apr. 2017. Goldschmidt, Karen. Are Pediatric Nurses Advocating for The Impact of Technology Use on  Sciencedirect. Elsevier Inc., Aug. 2010. Web. 24 Mar. 2017 Kevin, Clark. Impact of Technology on the Academic Self-Efficacy and Career Selection of African American  Information Technology in Childhood Education.; 2003, P79-89, 11p, 2003. Web. 25 Mar. 2017. Mesman, Glenn R., Dennis Z. Kuo, John L. Carroll, and Wendy L. Ward. The Impact of Technology Dependence on Children and Their  Science Direct. Mosby, Inc., Nov.- Dec. 2013. Web. 27 Feb. 2017