Ghabour 1 Adam Ghabour Professor Uddin English Composition 25 April 2017 Student-athletes deserve to be paid Founded in 1906, The National Collegiate Athletics Association (NCAA), gives athletes the opportunity to go to school for free. It was not until the that the question of whether these athletes should be paid started to be talked about more and more by the general public. Considering the amount of work it takes to be a top athlete, it requires consideration. While athletes work on the court/field, they also generate enormous amounts of money for their respective school. Consider Kentucky basketball for example, every year they are one of the top teams in the country, having made appearances in the NCAA tournament final four from 2011-2015 and winning the National Championship in 2012. With that said, the answer to the question of whether student-athletes should be paid has gone from irrational, to quite reasonable over time. There are simply too many facts nowadays to overlook when it comes to what the student-athletes deserve. When you put it all together, if an athlete is performing well on the field/court and generating revenue for their school, as well as earning good grades in the classroom, they deserve to be paid for this. Over the many years of the existence nobody ever thought about paying student-athletes. But when the discussion first came up, there was a simple answer agreed upon by no. No, student-athletes should not be paid. Now the discussion is different because Ghabour 2 of just how the sports have changed the universities they represent, says assistant professor at Bowling Green State University, Raymond Schneider. Schneider says athletics have changed dramatically over the past ninety-five years. Presently intercollegiate athletics generate tremendous amounts of gross revenue, especially football and basketball (Schneider, 232). It seems that a large part of what has spurred protests by athletes and others, is the cause and basis to do so. That basis to do so, stems from the fact that many athletes struggle financially and are forced to go through struggles in their livelihood that nobody should have to go through. Jake Butt, an All-American Tight End for the university of Michigan football team, has been outspoken on the topic. Butt has long protested for more athlete rights, and given his big name in the college football world, many people have noticed. Recently Butt spoke out via twitter saying make the school any money? We have bare minimum living expenses paid for when a billion dollar industry? What more do we Butt makes the argument for just how much money they do make their schools and that they are not rewarded properly. Amber Smokowski, a writer for the supports argument in saying NCAA is providing bare minimum to a group of some of the most talented college athletes, disregarding all that athletes bring to a college including, but not limited to, the millions of dollars in revenue that they provide the school every argument goes further, not in the case of Jake Butt, but in more serious situations where athletes cannot afford basic living utilities. In many cases, athletes are poorer than most regular students. The struggles that some go through could be solved if they received the money some believe they deserve. Still, Dan Dakich, a reporter, recently tweeted that athletes complain about being when they Ghabour 3 work 20 hours a week and twenty-sixty thousand dollars. Dakich refers to the scholarship that athletes receive. But in the case of Harris, that scholarship is irrelevant when it comes to basic living needs. Harris, now in the NFL earning over 1 million dollars per year, responded to tweet saying year in college me and a friend slept in a 2 door Pontiac G6 for a semester, goin couch to couch on good days. And you were Harris states he often did not have a suitable place to sleep, and he went further, saying that he up water on the stove to take Accounts such as these are a big reason that this topic is being talked about more and more nowadays. A big part of the problem though, is the question of who would compensate the student-athletes. Walch writes in athletes be paid to on usatoday.com that logistics of this idea are just too unrealistic. First, who pays the athletes? The school, the conference, or the NCAA This is a very intriguing question, and perhaps the biggest obstacle in the way of student-athletes eventually being paid. Some organization, whether it be the themselves, or the NCAA, would have to take a step forward and agree to compensate the athletes further. With that said, it can be expected that someday, someone out there will say enough is enough and really push for this to happen, because after all, these student-athletes are generating loads of money for their schools. Because of the student-athletes, the NCAA and television companies as well can make money off of their performance. A few years ago a 10.8 Billion dollar deal was struck the NCAA and CBS/Turner SPorts for March Madness between 2011 and says Michael Wilbon who is a member of ESPN, the famous sports networking company. This deal was created recently and speaks to just how big of an entertainment business the sports world has Ghabour 4 become. Although this deal does nothing to benefit the student-athletes, it does help spread their exploitation by various groups such as the NCAA and TV businesses.This in turn will help influence the conversation to gain more attention. With more and more publicity and outreach the conversation has spread, and various people are pushing for more athletes rights, and the right to be paid. Dr. Earl Smith, a professor of sociology at Wake Forest University, supports athletes such as Jake Butt and Harris. Smith says is not contested is that current research is showing that the value of the sport scholarship is insufficient for all of the (Smith, 3). This is precisely what many are arguing, and on the basis of Smith is in agreement. The majority of athletes do not come from money, and the tiny bit of support by their University that they do receive simply is not enough. Tyler Brown writes in Athletics Internships: The Case for Academic Credit in College essentially echoing the words of Jake Butt in saying minimal benefits appear particularly inequitable when contrasted with the billions of revenue dollars flowing to the NCAA and its member- institutions because of the hyper-commercialization of college (Brown, 1858). Athletes provide so much, not only for the NCAA, but also their respective schools and deserve a reward. The entertainment business that NCAA basketball and football have become should be recognized. In opposition to the past, nowadays the sports are seen more as entertainment than competition, with their purpose being to bring in billions for their respective universities. Yes, student-athletes that succeed, put in a ton of effort, but the argument for getting paid simply would not exist if they were not the source of immense amounts of money for their university. With the influx of research that is being done nowadays, it is time for a renovation in Ghabour 5 the NCAA sports world. Schools should not have the right to require as much as they do from their athletes, take from them, and then not provide any compensation outside of a scholarship to attend the school. It is time that student-athletes bring in what they deserve, not what one may think they deserve, but what the facts now show they deserve. Ghabour 6 Work Cited Co-host, Michael Wilbon Pardon the Interruption. Athletes Deserve to Be Internet Ventures, 18 July 2011. Web. 07. Apr. 2017 Schneider, Raymond G. Perception On The Payment Of Intercollegiate Student Journal (2011): 232. Search Premier. 13 Feb. 2017. Smith, Earl. College Athletes Be Paid To Play? (june 23, 2011 Diverse issues In Higher Education (2011): 3. OneFile 29 Jan. 2017. Smokowski, Amber. NCAA Athletes Deserve To Be 29 June 2015. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Tyler Brown, M. Athletics Internships: The Case for Academic Credit in College University Law Review 63, no. 6 Aug. 2014, p. 1855 Ghabour 7 Walch, Jared. Athletes Be Paid to Today. Satellite Information Network, 20 Oct. 2016. Web. 15 Apr. 2017.