Cuartas 1 Cristhian Cuartas Lorie Jewell Enc1101 25 April 2017 Abortion: Two Sides To A Story Everything is divided in two. A husband and a spouse, right and wrong, justice and injustice. For every argument, there is a counterargument.In the political world, there are two major parties, the Republicans and Democrats. When it comes to the topic of abortion, these two factions have been vying for control over its regulation for decades. Varying court cases changed the political atmosphere with each outcome. Law restrictions make it almost impossible to acquire an abortion. The political party roles play a major part on how influential abortion is in politics.It all depends on the majority and which party they reside with. Each party brings a different plate to the table. The Republican party now controls the government,with their stance arguing that abortions are inhumane and presents conflict with religious beliefs people are starting to believe that the legalization might be overturned, but abortion remains legal and will remain legal. Over his lifetime accruing up to six distinct awards for publications,a sociology professor at the New York University,Michael Hout,published an article regarding the politics of abortion in the United States from 1972-1974 giving the reader a taste of what it was like to be alive at the time of the legalization of abortion and the power of the ruling of Roe vs Wade. the Supreme decision in the case of Roe v. Wade, many voters chose to vote for or against Cuartas 2 candidates based on their stand regarding abortion laws (Hout 4). The political climate went on a frenzy when abortion was legalized.Presidents Jimmy Carter and Ronald Reagan (Hout 3) both advocated for a different perspective on the topic during their campaign for the presidency. During the 1980 election, Carter sided with the Democratic party belief on abortion while Reagan stuck with the Republican party believe on abortion. Political sides on the issue at hand played a key role in the election for the term. To give a glimpse of what the majority favor at the time the conclusion to the election ended with Reagan winning the race. President Reagan was against abortion due to his beliefs.The majority of the people at the time after the legalization were for a president that was against abortion.Not always does the Republican party triumph over the Democratic party. Even though Americans can elect a Republican majority into power the laws remain the same. Abortion remains legal. Laurie Shrage, a professor of philosophy at Florida International University and author of 4 published books, said she believes the reader is given an insight view on how the two major political parties exploit the abortion issue to pursue electoral (Shrage 67). Abortion taking its shape in political parties made a huge impact on the outcome of voters due to their beliefs. use the abortion issue to forge coalitions with right-wing and fundamentalist Christian voters. Democrats use it to attract women (Shrage 67). As one group exploited the religious aspect of the issue the other focused on rights to gain followers. The political parties took this opportunity to portray their ideals in campaign ads as well as buy into many of the other organizations stands on the matter. Such as the Democratic party advocating female organizations to gain favoritism (Shrage 67). For the Democratic party,women had the right to choice. They believed that women should be able to make the Cuartas 3 decision without political or government interference. The Republican party begged to differ focusing on the religious and life value aspect to the argument. The only thing wrong with that scenario is the fact that women would not be able to have a say in their believes, but their beliefs are not the ones giving birth or carrying a child for nine months. In one of the latest articles published by Clark Forsyth, who has published over twelve titles in his lifetime, focuses on the intertwine of the political and medical premise over the topic of abortion. The article mentions different abortion cases that impacted the political climate. the public knows as v. is really two cases, Roe v. Wade and Doe v. Bolton. The companion case of Doe v. Bolton has been regularly (Forsyth 189) mentions the case that nobody speaks of. In this case, abortion was overturned in a state leading to controversy in many other states. adopting the mantra that is safer than the Justices have operated since Roe with the assumption that health concerns are a one-way ratchet in favor of access to (Forsyth 199). After the two major cases, many cases on the matter of abortion lead to a very similar repetitive route. These court cases were then put to use by political parties to raise awareness on their sides beliefs and gain followers. In the 2016 article by David Rosenthal a Rutgers University graduate and the author focuses on the constitutional and government affects on continue to pass regulations burdening the abortion (Rosenthal 1) meaning that states pass more laws making it nearly impossible to acquire an approval on an abortion. Prices being blown way out of proportions and rigorous requirements that need fulfilling before even having a shot. Not only does the article mention many of the state regulations on the matter it includes many cases involving the topic of abortion. Many controversial topics that are not heard of but impact the Cuartas 4 abortion regulations massively. Including cases such as Doe vs Bolton where the law legalizing abortion in Georgia was overturned, Stenberg vs Carhart which banned Partial-Birth Abortion, Gonzales vs Carhart where the Partial-Birth Abortion was overturned and many others (Rosenthal 8-10). Greg D. Adams, a professor at the University of Utah, has an economic ph.D. from Berkeley and is an author of more than seven other peer-reviewed academic articles. In his article Evidence of an Issue he states, reputation for each stance on abortion among party elites has grown clearer and more distinct over the last 20 years... At the mass level, people have changed their party identification in a manner consistent with their attitudes on (Adams 718). Elites being the main political figures such as the president political appointees, candidates for major and minor offices(Adams 719). Masses are all the others involved in the political representations. The author states many statistics that he is revised on abortions contribution towards political standings. The main point is the fact that abortion is mostly impacted by the parties. The effects on abortion policies is decided ultimately by who you vote for, Democratic or Republican. Marshall H. Medoff was a professor of economics at the University of California, received his doctorate from UC Berkeley and before his passing published many articles. In his article he the US Supreme 1992 Planned Parenthood of Southeastern Pennsylvania V. Casey decision, states have been given increasing discretion to enact laws regulating abortion access provided that the laws do not impose an undue burden on a access to an 1). In more modern times the government has made it nearly impossible for women to qualify or afford an abortion. The author states that many of the Cuartas 5 restrictions and laws are intended to prevent an abortion. What is the point of making it legal if it is almost impossible to be attained?The author states: Restrictive abortion laws may increase the monetary costs (e.g., expenses on travel and accommodations, lost work time, child care expenses) and the emotional costs (e.g., guilt, shame, regret, remorse, psychological trauma) incurred by women seeking an abortion....may have a spillover effect on abortion demand due to the increase in the price of an abortion that may result from the higher costs imposed on abortion ... may decrease the availability of abortion services by reducing the number of abortion providers resulting in an increase in both search costs in locating an abortion provider and the time costs associated with obtaining an abortion. Restrictive abortion laws increase the effective total cost (the monetary and nonmonetary costs) to women of obtaining an abortion.(Medoff 4) These are just some of the few examples of implications that make abortion far from attainable. The way to make an impact is to choose the right political party based on what you believe in. The Democratic party might fight for Abortion to remain legal but the Republican majority in office will make sure to do as much possible to cause implications in the process. In the political world, there are two major parties, the Republicans and Democrats. The political party roles, court cases, as well as varying laws and restrictions all play a key role on how influential abortion is towards the political climate. There are two sides to abortion, Republican or Democrat. You can not make a change but your political party can. Cuartas 6 Works Cited Adams, Greg D. Abortion: Evidence Of An Issue  American Journal Of Political Science 41.3 (1997): 718. Business Source Premier. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Forsythe, Clark. The Medical Assumption At The Foundation Of Roe V. Wade & Its Implications For Womenfs  Issues In Law & Medicine 29.2 (2014): 183-230. Business Source Alumni Edition. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Hout, Michael. Abortion Politics In The United States, 1972-1994: From Single Issue To  Gender Issues 17.2 (1999): 3. Academic Search Premier. Web. 5 Feb. 2017 Medoff, Marshall H. State Abortion Policy And Unintended Birth Rates In The United  Social Indicators Research 129.2 (2016): 589-600. PsycINFO. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Rosenthal, David L. Refocusing The Undue Burden Test: Inconsistent Interpretations Pose A Substantial Obstacle To Constitutional  Issues In Law & Medicine 31.1 (2016): 3-27. Business Source Alumni Edition. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Shrage, Laurie et. al Electoral Politics And  Dissent (00123846) 50.4 (2003): 67-80. Education Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 5 Feb. 2017.