Amor 1 Jennifer Amor Dr. Hanson ENC 1102 30 April 2017 Reform Immigration System The United States has always been a melting pot of cultures, and millions of people from around the globe still immigrate to the U.S. every year. There are many different outlooks on the topic of immigration which makes the right compromise hard to find. How do we change the immigration system without compromising both the safety of Americans and incoming immigrants? The high influx of immigrants can bring more cultural progress to America and keep the afloat. However, there have been many arguments about how immigration can compromise the safety of Americans. While both sides of the argument have a reasonable view on immigration, their process to change the immigration system is extremely harsh and an unreasonable task to fulfill. That is where a compromise is needed to actually change the current process of immigration. To make both Americans and immigrants feel safe in the U.S., it is necessary to create a stronger border while allowing for more immigrant rights. By contacting your local government officials, supporting the right organizations, or simply helping a friend, you could help contribute to the growth of our country. The high influx of immigrants has brought many problematic topics to the surface including the safety of Americans and immigrants. One of the reasons why illegal immigration is such a big problem is because illegal aliens who abide by immigration laws will rarely abide by regular citizenship laws such as theft Security and Public This is why a tighter process for incoming immigrants are needed. There should be no corners to cut Amor 2 when it comes to gaining a citizenship. If immigrants had been properly identified and apprehended in the immigration process, then they could have protected countless victims. Another problem from the current immigration system is that legal immigrants receive as many or the same legal rights as any other American citizen would. After achieving citizenship immigrants still feel threatened with deportation and are still being discriminated. This is a type of that should not be necessary if an immigrant has achieved complete citizenship. To help rid of the legal discrimination there should be organizations such as the National Immigration Project that community resource materials to build greater awareness about enforcement actions and the toll exacted upon We Keeping the public informed about their rights, whether they are citizens or not, will enable the progress of a better citizenship process. The current immigration system is harsh at places it needs to be relaxed such as immigrant rights and laid back when it needs to be strict such as border security. Events consisting of terrorist attacks spurred from hate are examples of what could have been prevented through tighter border security. This will be used to make sure that the most deserving immigrants are granted citizenship. Just as there is a chance for unlawful crimes committed by illegal immigrants, they also have an equal amount of opportunity to positively affect our society. In terms of the United States economy, legal and illegal immigrants are more beneficial because of the taxes they pay and public assistance benefits they receive (Klassen 1). The problem is finding the right amount of security to prevent national safety threats while allowing a steady flow of immigrants into the country. One example of how the flow of immigrants can be balanced is through working visas. Currently, working visas are only granted for positions that could not be previously filled by an already working citizen (Rissing 1106). Because of this standard, immigrants have been completing fraudulent working visas to get the Amor 3 job and then in turn take jobs away from domestic citizens. This helps to prove that the immigration process should be a bit more controlled. To do this, employers should engage in formal searches for employees already fully willing and qualified for the specific job and if there are no willing citizens, then turn to international workers who have been thoroughly investigated. Another example of balancing the flow of immigrants is through educational visas. An article by Julianne Hing, Are Not gives background as to how immigrants feel towards harsh anti-immigration laws. It follows one undocumented citizen/international student worried about not being able to receive an education in the United States since she is still undocumented. This feeling of fear should not be part of an immigrant with an educational visa. Ilona Bray, a specialist in immigration law states, citizens cannot be removed unless they used fraud to gain their green card or If visas were properly instituted in the first place, then there would not be a sense of attack because immigrants would already be informed about their rights. Educational visas should be available to any student who wants to pursue an education in America, but they should not be given lightly or without distinct guidelines. While working visas need to become harsher in a sense that prevents immigrants from entering and filling jobs that could have previously been filled, educational visas should become harsher in the sense that it should already foreclose the guidelines to prevent fear. Another aspect to educational visas pointed out by Hing is that many international students after completing their education want to buy a house for their family, of which is also undocumented. This is troublesome because the whole family would be living solely off of one educational visa and would find no need in becoming a citizen. This scenario also poses a threat to national safety since the relatives do not have to go through the same safety checks and protocols that a documented immigrant would. Amor 4 If the immigration policies were tightened, then there would be more leniency when it comes to rights which would then increase the safety on both ends. There would ultimately be a decrease in non citizenship crime and when crime does happen, legal immigrants will have the same legal rights as any American citizen. Keeping legal rights the same for every American will ensure that the justice system is fair and the government nor the non citizen is getting favoritism. Many things can be done by the public to help make sure this reform is set in place. The first action is to support organizations that help legal immigrant rights as well as organizations that support increasing border security. The Coalition for Humane Immigrant Rights of Los Angeles (CHIRLA) and the National Immigration Forum work immigrants through the correct citizenship process and make sure they are put into the workplace. The Heritage Foundation is an organization that provides the public with ways to help increase border security. You can also contact your local government official and ask about local, statewide, or national immigration forums to partake in. Lastly, you can help immigrants through the immigration process by volunteering at your government office. With the amount of illegal/ undocumented immigrants increasing every decade, the U.S. national security as been threatened. Ways of entering the United States such as visas have been loosely handled and need to be reformed. Educational and working visas make the need for gaining citizenship less important and unobtainable. To create a fair balance between being too rash/ loose towards immigration, there needs to be an increase of border security and legalization of undocumented immigrants. This compromise not only promotes the safety of Americans, but the safety of immigrants too. By getting involved in your local government you can help enforce structure and give back justice to the immigrants who went through the immigration process legally. Amor 5 Works Cited Bray, Ilona. Grounds of Deportability: When Legal U.S. Residents Can Be  NOLO, http://www.nolo.com/legal-encyclopedia/grounds-deportability-when-legal-us-residents- can-be-removed.html. Accessed 26 April 2017. Hing, Julianne. We Are Not  Nation, vol. 303, no. 23/24, 05 Dec. 2016, pp. 21-25. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/ login.aspx?direct=true&db=eue&AN=119520651&site=eds-live. Klassen, Jeff. Immigration and U.S.  Research Starters: Sociology (Online Edition), 2015. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx? direct=true&db=ers&AN=89185537&site=eds-live. Security and Public Immigration Reform Law Institute. http://www.irli.org/national-security-public-safety. Accessed 23 Jan. 2017. Rissing, Ben A. and Emilio J. Castilla. Testing  ILR Review, vol. 69, no. 5, Oct. 2016, pp. 1081-1113. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1177/0019793916639550. We National Immigration Project. https://www.nationalimmigrationproject.org/ programs.html. Accessed 23 Jan. 2017.