Reed 1 Jordan Reed Professor Ricketts ENC 1101-010 9 April 2017 Whether or not teachers should be allowed to carry guns in school is a very controversial topic that has sparked interest because of all the school shootings that have happened over the years. Dozens of people have died from school shootings and this is becoming a main concern and needs to be addressed immediately. While several different articles tackle the issue and explore the pros and cons of this topic, most of them lean towards not having guns in school and this is a valid idea because of all the alternatives that are possible instead of arming teachers in school. One alternative is hiring school resource officers in school that have training of protecting people while being armed. Although teachers with guns in school may be helpful for schools, teachers armed in school may have a negative effect on the students learning and also an effect on teachers; therefore, teachers should not be able to carry firearms in school. Arming teachers in school is a very risky move because of all the security alternatives a school can have and may be worse because of the amount of trust and power a teacher would have carrying a weapon around children that may irritate them at any moment. Also arming teachers would also be a distraction to the children in the school and really hurt the learning process of the kids in school, who may be preoccupied with the thought of their instructor carrying a deadly weapon. An article by Jennifer Fredrick published in 1999 discusses many alternatives to arming teachers and harps on the idea of teachers not having guns in school; some of the alternatives addressed in this Reed 2 article are putting security guards around the school for safety of the kids, installing metal detectors so no student or teacher may come into the school with any harmful weapons, and also having a search of lockers and backpacks to make sure no foul play is going on inside the school. Installing metal detectors or searching lockers could help prevent students or any faculty from bringing dangerous weapons to school, or stop anything from potentially happening during school. More security will be enough to help keep schools safe from people harming kids and students with guns. Similarly, with more security, teachers and school officials would not have to worry about the liability they would have for the students because of the weapons on their person if teachers were armed. Tyler article published in 2010 provides specific information on the acts passed to not arm teachers that would actually increase security in schools, which would better benefit the schools. Congress created an act called Gun-Free schools; this act mandated that possessing a firearm on school grounds is a felony offense. Since this act senators have proposed additional legislation to decrease school violence and upgrade school safety programs. Passing this legislation is important to protect schools and may encourage administration to budget school money towards better protection in the form of armed resource officers, searching of lockers, and metal detectors being placed before students walk into school. The counterargument to not arming teachers would be to allow teachers to carry guns in school. This counterargument does share in common the goal of the opposite side of the debate: the safety and security of students and staff while in school, but attempts to defend students in a different way. An article by Danielle Weatherby published in 2015 conveys the opposite side of not arming teachers and addresses the proposed bills after Reed 3 the Sandy Hook Elementary crisis, and if passed would authorize some school teachers to carry guns in school. Currently, eleven states have showed interest in this bill and passed it in fighting the war against school violence. However, this article fails to realize the factors that might leave students in school more at risk of being harmed. Teachers may be undertrained, unpredictable people who may snap and do something they would regret in the long run, and having deadly weapons in the close proximity of vulnerable students on a daily basis could prove to be extremely dangerous. If students knew their teachers were armed they would always be afraid of them just because of what they could possibly do with a weapon. Similarly, teachers are not formally trained to use a firearm as a police officer and might shoot innocent people by accident due to their inexperience. This is why another solution must be figured out in order to protect students without giving teachers guns. Arming teachers in school is something that could hurt and put at risk a lot of people in the school system from the students to the teachers and even the parents of students. Some may argue that this could be an effective way to make sure students are safe but in reality it is actually a very ineffective way of ensuring school safety because of the threat it would pose to students due to the lack of training that teachers have as well as the distraction it will have on the students. Arming teachers would practically turn schools into prisons because kids being stuck inside classrooms while supervised by an instructor carrying a deadly weapon is just like a convict being inside the cell of a jailhouse or prison. This is the serious effect and risk society could take if teachers were armed. Anything could go wrong with a weapon in school on anybody trained or not Reed 4 trained, and there are so many safer options that would not put lives at risk. Reed 5 Works Cited Frederick, Jennifer. CHALK TALK: Do As I Say, Not As I Do: Why Teachers Should Not Be Allowed To Carry Guns On School  Journal Of Law & Education 28.(1999): 139. LexisNexis Academic: Law Reviews. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Pratt, Tyler. The Fourth Shortcomings For Police During School  Valparaiso University Law Review 44.(2010): 1095. LexisNexis Academic: Law Reviews. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Weatherby, Danielle. Opening The Arming Teachers In The War Against School Violence And The Government-Created Risk  Connecticut Law Review 48.(2015): 119. LexisNexis Academic: Law Reviews. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Reed 6