Anoosh Mohsin Nancy Carr 4/7/2017 Child Sexual Abuse Are children considered equally delicate around the world? This is true that children all over the world are celebrated for their innocence, but little thought is given to what happens when that innocence is mutilated. Time bears witness of the confounding nature a human can reveal while unleashing the monster inside him on society. Children in our world are more vulnerable to sexual violence than adults, as they are weak and can easily be threatened to settle back in the shadows of silence. In this essay, I plan to argue that children in undeveloped countries are more vulnerable to sexual assault than in developed countries and the damage done to them is far worse. I will prove my argument taking into account the cultural background of these different countries and social norms that contribute to it. Underdeveloped countries are not certainly known for their law enforcement and that can definitely contribute to worsening the situation. I plan to address all possible issues that should be resolved in underdeveloped countries to control the existence of child sexual abuse. One of the largest factors of child sexual abuse in underdeveloped countries is the mentality and misogyny that is built into the fabric of the society. Males in-particular in these undeveloped are taught at a very young age that men are leaders and superior to women and that women should obey men. This allows the males to give a lesser value to women therefore not equal and not given the same rights. When the women are perceived as lesser value, then men in that society can take advantage forcefully of those women while still feeling right about their actions. This mentality also translates to age as elders are seen as wise and superior to those who are young. So whenever a young individual is met with such sexual abuse by an elder it is perceived to not question the elders acts. These acts by elders or by the males in the society can be very devastating as it would be against their favor to speak up against them. As those elders or male figures are seen as the leaders or superiors in those underdeveloped countries. Even when in a religious environment those elders end up being defended by society and the sexually abused child becomes ousted by the group in society. Minto and others saw this exact social mentality as the credibility was questioned on the accuser and not the one who was accused. psychological research on deviance has shown that group members are especially keen to derogate and reject norm-breakers within their ranks. One might expect from this research that Catholic participants would be more motivated than anybody to derogate and exclude church members who face serious and credible allegations of child sexual abuse. But across two studies we found the opposite tendency: Catholic participants were more likely than non-Catholic participants to cast doubt on the credibility of the accusations, and to defend the credibility of the Hornsey, Gillespie, Healy, & Jetten, 2016, p.12). Another common mentality that makes the child sexual abuse even worse is the societal need to be or untouched. So when a child is sexually abused and that child speaks out that child is then labeled as and unfit for society or future marriage. This is a common societal pressure that can end up being worse than the child sexual abuse itself as it can become a constant reminder and destroy the entire life of the child who was abused. Along with being considered after child sexual abuse in these underdeveloped countries the topic of rape itself is taboo to the society. If one states themselves to be a victim of child sexual abuse the societal consequence could be more harmful as the taboo topic causes people to separate ties with the victim. It is also in the mentality of the sexual abuser to put the victim down according to typically deny responsibility, minimize the seriousness of their offenses, blame their victims, react with outrage when accused and redirect attention away from their behavior...(the sexual abuser) have a belief that they are above & , Heagle, 2010, pg.14). This push of societal pressure against victims of child sexual abuse to avoid taboo topics and issues can lead to further psychological and physical damage to the victim of such heinous acts . Because of this toll most victims of child sexual abuse in these societies would rather not report such crimes to avoid the shame, isolation, ridicule, and possible threats from the attacker or other elders. Many of those who avoid reporting is because violence as they are met with cruel threats you tell anyone I will kill you/ kill your according to WHO the World Health Organization. This effect along with many other societal pressure leads to an underreporting of child sexual abuse reports in these underdeveloped countries. When a victim does report such crime and takes the risk of shame, threats, and isolation from society there is still only a small chance of actual justice. As the law enforcement on such cases are inefficient in both the punishment of the perpetrator and to the helping of the victim. This can especially be true when the perpetrator is in a high status or a well known elder in that society. Such cases can lead the child sexual abuser to no charges and no punishment as it can be seen as an illegitimate case against someone with well known reputation. There is also little to no laws on how to handle such cases of crimes which helps the perpetrator to be free of legal trouble. In the small chance that a perpetrator is convicted or charged it is still seen as not one- hundred percent their fault for the child sexual abuse. So when they do get charged they are still seen in high regard in society as the victim is devalued further in society. The majority of these issues can be seen coming from the placement of its elders. Elders in these societies are heavily honored and that leads to their unquestioned authority. a child is brought up to obey the elder, regardless of what they ask for. Rarely some elders could have very sinister demands from the child. Leaving the child devastated and isolated from the rest of society. The victim of child sexual abuse can have a range of symptoms after their attack from a declining physical health to a shrinking emotional stability. This decline in overall health for survivors of child sexual abuse was also seen by are predisposed to numerous psychiatric and somatic disorders. This population is known to have increased vulnerability to stress and the subsequent health-deteriorating consequences of lifelong 2010, p.62). This is becomes especially true in these underdeveloped countries where they become the one at fault, ousted, and with no form of help with their infliction. Overall these issues of societal pressure and lack of accountability in these underdeveloped countries lead to more cases of rape and allows the offender to continue their offenses without persecution. There are plenty of measures that could be put in place from education to laws to prevent these atrocities from happening. Teaching children that okay to speak up when an elder is doing something bad is one step along with teaching them what is acceptable behavior for an elder to have towards the child. One of the most important factors that could help victims is if the government could step in and enforce laws that prevent and punish child sexual abuse with real investigations and prosecution of the perpetrator. If the victims had the support of the system it would greatly affect their choice to speak up along with their overall health. One could argue that child sexual abuse in these underdeveloped countries are the same in developed countries. But that can quickly disproven with the absence of law and high societal pressures in these underdeveloped countries. In developed nation such as United States or Germany child sexual abuse is still a problem but it is quickly handled as law enforcement is very critical in these countries. There is also child services in these developed countries that helps bring the victim to justice and to keep them in good health. The societal pressures found in underdeveloped countries does not necessarily translate over to developed countries as the society much more understanding and open about such issues overall. The taboo of rape is not concealed in these developed countries as well, leading to openness from the victim. Overall there is a stark difference between developed and underdeveloped countries when it comes to child sexual abuse and there is a lot that can be done to prevent such acts as well as hold those responsible for their actions. References Ferder, F., & Heagle, J. (2010). The inner workings of a hierarchy with a sex offender mentality. National Catholic Reporter, 46(21), 14-16. Wilson, D. R. (2010). Health consequences of childhood sexual abuse. Perspectives In Psychiatric Care, 46(1), 56-63. doi:10.1111/j.1744-6163.2009.00238.x Minto, K., Hornsey, M. J., Gillespie, N., Healy, K., & Jetten, J. (2016). A Social Identity Approach to Understanding Responses to Child Sexual Abuse Allegations. Plos ONE, 11(4), 1-15. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0153205