Bryanna DeJorge ENC 1101 Loria Jewell 9 Apr. 2017 Social media. If you live under a rock, you would be aware that it has taken over a majority of our society, especially young adults. Although the rise of social media has allowed us to interact with people worldwide as well as let us stay constantly connected, influence the best thing that has happened to American society. Social media has caused us to lose touch of interpersonal interaction, created a whole new level of bullying and mental health issues, and has created a fake illusion of One major problem caused by social media use among adolescents especially is the simple loss of interpersonal interaction. Screen-based communication has progressively been preferred more and more over face-to-face interaction and phone calls. As humans, naturally we are neophiliacs, which means we have a constant need for novelty. We constantly need something new and exciting to happen in order to fulfill that desire. Social media, which constant updates about doing what with who gives us that fulfillment we naturally crave. Since that desire is taken care of we have the need to primarily communicate face-to-face because we get our fix behind a computer screen at home. Nicholas Kardaras stated in his journal, Z: Online and at getting the right kind of human contact and nurturing support at key developmental periods in childhood can lead to profound emotional and psychological Another severe issue with social media is that it has essentially made bullying along with peer pressure much easier. Bullying is no longer an issue that happens physically at school, it has now become mentally and emotionally harming. using digital media to spread false, embarrassing, or hostile information about another (Impact of Social Media on the Health of Children and Young People), has become the new epidemic amongst adolescents in our society. A prime example of this is an incident that occurred just a few years back. In 2012, 15-year-old Amanda Todd decided to take her own life. She was involved with a an older boy from a chat room, and he convinced to send various nude photographs, and basically black mailed her into sending more by threatening to share those photos with her school peers, which he did anyways. This caused Todd to be a victim of severe bullying which ultimately drove her to commit suicide because she handle the abuse she was receiving from her peers. Along with bullying, peer pressure has become increasingly prevalent in our society. Teens post photos and statuses of themselves participating in at risk behaviors including drinking alcohol and smoking tobacco and/or marijuana. When individuals see their peers accumulating multiple likes from these photographs, they feel more obligated to post like material in order to gain acceptance from others. The problem with these teens posting their life on the internet is that it gives others more material to use against you, which brings us back to the bullying problem that social media has created. Mental health is something affected tremendously by the widespread use of social media. Social has been a known and proven cause of various cases of anxiety and depression. Proven by Dr. Joanne Davila, researcher of Stony Brook University, who conducted a study with teenage girls and found that those that were active on social media had higher rates of anxiety (The Impact of Social Media on Society). Being on constant alert for new updates and messages releases a stress hormone, cortisol, which is the same hormone released when one is being alert for predators. As one may assume, releases of those hormones can cause someone to become quite anxious. This can lead to depression anxiety as well as depression that arises as a consequence of youths spending a large amount of time on social media, as stated by Anca Dobrean in her article, of Social Media on Social Anxiety: A Systematic People who become depressed often turn to from interest sites that may actually end up promoting unsafe behavior. Putting this amount of unnecessary stress on our mind is detrimental to our mental health and could mostly be avoided if people would lay off of social media. Being online basically creates an alternate reality for individuals. Once logged on to the platform, the value of any given individual is decided on the number of friends acquired online, the number of likes on a photograph, or the number of retweets on a post. All these actions give humans the experience of reward through the release of the neurotransmitter, dopamine in the brain (Kardaras). Often times, photos posted online are highly edited causing unrealistic perceptions of thus causing adolescents to have poor self-image due to the acquirable standards they are held up to. The truth about social media is that you essentially only see the side of people that they want you to see. With the protection of a screen, easy for individuals to skew their true identity whether a front, or a completely difference in identity. no news that social media has made a tremendous impact on society. Of course it has made worldwide interaction much easier with its various platforms for communication as well as its ability to provide a vast amount of information quickly and easily. Without a doubt, social media does have its positive impacts on our society, and who knows where we would be without it? But, also no surprise that social media has been a detriment. This online obsessed world we live in is raising our youth to have a lack of acquired social skills as well as rising statistics of people suffering from mental health issues. Our youth is more vulnerable than ever to peer pressure and cyberbullying, and to top it all off, people are being exposed to fake ideas of reality due to false advertising of looks and lifestyles. Social media has been a fairly toxic addition to our society and its use should be regulated, especially among growing adolescents.