Watts 1 Aaron Watts Lorie Jewell ENC 1101.21 25 April 2017 Assisted Suicide: Follower or Believer Brittany Maynard, a 29-year old suffering from brain cancer ended her own life on November 1 st , 2014. She did it under her preference, on the day she wanted to die, and in the way she wanted it to end. Assisted suicide has been a growing topic that has received many arguments for and against it, with only a handful of states making physician assisted death legal in the U.S. In simpler terms, assisted suicide is formal aid from a legal doctor/physician to end your life. Oregon, being the first state to legalize assisted suicide in 1997, received hate for doing so. After a while, the tide eventually turned toward assisted suicide with legalization of it in a second state, Washington in 2008. Three other states such as California, Colorado, and Vermont, that have legalized assisted suicide since then, used Oregon as a when setting up their own laws and rules. They use a combination of some from other states or use similar ones and tweak them to what seems best for their own state. A major concept of assisted suicide is the wide range of quantitative opinions where the pros (people should be able to control and do as they please with their life/body) and cons (it goes against many beliefs) can sway the population for or against the issue. Assisted Suicide should be legalized throughout the United States because of the underappreciated benefits of it. It gives us our true fundamental right of having control over our own life/body, it allows the victim to escape or not got through needless pain/suffering, and allows the victim and their family to stay away from unwanted financial problems and psychological effects. Having freedom is an important part in life that no one may realize on a daily basis. A major part of having this freedom is the individual right to have control over your own lives/bodies and do what you want with them. Assisted suicide is a prime example of why this part of is so controversial and very opinionated, because although many people oppose assisted suicide, it gives true meaning in what it means to have control over your own bodies/lives. A great example of support would be from professor Steven King of Psychiatry at the University of Medicine in New York who states, pain or fear of it is far from the only reason for suicide requests but- along with a desire not to be a burden to others, fears about Watts 2 loss of autonomy, and depression and hopelessness- it is one of the most showing that fear of not being able to or losing control of your own life/body is a major factor in why people want assisted suicide (38). Assisted suicide allows the person who is hurt or sick to decide what they want and how they want to plan the rest of their life out. Furthermore, Gloria Goodale, a staff writer at The Christian Science Monitor, is also in support of this as she herself has said and learned that people want assisted suicide because, top ranked reasons were loss of autonomy, decreasing ability to participate in activities, and loss of dignity. Pain and suffering ranked (16). Overall, assisted suicide ensures the person with control of their life/body and allows them to decide what they believe is best because at the end of the day, who has the right to decide and force what other people do with their lives/bodies. It is a horrible experience going through negative feelings whether it is mental or pain related, especially if there is a solution but you cannot necessarily use it because it is not legalized or you are simply not allowed to do it. Assisted suicide is a perfect example of this, being a procedure that many call for support and want to use, but cannot because of it not being legalized. A main reason for support of assisted suicide shown by professor Wendy Mariner who is the Edward R. Utley Professor of Health Law at Boston University School of Public Health and many others, states, the support study, families of hospitalized patients reported that many of their loved ones spent their last 3 days of life in unnecessary pain, subjected to unwanted procedures, or alone and (2062). This then shows how assisted suicide could have been a perfect solution for those families. Assisted suicide would have allowed those families to see their loved ones leave in a happy, (less) painful, and better mood. Instead of doing things they did not want to do, such as going through countless check-ups, or dying by themselves all alone, these victims could have left with their family by their side, doing something they loved, or at least in a happy state. Assisted suicide is a solution that lets the victims and their families leave off on a somewhat positive note that can keep everyone happy, instead of the way everyone does now that leads to less happiness and more pain. Money runs this world, especially if someone is sick or in need of help. It does not matter if you are dying and need medication whether you are physically or mentally hurt, you will end up paying for something, in most cases, a lot more than you would like. This is where assisted suicide is again another favored solution. For example, as shown from Marilyn Golden who is a policy analyst at the Disability Rights Education and Defense, cost of the lethal medication Watts 3 generally used for assisted suicide is about $300, far cheaper than the cost of treatment for most long-term medical shows that not only is assisted suicide way more cheaper and affordable as an option, but it is also an option that not only helps the victim but also the family as well not go through financial hardship they would have gone through if it was not for assisted suicide. Assisted suicide is another solution for people who cannot seem to get out of the mental illness they are in as well. As shown from Niall McCrae who is a lecturer in Mental Health Nursing, a person with recurrent episodes of severe depression may differently than those with physical disease is which ultimately shows that someone with mental issues may go through the same pain or even more than a person with a physical issue (659). This then ties back to assisted suicide because it can be a solution to someone that has a mental issue as well, because not everyone has the same limits or enough money necessary to receive effective treatment. We as humans can only take so much pain whether it is physical or mental and assisted suicide is a solution that should be there for people who simply cannot take their pain anymore no matter what form it is. The majority of people see a quantity of unneeded harm in assisted suicide. While it may be true from Ezekiel Emanuel, who is the Chair of the Department of Medical Ethics and Health Policy at the University of Pennsylvania, that identify six potential harms: undermining the integrity of the medical profession, creation harm to surviving family members of the it overlooks the quality of the advantages that come with assisted suicide (6). There are many advantages with assisted suicide that not only support in showing how legalizing assisted suicide in the rest of the states is the right choice, but how it is also the better choice for everybody whether you realize it now or years later down the road. The benefits outweigh the drawbacks of assisted suicide, as explained by Emanuel, of euthanasia and PAS identify three main benefits to legalization: (1) realizing individual autonomy, (2) reducing needless pain and suffering, and (3) providing psychological reassurance to dying (630). This shows that not only are the people allowed to make their own choice/decision about this and have control, but also importantly it is letting them go without needless pain/suffering and with a sense of trust, ease, and mental comfort. As a result, it is easy to see that with some thought, consideration, and knowledge on this topic that the advantages outweigh the disadvantages that come with assisted suicide. Watts 4 This issue is more than just about assisted suicide. This topic gives truth to the fact that people have control/say over what they want to happen in their life or do. It allows the patient to go out with what they believe is their best option, especially if they are in pain, financial, or mental mis-comfort. Therefore, assisted suicide should be legalized throughout the United States because of the underappreciated benefits of it. It gives the true fundamental right of having control over your own life/body, it allows the victim to escape or not got through needless pain/suffering, and allows the victim and their family to stay away from unwanted financial problems and psychological effects. For poor Brittany sake, the legalization of assisted suicide in every state would have been even more beneficial for her. First off, she would not have had to move to Oregon for the procedure, she could have stayed in the state she was already in. Second, she would not have had to establish residency for 6 months in Oregon either, which would have saved her and her family even more money and unneeded stress. From just one case it is easy to see how the legalization of assisted suicide in every state would have made things much simpler and easier. Therefore, I agree with assisted suicide and challenge you to spread the positive word about it to many others to help ensure the legalization of it. Watts 5 Works Cited Emanuel, Ezekiel J. What Is the Great Benefit of Legalizing Euthanasia or  Ethics 1999: 629. JSTOR Journals. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Golden, Marilyn, and Tyler Zoanni. Killing Us Softly: The Dangers Of Legalizing Assisted  Disability And Health Journal 3.A Disability Perspective on the Issue of Physician Assisted Suicide (2010): 16-30. ScienceDirect. Web. 18 Feb. 2017. Goodale, Gloria, et al. California Law Allows Aid in Dying for Terminally  The Christian Century, no. 23, 2015, p. 15. EBSCOhost, Web. 18 Feb. 2017. King, Steven A. Pain Management. Physician-Assisted Suicide: More Than Meets The  Psychiatric Times 33.1 (2016): 38. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 18 Feb. 2017. Mariner, Wendy K. Physician Assisted Suicide And The Supreme Court: Putting The Constitutional Claim To  American Journal Of Public Health 87(1997): 2058- 2062. Social Sciences Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 26 Jan. 2017. McCrae, N., and J. Bloomfield. Mental Health Nursing And The Debate On Assisted  Journal Of Psychiatric & Mental Health Nursing 20.7 (2013): 655- 661. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 5 Feb. 2017.