Santos 1 Ryan Santos Lorie Jewell ENC1101.12 25 April 2017 Immigration Through a Looking Glass Through the beginning of civilization people immigrated from distant lands to cultivate new futures for their families; but now in times people still immigrate to further better their own lives. Many people say that immigration is a good thing and while others oppose saying that immigration is destroying the economy. Immigrates work in conditions other immigration Is a huge part of the way that we live, lastly, with references that will be able to show that immigration can be a good asset to the United States legal and illegal. Exploring and researching immigration it could be explained on how immigration affects the United States in a positive manner. Throughout the United States immigrants are working in farms picking fruits, vegetables, and more, cash crops that help the united states more than it hurts it. Many people through this election have said that when a certain group of immigrants come in they are criminals, drug dealers, and rapists; but on contrary; many come in to work in harsh conditions in farm that pay well. Tamar Jacoby, a seasoned editor and writer for The New York Times newspaper said are the only labor available to do many unskilled jobs, and if they were eliminated most would not be replaced. instead whole sectors of the economy would (Jacoby 1). This is showing that many of the jobs that immigrants do are irreplaceable, because of the fact that Americans refuse to do jobs that require long hours and dirty handwork. Santos 2 Furthermore, a professor from the University of Wisconsin, Madison Kristen E. Pitt, said in a journal the jobs the immigrants do would not be jobs Americans would want to-do (13). Also throughout history the united states used immigrant labor to build, our skyscrapers, our railroads, and now our farmlands. Immigrants come from all places from all over the world and has become a huge part in the way we live. We have people of many religions some for those include Hinduism, Muslims, Christians, and Buddhist; these all help shape America in how it is today. America to many people is the best place in the world the most opportunistic place to bring their families to start a better life. In addition, many people come to seek refuge form war stricken countries. As Dr. Ana Bedard from the Institute for Workforce Education at St. Augustine College states people have the right to migrate to where ever they want and refugees and people seeking asylum should be given and placed in protection from war filled countries, and human rights and dignity should be (Bedard,2017). This statement shows that people should be able to come in America without losing their dignity. To be remembered this country was built upon immigrants coming into foreign land to seek refuge from a monarch. Ximena Clack a professor at Georgetown University stated many of the immigrants coming in have a degree of higher education(Ximena,359). As well 1950-1970 over 25 million have been admitted into the united (Ximena,359). America is a melting pot of the best people coming in to America. The county gets more diverse and what makes America great because people can experience freedom that they have in their home countries. On the other hand, throughout history Americans ostracized many different people because of ethnicity, race, and religion. Also as tension brews between countries, and wars escalate; maybe we need to close our borders for the safety of our own American citizens. Santos 3 Immigrants can be beneficial to the united states. Throughout history the United States saw the way how they could be beneficial such as, when immigrant Asian workers built railroads, or how even forced immigration (slavery) built the foundations of the United States with picking cotton. Cesar Estrada a seasoned writer for the Center of American Progress wrote in an article las year saying, today, about eleven million unauthorized immigrants living in the United States contribute eleven billion six hundred million dollars in state and local taxes each year (Estrada about a billion per million people going to help our infrastructure, economy, and education. Furthermore, the Social Security Administration estimates that unauthorized immigrants contribute a net worth of about thirteen billion dollars in payroll taxes annually, which helps to strengthen the Social Security system (Estrada 2016). In addition, Jason Furman an American economist and Senior Fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics said, are 30 percent more likely to start a business in the United States than non-immigrants, and 18 percent of all small business owners in the United States are (Furman et al 2012). In past years from the late nineteen hundred the United States saw an Increase in people coming to the U.S with a degree of higher learning as mentioned in the article Ximena Clark wrote in 2007. Showing how immigration can help the U.S can be very helpful to people that say they just take our resources even though immigrants help contributes so much to the United States because they all have the same goal as normal citizens which is to achieve the American dream. On the other side of the matter, throughout history Americans ostracized many different people because of ethnicity, race, and religion. Also as tension brews between countries, and wars escalate; maybe we need to close our borders for the safety of our own American citizens. Also, It is argued that immigrants take away jobs from American Workers. That is highly Santos 4 debatable because many of the work immigrants are doing are jobs that your average American would not want to do. In addition, many people differentiate between illegal and legal immigration. Through experience, there are many types of ways people come to America legally such as, naturalized citizens, lawful permit which is a permit of residence given to a person by the government, and a family sponsored visa. But there is one where become come in legally and then become illegal after a certain time. It is when a person that desires to come onto the united states with a visa and just overstays their visa. But many people think that immigrants are criminals but that is just less than 5 percent of prison population are immigrants. Immigrants cause loss in government funding, that is false immigrants are not allowed healthcare, social security, even Medicaid. In conclusion immigration effects the united states in many ways such as making the it more diverse and contributing to the agriculture production of the nation. Also without immigration and he workers it brings in the agriculture areas it will collapse and it will directly affect us in a drastic way. Additionally, throughout the years immigrates have helped the United States such as in the Asian immigrants seeking new jobs and building railroads; to the Latino immigrants coming in building our agriculture. The United States need them to survive and thrive; they come in and help our economy in the billions. In all, immigrants and citizens are all trying to achieve one goal and it is the American dream. Santos 5 Works Cited Jacoby, Tamar Without Immigrant labor the Economy would crumble  The New York Times. The New York Times, n.d. 2012 Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Clark, Ximena, et al. U.S. Immigration, The Review of Economics and Statistics, vol. 89, no. 2, 2007, pp. Pitt, Kristin E. The Vulnerable  Aztlan 41.2 (2016): 13-36. America: History & Life. Web. 20 Feb. 2017. Bedard, Ana T. Us versus Them? U.S. Immigration and the Common  Journal of the Society of Christian Ethics 2008: 117. JSTOR Journals. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Furman, Jason, and Danielle Gray. Ten Ways Immigrants Help Build and Strengthen Our  National Archives and Records Administration. National Archives and Records Administration, 12 July 2012. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Estrada, Cesar Maximiliano. How Immigrants Positively Affect the Business Community and the U.S.  Center for American Progress. N.p., 14 July 2016. Web.24 Mar. 2017.