Yang Li 1 Yang Li Lorie Jewell ENC 1101 25/04/2017 Violent Video Implications On Youth In 2005, California issued a law to prevent youths from having or playing violent video games because city leaders believe they will have a bad influence, just like alcohol and cigarettes, that is very interesting. Because nowadays, video games have become popular entertainment for people, especially youth. Almost every youth will take a lot of times to play video game at every day. Some parents think that their children can relax and develop interest by playing some video game, such as study game, music game, paint game and sport game. these are important for youths, because many future from their interesting. Therefore, their parents know that cultivating interest is important to youths. However, these parents know that video can develop interest to youth, these parents do not realize that video game have negative influence on youth, especially violent video game. Violent game includes blood, death and sex. Therefore, some people think that the kind of game is bad to youth and they think that the major problem is how to prevent youth to play violent video game. Because youths cannot control emotion like adults, violent video has bad influence on youths than adults. Parents want to stop youths touch violent games that is very hard, because nowadays, youths play video games every day. These games have many characteristics to attract youth, such music, story and pictures (Rowsell 1). When youth meet these characteristics, they will be attracted. Besides, youths do not have self-control. For example, when a child has more curious to play a game, he often spends long time on the games. If his parents do not stop that, the child will play every day. On the other hand, producer know that they can get many money from these violent Yang Li 2 games. Therefore, producer will add popular culture and stories when they design a new video game. For example, World of Warcraft is a very famous video game. In the game, there are a lot of stories and virtual history. It leads to youth play the game (Rowsell 2). When violent video games begun popular, many people have different opinions to the kind of game. Some people think that youths like play violent game, because the kind of game can release pressure. This is good thing to youths. Youssef Hasan, he is Assistant Professor of Social & Psychology at Qatar university, he said on the report: Traditional video games can help youths to relax, because it has graceful music and easy stories (Hasan 1). On the other hand, some people think that violent games have bad influence to youths, such as violent games give many stresses. Hasan sail: although some video games help youths to relax, violent games have opposite influence on youths (Hasan 1). There is argument about if violent games help youths to relax. Some people support violent, because youths will feel existing when they play violent games. especially youths feel tired. Other people do not support violent games. These people think that violent games have a lot of blood, died and sex, these things will increase stress. For example, violent game will bring voice stress, emotional stress and so on (Hasan 2). Besides, there are news report other bad effect to youths. Hanson report that on Dec. 7, 1997, a student killed three his classmates at Ky. high school. Due to the student, be addicted to playing violent video game. When the student opened fire at classroom, he thought that he belongs to world of violent video game. In the world, the student thought that he can do everything, but he forgot the world of video is not truth (Hanson 1). These news and reports discuss violent games, it helps people to know the kind of game is good or bad. People think that violent games are bad to youths, then how to avoid youth to touch violent games that is big problem to people. Some people think that government can solve the problem. For example, Violent video has bad influence on people, especially youth. Youths are not able to control their emotion like adults. Therefore, the kind of video has more influence on youth than adult. Some cities, which use law to protect youths to get away from violent video. For example, Yang Li 3 California issued a law to stop youths to touch violent at 2005. The law likes to stop youths to touch alcohol, cigarettes, gambling, pornography, and other adult vices (Schlafly 1). On the other hand, people think that parents and manufactures are important part that solve the problem. Dr. Vessey, she received a BSN from Goshen College, a Developmental Pediatric Nurse Practitioner Certificate from the University of Miami, and an MSN and a PhD in Nursing from the University of Pennsylvania. She thinks that only influence is not enough on the violent, parents and manufactures more important to youths that government (Vessey, 1). The article give two methods. First, parents should know that what video games are healthy to their children; and parents should control time when children play video games. Second, producers formulate level of video games similar to movies. For example, ECEarly Childhood for 3 age and older pay, AOAdults Only is for adults. Therefore, the best way to solve the problem that is government, parents and manufacture cooperation. Although, many people think that violent games are bad to youth, some people think that violent game can help people relax and reduce crime rate. Tulupman reported something on the Academic OneFile, he said many youths want to play video games, especially violent game. He analysis some reasons that youth like violent game in this article. These reasons are important, such as youth people have strong curiosity, it leads youth to play violent game. Another reason is that youth would like to release pressure by playing video game, but traditional video game is not a good way to release pressure. Therefore, youth will choose violent game, and get excited by violent game (Tulupman, 1). Besides, some people think that violent game help people release anger and dissatisfied to their life. By causing, crime rate will reduce, people do not release anger when they face other people (Hanson, 1). On the other hand, more people think violent game is bad to people, especially youth. First, people cannot release pressure. Second, when people attract to play violent game, sometimes it will lead to people commit a crime. For example, on Dec. 7, 1997, a student killed three his classmates at Ky. high-school. Due to the student, be addicted to playing violent video game. When the student opened fire at classroom, he thought that he belongs to world of Yang Li 4 violent video game (Hanson, 2). From above, some people think that violence games are good for youths. They have some reasons to support their opinion. The first reason is that violent games make youths relax, the second reason violent games can reduce crime rate. On the other hand, some people disagree youth to play violence video games, because not only it can help youths to release pressure, but it will also increase stress, no matter on voice and emotion. Besides, there are many fact things to provide when youths attract to play violent games, they will do bad things, such as kill classmates. Therefore, how to avoid youth to touch violent? that is big problem to parents, manufactures and government. Yang Li 5 Works Cited Hasan, Youssef. Violent Video Games Increase Voice Stress: An Experimental  Psychology Of Popular Media Culture 6.1 (2017): 74-81. PsycARTICLES. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Hanson, Gayle M.B. The Violent World of Video  Insight on the News 1999: Academic OneFile. Web. 5 Feb. 2017 Schlafly, Andrew L. Game Over For Childhood? Violent Video Games As First Amendment  Rutgers Computer And Technology Law Journal 38.(2012): 173. LexisNexis Academic: Law Reviews. Web. 20 Feb. 2017. Vessey, Judith A., and Joanne E. Lee. Violent Video Games Affecting Our  Pediatric Nursing 26.6 (2000): 607. Education Source. Web. 20 Feb. 2017. Tulupman, Peter. Video Games: The School Of Hard Knocks, Knives And  Business And Society Review 87 (1993): 41. Academic OneFile. Web. 25 Jan. 2017 Rowsell, Jennifer, Isabel Pedersen, and Douglas Trueman. Playing As A Mutant In A Virtual World: Understanding Overlapping Story Worlds In Popular Culture Video  Literacy 48.1 (2014): 47-53. Education Source. Web. 25 Jan. 2017.