Kazbour 1 Zachary Kazbour Ms. Jewel Enc 1101 25 April 2017 Marijuana: The Benefits and Risks They say everything happens for a reason and there are no such things as coincidences, but is that still true for the discovery of marijuana hundreds if not thousands of years ago? People have many different views on the topic of marijuana and the conversation that surrounds it. These views range from it being a huge benefit to many people to it being one of the worst gateway drugs the world has every seen. A gateway drug is a drug that in the end will lead to the use of much worse illegal substances such as heroin or cocaine because the marijuana high satisfying enough anymore. Many historians and scholars say that marijuana benefits society in ways that include having health benefits, and economic benefits while others who understand full potential say it is a risk to society and the people that use marijuana. Marijuana has been proven to help reduce anxiety, slow the rate of cancer growth, and also to fight the symptoms that HIV positive humans experience. Dr. Fuler, an expert in the field of blood related diseases, conducted a study in Canada with HIV positive patients who used marijuana as a medicine. In this study Dr. Fuler said benefits gained in HIV patients where, they had an appetite, they felt better about themselves and pain (226). These patients experienced a weight increase, which is very rare in a person who has HIV because one of the main things that happens to the body when contracting HIV is an extreme weight loss. Marijuana is one of the best prescription Kazbour 2 drugs to ever happen to the world. It is an all-natural herbal medicine in which an ill person can enjoy himself or herself whether it is an escape from their anxiety or it is to contract the munchies and eat rather than not having an appetite. A scientist conducted another study in Canada by the name of Mark Wallace, he conducted this study on cancer patients who used marijuana to treat themselves. The marijuana was proven to slow the growth of the cancer cells and help with pain and other issues the patients experienced (4). Why this all-natural healthy drug be prescribed to the people who need it? Marijuana has made illegal growers billions of dollars in revenue over the past hundred or so years. Just like any other cash crop there is a high demand for it to be produced but the issue with marijuana is that it is illegal because of laws in the federal government. These laws allow for the sale of marijuana crossing state boarders. The marijuana industry could take over a large part of the alcohol and tobacco industry cutting into their profits, which means that less tobacco products and alcohol is going to be sold (Spetz 3). With the reduced sales of alcohol and tobacco comes a healthier society in many aspects, a couple being less bottles being produced and thrown away, and another being less cigarette butts thrown on the ground all across the world. Marijuana becoming legalized in Colorado created so much tax revenue for the government that they had to actually give back money to the citizens of Colorado. Stephen Easton, an expert in drug regulation in British Columbia, wrote a paper about the crime organizations that profit largely off the sale of marijuana in British Columbia. Easton says that if the governments took away the ban on marijuana this illegal money that all these crime rings make could be transformed into taxable money that the government could then make millions in tax money (1). Easton is correct because if society had to pay Kazbour 3 taxes on this recreational drug the government could then make millions and in return give back to the taxpayers in other ways such as new roads or other societal benefits. All drugs whether they are prescription or recreational post societal risks no matter what. Marijuana happens to be one of those drugs. Marijuana is proven to affect driving and motor skill abilities while high, Adi Ronen, a scientist conducted an experiment to see if these facts were actually noticeable. She concluded affects ones driving abilities causing their reaction time to be slower which posts risks for vehicular (927). She also talks about how it only affect physical motor skills but how it actually affects the way the mind thinks too not only affects reaction times but motor skills in general, which includes clouded (926). But alcohol and other prescription drugs do the same thing to the human body? The answer is yes but they are not illegal, they are only illegal in the sense of being able to drive while on one of these drugs. Society is under the same threat whether marijuana is illegal or legal because alcohol and other drugs are being used everyday. It is also proven that the views on marijuana by older people, such as parents and influencers of children, affect how children see marijuana. If marijuana is legally accepted nation wide that would mean kids would accept and view weed as being ok leading to a higher drug use in adolescents. Gilbert J. Botvin an expert in addictive behavior wrote a book about this subject. In this book he talks about how alcohol and marijuana have been more prevalent in adolescent parties because of adult views (27). With a whole nation accepting the view that marijuana is ok, what will these children think? Even though legally they allowed to smoke it they will according to Botvin and other influential people in society. Kazbour 4 Marijuana is proven to help people so why should we deny a medicine to a person in need of it. That is like denying an inhaler to someone who is asthmatic; it is just unethical and inhumane. Is society really that incompetent to see this? Just because something poses risks does not mean it should be taken away especially if it comes along side health benefits and economical benefits. So why not be left with the question, Can an individual person in society really change the world for the people who need a drug to make them feel better, and benefit from it? Kazbour 5 Works Cited Botvin, Gilbert J. et al. Alcohol and Marijuana Use Among Rural Youth: Interaction of Social and Intrapersonal Influences. New York: Elsevier Science, 1998. Print. Easton, Stephen T. NCJRS Abstract National Criminal Justice Referance Service. Fraser Institute, 03 Oct. 2006. Web 09 April 2017. Fuler, MD, et al. And Recreational Marijuana Use By Patients Infected With AIDS Patient Care & Stds 18.4 (2004): 215-228. CINAHL. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Ronen, Adi, et al. Of THC On Driving Performance, Physiological State and Subjective Feelings Relative To Accident Analysis And Prevention 40.(2008): 926-934. ScienceDirect. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Spetz, Joanne, and Laura Schmidt. Impact of Medicinal Marijuana Laws on Youth Attitudes toward and Use of Illicit Health and Healthcare in America: From Economics to Policy, 24 June 2014. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Wallace, Mark S., MD, and Mark A. Ware, MD. Medicinal Marijuana: Here to Stay and Time to Take Responsib... : The Clinical Journal of LWW. Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc, Nov.-Dec. 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.