Ciara Goodwin Maria Theodosiou April 16 th 2017 ENC 1102. Sec 75 Rape Culture Every 98 seconds, a person experiences sexual assault. Sexual violence can affect hundreds to thousands of Americans each year. While we as a society are making progress, the number of assaults has fallen by more than half since 1993, but even today only six out of every one thousand rapists will end up in prison (About Rape is a topic that humans try to avoid. It more often than not is something that gets swept under the table, left to be ignored. In our society today, we continually partake in something known as Rape Culture. Using phrases that protect the offender and blame the victim. Women and men throughout this country are being raped every day, and society does a terrible job of defending these victims by questioning their compliance in a sexual act; But, we can stop Rape Culture in our society by donating to organizations that help rape victims. We can also hold the media accountable for using phrases that perpetuates this culture, and we can actively work to eliminate those phrases from our own vocabulary. What is rape culture? According to Sharna Olfman, rape culture is sociological concept used to describe a setting in which rape is pervasive and normalized due to societal attitudes about gender and (Olfman). So, what does this mean when society uses rape culture in the media and in everyday conversations that pertain to the topic of rape? People often times use phrases when speaking about rape such as was she was asking for and the notorious will be statement (Southern Connecticut State University). These statements are not only fallacious but demeaning to the person who was involved in a nonconsensual sexual act. Nearly one in five (18%) U.S. women report experiencing a completed rape during their lifetime; which by definition is unwanted oral, anal, or vaginal penetration without the consent, including when she is unconscious or too drunk or high to know what she is doing or control her behavior (222). Lisa Paul conducted a study involving 3,000 women around the ages of 18 to 76, and found that the vast majority of women (83%) chose to not consult with someone about reporting their assault and very few women who kept their assault private formally reported their rape (9%) (229). She believed that women chose not to report due to specific variables in the cases. (229) Now I know that I cannot prove that these women were blamed for what happened to them, but I can assume that they were afraid to report because of how society and the media makes rape out to be. In some way or another, these women did not feel comfortable enough to report their assault, and I think that might have something to do with rape culture. Now as for men, about 3% of American men, or 1 in 33, have experienced an attempted or completed rape in their lifetime. (Statistics RAINN). How would you feel if you or someone you know was raped? This topic is speared throughout society and we often times teach young women how to avoid getting raped. Before I started college, my parents made sure to acknowledge rape, and that it primarily takes place on college campuses. As a young woman, I am vulnerable to these unfortunate events. The most infamous example my parents informed me about, was Brock Turner. For those who are unaware of the story, Turner was found behind a dumpster with an unconscious woman performing sexual acts on her when two men rode by on bikes and witnessed the scene. The men quickly realized the women was unconscious and began to chase Turner down the street after he fled the scene. Flash forward to when this case was prosecuted; Turner received three months in jail because the judge believed that jail would be on Turner (Buncombe). What could have happened to that woman if the two men did not step in and stop Turner? We may never know the answer, but according to Cory Armstrong, bystander intervention or a willingness to stop questionable behaviors one is witnessing, is more likely in women than men (98). But why is that? We teach women to avoid getting raped by taking self-defense classes, carrying mace, and avoiding But we do not teach boys the same. Although women are more likely to get raped then men, we need to inform men on the harm it can cause the victim, both mentally and physically and remind them that they are at risk for being assaulted as well. We as a society need to act against rape culture and teach our youth how to have safe fun. No woman should ever have to go through what the victim in the Stanford Rape Case went through. She will never be the same again, and that could have been easily avoided with stricter laws, and harsher consequences towards the offender. How can we stop Rape Culture in our society? The best way to stop rape culture is by being informed. We need to stop blaming the victim and claiming she asked for it and stop trivializing sexual assault claiming that boys will be boys. Society should not tolerate sexual harassment that takes place in our everyday lives, and in the media. This can include publicly scrutinizing a dress, mental state, motives, and history. We need to stop refusing to take rape accusations seriously and stop defining as dominant and sexually aggressive and defining as submissive and sexually passive. And most importantly, stop assuming only promiscuous women get raped and that men do not get raped (Southern Connecticut State University). Another way we can make a change, is by donating to victims who have unfortunately been sexually assaulted. RAINN or Rape, Abuse & Incest National Network, is an organization that helps victims affected by assault. Donating can help on average 558 survivors through hotlines each day. It enlists the help of college administrators, Congress, and students on hundreds of campuses to hold colleges accountable for preventing and responding to sexual violence. Donations also help to expand the use of DNA to eliminate the backlog of untested rape kits and finally, it improves sexual assault laws and policies to ensure that survivors get the justice they deserve (More Ways to Give RAINN). Lastly, the best way to end rape culture is by starting with you. If you or someone you know has been raped, I encourage you to report your incident and to persuade your friend to report his or her assault. I know that this situation can be demoralizing and humiliating, but the best way to raise awareness is not to hide, but to be strong and courageous enough to come forth and stick up for what has been wrongfully done to you, the victim. Overall, Rape Culture is undoubtedly around us every day. Women and men are being raped throughout this country, and society does wrong by shaming them for their mishaps, while they never truly focus on the real problem, the offender. We as a society can change the culture we live in today, by staying informed on how frequent rapes occur. We need to support and donate to local organizations that provide help for victims, and most importantly, we need to stop partaking in statements and ideologies that come to our mind when we hear about rape. Rape happens to women and men, and unfortunately is unavoidable at times. We need to listen to victims, and support them in such a hard, frightful time. Work Cited Sexual About Sexual Assault RAINN. Web. 08 Apr. 2017 Armstrong, Cory, and Jessica Mahone On The Role of Social Media and Rape Culture in Individual Willingness to Mobilize Against Sexual Mass Communication and Society 20:1 (2016): 92-115. Buncombe Andrew. Stanford Rape Case: Read the Impact Statement of Brock  The Independent. Independent Digital News and Media. 02 Sept. 2016. Web. 08 Apr. 2017. End Rape  Change.org. Web. 08 Apr. 2017. More Ways to  RAINN Rape, Abuse and Incest National Network. Web. 08 Apr. 2017. Olfman, Sharna (2009). The Sexualization of Childhood. ABC-CLIO. p. 9. Paul Lisa, Encouragement by Others Increase Rape Reporting? Findings From a National Sample of Psychology of Women Quarterly. 38:2, 222-232. Scope of the Problem: Statistics  Scope of the Problem: Statistics RAINN. Web. 11 Apr. 2017. Connecticut State Rape Culture, Victim Blaming, and The Facts. Web. 08 Apr. 2017.