Andrew Lindstrom ENC 1101 Nancy Carr 4/09/17 The Analog Synthesizer as the standard for sound synthesis machines In the lineage of development of synthesized sound, many inventions have been produced, yet many have come as an innovation to this field. In terms of progress, the field of synthesized sound relatively too new to address what inventions are in or passe. Due to this, many debate what in this field is the most effective. This debate falls between analog or digital synthesizers, both of which have advantages and disadvantages that keeps this debate in effect. In this essay, I will be explaining my side of the argument, but also addressing the other side of the argument. I will be explaining as to why I believe why the analog synthesizer set the standard for synthesized sound in terms of both societal and technological innovations. To back my argument, I will be explaining as to why the analog synthesizer spiked the creation of a new sound in music, Analog synthesizers was the first in a long line of innovations in synthesized sounds. As synthesized sound came into the world of music, a whole new realm musical philosophy became apparent. I believe that this new paradigm is best described by Nick Collins of the University of Durham. He states that possibility of musical instruments that can produce sound raises the question of what exactly makes a sound (Collins 2013, pg. 42-43). From this one question, we have a whole new way to classify music into genres so that we can differentiate one sound from another. In this we have EDM, Glitch trap, and so many other varieties of experimental music, all made easily available through the production of the analog synthesizer. The other point to my argument is that the analog synthesizer set a long line of inventions in the industry of synthesized sound. When the analog synthesizer was made, it set a list of standards that was expected of every invention beyond that. Through researching, I discovered various inventions that had been previous marketed, but had failed to meet sales expectations. For example, I found a device developed and named the Neuron. As described by Mark Vail, a journalist of the Oxford university, in his book The Synthesizer he describes the Neuron and its short comings, stating that expensive ($4,995) and polyphonically challenged (five voices at best) Neuron failed to attract enough buyers to remain in (Vail, 2014 p. 67). This product failed to meet expectations due to the consumers noticing its lack of comparable standards. Now when we look at the argument made against the analog synthesizer, we notice that it comes down to two main arguments, that analog synthesizers are too bulky, and that they are not user friendly. To combat these arguments, I will say that there is a hierarchy in this structura, that being that digital synthesizers exist more for those who are recently introduced to synthesized sound. As the user becomes more familiar with the layout for the digital, he/she will go more in depth and begin to explore the intricacies of sound manipulation. To conclude, the analog synthesizer is a machine that must be understood in order for it to reach its full capacity. This is expected of a machine that single handedly created a new paradigm in the music world. Until then, the digital synthesizer will continue to appeal to the masses. References 1. Vail, M. (2000). Keyboard Magazine Presents Vintage Synthesizers : Groundbreaking Instruments, Pioneering Designers, Collecting Tips, Mutants from the Tar Pits. Miller Freeman Books. 2. Collins, N., Schedel, M., & Wilson, S. (2013). Electronic Music. [electronic Cambridge : Cambridge University Press, 2013.