Lopez 1 Manami Lopez Lorie Jewell ENC 1101.021 25 April 2017 Methods Other Than Death Penalty When murder is acted upon, it is considered an unlawful sin that brings sorrow to the family and shame to the family. Overall, murder brings devastation, and when carried out, justice, can sometimes be served the wrong way. There have been countless instances where innocent people were wrongfully killed. For instance, in 1971, the Supreme Court heard the case of Furman v. Georgia - a case that included discrimination in three African Americans where two of the men were on trial for rape, while the third was on trial for murder where all three were put on death row (1317, Ferman). This justice is also wrong and unlawful because it is murdering one person after another. Even though, execution should not be used for the name of justice because it is inhumane, the wrong people are often executed, and it does not decline crime rates, it does give closure to the family. There were times when the death penalty was acceptable and citizens believed that it was the right punishments for criminals. However, this topic has been one of the ongoing discussions for years. Many people consider that this type of punishment is inhumane. Although, the methods have progressed to be less cruel, from hanging, electrocution, gas chamber, firing squad, to lethal injection, it is still considered inhumane to most people. Vittorio Bufacchi is a professor at the University College in Cork, Ireland, who teaches Philosophy. In his article, As he mentioned that the history of the death penalty in the United States is similar to the elusive or illusory search for a humane method of killing people, meaning no Lopez 2 matter how humane the methods may become, it will still be cruel (516). James C. Feldman is an attorney with a solo practice in Washington, D.C., specializing in Supreme Court litigation. In his article, he states that the United States receives their execution supplies from European countries and they began to ban pharmaceutical manufacturers and refused to supply drugs for execution; because they are running out of supplies, they began to consider using electric chairs, firing squad, and gas chambers again, which will raise questions and concerns about whether these methods obey the Eighth prohibition against cruel and unusual punishment (Feldman 1313). Although, lethal injection may be a more method of execution, it raised concerns in the medical professions since, the lethal injection was used to save lives instead of inflicting death, which violates a Hippocratic Oath which is an oath that was historically taken by physicians; there is a chance that a physician will fail to locate the vein, resulting in the inmates to feel an intense pain of the injection (Feldman 1327). Not only is execution considers inhumane and brutal, there are times where an individual was executed for the wrong reasons. For example, in the court case, Furman v. Georgia, William Henry Furman who was an African American was given a death penalty for committing a robbery when he was caught by the resident of the house, which led Furman to trip, accidentally triggered his gun, and killed the resident when he tried to escape (Blocher 275). Joseph Blocher is a professor at Duke Law School, his articles have been published or forthcoming in the Yale Law Journal, Stanford Law Review, New York University Law Review, Duke Law Journal and other journals. Going forward with the death penalty for Furman violated the Eighth Amendment of cruel and unusual punishment, however, it was accepted by the Fifth Amendment (Blocher 275). Due to Gregg v. Georgia, death sentence is not cruel and unusual punishment if administered in a manner that was not arbitrary, capricious, or United States Lopez 3 have executed 1400 inmates (Feldman 1319). Feldman also mentions that some states punished criminals for less serious crimes, and they frequently imposed of death sentences, meaning that the government has enforced on having executions when it was not necessary to punish someone by executing (1316). In addition to that, performing executions does not decline crime rates, because criminals are not afraid of these punishments. Gretchen Sween teaches legal writing an appellate advocacy at the University of Texas School of Law. In her article, she says, does not deter the commission of crimes, otherwise, individuals would have stopped committing in other words, those who commit heinous crimes are not afraid of their own death, citizens believe that criminals will be petrified enough by the death sentence to quit committing atrocious acts (156). Additionally, in article, he states that the Supreme Court has asserted that the Eighth Amendment draws its meaning from the evolving standards of decency that mark the progress of a maturing society, meaning that one of the reasons why criminals may murder someone is because they see that the government murders criminals so they believe that what they are doing is right (1347). However, death penalty can give closure and revenge to the families and friends of the victims. This gives emotional and psychological burden of mourning and grieving, psychological deterioration, and the need for healing (Vollum 601). The author, Scott Vollum is an associate professor and an associate department head in University of Minnesota Duluth. In his article, of Capital Murder: Statements of Family Members and Friends Made at the Time of included statistics showing how the covictims felt about the death penalty. About 35% of statements showed that they felt relieved, 25% believed that justice has been done, 10% felt compassion, 7% wished for clemency and 6% gave forgiveness, and the remaining Lopez 4 percentage were dissatisfied (602). feel like he was paying for a crime he as one of the covictims commented, feeling that justice was served (609). So there are both good and bad effects of the death penalty. From good to bad, there should be different punishments other than putting the criminals under death penalty as a punishment. There are others who believe that death penalty is unacceptable no matter the crime because they believe that the practice is inhumane. There may be a case where an individual may be innocent but they were proven guilty and they are put up for an execution when they do not deserve such punishment. Some individuals believe that death penalty is the only acceptable punishments for criminals with certain cases where they have committed heinous crimes. However, death penalty does not decline the crime rates like some citizens believe. Whatever the crime, nobody deserves to be executed, performing the execution is like being a murderer which needs to be prevented. Maybe this is the reason why criminals commit homicides, because the of the ideas of execution is practiced in the government and criminals believe that it is acceptable. Lopez 5 Works Cited Blocher, Joseph. The Death Penalty And The Fifth  Northwestern University Law Review 111.1 (2016): 275-293. Academic Search Premier. Web. 2 Feb. 2017. Bufacchi, Vittorio, and Laura Fairrie. Execution As  Peace Review 13.4 (2001): 511-517. Academic Search Premier. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Feldman, James C. Nothing Less Than the Dignity of Man: The Eighth Amendment and State Efforts to Reinstitute Traditional Methods of  Washington Law Review, vol. 90, 01 Oct. 2015, p. 1313. Web. 23 Feb. 2017. Simon, Douglas L. Making Sense Of Cruel And Unusual Punishment: A New Approach To Reconciling Military And Civilian Eighth Amendment  Military Law Review 184. (2005): 66-128. OmniFile Full Text Mega (H.W. Wilson). Web. 2 Feb. 2017. Sween, Gretchen. Texas Tuscany: How a Truism Might Further Invigorate Contemporary for Death-Penalty  American Journal of Criminal Law, vol. 41, 01 Apr. 2014, p. 151-187. Vollum, Scott and Dennis R. Longmire. Covictims of Capital Murder: Statements of Family Members and Friends Made at the Time of  Violence & Victims, vol. 22, no. 5, Oct. 2007, pp. 601-619.