Miller 1 Taylor Miller Lorie Jewell ENC 1101 25 April 2017 The Proper Treatment of Syndrome Syndrome (TS) is a very common disorder amongst Americans. It is a fairly new disorder that has been recognized and effects people neurologically. is commonly paired with other disorders like OCD and ADHD. The symptoms for TS including vocal and physical tics that can vary from anything from coughing to hopping. should be treated based on a patient by patient examination and not just across the board. has too many variables, it a common enough to receive a good amount of funding, and it is neurological making it harder to pin point. TS is a very complex disorder and not one case is alike. This would go into detail of long examinations of patients and algorithms of finding the proper medication specific for the symptoms of and not another disease or disorder. Too many times is being treated improperly or undiagnosed. There needs to be more exposure of TS, that will help it drawn in the proper need to diagnose these children and people whom live with it throughout their whole life. Every case of Syndrome is different. Treating TS based on extensive testing and observation is what I believe to give the best form of a better outcome. Deidre is one of many whom did an observation study on kids with Syndrome stated, hypotheses involving a range of variables salient to the TS (563) Explaining how the TS varies in many ways. That is why is it so critical to truly test TS and asses it for a proper treatment. Kurlan is a credited psychiatric author of many other journals, works in New England Miller 2 still on psychiatrics. He explains how, takes a very long time to pin point the variables that come with the TS because of how this article is still researching about the old boy has a three-year history of hyperactive disorder, distractibility, and (9) Generally treating this disorder would just be a careless suggestion and a temporary solution, this is not just something inanimate, we are talking about a person and their personal life decisions down to their actions. Though, some believe it is just easier and best to just do a medicine algorithm and treat with anything from antidepressants to antipsychotics. Sallee who works in the department of psychiatry and has published multiple academic journals, explains that, antipsychotics appear to show particular (227) This is from a study where they used a medicine algorithm to treat 15 patients with TS and explaining how it just seems to work without testing them extensively. This was just a mathematical equation that they put together for a hopeful outcome and not actually an answer to these problems. Andrea E. Cavanna is Honorary Reader in Neuropsychiatry and Consultant in Behavioral Neurology at the Department of Neuropsychiatry in Birmingham and Solihull Mental Health Foundation NHS Trust states that can be simple or complex, are usually suggestible, and may be suppressed (14) The simple and complex tics are what vary amongst the patients and situations because the tics are not always just the same, they change and are triggered differently based on the person and their form of not the same as the patient before or after them. TS is a lot more common than it is led to be. There is a very large number of children considering the number of people who live in the United States. Syndrome is common enough to get funding and grants for proper testing of patients. Clare M. Eddy is currently working in the department of Psychology at the University of Birmingham in Birmingham, UK. Miller 3 She is a Senior Research Fellow at the National Centre for Mental Health. She states, Syndrome (TS) is a neurological developmental disorder that is most commonly diagnosed in childhood or early adolescence. Explaining the high number of TS in children, thought they can grow out of it eventually so that is why the childhood statistics are more of the accurate number of people effected by Syndrome. PhD in Psychology at the University of Manchester, and spent two years at Manchester as a post-doctoral researcher. She has a specialty in psychology and psychiatry describes those affected by this disorder are prone to more disorders that, present a barrier to learning in several ways and can also affect this is why it is so critical to expose people more to so they know how to help others with this barrier that people with TS may be hitting in a learning environment or amongst others. Neurologically it effects children daily, though it is relatively harmless, Syndrome is hard to pin point. That is why the requirement of specific treatment is critical. then justifies that, neurodevelopment disorder characterized by the presence of two or more motor tics and at least one vocal tic lasting for more than a (563) This shows that the symptoms are minor and can be lived with without treatment. Kious, whom is a professor at the University of Utah in psychiatry explains that, Syndrome (TS) is a complex neurodevelopment condition marked by tics as well as a variety of psychiatric (227) All in all, Syndrome is a very common neurological disorder that is harmless but effects many American lives on a day to day basis. Syndrome should be treated more carefully by long evaluation because there are so many variables to it, the complexity of it being neurological and the commonness of it. Those are all the reasons as to why TS should be treated more carefully amongst patients and not just medicated to suppress them. is Miller 4 not just a minor disorder that can be ignored or untreated with the common aspect of it. Would you want to be able to control your actions on a day to day basis if something was affecting your ability to control? Miller 5 Works Cited Cavanna, Andrea Eugenio. The Behavioral Spectrum of Gilles de la Tourette The Journal of Neuropsychiatry and Clinical Neurosciences 21.1 (2009): 13-23. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Deirdre et al. The Impact of Tic Severity, Comorbidity and Peer Attachment on Quality of Life Outcomes and Functioning in Syndrome: Parental  SpringerLink. N.p., 06 Oct. 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Eddy, Clare M. et al. Neuropsychological aspects of Tourette syndrome: A review.  Journal of Psychosomatic Research 67.6 (2009): 503-13. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Kious, Brent M. Treatment-refractory Tourette  Treatment-refractory Tourette Syndrome. Science Direct, Volume 70, 3 Oct. 2016. Web. 15 Feb. 2017. Kurlan, Roger.  ProQuest. N.p., 9 Dec. 2010. Web. 16 Feb. 2017. Ruth Wadman et al. Difficulties experienced by young people with Tourette syndrome in secondary school: a mixed methods description of self, parent and staff  BMC Psychiatry. N.p., 20 Jan. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Sallee, Floyd. Ziprasidone Treatment of Children and Adolescents with Syndrome: A Pilot  ScienceDirect. N.p., Mar. 2000. Web. 10 Apr. 2017.