Kissoon 1 Jeremy Kissoon Bob Botkin ENC 1102 4 April 16, 2017 Stop Shark Finning Now! The consumption of Shark Fin Soup has been going on for generations, as it plays an fundamental role in the Chinese culture. However, many people around the world have recognized that shark finning is a major problem: one so vast that the aquatic ecosystem is in danger. As a result, Shark finning has led to the endangerment of many species of Shark. Therefore, this paper will investigate why people should care about the issue with Shark finning and how it can be stopped. To give some background information about this practice, Shark finning is the process in which fishermen catch Sharks by fishing for them and removing the fin of each Shark they catch by cutting them off from the their bodies. By doing this, the fishermen will have an easier way of transporting and storing these fins, instead of carrying the entire mass of the Shark in their boats. The rest of the carcass is then thrown into the ocean leaving the helpless organism to either bleed to death or be eaten by other aquatic life (Jefferies 257). This practice is done primarily because Shark fins make up a major component in Shark Fin Soup. This soup is considered a luxury to the Chinese middle class because it is considered to be both very delicious and prestigious in the Chinese culture (Jefferies 257). As a result, this business is deemed as being very profitable. According to Cameron Jefferies in his Legislative Note: An Emerging Pacific Initiative to Ban Shark Finning and Limit the Consumption of Shark Fin Soup the Case for Canadian Participation, profitability of the shark fin trade is estimated to be between Kissoon 1 $400 500 million USD a (258). To add, a bowl of Shark Fin Soup could cost as much as $100 USD and the fins could be sold for as much as $1000 USD (Green 706). Currently, Sharks are present at the top of the aquatic food chain which makes them an apex predator in the ocean. If they were to go extinct, then the ecosystems would be thrown out of balance. According to author Crystal Green, an advocate against Shark finning, in her article, An International SOS (Save Our Sharks): How The International Legal Framework Should Be Used To Save Our Sharks, over 100 million Sharks are killed each year due to Shark finning. Green also mentions that Shark finning is the leading cause of death of Sharks. Other factors including: pollution, habitat destruction, and sport fishing do contribute to the dwindling size of the Shark population but not as drastically as finning (705). She also goes on and reports how the aquatic ecosystem is affected by providing an instance in which certain rays (a type of fish that are considered prey for sharks) scavenge the bottom of the ocean and feast on the seagrass beds that are present. These seagrass beds also inhabit other aquatic life such as shellfish .Without the help of sharks to keep these rays from consuming the grass, the habitats of other organisms are at risk (705). This shows how the ecosystem can be altered if Shark finning continues to persist. To accommodate with the rapid dwindling of the Shark population, many regions are starting to limit or ban Shark finning. In Cameron Jefferies Sharks and the Culinary Clash of Culture and Conservation: Why are we not considering the Health Consequences of Shark Consumption?, areas such as Hawaii have banned the possession, sale and trade of Shark fins. Other states like California, Oregon, and Washington State have followed suit and placed similar bans. Even countries such as Guam have begun to ban the practice of finning for sharks (35). Other laws include the Shark Finning Prohibition Act of 2000 signed into law by President Bill Kissoon 1 Clinton. This law, also known as the SFPA, prohibits anyone from engaging in shark finning, and possessing shark fins in their boats without the bodies of the sharks (Green 711). By passing these laws, the governments of many regions are starting to show care towards the endangerment of Sharks and are limiting the availability of Shark finning around the world. Although these laws may limit Shark finning to a certain extent, there are those who completely go against any form of banning finning. There are the fishermen who are activitsts for finning as it is their livlihoods. Without it, many people will become unemployed. As mentioned before, this business is profitable, so shutting down the entire infrstructure is not really an option. Also, there are others that claim the ban on shark fin sales discriminates against people of Chinese origin for whom the fins are a cultural and it was seen as unconstitutional (Green 714-715). This proves that laws that prohibit shark finning may go against the beliefs of others and legal action will be pursued. To counter any opposing arguments, an example of compromise would be for any coastal state in the United States that control over the fishing that goes on within a 200 mile radius limit the amount of Shark finning that goes on. In this way, the fishermen are able to carry on with their jobs (Green 708). Other boundaries should be reserved for breeding grounds for these sharks so that they have a chance to revitalize and repopulate. Moving on, there is the fact that Shark Fin Soup plays an important role in the cultures of some; however, this delicacy presents itself with subtle consequences. Some scientific studies show that Shark fins may cause negative effects on the human body. Sharks do have beneficial factors in them that aid in treatments that deal with anemia, cold extremities, diabetes, fatigue, hypertension and tuberculosis (Jefferies 35). However, since toxins enter the food chain at lower levels (smaller fish, Shrimp, and Plankton) and become more concentrated as one goes up the Kissoon 1 food chain, Sharks, unfortunately, have been found to be contaminated with heavy metals such as methylmercury (Jefferies 36). This particular metal has been linked to studies unearthing problems involving both fetal development, in which the fetus can be harmed, as well as male infertility (Jefferies 36). All in all, Shark finning should be limited throughout the world, for this practice itself is becoming out of hand, to the point where the Shark population is hanging on like a leaf on tree during autumn. To aid these helpless creatures, the people have to be able to vote to enable more limitations towards finning. A petition should be made that Shark Fin Soup poses a threat to the Shark population and should be discontinued in most restaurants, only keeping this dish in top tier food industries. The best way to advocate against finning is to stop eating the soup. If the soup is not being consumed by the public, then the fishermen do not have a reason to collect the fins off of millions of Sharks each year. Another way to get this topic out there would be to appeal to large fishing corporations. A letter should be sent to them as to why Shark finning is detrimental to the marine ecosystem and why they should limit the amount of fins they import from the sea. If changes are not made soon the shark population will diminish and the future of the oceans along with all its life will begin to waiver. After all, a Shark cannot help itself once it has been caught. Kissoon 1 Works Cited Green, Crystal. An International SOS (Save Our Sharks): How The International Legal Framework Should Be Used To Save Our  Pace International Law Review 2 (2015): 701. Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Jefferies, Cameron. Legislative Note: An Emerging Pacific Initiative To Ban Shark Finning And Limit The Consumption Of Shark Fin Soup The Case For Canadian  Journal Of Environmental Law & Practice (11817534) 22.3 (2011): 255- 265. Environment Index. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.