Grosser 1 Jake Grosser Bob Botkin ENC 1102 099 16 April 2017 We Are Watching Back in 2015, 920 people were killed by police officers in that year alone. 10 officers were convicted for murder and the rest were let off scot-free. Imagine if all these killings were documented and recorded and were used as evidence in the court case. Police body cameras are the new cutting edge gadgets of the century and are very helpful in assisting law enforcement by keeping officers and civilians accountable for their actions. Body cameras also ensure safety into the hearts of any civilian that come in contact with any officer. Body cameras also help during the prosecution process by providing a bit more evidence of the time of arrest. There have been numerous studies that show how body cameras not only reduce the use of force by police officers as well as reduce the number of complaints by civilians regarding police brutality. Providing all police personnel with body cameras would only reduce the problems we face with our law enforcement everyday. There would now be video evidence that keeps everyone accountable for his or her actions when coming in contact with the law. is on their best behavior when the cameras are running. The officers, the (Lippman). There are countless cases of police officers killing innocent people in the past 10 years that it is now a very familiar topic to talk about. Trayvon Martin, a 17-year-old kid Grosser 2 who only lived just five minutes away from my house in Miami Florida, was killed by a police officer for no apparent reason. He was armed with just a pack of skittles and an Arizona ice tea. He was murdered and the officer who killed him was found not guilty by self-defense. Now imagine if there was video evidence of the encounter between Trayvon and George Zimmerman. Odds are if there were, Zimmerman would be facing life in prison for first-degree murder. All police personnel should be equipped with a body camera for the safety of the officer as well as the safety of the civilians. With videotape present during all encounters with police officers, there are now more witnesses to the incident if one presents itself. fairly common recommendation for reducing police misconduct is to increase use of body cameras. By recording police-citizen encounters, police supervisors, judges, reporters, and others can get objective evidence of what happened instead of self-serving (Lippman). This technology is too helpful to not be in use; providing countless benefits for law enforcement as well as normal people by providing safety, assisting in the prosecution process, as well as keeping everyone accountable for their actions when coming in contact with law enforcement. Providing all law enforcement with body cameras will only assist and provide better results than if they were not in use. For example, in the year 2016 when body cameras were first introduced, complaints by civilians concerning police brutality decreased more than half of the year previous. Also, use of force by police officers also decreased more than 77% compared to the previous year without the body cameras present. findings suggest more than a 50% reduction in the total number of Incidents of use-of-force compared to control-conditions, and nearly ten times more Grosser 3 complaints in the 12-months prior to the says Chief Farrar (Pagliarella). Equipping officers with body cameras have too much potential and benefit to our everyday life to be left untouched. Body cameras reduce complaints and use of force by police officers, ensure safety into the hearts of the people who come in contact with police officers, and provide more evidence during the prosecution process during the time of the arrest. With more eyes to view what occurred during the time of arrest as well as actual solid concrete evidence via video, police body cameras will only assist law enforcement and the civilians they are trying to protect. Body cameras will ensure safety into the hearts of ever civilian that comes in contact with the law. Knowing that he officer is being recorded, tension wont is so high and there would be a less chance of the person or the officer react under stress. Body cameras would also assist in the procession process by providing more evidence during the time of arrest. Frequently people say that they are treated disrespectfully or rude by police officers including physical abuse. With the body camera equipped to all police officers, all of these problems will be dealt with or All the recording will go and be processed as or All of the video tape that had incidents caught on tape or is any complaint by civilians what so ever, the tape will be and then be put into further review. There are multiple places to get involved and take action into police body cameras. There are countless anonyms websites that you can fill out forms if there has been a problem during an encounter with a police officer, as well as voting for body cameras to be enforced in your town. Grosser 4 Police body cameras provide safety in the hearts of the people whom the police are solemnly trying to protect, provide better evidence in the prosecution process, and hold everyone accountable for their actions. There are countless studies that show that the introduction of body cameras has made complaints and police use-of-force decreased by more than 77%. There have been many deaths of innocent people that could have ended poorly for law enforcement if there had been a video present of the time of arrest. Trayvon Martin, and unarmed black teenager who was the sad talk of the town for the whole year of 2012, was killed for no apparent reason. He was armed with nothing only but a pack of skittles and an Arizona ice tea. Imagine if there was a video present of the killing, and maybe the world would be a different place. Grosser 5 Work Cited Americans Strongly Support Police Body-Worn  Security: Solutions For Enterprise Security Leaders 53.2 (2016): 12. Business Source Alumni Edition. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. As Police Body Cameras Increase, What About All That  All Things Considered (2015): Literature Resource Center. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Freund, Kelly. When cameras are rolling: privacy implications of body-mounted cameras on  Columbia Journal of Law and Social Problems 2015: 91. Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Kampfe, Karson. Police-Worn Body Cameras: Balancing Privacy And Accountability Through State And Police Department  Ohio State Law Journal 5 (2015): 1152. Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Lippman, Gary E. Will Police Body Cameras Be A Mandatory Subject Of Bargaining In  Florida Bar Journal 90.10 (2016): 57-61. Index to Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Pagliarella, Chris. Police Body-Worn Camera Footage: A Question Of  Yale Law & Policy Review 34.2 (2016): 533-543. Academic Search Premier. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.