WELLS 1 Cheyanne Wells Lorie Jewell ENC 1101.21 25 April. 2017 Autism and Vaccines: Are the Two Linked? If you had to choose between the possibility of your child having a disability and them dying, which would you choose? Autism Spectrum Disorder can affect a person in many ways while vaccines affect one thing; they prevent diseases that cause fatalities. Autism Spectrum Disorder is a neurodevelopmental disorder that can sometimes impact cognitive abilities. Autism Spectrum Disorder is not something to be afraid of, but the diseases that vaccines prevent are. In the 1990s an article was published that started the discussion that vaccines caused Autism Spectrum Disorder. Since then there has been a lot of research on the topic proving that vaccines do not cause Autism Spectrum and the anti-vaccine movement is very harmful. Even though there is no known cause for Autism Spectrum Disorder, there is scientific evidence that vaccines are not one of the possible causes and that the anti-vaccine movement and the celebrities backing it are doing a lot of harm. Therefore, there is definitive proof that vaccines do not cause Autism Spectrum Disorder and people should be more diligent about vaccinating the children of every generation to protect them from the harm that the diseases cause. If everyone can open their eyes and see the evidence then this world will see one of the biggest threats to human kind obliterated. 2 WELLS In the 1998 an article was published in a very reputable paper called The Lancet. This article claimed that certain ingredients in vaccines caused Autism Spectrum Disorder and made this argument through claims from the parents and previous doctors that the child was developing normally until their vaccines were administered (Wakefield, 637). While this article was later retracted people were hooked, the debate had started and is still happening. Many people have the fear that if they vaccinate their child they will be subjecting their child to the disorder. The main claims of this side of the argument are that there is no known cause for autism and that when vaccines started to be administered the numbers of people with Autism Spectrum Disorder also started to rise. Because of these reasons celebrities stared to back the movement and talk about it. This got even more people on board with not wanting to vaccinate their children. These celebrities are not experts in the fields of either vaccines or Autism Spectrum Disorder, but are seen as the spokespeople of the meek and not famous general public. When celebrities say something people are bound to listen, but are they exerting their power to an unworthy cause? Is the anti-vaccine movement doing any good? Vaccines are meant to save lives, but if children do not receive them that job cannot be done. While Autism Spectrum Disorder may be scary, it is not as frightening as the sometimes-fatal diseases that vaccines were invented to prevent. Among these diseases is measles, polio, diphtheria, whooping cough, rubella, mumps, tetanus, rotavirus, and HIB; things that have afflicted people in the not so distant past that we have eradicated (Center for Disease Control and Prevention, 1). The anti-vaccination movement could ruin all this though. Vaccinations are so important that the government has made it mandatory to vaccinate your child, but there are still loopholes that people are WELLS 3 exploiting (Johnson, 2). People are doing this based on information that they hear from celebrities protesting vaccinations rather than hard science. In the anti-vaccine movement there is a common tag line to do your research. Well, if those same people paid more attention to the scientific evidence they would see it all points to one thing, vaccines do not cause Autism Spectrum Disorder, there has been quite a bit of research into the topic and it shows. One of the people who have researched the topic is Christopher S. Price. Price wrote about an experiment that was done to see if the ingredients in vaccines could be a cause for Autism Spectrum Disorder, the experiment found that there is not any correlation (1). Another article by Allison Knopf stated that pediatricians are appalled at the movement for using anti-science to try to get parents to not vaccinate their children (1). Other than these medical professionals there is also research from the Center for Disease Control and Prevention. From 2003 to 2015 the CDC funded or conducted nine experiments on the link between vaccines and Autism Spectrum Disorder and all of them found no connection. Furthermore, the anti-vaccine movement says that their main concern is the mercury-based ingredient Thimerosal. This ingredient was reduced to only multi-dose flu vaccines with other options available before the CDC proved that Thimerosal is harmless (Center for Disease Control and Prevention, 1). The anti-vaccination movement uses a lot of misdirection and maybes to get scared parents to believe that vaccines are dangerous and not worth the risk when there is no connection between Autism Spectrum Disorder and any ingredient in any vaccine. In conclusion, even though Autism Spectrum Disorder has no known cause, scientific evidence proves that vaccines do not cause autism. There is more research 4 WELLS being done on the topics every day and one can be sure that it will not stop until the cause of Autism Spectrum Disorder is found. Until the point is reached that the debate is settled every one must do their part. Do the proper research and find what all the signs point to, vaccinate the children. WELLS 5 Works Cited Center for Disease Control and Prevention. are childhood Vaccines So (2014). CDC. Web. 15 April. 2017 Center for Disease Control and Prevention. Do Not Cause (2015) CDC. Web. 15 April 2017 Dr. Johnson, Michael D. Issue: Mandatory Childhood Human Biology: Concepts and Current Issues. 8 th Edition. Pearson. 2017. Pg. 2. Knopf, Allison. do not Cause Autism: Pediatricians Fight Back Against Anti- The Brown University Child and Adolescent Behavior Letter. 27 Jan. 2017. Price, Christofer S. and Infant Exposure to Thimerosal from Vaccines and Immunoglobulins and Risk of Pediatrics. Oct 2010. Vol 126. Issue 4. Wakefield, AJ, et al. Ileal-lymphoid-nodular hyperplasia, non-specific colitis, and pervasive developmental disorder in The Lancet351.9103. (1998): 637-641. The Lancet. Web. Focus for Health and the Vaccine Focus for Health. Focus for Health. Web.