Gottfried1 Zachary Gottfried William Drugan ENC 1102.70 3 April 2017 The Risks Outweigh The Benefits From the beginning of the 20th century, and performance enhancing drugs (PEDs) have been a tremendous dispute in professional athletic leagues. In 1904, the Olympic runner, Thomas Hicks almost past away from using a mixture of brandy and strychnine, these drugs are usually used to kill small animals, but however low doses can cause stimulations within the body (Doping in sports, 54). Athletes are doing all they can do to gain a competitive edge over their opponents. These desire for incredible abilities blinds them from the negative effects caused by steroids. The NIDA (National Institute of Health) and players against steroids have been huge participants in the dispute of steroids and PEDs in professional sports for years, with a mission to have professional sports played drug-free, with an even playing field. These images represents the goal of scaring players away from steroids and PEDs. The two images display the negative effects of the abuse of steroid by it being an advertisement from the NIDA, which symbolizes ethos, they use the risks of steroids to appeal to the emotion of the audience, which symbolizes pathos, the images persuade people to stay away from steroids, which symbolizes logos, and they use timeliness by showing that the use of steroids destroys body and can even cause death, which symbolizes kairos. The players that want to keep the ban on steroids and PEDs, believe that the game is meant to be played by athletes that have the best natural ability or work ethic for the sport. They Gottfried2 feel that if performance enhancing supplements were to be legal, they would be pressured into taking them in order to keep up with players that use them. These players have worked so hard throughout their life so they can the be top athletes. They do not want other players to take a shortcut to get to where they are, when they dedicated so much time and effort to get to the top. They do not want their natural talent to be hidden in the shadows of players that are excelling due to the use of PEDs. Moreover, the steroids will increase the risk of short term and long term injuries drastically. Steroids are banned from professional sports such as baseball, basketball, and hockey, because they are detrimental to health and they give an unfair advantage to the user (Anabolic Steroids 2). The first image is an advertisement from the National Institute on Drug Abuse. The goal of this advertisement is to warn the audience on how dangerous the abuse of steroids can be. The advertisement of the NIDA persuades the athletes to stay away from steroids and stay true to oneself, by enhancing their work ethic and natural ability. This image lists the potential risks of using steroids in order to spread awareness of the dangers of steroids.The first image has ethos, because it is an advertisement from the National Institute on drug abuse (NIDA). The National Institute on Drug Abuse funded research allows experts and researchers to utilize the most advanced and complex technology when studying drugs (NIDA 1). The NIDA is credible, so when people see this advertisement they are going to believe it because the NIDA does research on drugs such as steroids and PEDs and obtain accurate data from the research. The NIDA studies the long term and short term effects of drugs and construct messages that prevents people from abusing them (NIDA 1). Pathos is present in the first image, because it appeals to the emotions. The advertisement makes people believe that athletes using steroids are Gottfried3 frauds and cheaters. The first image also states the setbacks and side effects of steroids which can influence the audience and make people think that succeeding while on steroids is not worth their health. The first image uses black and white as the color of the image in order to display that the negative effect of steroids is a serious matter and that everyone should know about them before considering taking them.The first image contains elements of logos because it persuades people and athletes to stay away from steroids by stating that cheaters and frauds use steroids and that the only way to achieve is to be drug-free and use natural ability. Moreover, The first image contains elements of kairos, because successful steroid users such as athletes are going to see it and want to get off of the drug to receive credit for succeeding without cheating. The first image also talks about the setbacks of steroids. When looking at this advertisment, an athlete may feel like they have to get off of it immediately to avoid all possible consequences, which is also an example of kairos. On the contrary, the second image portrays a teenager riddled with the negative side effects of steroid use. The second goal is to scare people with the effects of steroids by showing them how it destroys the human body. The second image influences the athletes to not use steroids, goal is to have the athletes feel as if the steroids will kill them. This image displays fatal diseases such as, brain cancer, heart attacks, stroke, liver cancer, and kidney disease. Moreover, the image does not have very strong evidence and credibility. It is just an image that is displaying the harmful effects of steroids through a kid, it is not an advertisement from a respected institute such as the NIDA. In addition, the second image contains elements of pathos as well. The second image displays that steroids can riddle body with tumors and other serious health problems. This display of the negative effects of steroids has the power to Gottfried4 appeal to the feeling and turn them against steroids. The second image does a good job showing that steroids destroy the human body. Not to mention,the second image contains elements of logos, because the image of the kid struggling through the disturbing side effects of steroids persuades athletes to not use steroids. The second image has strong elements of kairos, because it displays the problems and dangers of steroids through a steroid user. Other steroid users are going to to look at the advertisement and re-think their decisions of consuming the drug. In conclusion, there are professional athletes that are taking drugs in order to gain an advantage over their opponents, however they are not aware of the dangers and side effects of them. They are blinded by the impressive abilities that comes from steroids. Many athletes are caught doping and ruin their athletic careers and lives. For instance, Lance Armstrong, was one of the most influential and dominating bicyclist of all time (Lance Armstrong, 1). Before he was caught doping he inspired an abundant amount of people (Lance Armstrong, 1) However, after he was caught doping he was striped from his medals and his well known reputation, he let all his fans down and ruined his career that was once a successful one (Lance Armstrong 1). These images do a good job spreading awareness of the dangers and risks of steroids through ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos. Gottfried5 Gottfried6 Gottfried7 Cited Baron, David A. Doping in sports and its spread to at-risk populations: an international  World Psychiatry 6.2 (2007): 54-59. Google Scholar . Web. 2 Apr. 2017. NIDA Notes. [Electronic [Rockville, : U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, National Institutes of Health, National Institute on Drug Abuse, 2006. =true&db=cat00847a&AN=usflc.032538802&site=eds-live. Ryan, James. Lance  Salem Press Biographical Encyclopedia, January. EBSCOhost, =true&db=ers&AN=89403524&site=eds-live. United States. Drug Enforcement, Administration. Anabolic  (2004): Web. 29 Jan. 2017