Mounzer 1 Hassan Mounzer William Drugan ENC 1102.071 02 April 2017 Project 2 Final Draft Rockstar Games Nowadays, almost every home in the world, a person walks into has some type of video game in it. This is especially true in the United States of America. Due to the consistent presence of these games in the lives of people in this generation, the video game industries had to work hard on the way they present their games to customer. When choosing a video game, the first thing that attracts a customer are the images illustrated on the cover of each game. Each one of the illustrations shows a brief description of what the player is going to encounter in the game. For this reason, video game industries tend to focus greatly on two concepts: the design of the video game presentations, and the way that they will advertise the games. In order to be effective, the video game industries employ the tactic of rhetorical appeal to try and convince the consumer to purchase their product. The main focus of the appeal needs to focus on what Aristotle termed ethos, pathos, logos, and Kairos. These are different types of persuasive techniques that focus on appealing to the consumer in terms of building credibility and trust, playing on emotions, using logic, and abiding by timeliness. One video game company, Rockstar, effectively uses these elements of persuasion when designing its game covers, including Grand Theft Auto and Max Payne, and the results have been extremely rewarding. Mounzer 2 In the two images presented, Rockstar games employs ethos, pathos and logos in an attempt to convince people to buy the games that they have worked hard to develop. In Grand Theft Auto, the company includes ethos by showing that they are credible and can be trusted. In a sense, they know what is happening in urban society, and they want to provide a game that accurately shows events that happen in these locations. Once they show the consumer that they are knowledgeable about these incidences, the consumer becomes more trusting of the company itself. The picture portrays various scenes that might happen in real-life and that are a part of the actual game. They accurately show that a chase can take place in a car, on a motorcycle, on a jet ski, or in a helicopter. They also have pictures of people carrying guns to indicate that they know this type of crime will lead to dealing with these types of people, along with vicious dogs and hot women. In regards to ethos, the Max Payne image shows that they are a trusted brand because they are presented by Rockstar games, which is an experienced company. The image shows events that might happen in real-life, and are also a part of the game. They show a woman being manhandled by a man whose face is covered and who is carrying a weapon. This type of abduction could happen in everyday life. There is also a picture representing the consumption of alcohol by an injured man carrying a incident that could happen in a big city. In addition, there are scenes from a dangerous city and a variety of weapons that could be used by criminals living in that city. All the scenes depicted in both video games show the consumer that these companies know exactly what happens in these locations. They want the player to know that while playing these games, he will experience the exact same scenarios that he might if he lived in these locations. Hence, the player in more trusting of the company and purchases the video game because of this trust. This type of appeal can be both positive and negative. Some people might buy the game based on the cover and play the game, knowing that it is a It is not the reality that they live in. Others Mounzer 3 might be attracted to the cover, buy the game, play it, and try to actually live out what is happening in the game. In regards to pathos, the Grand Theft Auto cover contains pictures that play on the emotions. The pictures are all of exciting and dangerous events that will be encountered in the game. The player will see them and be enticed by them and, in turn, buy the game, so he/she can feel as if he/she is a part of that world. In regards to pathos, the Max Payne image shows emotions through characters in the picture such as anger, violence and fear. By seeing these images, the players look forward to playing the game to see what types of dangerous events they will encounter when they play. The pictures on the covers of both games represent excitement and an escape for the player. They will believe that by playing the games, they will feel the same rush of adrenalin that the people in the games might feel. If there is some type of rescue involved, the feeling of satisfaction will play a major role in the choice of purchasing the game. The play on the emotions is tremendously effective of both of these games. In regards to logos, the Grand Theft auto images use logic in the sense that they make the player realize that if he/she is going to play this game, he/she is going to encounter these types of situations and these types of people. When the company shows these details to the consumer, they are, in a way, providing him with facts that these events will be encountered. The more facts presented, the more logical it sounds to the buyer. If the consumer sees pictures of car chases, it is logical to assume that the player is going to experience what it would be like to be in a car chase. Also, the pictures on the cover represent danger, whether it is through the use of weapons or encountering wild animals. It makes sense that the player will assume that this type of danger will be encountered when he/she is partaking in the game. In addition, the Max Payne images use logos by showing the players that if they are going to play this game, these are the types of Mounzer 4 adventures and events that they will encounter; adventures dealing with abduction, alcoholism, and violence. Although it is logical that these incidents might be encountered, it is not very likely that they be encountered by the average, law-abiding citizen of that city. These types of events usually happen to criminals or people who live in an area overtaken by crime. In dealing with Kairos, the images of both Grand Theft Auto and Max Payne appeal to timeliness. The images portrayed are images that are suitable to the time that one is living. Every image presented is representative of the types of events that take place in the era that people live in. For example, car chases, theft, abduction, and the use of weapons occur in many places on a daily basis. By viewing these images, the customer can relate because they represent the times that they are living in. The appeal is strong for people who pay attention to details in regards to the era, or time, that the crime takes place in. The advertisers chosen by Rockstar designed effective covers for both video games, Grand Theft Auto and Max Payne. The covers have great appeal, which it beneficial for the industry. By incorporating elements of rhetorical appeal that deal with ethos, pathos, logos, and Kairos, Rockstar is effective in enticing customers to by their products. When one takes into consideration the type of audience that this stakeholder is interested in, the use of these persuasive techniques become even more powerful. The main type of audience that the industry is aiming to appeal to are teenagers. The images are successful in capturing the attention of the teenager, and eventually convincing him to buy the game in order to experience these events, that he might otherwise not experience. Relating to the message that Rockstar wants to portray, the game covers are also successful. By looking at the cover, the customer knows that when he purchases the video game, he will be transported to a world filled with excitement and adventure. While playing the game, Mounzer 5 the player will be exposed to all of the elements that are portrayed on the covers of the games. The message that the cover portrays is clear to the consumer. The main goal of any company is to create a product that will be purchased by consumers. The packaging of any product plays a major role in it being purchased. By incorporating elements that appeal to the customer, the company can make sure that their product is purchased, and, in turn, make a profit for them. Rockstar is one company that used these elements to ensure that the games that they have created are accurately portrayed on the covers of the games. Mounzer 6 All Rockstar Games. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.