Bissette 1 Kylee Bissette Professor Drugan ENC 1102-085 26 February 2017 Project Two Intermediate Draft Heads up! Images use rhetorical appeals to get their point across. This statement is particularly true for head injuries in football. There are many images that show how serious head injuries are in football and show the point of view of how bad it is to get hit in the head so hard, despite wearing a helmet. The two images selected to show the impact of head injuries in football use three of the four rhetoric appeals. These rhetorical appeals include logos, ethos, and pathos. The two photographs selected accurately portray the dangers of head injuries in football, therefore, representing the point of view. The first image chosen to represent the stakeholder point of view depicts a football player from the National Football (NFL) team, the Titans, getting taken down by a hard tackle from two players on the NFL team, the Jaguars. The player that is being tackled is shown getting his head crushed between the two defensive players. What sticks out the most from the photo is the player being hit so hard that his veins in his forehead are popping out. When looking at this photo, the viewer cringes. The viewer may even feel sympathy pains for the football player. This photo exemplifies how hard a football player can get hit during games Bissette 2 and practices. They get multiple hits to the head at the force shown in the photograph. This image applies to three of the four rhetoric appeals. The rhetoric appeals used in image number one are ethos, pathos, and logos. Ethos is the appeal to ethics. When ethos is being used, the photograph is trying to portray credibility of their source (YourDictionary). This photo applies to ethos because it is a photograph of NFL players. The NFL is the best of the best American football players and has been around for decades, therefore, making it very credible. Because the player getting hit is an NFL player, it shows that head injuries are very relevant and occur in any division or league of football because it happens with the best players. Ethos is not the main rhetorical appeal used in this photograph. Pathos is prominent in this photograph. Pathos appeals to emotions. When pathos is used in a photograph, it is trying to create an emotional response from the viewer (YourDictionary). Almost everyone knows someone who plays football, so people will connect this photo with that person. They will think this player in the photo could very well be their son, nephew, cousin, or friend getting hit in the head during their practice or game. Nobody wants someone they know to get hit like this player in the photo, but most prominently a parent. Many parents want their children playing football because of head injuries. Some doctors have images like this in their offices to show hits like this can and do happen to anyone who plays. For example, in Killington, Vermont, Dr. Gammons has photographs of some of the athletes he has treated over the years on his wall in his office. One photograph in particular is a Patriots football player getting tackled and hit in the head and the player signed the picture and thanked Dr. Gammons for treating him. Things like this help doctors show that head injuries are serious no Bissette 3 matter who you are or what level you play at. The photograph selected also applies to the logos rhetoric. Logos applies to a logic, which is a way to persuade an audience (YourDictionary). When a person sees how hard the football player is being hit in the head, their logic kicks in and they can clearly see that, that is not good for their brain. The photo also shows that the helmet always protect the head. The football helmet is not fully on his head; because he was hit so hard, it started to fall off. The second image is different in the sense that it is an advertisement. The second image selected is a little different. It is an advertisement for a documentary called The image depicts a little boy wearing a football helmet and football pads. The focus is all on the boy and then has a soft focus on the background of the image. The title of the documentary is in big blue font and there are quotes from people who have seen the documentary. There are also names of awards won by credible sources on the bottom of the advertisement. This advertisement applies to three of the four rhetorical appeals. The advertisement photograph applies to the pathos, ethos and logic rhetorical appeals. It applies to pathos in several ways. This advertisement uses pathos as its main selling point. To start with, a little boy who is in the photo and kids almost always make people feel things deeper. Next, underneath the title of the documentary is says, much of you are you willing to use for a This makes you really think, is football worth it? In reality, it is just a game. It also quotes the Boston Herald, which says you have children in contact sports, you must see Head This quote intrigues parents and pulls them in with their love for their children. Another quote calls the documentary making viewers question, why is it powerful? pulling them Bissette 4 in and making them curious and want to watch it. It also says it is a call for safety This also pulls people in because parents are going to be concerned about their safety. This advertisement pulls at many emotions. The advertisement uses ethos in a few ways as well. It quotes well-known sources in the media to make the movie credible. The advertisement quotes the New York Times, Boston Herald, and Reel Talk. It also shows at the bottom, awards that the documentary has received by Sports Illustrated, Rotten Tomatoes, ITunes, the Boston Film Festival, and the Sprout Film Festival. It also says that the director, Steve James, has also directed Hoop Dreams and The Interrupters, which gives the director credibility. Ethos was used widely in this advertisement. Logos was minimally used. logical that a young child should protect their developing brain from injury as much as possible. The image portrays this by having a young boy in the main focus and with the quote, much of you are you willing to lose for a To conclude, images use rhetorical appeals to portray the emotions, logic, credibility, and more to help portray their subject. The specific rhetorical appeals used are ethos, logos, and pathos. The most prominent appeal was the pathos rhetorical appeal in both images. This appeal was super effective for the audience. Rhetorical appeals are strategies used to point the audience in the direction of the author/artists point of view. Our brain is the most important organ in the human body; forget to take proper care of it! Bissette 5 Bissette 6 Works Cited YourDictionary. Examples of Ethos, Logos, and  YourDictionary. N.p., 21 June 2016. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. <http://examples.yourdictionary.com/examples-of-ethos-logos-and- pathos.html>. Chiropractic, Crossroads. Concussion Awareness  Crossroads Chiropractic & Crossroads Chiropractic Lakeside. N.p., 26 Oct. 2015. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. <http://crossroadschiropractic.com/2015/10/26/concussion-awareness- day/>.