Sackey 1 Tyrique Sackey ENC 1102 Professor Grugan Intermediate Draft Tobacco Free The act of smoking cigarettes is an unhealthy habit that can lead to lung cancer, gum disease, and even death. Due to the overwhelming percentage of people who do smoke, there are many organizations out there against smoking cigarettes that create ads to spread a tobacco-free lifestyle. important to understand that tobacco causes around 480,000 deaths a year in the U.S alone; meaning that tobacco causes one out every five deaths in the U.S. With statistics like this, people need to be educated of all the harms and dangers presented when smoking tobacco. Ever since the FDA has came down hard on all the major tobacco companies, they have to have specific labeling on each package. They are now required to put the health hazards on boxes. Both visuals include and support the evidence that is presented. Each visual explains why and how cigarettes negatively affect the body and why there needs to be more control of the production and consumption of cigarettes. Regulation of cigarettes needs to be established to protect the youth from its harmful effects. The list of side effects paired with smoking cigarettes is enough to deteriorate a health the more they smoke. Smoking can lead to lung cancer, which has contributed to the most cancer-related deaths in the United States. My first photo uses smoking kills as metaphor, since the picture depicts cigarettes as ammo for a revolver. This calls out cigarettes companies as killing people with their cigarettes. This appeals to ethos as it gives cigarettes a sense of Sackey 2 mortality with its list of negative effects. The information provides the credibility needed to truly influence the mind. They also portray a man smoking a cigarette with a decayed face. The photo uses pathos to show that smoking cigarettes are literally decaying your skin. gives the smoker the feeling that if they smoke you will end up skin and bones. One of the side effects the photo points out is a dull sense of smell. comparing smoking cigarettes to losing your nose. Also smoking causes wrinkled skin and in the first photo the man is smoking with half of his skin off. This photo presents logos with all the statistics and information on smoking cigarettes as it provides a logical argument against them. The image also states kill so why bother appeals to kairos and gives you a sense of urgency by asking, why start? Organizations such as Truth Initiative inform people of these hazards and provide rehabilitation for cigarettes. Cigarettes are known to be very addicting and with all the addition of additives and chemicals, cigarettes are made to cause addictions. In my second image it presents a kid smoking cigarettes. The kid smoking appeals to pathos because it empathy for the child and its health. Under the photo of the kid smoking it reports that he smokes around 40 cigarettes a day at only two years old. This appeals to ethos making you understand how addictive tobacco really is and how dangerous it may be in the wrong hands. He was on this smoking regime for almost 3 years and it took help from the Indonesian government to get him into rehab. To date, he reportedly only smokes 6 cigarettes a day. still outrageous for a 2 year old kid much less any kid. This points out one of the major flaws with cigarette companies outside the U.S., which is regulation. In countries such as Indonesia little to no regulation on cigarettes. Sackey 3 Regulations and information on tobacco is essential not only in the U.S, but all around the world. As of recent the U.S has cracked down on cigarette companies and have pressured them to put caution labels on their boxes. They are also pushing for the minimum age required to smoke cigarettes to 21. In areas such as Indonesia or any developing country, their are little constraints on smoking and kids like the 2 year old in the picture are getting addicted to tobacco . Indonesia has the highest youth population smoking cigarettes in the world. Little do these parents know that their kids are slowly getting addicted and are ruining their lives. As stated earlier cigarettes can lead to a stroke, cancer or death. When a two year old child is smoking cigarettes only inevitable for it to happen. Failing to protect children from the harmful effects of cigarettes is in large part a failure of government. In places such as Indonesia smoking cigarettes is more seen as a social norm when it should be a social crisis. Cigarettes are a very serious health risk and should not be taken lightly.. Many people are in critical condition due to smoking and it could have been prevented with the right precautions. With countries allowing underage children to smoke tobacco their will need to be a change and a movement in these countrie to ensure safety of the future generations and the health of these kids. Cigarettes are addicting, and a major cause of health problems which is why everyone may want to rethink before taking a puff. Sackey 4 Sackey 5 Sackey 6 Work cited Tom Gillespie. Remember the Boy Who SMOKED 40 A DAY Aged Two? This Is Apparently Him Six Years  The Sun, 28 Sept. 2016. Web. 28 Feb. 2017. U.S GOV. Health Effects of Cigarette  for Disease Control and Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 01 Dec. 2016. Web. 28 Feb. 2017.