Brown !1 Sasha Brown 16 April 2017 Prof Drugan Project 3 Environmental Veganism The rise in popularity of environmental veganism comes about in time where people are feeling helpless and hopeless about how to save our Earth. Every year we witness a rise in temperatures, increase in droughts, and deforestation and we feel there is very little we can do to this. We listen to environmental groups advice of using low showers, driving less, use energy lightbulbs, not watering our lawns, and all of the other small changes we can make. There is a whole laundry list of things we can do, but those actions are doing very little to help our issue. According to one expert, Dr. Richard Oppenlander, an environmental researcher and author of comfortably unaware, we can do everything we are doing now from recycling to driving an electric car, but if we continue to eat and produce meat at this rate, we will destroy the planet just as quickly (Capps, 2014). To combat the damage being done to earth, everyday we can choose to consume an Earth friendly,plant based diet that will add to the longevity and health of our planet and of all species. Veganism for the environment is a viable and effective way to save our world. The consumption and production of meat is one of the top threats to our environment today, it wreaks havoc on every part of Earths eco system from land, water, to air. Livestock is a leading cause of environmental degradation. Global agribusiness is booming and many people are unaware of the implications that it has on the livelihood of the environment. According to a study conducted by Professor Mark Sutton of the UN Environment Program, raising animals for food, including land used for grazing and growing feed crops uses Brown !2 30% of the land mass (Von Alt, 2013). In the U.S. 70% of the grain grown is feed to animals who will later be eaten, that equates to more than 700 million tons of human-grade food that goes into animal agriculture each year. The production of livestock also leads to mass deforestation because of the need for grazing land. Today, over 80% of the deforested land in the Amazon is being used as pasture and feed crops; the amount of land that has undergone deforestation is equal to the size of Washington state (Sarma, 2014). For every hamburger that is eaten, approximately 55 square feet of forest has to be destroyed for that animals grazing. The degradation of the land funnels into the air quality as well; the more forest land we destroy the less oxygen that is produced. More than 20% of the worlds oxygen is produced in the Amazon Rainforest and that is currently being destroyed at a rate of an acre a second every single day to make room for soybean and grain to feed livestock (Angle, 2017). If this is continued it will have devastating effects on the planet and its inhabitants. Agribusiness has a massive impact on the amount of emissions being produced as well, The EPA estimates that 80% of ammonia emission come from animal waste and just one hamburger produces enough fossil fuels to drive a car for 20 miles (EPA, 2015). Cattle alone produce more greenhouse gases than all of transportation combined and this is only going to rise. It is predicted that emission from agribusiness will increase by 80% by 2050 (Anderson, 2014). On a large scale this is very alarming, and by switching to a plant based diet each of us can save 50% carbon emissions than we would by only driving a Prius (chooseveg.com, 2014). The impact of agribusiness and meat production manifests in other areas as well, such as water. Meat and dairy production are extremely water intensive, it takes a 20-30% of the fresh water in the world to maintain it. In the United States alone, there is 34 trillion gallons of water involved in raising livestock for food (McCarthy, 2016). It takes 100 to 200 times more water to raise a pound of beef than it does to raise a pound of plant foods. To put it into Brown !3 perspective, it takes 2,500 gallons of water to produce a pound of meat and only 25 gallons to produce a pound of wheat (Beckett & Oltjen, 2014) . Humans collectively drink 5.2 billion gallon of water every day, while cows alone consume 45 billion gallons. This is something that could be hugely diminished if we cut down on our dependency upon livestock as food. A vegan diet can combat all of these issues and more such as world hunger, energy use, and resource depletion. In a recent study done by the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences (Godfrey & Springmann, 2015), it was found that if every person on Earth adopted a vegan diet,the greenhouse gas emissions caused by livestock would fall by 70% by 2050. This would save the United Staes 570 billion in emission savings, $1 trillion in health costs, and could result in 8.1 million less deaths from leading diseases (Anderson, 2014). These health of our planet effects each and every one of us everyday, we rely on a healthy earth so that we can live healthy and safe in the habitat we have become so accustomed to. When we prioritize the health of Earth we are prioritizing a clean environment and clean air, a vegan diet will work to pollution and to increase oxygen production. The meat production businesses are infringing on biodiversity on Earth, now more than ever we have to work to maintain biodiversity. Keeping species alive and thriving is important to the balance of Earth, and to the balance of human life. Caring about what happens to our environment is caring about climate change and the safety hazards that are brought about by climate change. Every year millions of people lose their lives and homes to land slides, droughts, and brought on by climate change. Caring about these issues is caring about other human beings and their right to a safe and happy life. Everything we do now has a lasting effect on the world, if we want our children and grand children to be born into a thriving and inhabitable Earth, we have to make changes now. We only have one home, Earth, if we care for it the way we should it will improve and lengthen everyones life. up to each of us to decide Brown !4 how much we care about our Earth and everyone in it, and the most viable way to do that is to adopt a lifestyle that is cruelty and harm free to those around us. There are many ways each of us can contribute to a healthy planet and that we can all be environmentalists: going vegan. Going vegan is a lifestyle transition that will have positive impacts on everything around you, you will be saving lives, habitats, money, and the Earth. There are many resources available that are the transition into veganism smooth, there are resources such as Vegankit, who provide recipes, education, and food products to people who are hoping to make a change. There are groups that meet up in local communities that can be found on the internet, a growing number of vegan markets and restaurants, bloggers and shows that are dedicated to vegan diets. Now more than ever we have to a new appreciation for our Earth, adopting a plant based diet will give our species and the earth the health it needs to carry on for many generations. Brown !5 Works Cited: Andersen, K., Kuhn, K., xTrue Naturex (Musical group),, A.U.M. Films & Media (Organization),, & First Spark Media,. (2014). Cowspiracy: The sustainability secret. Angle, K. (2017, January 1). Veganism & the Enviornment. Retrieved April 16, 2017, from http:// www.yourdailyvegan.com/environment/ Beckett J, L., & Oltjen J, W. (2014, December 11). Estimation of the water requirement for beef production in the United States. Retrieved April 16, 2017, from https:// www.animalsciencepublications.org/publications/jas/abstracts/71/4/818?search-result=1 Capps, A. (2014, February 28). Why Being Your Best You in 2017 Means Going Vegan. Retrieved April 16, 2017, from http://freefromharm.org/why-vegan/ Chooseveg.com. (2014, May 20). Get Ready to Save the World. Retrieved April 16, 2017, from http://www.chooseveg.com/environment EPA. (2015). EPA emissions. Retrieved April 14, 2017, from https://www3.epa.gov/ttnchie1/ McCarthy, J. (2016, August 15). 9 Ways Veganism Is Helping the Planet. Retrieved April 16, 2017, from https://www.globalcitizen.org/en/content/9-reasons-why-veganism-can-save- the-world/ Sarma , P. (2014, March 21). Beef Production is Killing the Amazon Rainforest. Retrieved April 16, 2017, from http://www.onegreenplanet.org/animalsandnature/beef-production-is- killing-the-amazon-rainforest/ Springmannab1, M., Godfrayac, H. C., & And, M. R. (2015, November 22). Marco Springmann. Retrieved April 16, 2017, from http://www.pnas.org/content/113/15/4146 Von Alt, S. (2013, March 06). UN Scientists Urge Western World to Halve Meat Consumption. Retrieved April 16, 2017, from http://www.mercyforanimals.org/un-scientists-urge- western-world-to-halve-meat-consumption