Joseph 1 Torhi Joseph Bill Drugan ENC 1102.085 2 March 2017 Project 2 Final Draft A Thousand and One Words The beauty of a budding piece of art can sometimes bely the ugly roots from which inspires its growth. Some of the most captivating pieces come from the darkest places. Despite being the melting pot of cultures, the United States of America has entire communities that still exist in these dark places, whose history has been marred by a constant fight for fair representation. With this, stories of their shared struggles are relayed in a compelling fashion, and minority populations, through art, can create voices for themselves where they have been historically marginalized. Some members of minority populations want to preserve the integrity of this voice, and often feel threatened, even offended, when someone of a different culture participates in their own culture. The primary goal of both images is to support the sentiment of minority populations, that a culture must be reserved for only those who were birthed into it, and in analyzing the two images, elements of the rhetorical appeals, namely pathos, ethos, logos, and kairos can be found, as they attempt to convey this point. Race is a barometer often used to characterize people. This, however, is a flawed concept, as race has no proven base in biology (Gannon). Despite this, it is a concept still used as a marker for predicting personality. This can be frustrating, especially for folks who do not believe their personalities match with the preconceived perceptions associated with the color of their skin. As such, with any image pertaining to race, pathos is inherently present as perhaps Joseph 2 the most prevalent of the rhetorical appeals. Pathos can be described as an ability to appeal to the emotions of their audience (Newbold). With issues such as race, emotions can easily range from sorrow, to humor, and to anger. This is evident when analyzing the two images, where despite being proponents of the same point, a variety of emotions are incited in the viewer. In the image entitled a the emotion that is mostly appealed to is sorrow, but the image also incites a sense of guilt in the viewer. The text on the image claims that a black man carries the stigma of a white man frivolously wearing a Halloween costume that depicts him as a black man in clothing. It is clear from this that the target audience of this image is white men, and with this, the creator is placing a large portion of the prejudice suffered by black people squarely on the laps of white men. The text alone might incite feelings of sorrow in the audience, but it will not be surprising if guilt or anger can also be felt. These emotions incited are galvanized even more by the concerned and nonconfrontational expression on the face of the model. In the second image entitled a however, the emotion incited is one of defiance rather than of sorrow. Assuming the target audience for this image is black men, its message can be inferred as an appeal to a black pride. This is supported by the expression in the face, which is that of determination. The message on the shirt, saying Did It Without a suggests that a black man can be successful by being himself. The idea of this message is that if this black man can achieve his goals, so can another black man. The image instills a feeling of pride in a black audience. Although inciting emotion plays a major role in persuasive imagery, it is also important that the person delivering the message is credible enough for that message to be received properly. While this may seem like common sense, it is worth noting that this very point Joseph 3 encapsulates the entire argument against cultural appropriation, which is a concept fought by minority groups in a bid to be self-represented. The idea that cultural appropriation perpetuates stereotypes, as exhibited in the image a shows the need for ethos in imagery. Ethos can be described as the credibility or morality of one purporting a stake in an argument (Newbold). To appeal to the credibility of the two message, two black men are used as the focal point of each image, both of whom have facial expressions, clothing and backgrounds that accentuate their credibility. Black men are used as the models of the images, as it is assumed that they have lived through the discrimination that the images fight against. With this assumption, the black models provide credibility to the message, as being people who have gone through distress due to their blackness, they begin humanize the issue. In the image a the message its creator wants to establish is that black men are not all thugs, and that by wearing a costume as a black thug, an unfair stereotype is being perpetuated. This point is provided credibility from the fact that the model is a reasonably dressed black man juxtaposed to his white counterpart dressed as a thug, while wearing blackface. Had the black model been dressed in a similar fashion to that of the white model, the message would not be as strong. Another feature of this model is his peaceful demeanor, which attempts to show that he is nonthreatening. In the image a the message being purported is that black men can achieve success in hip hop without having to compromise themselves, or their culture. On top of the fact that the model is a black man, him standing in front of a graffiti filled wall also adds to the credibility of the image. The graffiti is significant as it is one of the original facets of hip hop culture that is often forgotten The model, by taking a picture in front of this wall, shows how far back his roots in the culture Joseph 4 stem, and by being true to his culture, is still able to be successful. These features, coupled with the determined facial expression, culminate in an efficient use of ethos. While not as prevalent as pathos and ethos, elements of logos can also be found in one of the images. Although logos is often seen as a qualitative representation of the argument, it can also be defined as the ability to use logic, which in turn makes the audience look at the issue from a different perspective (Newbold). In the image a the author attempts to do this through the text on the picture. This image is directed at members of a white audience who wear disparaging costumes of minorities during Halloween. While from their perspective, simply wearing a costume may seem a harmless act, the image provides the perspective from the people they are depicting. The desired effect of this is that they realize that wearing such costumes is not harmless, and in fact has long-standing effects in preserving racism. In the case of the image a the white man, dressed as a black thug, preserves the racist idea that all black men are thugs. This alternative perspective provides a sufficient form of the logos that exists within these images. Like logos, kairos only vaguely exists within the image a to an extent much less than that of pathos and ethos. Kairos refers to a single moment of opportunity where the audience has the chance to act within that moment (Newbold). In the image a a reference to time is made, where the image states that the implications of wearing a disparaging costume for only one moment in time last a lifetime for someone else. With this, the audience immediately has a choice to make. They can either choose to wear the costume for that one night and not effect change, or they can choose to not wear such costume and inadvertently become aligned with the fight against discrimination. This decision is a moment of opportunity where the audience has a chance to act within an allotted period. Joseph 5 Minority populations have been able to find a voice through art despite living in a silenced existence. Some members of these populations want to preserve the integrity of their voice by being defiant to people of other cultures entering theirs, as with more foreign voices engaging in their culture, the quieter their voice becomes. It is important that minority voices are heard and taken seriously, because their voice is one of their only weapons to nonviolently combat the institutional racism and discrimination they regularly face. The seemingly frivolous depictions of cultures that cultural appropriation can create causes the ideas that keep racism alive to be engrained into the unaware, and make the fight against racism even harder. Joseph 6 Works Cited Gannon, Megan, and LiveScience. Race Is a Social Construct, Scientists  Scientific American. N.p., 05 Feb. 2016. Web. 02 Apr. 2017. Graffiti: Hip Hop Culture and Graffiti  Graffiti: Hip Hop Culture and Graffiti Today. N.p., n.d. Web. 02 Apr. 2017. Newbold, Curtis. 5 Concepts You Need to Understand to Communicate Persuasively: Ethos, Pathos, Logos, Kairos,  The Visual Communication Guy: Design, Writing, and Teaching Resources All in One Place! N.p., 18 Feb. 2017. Web. 02 Apr. 2017. Joseph 7 Picture 1 a Joseph 8 Picture 2 a