Smith 1 Bryan Smith Mr. Drugan ENC1102 1 April 2017 Project 2 Final The Role of Visual Rhetoric in the Advancement of Automation Tesla, headed by CEO Elon Musk, is widely seen as one of the most forward-thinking and innovative companies out there. From being the most recognized name in the world of electric vehicles, to creating more efficient batteries, to spearheading the march towards a world of automated vehicles, the brand Tesla is tied to the idea of progress . When discussing the possibilities of autonomous cars, many people see the positives like less accidents and lack of traffic, and forget to consider the downside of self-driving vehicles. One reason for this is that Tesla puts out images and videos that are effective at getting people excited for their product. Tesla is good at generating hype amongst the public and leaving a positive impression. This results in most people not knowing or not caring about the negative aspects, like most driving jobs will go away as soon as this technology is widely adopted. Professions like truckers and taxi drivers could just cease to exist. As a private corporation, main goal is to maximize their profits, so it is best for them to keep a positive impression in minds. To do this, Tesla uses logos and pathos in their promotional materials to build a positive image of their company amongst the public. Pathos, the appeal to emotion, is a rhetorical appeal used to make people feel a certain way. The first image shows a car on the interstate with blue graphics underneath it. The car itself Smith 2 looks sleek and refined which results in the audience associating the brand with style and efficiency. It give off an air of luxury, and shows people that their brand is a sign of status, something to strive for. The blue graphics underneath the car also appeal to the sense of wonderment. The electric blue circles resemble radio waves showing how the car communicates with its surroundings. This detail causes the audience to view the Tesla brand as futuristic and high-tech. Many people love to conceptualize what they believe to be the future, which is seen in the popularity of science fiction, and one of the biggest staples of futuristic living in fiction is the existence of self-driving cars. Tesla wants to remind the audience that the cars that they are producing are literally science fiction come to life. The choice to use the color blue is also meant to evoke a certain emotion through color psychology . Color psychology is the study of how different colors affect human behavior and perception (Aslam). The color blue can be used to signify many things like the tranquility of a clear sky or a calm river. In this case however, the color blue is used to associate the Tesla brand with high quality and competence, like a blue given to first place. People will know that if they buy a Tesla they will be receiving a high quality vehicle. Where pathos is the appeal to emotion, logos is the appeal to logic or reason. In both images, logos is used to convey to the audience that they would be safe while this car drives them. According to a study done by JD Powers and Associates, safety was cited as one of the top 10 reasons consumers decided to purchase a vehicle (Top). Safety is very important for people who are in the market for a vehicle and autonomous vehicles are expected to be far safer than human drivers. According to a study conducted by the National Department of Transportation, approximately 94 percent of car accidents can be attributed to human error (Critical). So while Smith 3 most car companies discuss car safety in terms of protecting people after a crash has happened with airbags and roll cages, focus is on preventing collisions all together. This is displayed in both images below, through the use of the blue graphics. In both images the blue lines represent how the car communicates and interacts with its surroundings in order to prevent accidents and keep the occupants safe. The demand for greater safety in vehicle is pushing the world towards greater autonomy in cars which has the possibility of creating some unintended consequences, such as the loss of human jobs. use of logos and pathos to promote their automated vehicle helps to form a positive opinion in the minds of potential consumers. This happens despite there being major problems that the creation of self-driving cars can introduce. The development and proliferation of self-driving cars has the potential to completely destroy any industry that involves people driving. However, this typically a thought that is at the forefront of the average mind. They think about how cool and futuristic it would be that autonomous vehicles exist or how much safer it would be to be driven by one or how they would be free to do other things if they driving. This to say that these good things. The progression of science is almost always a positive, and less deaths due to car crashes is always good. However, the negative aspects should not be ignored just because the positives are very appealing. As of right now, about 3.4 million Americans are employed in industries that involve driving and if and when autonomous cars become widely available, most of those jobs will be in jeopardy (Heavy). However, Tesla uses the rhetorical appeals of logos and pathos to keep their brand in good standing with the public. Smith 4 Smith 5 Works Cited 53-3032 Heavy and Tractor-Trailer Truck  Bureau of Labor U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, n.d. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Aslam, Mubeen M. Are You Selling the Right Colour? A Cross-cultural Review of Colour as a Marketing  of Marketing N.p., 17 Aug. 2006. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Critical Reasons for Crashes Investigated in the National Motor Vehicle Crash Causation  Highway Traffic Safety N.p., Feb. 2015. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Top 10 Reasons Why Car Buyers Choose a Specific Vehicle  Power N.p., 11 Mar. 2013. Web. 02 Mar. 2017.