Guvercin 1 Melinda Guvercin Professor Drugan ENC 1102.085 26 February 2017 Project 2 Intermediate Draft The Real Beauty Campaign The year 1988 marked a time when beauty standards changed forever. The introduction of Adobe Systems Photoshop, created an appeal that made major media advertising techniques increasingly more attractive to the general audience. Modeling companies began to edit out certain characteristics on female models such as beauty marks. Among the edits were also changes to make waists appear slimmer, busts appear heavier, and legs appear longer. Since the late the media has depicted unrealistic beauty standards, and these media portrayals have only grown to become more outrageous and ever changing. It seems that as the decades pass new trends emerge making it hard for audiences to keep up. Especially alarming, have been the effects of these media portrayals and their push for what it means to be These ideals have caused the self-reported levels of self-esteem, in adolescent females, to go down tremendously. One campaign ready to fight these stereotypes is the Dove Self-Esteem Project. Given the broad scope of self-esteem and the effects from media portrayal, there is power stemming from the advertisements of the Dove Self-Esteem Project as it implements the usage of pathos, logos and Kairos to show that defining beauty cannot fit to only one media idea of beauty. Guvercin 2 The Dove Self-Esteem Project has made it their mission to help young girls reach their full potential. The goal of the campaign is to stop the presentation of negative images from the media that often interfere with the realities of what a young girl may look like resulting in young girls feeling put down. The Dove Campaign is strongly opposed to the use of Photoshop, and other editing software, to create a false image of beauty, primarily due to the repercussions being so negative on young female perception of themselves. In this way, the Dove Self-Esteem Project has fought back with media outlets by creating their own advertisements. Dove showcases real, raw, unphotoshopped beauty, and statistics. One of the Dove Self-Esteem favorite advertising devices to use, is pathos. The most popular billboard ad the Dove Self-Esteem Project uses is an image of a young, ginger hair-colored female with a profuse amount of freckles. The campaign makes sure to have their model be makeup free. On the printed ad it poses the question, or (Larid). This posed question appeals to the emotions by showing that this unfiltered and unaltered photograph is what so many people actually look like in their daily lives, and to deem it, as is to say that a good percentage of the population is not beautiful. Another incredibly popular advertisement stemming from the Dove Self-Esteem Project is their billboard with a statistic that reads, Canadian girls will stop swimming because they feel bad in a bathing (Lawson). Again, this write-up uses emotion in order to engage with audiences in a way that makes the average onlooker feel guilty about not fighting harder for diverse body types to feel confident in their own swimwear. Guvercin 3 In addition to pathos, logos is a prominent device used by the Dove Self-Esteem Project and is evident, as well, in the above two example advertisements. In the first billboard ad, which depicts a freckled-faced redhead, it shows logic in that it makes the immediate audience think about how the general public very rarely sees many true gingers, if any, in advertisements; especially an advertisement for such a large and well- known brand. Unfortunately, this fact is solely due to the stereotype that a ginger natural complexion can be negatively deemed as less attractive due to their stronger features, such as hair color and freckles. Thus logically, it makes the audience believe that this group in particular should be represented more, especially in a more positive regard when dealing with beauty. The second advertisement, which presents a statistic regarding young women unable to engage in a sport they may otherwise normally enjoy due to their lack of body confidence in swimwear, shows logos in that it gives the audience a straight and clear-cut fact. It makes the audience think logically and ponder that if over 50,000 young teens are dropping out of a healthy hobby due to feeling so poorly about their body in a bathing suit, the media must make adjustments and fix their presentation of the defining characteristics of beauty. While pathos and logos are certainly evident and important tools in advertising, the most effective device the Dove Self-Esteem Project uses, is their use of Kairos. Kairos is an incredibly difficult device to use when dealing with beauty advertisements; however, they have managed to perfectly align the device for their call to action. For the first advertisements, showing the ginger, bare faced, freckled woman, the Dove Self- Esteem Project has written out the (Larid). These three simple words makes viewers want to log on to their computer and actually join the debate and learn Guvercin 4 how they can personally help adolescent teens feel better about their appearance. This is a call for social action and activism and deliberately asks for engagement. Not only will audiences reflect on the message of the advertisements, they will be able to participate in change by presenting their own views and engaging in conversation. By attuning to the audiences emotions, a sense of urgency is created for audience members to be an active change for young girls now and in the future. In the second billboard advertisement, which more clearly presents a statistic, the campaign is able to beautifully show Kairos by linking their website that reads, for Real (Lawson). This subconsciously makes the audience feel the need to change their own habits, and perceptions of beauty, immediately in order to advocate for diverse body types. Through the use of Pathos, Logos, and Kairos in their advertisements and campaign strategy, the Dove Self-Esteem Project has proven that the topic of self-esteem is directly affected by media portrayal and in this way, defining beauty cannot fit to only one media idea of the definition of beauty. The Dove Self-Esteems mission to stop the continual use of editing programs (such as Photoshop or other editing and image altering software), in order to promote a more positive standard for representation in the media, should be heard. The general audience should feel the need to take both reparative and preventative actions in order to ensure that the many adolescent females that have already been affected or potentially could be affected are protected so that their own perceptions of beauty do not get distorted or completely defined by outside sources. A young interests or daily activities should not be determined by societal influences that could negatively impact her self-esteem and self- worth. In the wise words of the Dove Self-Esteem Project, We believe beauty should Guvercin 5 be a source of confidence, not anxiety. We want to see a world free of appearance-related anxiety so that girls can grow up to be confident and active members of (Dove). Guvercin 6 Works Cited A girl should feel free to be  Dove Self-Esteem Project. Unilever. n.d. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Larid, Kristin. Look At This: billboards  Marketing Magazine Look At This Unstoppable billboards Dove. N.p., 09 Apr. 2013. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Lawson, Stephanie. Dove Campaign - Self Esteem  Design context blog. N.p., 01 Jan. 1970. Web. 27 Feb. 2017.