Eric Hiser Professor Drugan ENC 1102.072 25 February 2017 The Ever Growing Comcast Comcast is a company that is built upon their services which they provide. These services range from internet connectivity, cable, and TV service. Since they offer these three specific categories, we can classify Comcast as an Internet Service Provider, or ISP. Now any ISP be an ISP without extensive bragging and heavy advertising to say they are the best around. This is just simple business tactics. In the wake of Comcast though, they do seem to perform ahead of a lot of the competing in terms of their variety of plans they offer for each service. While there are many different choices that one could choose when picking the right ISP, Comcast is almost always certain to show up in search. Comcast shows up in most searches because of their well thought out advertisements seen online, and also the ones attached to this document which appeal to consumers. By appealing to emotion, timeliness, logic, and reason, Comcast can make anyone feel as though that they are the right fit for them. Using just two images below, Comcast can help prove to anyone that they are the perfect choice. Between all of the out there, the one that stands out the most tends to be Comcast. This happens not only because they were under fire recently from the FCC with net neutrality, but also because they advertise heavily unlike a lot of the competitors. With a company the size of Comcast, it is hard to really see a growth in customers because they are already so big. This is where the advertising can really come in handy. Hiser 2 Comcast uses their advertisements in a way that appeal to senses. This is an effective tactic in peaking interest in customers currently searching or soon to be searching for an ISP. Using just the two images below, goal is to have it reach as many people out there in hopes that they will be attracted to low prices, high quality, and lightning fast speeds. This is just one of the many common ways of attracting new customers to a business that is so large. While searching for an ISP, one should be trying to fill all of their wants and needs such as TV, phone, and internet access. Some only offer internet service while others can do bundles and save the customer a lot more money over time. This could be extremely beneficial when it comes to long term contracts like ones that get created at The top that are in most areas of the United States are generally Time Warner Brothers, Comcast, Verizon, AT&T, and CenturyLink. Between all of these, consumers will need to choose who has access to the service lines and in which area. After that, one could choose to compare services. The majority of the US has access to Comcast which is a good thing as Comcast is the one that advertises so heavily. This is what makes Comcast stand out so well and be known all around. Comcast believes that everyone whom they reach out to via advertisement, phone, Facebook, or other forms of media should give them a solid shot at being their ISP. By using the two images below, Comcast shows their competitive pricing, their award winning internet speed, and a picture of jets speeding off which are meant to be taken as if it was internet speeds. This type of advertising is meant to peak all of the right interests of nearly anyone. The idea is to capture things that people tend to care about, feel happy about, and also what they want. Comcast uses ethos, pathos, logos, and Kairos to help the consumers get a real want towards their services. Hiser 3 Comcast likes to brag and show off that they are the fastest internet provider which could be very true considering that they offer a speed which is two times that of gigabit internet which is currently 1000mbps. The only competitor is Verizon FIOS. According to an article from pcmag.com, certainly is a PCMag Speed Index is in an almost perfect tie with Xfinity (Griffith, Eric). Though, it should be noted that FIOS is a lot more expensive than plan which is the same speeds. The speed of Comcast directly corresponds to one of the pictures at the end of the text which is showing off jets speeding through the air with a Comcast logo in the mix. Comcast decided that they would show off their internet speeds by giving a visual appeal to the consumers which is a perfect way to express oneself when what they say is true. As seen in the ad below one could also notice the chemical trails that are left behind the jets as they are soaring through the air lightning quick. This could in turn represent how Comcast is so vastly ahead of the competition that there is no competition of who is the fastest. The other image shown below is simply a showoff ad to exclaim to the consumer that they are the fastest of 2011 as well. This goes hand in hand with the other image, as they both are very expressive in the way the company wants to sell their service. This type of appeal Comcast is showing is very much logos. When taking a deeper look into these images, one could find that having a bolded price tag with right next to it is an easy turn on for any consumer looking to get the best bang for their buck. This is a great way of introducing kairos into an ad to peak interest in the consumers. Since Comcast claims to have the fastest internet and the best price available, this should be a no brainer to jump on the bandwagon. Why would anyone want to jump ships to another ISP such as Verizon FIOS who offers close to the same speed but for much more money? According to broadbandnow.com, speeds always translate to real- Hiser 4 world performance, and no point paying premium for a gigabit fiber connection if you only use the internet for email and some light This goes to show why one might stay clear of Verizon as their base prices for fiber internet is nearly double that of the offering of Xfinity service. If the consumer is only after a reasonable speed, Comcast offers the best price to performance ratio. Comcast does not expect its customers to do too much research on whether or not they are the fastest, but they do use their kairos to guide their potential customers in the correct direction by giving real statistics on performance and pricing. Comcast uses their (top) image below to show how friendly and welcoming the company is as a whole. This friendly environment could be seen as a way of them expressing pathos. This would help Comcast show that having their service could be used for family fun and to have a good time. In print on the laptop screen of the (top) image, is which is there purposefully because the TV show is meant to be funny and bring joy to the viewers. Comcast chose this image on purpose as it appeals to consumers emotions and how they want to feel enjoyment. By also having the best price and the rating from PCmag, Comcast can effectively create ethos inside their ad. With the way that Comcast uses their two advertisements below, it can be very determinate in whether or not customers will want to use Comcast as their ISP. While this may not be the top of the top that some consumers seek or it is easily enough for the average consumer looking to expand on their internet service capabilities. The images below are extremely beneficial in getting point across where they bring in pathos, kairos, logos, and even some ethos making them hit on all the appeals a consumer would look for when searching for an ISP. When searching for your next internet provider, Comcast should be in your search from start to finish when looking at the price to performance and their overall quality. Hiser 5 Hiser 6 Works Cited Griffith, Eric. The Fastest ISPs of  Pcmag. N.p., 31 Aug. 2016. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. VERIZON FIOS VS XFINITY: SIDE BY SIDE  Broadbandnow. N.p., 15 Feb. 2017. Web. 20 Feb. 2017.