Shabbir 1 Moiz Shabbir William Sayers Drugan ENC 20 March 2017 Project 2 final Euthanasia, a matter of life and death. Advances in medical care and increasing prevalence of noncommunicable illnesses such as cardiovascular disease and cancer have raised concerns about respecting the dying wishes. Euthanasia is a matter of life and death, and by the use of rhetorical strategies, this essay is delivering a message to the audience about the elements to die with dignity. The images below convey a message to others that they should have the right to end their life if they suffer from terminal illness. The primary purpose of these pictures is to get across a point to the governments across the world that terminally ill patients should have the right to choice to end their life, instead of suffering from an incurable disease which will eventually lead to death. These pictures show that if a person has the disease and they decide that they do not want to live their life, euthanasia would give them an opportunity for a peaceful, relaxing death. These images contain messages with meaning and logic behind them. Rhetorical techniques are useful in these visuals because of appeals to emotions such as a person in a hospital bed suffering and struggling from an incurable disease. Additionally, these images are appealing to ethos by showing statistics of the number of individuals who support this. These pictures make perfect use of pathos, logos, and ethos working together. Shabbir 2 These images appeal to pathos through references to pain and efficient color usage. In picture 1, pathos is used effectively by the woman reflecting the pain of having the last sickness and showing that is so painful that it is not worth (William 2). The emotional appeal has attained by describing the pain. The color red for the text this also contrast against the gray background to emphasize this point. The weak eyes show the pain she is going through; this makes the audience sense the pain of the patient and grieves them that not easy to suffer pain or to live an artificial life on the machine. In Picture 2, people of Great Britain were protesting and asking for the right of the terminally ill person to die due to voluntary euthanasia. People are showing their emotions by wearing pink t-shirts. The color pink mostly symbolizes for love and peace. The people wearing pink color t-shirts in the image show that they love their loved ones, and they do not want them to suffer the pain due to an incurable disease. The love and the pain both combine to form an emotional appeal practical as pathos. Another way this picture shows the emotions that patients who are suffering pain from terminal diseases have no right to choice to end their life with dignity. While it has stated clearly that about 82% of the population of the United Kingdom supports the idea of assisted dying, the government still allow the practice of euthanasia, which makes the suffering more painful. The people in the picture are trying to convey the message to others, especially government, that people should have the right to choice over their death and try to sense the pain. There are logos expressed in picture 1 when the terminally ill woman says that, is so painful that it is not worth (Marshall 2). The picture says it all that throughout in life we made many decisions such as going to school to become an engineer, drinking, getting married, choosing what to wear, and many other decisions. It is also logical for us to say, made my final choice, we just need the government to (Exit International 2010). The Shabbir 3 thought of having patients wish of ending his life is also logical to himself. As stated above that not only the patient is suffering from pain but also his family and loved ones are also suffering without any illness, that means that families are worried about her grief and loss. To prevent family suffering and burdens on family, the patient makes a wise decision to die with dignity. In picture 2 when the majority of the population support euthanasia, but the government is hesitant to legalize euthanasia. The logic behind people supporting the idea of assisted dying for a terminally ill person is that it would not only end suffering, but it also saves the health care system plenty of money, which may use for other patients who have a chance of survival (Marshall 3). We could also look at euthanasia a different way, if the person agrees to practice euthanasia, their body can be used for science to treat life-threatening illnesses and could prevent many deaths due to diseases. Also, medical students use bodies to learn about becoming a doctor (Marshall 4). better to die a peaceful and more natural death than living off a machine that keeps one alive. Ethos in both pictures is weak. Image 1 shows an old lady wearing life a support breathing mask and asking a simple question, is this While image two is said to be little credible because it shows the United Kingdom flag waving at the top of the building and people protesting for their rights of choice over their death. This protest also got famous on Dailymail.co.uk and a most controversial issue for the former prime minister of the United Kingdom, David Cameron. David Cameron also states that want to see an expansion of euthanasia in our country. I think there are dangers and so I support Minister David Cameron. To conclude, these pictures are a message to the government for the legalization of euthanasia.These images are appealing to emotions and logic co-existing with each other and Shabbir 4 delivering a message to the government that, A patient should have the right to die with dignity. Thus, there are many other factors that the government support the practice of euthanasia. Such as suicide rate become higher and abuse of euthanasia may lead to increase in crime rate. But, there are more positive factors of euthanasia that better to spend money on terminal disease than to spend it on poor and needy people. The body may use for diagnostic of that incurable disease by which we can treat that disease, in future, quickly. Therefore, the United States government has legalized the practice of euthanasia in just five states and gave terminal ill the right to end their life with dignity. Shabbir 5 Work Cited Matt Chorley, Political Editor for MailOnline. Shock as to for the Terminally Ill Law Is Overwhelmingly Defeated by MPs after Highly-charged Four-hour  Daily Mail Online. Associated Newspapers, 11 Sept. 2015. Web. 25 Feb. 2017 Marshall, Robert, Euthanasia - Infogram, Charts &  Infogr.am. N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. Exit International. (2010, September 10). Banned exit euthanasia ad [Video Retrieved from http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qRDZFwlWU1s Web. 25 Feb. 2017. Shabbir 6 IMAGE 1 Shabbir 7 IMAGE 2