Alnour 1 Hamza Alnour William Drugan ENC 1102.070 19 April 2017 Project 3 intermediate draft Save the Orcas Orcas have been held in captivity since 1961. SeaWorld has been keeping their animals captive in small concrete tanks, they are often not suitable for the animals to live in. The animals chew the metal bars and break their teeth due to boredom, they are also forced into doing tricks for food. These negative living environments cause the animals to die at early ages compared to what the animals would have lived for in the wild (Jett et al. 1362). Research about the lifespan of orcas in captivity and interactions between orcas and human concluded that the captivity of these animals is detrimental to both humans and orcas. There are a few negative outcomes for the orcas and humans from their captivity, the orcas can be helped if more people start to boycott SeaWorld or companies that also keep orcas captive, orcas can also be helped by spreading the word about the mistreatment of the orcas and other marine mammals. In 2013, the documentary called negatively affected profits. The documentary tells the story of the orca Tilikum and how he killed 3 of his trainers at SeaWorld, it focuses on the death of senior whale trainer Dawn Brancheau in the Orlando park. The documentary also shows how SeaWorld takes baby orcas from their families in the wild, how the treatment they receive over the years of captivity affect them, and how their actions can cause an orca to be frustrated and kill a human (Adler). Since 1961, the first-time orcas were taken into captivity, 156 were taken from the wild to live in captivity. They were taken from their pods, or Alnour 2 families, and the vast oceans they can freely swim in to live in small tanks with little space and with other orcas from different pods campaign against Living with orcas from different pods can cause hostility between them which explains why orcas live shorter lives in captivity than in the wild. Successful orca breeding began in 1985 but only after the documentary Blackfish have people started to talk about it. Male orcas live up to 30 to 60 years in the wild and female orcas live up to 50 to 100 years, but they live on average of 6.1 years during captivity, with the average lifespan of captive-born orcas being higher than wild-captured orcas (Jett et al. 1375). Orcas do not reach their maximum life span in captivity, 38 orcas have died during watch and 30 miscarriages and stillborn instances have occurred also during watch campaign against In 1972, the Marine Mammal Protection Act (MMPA) was passed which stated the standard of how marine mammals should be living. But after the death of a trainer in 2010, Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) shed light on the holes that are present in the MMPA (Wise 927). The Aftermath of the documentary Blackfish caused a huge increase in public support for the rights that these marine mammals deserve. In 2016, a law passed that banned orca breeding programs in the United States. Orca shows have ended in California theme park in March 2017 but still remain in the rest of theme parks in Florida and Texas. The orcas will still have miserable and short lives in their small tanks compared to the wild campaign against Banning of the breeding programs and shows does help the orcas but still leaves them in the same small concrete tanks they were in, left to swim in the same circles until their death. These laws also do not benefit any of the other marine animals, they are still stuck in small tanks to do tricks for food. With the declining number of orcas in the wild and the rise orcas in captivity, orcas will eventually be extinct. People that care about Alnour 3 animals will not be able to see these magnificent creatures in the upcoming years. When an animal goes extinct, the whole ecosystem is affected. The extinction of the orcas can unintentionally affect humans, some populations of fish can decrease or increase which affects human consumption of that fish population. There are many different methods for helping orcas and other marine mammals in captivity. The first one is to spread the word, to tell friends and family about the negative side effects that these animals receive from their captivity. Tell friends and family about the horrible living environments marine mammals have from living in captivity, mostly in theme parks. Reading the book the and watching the documentary will provide some insightful information into the lives of captive orcas and some ways to help them. The book the provides first-hand experiences into orca training and the misconceptions the majority of the public has toward the captivity of marine mammals. Another method of helping the animals is boycotting SeaWorld. Boycotting SeaWorld and its associated theme parks will help in the eventual relocation of these animals to more suitable living environments. Suggesting to family and friends to boycott SeaWorld and its associated theme parks will also improve the chances of SeaWorld ultimately relocating the marine mammals to more habitable environments. While boycotting SeaWorld and spreading the word about the negative impacts SeaWorld has on the animals is enough, taking a pledge will also help spread the word. PETA has a pledge on their website that anyone can take. When more and more people take that pledge, campaign to send orcas to seaside sanctuaries grows larger. The last method is to call your congressional representatives and elected officials and tell them not to support Marine Mammal captivity, calling the representatives can also help start a petition to send the orcas from their bad living environments to seaside sanctuaries. Alnour 4 Finally, there a number of ways that the captivity of marine mammals is detrimental to both humans and the themselves. Humans run the risk of being harmed by these frustrated animals. The frustration and psychological harm are caused by boredom which involves swimming in circles in small tanks and being forced to do tricks in exchange for food every day of their lives. The animals also tend to chew on the metal bars which is often caused by frustration. All the different ways people can help the animals involve a large amount of work. Boycotting SeaWorld and spreading the word about this issue require much work and make anyone get out of their ways to help the animals. Alnour 5 Works Cited About Campaign Against  SeaWorld of Hurt. N.p., n.d. Web. 11 Apr. 2017. Adler, Jerry. Why Killer Whales Belong in the Ocean, Not  Smithsonian.com. Smithsonian Institution, 01 Mar. 2015. Web. 11 Apr. 2017. Jett, John. Captive killer whale (Orcinus orca)  Marine Mammal Science 31.4 (2015): 1362-1377. Web. 11 Apr. 2017. Wise, Hillary T. All Is Whale That Ends Whale? The Deficiencies In National Protection For Orca Whales In  Akron Law Review 49.4 (2015): 925-54. Web. 11 Apr. 2017.