Pennell 1 Melissa Pennell Professor Drugan ENC 1102 072 26 March 2017 Project II Final Draft Blow Jobs or No Jobs? With limited protection under the law in the United States, sex work is a dangerous profession. Many television shows portray prostitutes as drug addicts or someone who creates a rift in a life. However, sex workers are people too, who should have rights. The English Collective of Prostitutes have been fighting since 1975 to abolish laws that put prostitutes in jail. The images on their website show the various rallies that they have participated in throughout the years. Therefore, the two images on their website help contribute to the decriminalization of sex work by the positive use of ethos, logos, pathos, and Kairos. The use of ethos in both images from the English Collective of Prostitutes creates credibility for the abolition of laws against prostitution. The first image depicts a hand inside of a heart shaped Venus symbol to represent females. Furthermore, the Venus symbol also represents unity, which establishes credibility and trust. The symbol reminds the women looking at this image that these women are similar to them. Also, Venus is the goddess of love and prostitution in Roman mythology. This establishes credibility due to the creation of Venus Pennell 2 after Greece and Asia split. Another powerful part of the image is the hand clutching money; the nails are painted which allows for people to look at the image and associate it with a regular woman. The money establishes credibility due to the association between currency and power. Lastly, the image states that there are bad women, just bad This is used to establish credibility by stating that the government is the problem and the law system not the women. By degrading the government, it allows the audience to see that the government is the corrupt part of the social system. The use of ethos in the second image that exhibits a woman holding a pink flag establishes credibility. The woman herself is meant to represent the average woman, all women who may be in the lives, and the women in this profession which then establishes trust. According to an article written by Katy Steinmetz, a journalist for TIME, about a study conducted by professors at Haverford College. She states that women are more trustworthy compared to men especially when it comes to lies (1). The mask over her eyes is considered a symbol of power, similar to that of a superhero. Furthermore, this is interpreted as her symbol of strength and independence, which is further emphasized by her flag, which serves to advocate for the decriminalization of prostitution. Alternately, others could perceive her as an outlaw, similar to how many viewed Rosa Parks in light of her quiet acts of defiance. The application of pathos in both images from the English Collective of Prostitutes makes the audience feel sympathy for sex workers. The first image uses the Venus heart-shaped symbol to represent a sense of sisterhood and power. This makes the audience feel a connection with other women, which then evokes sympathy. Also, the audience may feel like the fist in the Pennell 3 image is meant to be a sign to revolt against current enforced laws. Furthermore, the phrase on the image states that there are bad women, just bad and the black and white contrast implies that the removal of laws against sex work is black and white. Moreover, the black nails allow the image to stand out. They are not cream colored and it makes it seem like sex workers are different, but in a positive way. Additionally, the audience will begin to think and try to relate themselves to this person. Sex work may be the last resort for people who have families to support. However, the organization does not just want to evoke sympathy. The organization wants to create power within the audience to revolt against these laws, and show that prostitutes are not weak people, rather, they are the opposite. The use of pathos in the second image of the woman with the flag is to evoke a sense of empathy. The audience feels a connection to the woman and sympathize with her. Her powerful stature allows the audience to respect and feel a sense of entitlement while gazing upon her. It also shows that the women are not broken, and are stronger. Furthermore, it subjects the audience to eliminate their previous views of these women. The more the prostitutes have to fight, the stronger they feel and they more they are heard. In addition, the red lips and mask, and pink flag evoke a sense of warmth and power. The red mask may be a way for the woman to hide her profession from the world and her loved ones. The red mask may also be a way for her to be symbolized as a martyr or superhero for fighting for people. Pink is related to femininity and is also associated with and objects such as cotton candy. Red is the shortest wavelength of light so it draws our attention to her lips and the mask. Furthermore, the red represents a sense of power especially in social media. Red tends to be in most advertisements or campaigns and many people are involved in social media hence why it is more powerful in social media. Pennell 4 The application of logos and Kairos in both images from the English Collective of Prostitutes makes the audience believe that the decriminalization of prostitution is logical and urgent. The first image indicates logos by stating that there are bad women, just bad Including this statement allows the audience to think about their stance on the legalization of prostitution, and use reasoning to determine if this statement relates enough to them as well as make the connection that the laws are the problem, and not the people. The first image demonstrates Kairos by stating that there no bad women, just bad which creates a sense of urgency to change the laws enforced by the US government. The integration of logos and Kairos in the second image is the use of the flag which adds a sense of logic and urgency. It states sex workers which allows the audience to know what the cause is and think about the sex position in this movement. There is also a little embroidered mask on the banner that creates a sense of logic as to why sex workers have to hide their profession from the world. Also, the mask can also be seen as an urgency to change the laws, because these human beings have to hide their professions from the lives of their loved ones. Moreover, it creates a humanistic approach by showing the images from a point of view. The woman is fighting for her rights, and it is only logical and ethical that she should receive the same benefits. Sex workers have no laws or regulations that help them advance in their lives or protect them from various situations such as abuse, sexually transmitted diseases (STDs), and sexually transmitted infections (STIs). According to a website that discusses the statistics of sex-crime related laws in the United States, of prostitutes throughout the world have contracted the HIV virus [and the murder rate 204 for every 100,000 (1). Prostitutes need the use of positive rhetorical appeals to advance their push on the decriminalization of sex work. Pennell 5 This organization used this strategy to their advancement by focusing on logos, ethos, pathos, and Kairos. In conclusion, rhetorical appeals are one of the ways an organization can promote their cause or issue. Rhetorical appeals allow for the persuading of an audience through ethos, logos, pathos, and Kairos. The use of this type of strategy has been evident throughout the images presented for the abolition of laws against sex work. The strongest and most evident appeals in these images are pathos and ethos. The English Collective of Prostitutes ensured that their images were credible and that the audience had sympathy and a sense of respect for the prostitutes. In the chosen images, it displays sex workers as everyday women and not just people who want money for sex. After all, sex work is one of the highest pay outs for pimps and companies involved, this business need to pay their employees. (WC 1386) Pennell 6 Works Cited Logo of the English Collective of Prostitutes. English Collective of Prostitutes. Web. N.P.d. 19 Feb. 2017. http://prostitutescollective.net/ Steinmetz, Katy. Why We Think Women Are More Trustworthy Than TIME. 13 Dec. 2010. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. http://healthland.time.com/2010/12/13/study-why-we-think-women-are-more- trustworthy-than-men/ Prostitution Statistics You Have To LAWS. 10 Feb. 2017. Web. http://sex-crimes.laws.com/prostitution/prostitution-statistics Woman with pink mask. English Collective of Prostitutes. Web. N.P.d. 19 Feb. 2017. http://prostitutescollective.net/