Rogers 1 Quinton Rogers Professor Drugan ENC 1102 02 March 2017 Plenty of works have been created to support the ideas or slander the views of people who identify as Democrat and Republican. Things of this type of nature ranges from satirical cartoon picture to television commercials. All of these works have common uses of the rhetorical devices (ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos) to get a message across. One topic that sparked multiple developments of cartoon images filled with the use of rhetorical device use would be the healthcare debate. The back and forward satire illustrations are very active in the ongoing arguments about how healthcare should be within the United States in order to create the most suitable healthcare plan for the country. One could say that the cause of these debates were sparked by the passing of the new health care plan, Affordable Care Act, in 2010, drafted up by President Obama. The plan for the act was to ensure people of America would be covered with health care and it would not be pocket burning. However, once the act hit Congress a few changes were made which created a totally different outcome than what was expected. The newly improvised health care document caused controversy between republicans and democrats, liberals and conservatives, and people in general. After gathering information from both, stakeholders through both literary sources and images, one could say that a major argument for republicans is that the current health care policy goes against the constitution. To reference the arguments of the Republican party, one could get a sense of the Rogers 2 general arguments by viewing the document care: The Debate for The author of this document discussed the Republican argument by stating, For the Republican party, one of the main arguments against current health care situations is that it goes against the constitution. Another argument is that the current healthcare situation in years to come will cost the American people a vast amount of money to be implemented. The cost of health care is a general problem for many people in general. For instance, there are many people who do not pay for health care because it is too expensive for their salary, but they face fines during tax season if they do not have health care. This is a brewing problem for many folks in similar situations, especially if they tend to have a lot of health problems. The current health care does in fact go against the Constitution because it basically forces citizens to own some type of health care. something one would agree with, because no one should be forced to spend money on something they feel that better off without. (Rogers 4) The picture above is a symbol to represent one of the main arguments of the Republican party. Many people who identify with the Republican party feel like the new health care policy is being forced on citizens. As shown in the picture it appears that the Affordable Care Act policy is being shoved down a throat forcing the policy upon the citizen (the citizen represents the U.S as a whole). This is how many folks feel here in the U.S, because they are put into a position where they have to buy health care even though it is too expensive for many. There is a fee in place that acts as a penalty for those who do not have health care when tax season rolls Rogers 3 around. Having a system to where there is a penalty for not being covered with health care goes against the Constitution because the Constitution is supposed to limit the power, and give freedom to citizens. The idea of having a penalty in place is what restricts the freedom of citizens, because now they theoretically no longer have the choice of deciding whether they are going to equip a healthcare plan or not; thus giving the government power to place these circumstances on citizens. In addition, the picture above is an example of pathos when looking from a Republican point of view. As stated in the previous paragraph, in the illustration President Obama is illustrated shoving a book down a mouth/throat. The illustration of President Obama holding the book represents the government, the character in the chair represents the U.S as a whole, and the book represent the current healthcare policies. The picture fall into the pathos category because the illustrator created the picture to evoke a rebellious or angry emotion out of U.S citizens. The picture was created to spread the message that citizens were being forced to make a choice on health care, in hopes to get viewers to go against the policy and call for a change within the policy. The picture above shows an elephant painting an into the word to make Rogers 4 it The elephant painting the wall could be a representation of Republicans and the painting could represent their thoughts on the current health care policy. The illustration is an example of both logos and pathos. For the pathos aspect, the illustrator wants viewers to think of fear when they think of Obama care. The in the picture painted is similar to the shape of a dollar sign and leads the hidden word One could say the meaning is that the Affordable Care Act could affect the money of both the U.S (nation) and the U.S citizens, in-which money would be the trigger of emotions from viewers. Now looking at the logos aspect of the picture, one could say that the illustrator uses logical predictions from the predictions of what needs to happen for the policy to be successful as a reference to the picture. These predictions causes the author to portray Obamacare as a or something to be feared. In addition, it could be said that the author shows their position on this situation through this illustration which would be for Republican; and that sums up to the illustrator expressing their logic of what the pending outcome of this act could be from their Republican views. Rogers 5 Works Cited Hudak, John. Give Me Liberty or at Least Your Votes: A Study of Altruism on Health Care Brookings  Brookings. Brookings, 28 July 2016. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. <https://www.brookings.edu/research/give-me-liberty-or-at-least-your-votes-a- study-of-governors-altruism-on-health-care/>. Clayton, Edward. Posts about Republican on The Political Spectator: Insightful News and  The Political Spectator Insightful News and Views. N.p., 30 Jan. 2017. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. <https://thepoliticalspectator.com/tag/republican/>.