Derrick Rodriguez-Clemente ENC 1102 F 2-445 Professor Poston April 16 2017 Gun Control Can Save Your Life In society, controversial topics are all over our media outlets whether it is Donald Trump, abortion or the legalization of marijuana. One of the most talked about topics happens to be gun control. A topic people have very passionate views on. Gun control comes with very extreme views such as the gun protestor view which is guns should be banned from everyday life while a gun owner would like to carry their weapon with them everywhere they go. One thing that both stakeholders can agree on is that guns if in the wrong hands can be very dangerous. The problem our society faces is coming up with a way of keeping our society safe. A solution to this problem would be to enforce stricter gun control rules as well as having mandatory educational classes that teaches civilians how to act in case they are put in a situation where a gun is present. As an American citizen one should know that the right to bear arms is part of our constitutional rights therefore guns will always be around regardless if we want them to or not. The best thing we can do is accept it and look for a way to make our society safer with guns being involved. It is very important for each United States citizen to know the gun laws in their state because they vary from state to state. In the state of Florida there is no required permit to carry shotguns or rifles under Florida law on gun. However, those wishing to carry handguns must apply for a license or permit to do so. To carry a concealed handgun, one must apply for a license to the Department of Agriculture. The requirements of an eligible applicant are that the individual must be at least 21 years of age, a legal U.S. resident, not a convicted felon, has not been convicted of a crime in the past three years under misdemeanor, felony, or domestic violence statutes, and can provide for adequate and appropriate reasons to carry a concealed weapon (Florida Gun Laws). Being educated on the set of laws that will affect you is key to making the best decision if put in a situation where a gun is present. Guns are not something that should be taken lightly. On average, 49 gun suicides were committed each day for the years 2005 2010 making guns the most prevalent way of committing suicides in the U.S. during that span (LCPGV). It is something that impacts our lives regardless of the regulations that are put in place to keep our society safe. Even if the gun owner is following the laws with the right number of permits and licenses it does not mean that they will make the best decision when that gun gets put in their hands. People with concealed weapons permits are responsible for killing at least 14 law enforcement officers and 622 private citizens since May 2007 according to a study released by Violence Policy Center. There are a couple different ways that you can get educated on guns, the most current gun controls laws, and the newest stories regarding a gun controversies. The most popular being doing online research. One of the most informational websites on anything gun related is Gun Owners of America (GOA). GOA is a non-profit lobbying organization formed in 1975 to preserve and defend the Second Amendment rights of gun owners (Gun Owners of America). Articles posted on this website are mainly pro-gun which can be helpful in understanding the point of view of the people that support guns. Regardless of the articles being pro-gun they are very information and credible which can help you get educated on such a controversial topic. Another way that you can learn about guns is by going to your local shooting range. You can shoot a gun for yourself or you can just go to ask the workers questions they are a great source of knowledge since they are aware of all the current regulations as well as all that is going on in the gun world. Guns affect everyone from a child to a senior citizen which is why it is very important for you to get educated on them. Another way you can make a difference is by joining an organization that helps against gun control. The Defense Fund is an organization whose mission is to ensure every child a healthy start, a head start, a fair start, a safe start and a moral start in life and successful passage to adulthood with the help of caring families and communities (CDF). Getting involved can also give you the knowledge to know what to do in case of a gun situation. Gun violence is a very common problem in our society that not only affects the gun victims but also their families and society as a whole. Each US citizen should try their absolute hardest to get educated on guns and gun control laws because they are something that are not going to go away anytime soon. Ways that you can get educated are by going to your local shooting range and getting some hands-on action and shoot a gun for yourself or just to ask the workers any questions you may have. Another way you can educate yourself is by doing research online from a source like Gun Owners of a America or by just simply joining an organization that makes an impact like the Defense Fund. Any action you take is better than no action and it can result in keeping yourself as well as your friends and family safe. Work Cited Statistics on Gun Deaths &  Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Concealed Weapons  Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Our  Defense Fund. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <http://www.childrensdefense.org/about/#About>. Florida Gun  Gun. N.p., n.d. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. <http://gun.laws.com/state-gun- laws/florida-gun-laws>. About  About Gun Owners of America General General. N.p., n.d. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. <https://gunowners.org/protect.htm>.