Romio 1 Gabrielle Romio ENC 1102-070 Professor Drugan 27 February 2017 Final Draft Project 2 Planned Parenthood While walking through any college campus, it is easy to find people with a large anti abortion agenda. On campus, a group of students decided to post signs with images of aborted fetuses. These people took it into their own hands to make the point that people should not be getting abortions and that Planned Parenthood should be defunded. As someone who might not know all the facts, these signs could be potentially misleading. Not only that but seeing pro-choice advertising is very rare as well. As the defunding of Planned Parenthood is on the front line of many political debates Republicans benefit from this anti-abortion agenda and they also benefit from the lack of pro-choice advocacy. Not only does Plan Parenthood suffer with the lack of pro-choice advocacy but Planned Parenthood is also largely misunderstood by the lack of advertisement for Planned Parenthood and what services they really provide. As the Democratic party fight for Planned Parenthood advertisements such as the photo of bras with the number of how many breast exams are given by Planned Parenthood and the image of the pie chart that shows what the majority of the Planned Parenthood services are help the party using pathos and logos show that Planned Parenthood is much more than just abortions. The reason why Democrats and Planned Parenthood need to have favorable advertisement is to help educate the public on what Planned Parenthood actually is so that that Planned Parenthood can receive public support and not get defunded. Republicans make the case Romio 2 that Planned Parenthood should be defunded because of the Republican viewpoint of pro-life, and that they believe the government should not help people pay for abortions. The issue with this statement is that Planned Parenthood does so much more than provide abortions, and it is already illegal to use government aid to pay for abortions. Rather than focusing on the details of legislations, the two images discussed are focused on how many more services other than abortion Planned Parenthood provides. In the first image provided we see the statistic that 549,804 breast exams are what Planned Parenthood is. The background image for the advertisement is a group of many different bras followed by a statement that says, to know Planned Parenthood where your voice gets stronger by the This image is effective because of the use of pathos and logos. Pathos is evident when the audience thinks about the implication and the difference 549,804 breast exams can make. When thinking about who the audience of this image is, women definitely come to mind especially because of the use of bras in the picture. When considering the audience, the image becomes more impactful because breast exams are something personal to women especially with the recent increase in breast cancer awareness. Not only does this speak to women but it gives Planned Parenthood a more favorable light than what people normally think about when thinking about the organization. It adds to the fact that Planned Parenthood is so much more than abortions and that there is a wide range of services that it does provide. Another part of the image that clearly displays pathos is at the bottom where it says to know Planned Parenthood where your voice gets stronger by the This adds an element of unity and empowerment especially towards women. Not only is this phrase empowering but it backs the idea that women should have a voice. This is one of the biggest aspects of the debate on whether or not Planned Parenthood should be defunding, because many people use the Romio 3 argument that women have a voice when it comes to this matter and the people with the voice is mostly men in Washington. Lastly, there is also an element of logos in the picture with the statistic of the 549,804 breast exams given by Planned Parenthood. This is an effective use of logos because it gives the audience a fact that is favorable towards Planned Parenthood. The reason that this fact is favorable towards Planned Parenthood is because it gives the audience a visual number of a positive thing that Planned Parenthood does. Not only are breast exams a positive thing, but it is something that many people can not argue with in the sense that breast exams are unnecessary or harmful. The second image is a pie chart made of the different patient care provided by Planned Parenthood and how often these services are provided. One of the biggest points this graph is trying to prove is that Planned Parenthood is so much more than an abortion provider. Even though there is no direct use pathos, there is still a use of pathos because of the emotion the graph causes. Seeing how large the percentage is in the area of cancer screening and prevention can make the audience feel more sympathetic towards the organization and helps the audience see Planned Parenthood in a more favorable light. Although there is a small percentage of pathos, the largest strategy used in this photograph is logos. The use of the pie chart gives the audience a sense of legitimacy which will make the audience more willing to trust the statistics. The most effect use of logos in this chart is the percentage given for abortion services which is only 3%. This statistic may come to a surprise to the audience which will impact them the most. This statistic also helps clear up misconception s about the organization and can help defend Planned Parenthood against people who only think Planned Parenthood is used for abortions. The overall effect that logos has in this image is that Planned Parenthood is an organization that helps with so many difference health issues and that it is a valuable organization. Romio 4 Overall the goal of these two images was to paint Planned Parenthood in a more favorable light and to show Planned Parenthood is so much more than just abortions. By using pathos and logos these images effectively accomplished their goal and can be used to defend the program from Republicans who want the program to be defunded. Not only do the images help defend Planned Parenthood but they also help Planned Parenthood receive public support on the issue of being defunded. Planned Parenthood is important to the public healthcare system of America and is used by millions of Americans who many be struggling financially. Everyone should have access to these services and as shown many of these services can help prevent and treat life threatening conditions and provide options for reproductive health as well. Romio 5 Romio 6 Works Cited Hicks, Josh. Remark: Planned Parenthood Provides The Washington Post, WP Company, 26 Oct. 2012, www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/fac t-checker/post/obamas-tonight-show-remark-planned-parenthood-provides- term=.5312a43ed514. Accessed 1 Apr. 2017. - Planned Parenthood - Southwestern Home - Planned Parenthood - Southwestern Oregon, 21 Dec. 2016, www.plannedparenthood.org/planned-parenthood- southwestern-oregon. Accessed 1 Apr. 2017. Lonely Fight Against Planned NH LABOR NEWS, 2 July 2016, nhlabornews.com/2016/07/kelly-ayottes-lonely-fight-against-planned-parenthood/. Accessed 1 Apr. 2017.