Jaye Wynter ENC 1102 Ms. Poston April 15, 2017 Affirmative Action- The Debate Affirmative action is a very complex policy and according to Stein, it is, designed to end discrimination in hiring, college admissions, and the awarding of  (2). It might seem difficult to some people to understand the principle behind affirmative action, however the issues discussed in this paper are reality. Racism is nothing new to America; this issue has been plaguing the country since before its foundings. As a result, today we have racial discrimination and profiling, despite the word constantly being repeated. The government took the racism into account years ago and created the affirmative action policy, which is a part of an effort to remedy the past injustices to minority people. Affirmative Action is very just, its purpose being to equalize the education and economic gap between minorities and whites. Some people think that equal opportunity actually exists the way it is presented in the media. There is evidence in newscasts, work reports and even personal testimonials against this notion. According to Stein in on of her 60% of white people felt that people of color have the same opportunities as whites, while 70% of Black people  (3). These results shed some light on the insight of people who for reverse discrimination and affirmative action as an unjust remediation method. According to another author, black gains in higher education between 1976 and 1994 did not come at the expense of  (Wilson 218). Disadvantaged minority students face further challenges when applying for universities who do not adopt the approach. As the topic becomes less and less because of all the laws being passed against racism, people must realize that unless faced with the challenges racism bring or seeing it first-hand, it is hard to understand the problem. As Nancy puts it, The most important myth is that everyone in this country has an equal opportunity to  (Stein). The labour market is structured in such a way that black people have a much harder time ascending, hence, ...the means of social ascension for lower-class blacks are considerably  (Nighaoui). Nighaoui explains that today, higher-paying jobs are looking for well-educated, skilled persons. This causes a problem for minority students who had inadequate schooling, no exposure to work-training programs and most of all, no motivation. The mindset of students and potential workers in the labour force is important. Educators emphasize that the work load in school is not the reason minority students are failing, it is the fact that they are not motivated. Most minority students believe that a high school education carry any value for them because they stand a higher chance of failure even with the diploma. They think that finding other means of income would benefit them more. It is understandable why they think like this. Hugh Wilson in his 1998 article concludes that blacks, between the years 1980 and 1998 were totally disadvantaged in relation to their white counterparts with no expense at all to white people. He concluded that reverse discrimination is a very weak argument, with little basis and all the evidence stands against it. Another point I would like to add in favour of affirmative action is the benefit is the benefits that diversity offers to education and employment in America. Buffy Smith has a point when he says, students would develop culturally relevant critical thinking and analytical skills, which could make them more globally  (Smith). The benefits of diversity in schools especially outweighs the disadvantages. Another advantage being that diversity leads to curiosity, people forced to think the same way all the time because everyone has differing experiences and personalities. In most cases, the metaphorically speaking consists of a variety of ethnicities, genders and religions. Therefore a school which lacks in this department is setting their students up for failure since some of the students would have never even had a single, substantial interaction with a black person. People may argue against the idea of diversity because there are some races and cultures which naturally do not agree, however, the disagreement between races and cultures is due to mistrust, stereotyping and even language barriers. Carl Cohen and James Sterba explain that legally, affirmative action is still correct and very much exists. However, the problem is that it is not being employed on a community-level. They explain, Affirmative action was to be the instrument with which we would expose and uproot unequal treatment of every kind, covert and overt, deliberate or  (Sterba and Cohen 14). This is the basis on which affirmative action was passed, and also the reason why the name of the policy is affirmative action. However the authorities have slacked off, they do not seem to be enforcing the policy as they should be, because minorities and even women still have challenges abound as it relates to majority groups and men. In the final analysis, affirmative action has shown to be a just method of remediation for past injustices toward minority groups. The problem with the policy is that it is not being imposed efficiently or even at all. Works Cited LeBeauf, Ireon, et al. Affirmative Action Still of Employment vol. 44, no. 3, 2007, pp. 98+. www.questia.com/read/1G1-168507957/is-affirmative-action-still-necessary. Nighaoui, Sami Chedli. Action: Why We Should Consider Western Journal of Black vol. 31, no. 1, 2007, pp. 33+. www.questia.com/read/1G1-192586268/affirmative-action-why-we-should-consider-reform. Accessed 2017. Stein, Nancy. Action and the Persistence of vol. 22, no. 3, 1995, pp. 28+. www.questia.com/read/1G1-18285711/affirmative-action-and-the-persistence-of-racism. Accessed 2017. Sterba, James P., and Carl Cohen. Action and Racial Preference: A Oxford University Press, 2003. www.questia.com/read/108221921/affirmative-action-and-racial-preference-a-debate. Accessed 2017. Tollett, Kenneth S. Testament of Hope: Strategies for a New Era in Higher Journal of Negro vol. 68, no. 2, 1999, pp. 227+. www.questia.com/read/1P3-64826980/affirmative-action-s-testament-of-hope-strategies. Accessed 2017. Wilson, Hugh A. Affirmative Action for Blacks Harm Whites? Some Evidence from the Higher Education Western Journal of Black vol. 22, no. 4, 1998, p. 218. www.questia.com/read/1G1-53744951/does-affirmative-action-for-blacks-harm-whi tes-some. Accessed 2017.