Gottfried 1 Zachary Gottfried William Drugan ENC 1102.70 19 April 2017 Avoid The Roids From the mid 20th century, steroids have been a major controversy especially in professional sports. Anabolic steroids have given athletes a which allows them to play for a prolonged period of time at their peak performance. In major league sports, athletes are tempted to utilize these supplements to excel, but little do they realize the immense dangers that come with the super human abilities. Sports families, athletes and rising athletes must become educated on the consequence of the deadly substance. The first step to anabolic steroid prevention is knowledge. By informing families and friends they can reach out and inform the athletes of the short and long term health complications of steroids. By learning more athletes will in turn live longer and healthier lives. Steroids are considered to be detrimental to health and provide an unfair advantage in many physical activities. Therefore, many sports and other physical events have banned such drugs, such as hockey, baseball, and bodybuilding (Anabolic Steroids, 2). Not only are steroids banned in professional sports, they are illegal to possess without a valid prescription by a doctor (Anabolic Steroids, 5). possession of illicitly obtained anabolic steroids carries a maximum penalty of one year in prison and a minimum $1,000 fine if this is an first drug offense (Anabolic Steroid Anabolic steroids are the most effective and frankly, the Gottfried 2 most commonly used enhancement for sports. In addition, steroids are toxic to health. Anabolic-Androgenic steroids act like testosterone, a natural male hormone, that can be injected or taken orally (Khullar 2). Steroids help athletes build a massive amount of muscle and enhance strength and speed in a radically short period of time (Khullar 2). Not only do steroids increase athletic performance, they also increase muscle endurance and recovery, allowing athletes to go full throttle for a longer period of time before becoming fatigued (Khullar 2). Steroids can also benefit individuals mentally, such as increasing self confidence in the user (Khullar 2). On the contrary, there are an abundant amount of negative side effects that come with the use of Anabolic-Androgenic steroids (Khullar 2). For instance, testicular atrophy, mood fluctuations, gynecomastia, high blood pressure, aggression, and depression (Khullar 2). Are steroids even worth using? Athletes and bodybuilders are the most common partakers of steroids, and they do it without realizing the negative effects.They do it becausethey want to either have a competitive edge or improve their physique with ease (Anabolic Steroids 1). Athletes obtain steroids illegally by smuggling and purchasing them usually from the country of Mexico, because it is illegal to purchase them without a prescription (Anabolic Steroids 2). Young athletes are being easily influenced to experiment with steroids by the olympic and professional athletes that test positive for steroids (Svare, 76). This effect is truly causing a steroid epidemic, every sport at every level has the use of steroids involved in it (Svare, 76). from the Mayo Clinic and the National Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA) reveal that upward of one million middle and high school-aged kids experimented with steroids in (Svare, 76). The use of steroids is increasing every year with individuals that are athletes and that Gottfried 3 are not (Svare, 76). In fact, since the the use of steroids by females has doubled (Svare, 76). There are kids as young as 6th graders utilizing the deadly supplement (Svare, 76). So how can this be fixed? First off, the athletic community needs to realize that this is major problem and requires action immediately (Svare, 76). The school community needs to be educated by the problem, a good idea would be for professionals to visit schools and teach young kids about the consequences of steroids (Svare, 77). Individuals need to be educated about the consequences of possessing and distributing steroids illegally, as well as being able to identify the signs of steroid abuse (Svare, 77). Parent and coaches need to be educated that they posses an influential role in promoting a drug free choice for their kids (Svare, 77). They need to be encouraged to have open discussions about steroids with their kids (Svare, 77). Lastly, athletes need to be educated about how important morals are in sports and that they should work hard and compete even harder. They need to know that a strong mindset and good work ethic will get them far. Major league baseball (MLB) is trying to have a positive impact on the steroid crisis by creating programs starting with the Dominican Republic (Fieser, 2011). These programs are created to protect the Dominican prospects from the temptations and use of steroids and other performance enhancing drugs (PEDs) (Fieser, 2011). Not to mention ball players from the Dominican Republic have the worse reputation out of players from any other country when it comes to abusing steroids and PEDs (Fieser, 2011). In 2010, the MLB decided to test the good Dominican prospects for drug use, and discovered that 13 out of 40 of them tested positive (Fieser, 2011). The Dominican Republic has such a bad reputation with drug abuse among its players, because steroids and PEDs are accepted there as a way of standing out, so players can get drafted and make money and get rich so they can by their family a place to live (Frieser, Gottfried 4 2011). The Dominican supplies the MLB with the most prospects than any other place then the world besides the United States (Frieser, 2011). Generally, people, primarily parents and coaches need to be aware of steroids and promote their negative effects, because parents and coaches have a big role on promoting a drug-free choice to their kids. Also, athletes are frauds if they use them, people need to advertise that sports are meant to be played drug-free. It is necessary, professional athletes to promote their sport and state that it is meant to be played drug-free and that they are drug-free. Not to mention, disturbing ads of the effects of steroids would be helpful because it will scare people from using them. Gottfried 5 Cited Fieser, Ezra. How MLB Aims to Stop Steroid Abuse, Starting with Dominican  The Christian Science Monitor, 2011. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ed KHULLAR, NEHA, et al. Prevalence And Predictors Of Anabolic-Androgenic Steroid Use Among Gym Users In Kuwait: A Preliminary  International Journal Of Health 15.2 (2016): 144-156. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Svare, Bruce B. What Athletic Directors Can Do about the Steroid Abuse  Coach & Athletic Director, vol. 75, no. 9, Apr. 2006, pp. 76-78. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=eft United States. Drug Enforcement, Administration. Anabolic  (2004): Web. 29 Jan. 2017.