Li 1 Runmin Li William Drugan ENC 1102.072 April 3, 2017 The Benefits of Biofuel in the Aviation Field Air Transport Action Group (ATAG) is a highly respected not-for-profit association that represents all sectors of the air transport (Who WE ARE). The ATAG organization is trying to appeal all aviation corporations to use jet-biofuel instead of petroleum-based fuel for reducing greenhouse gas emissions and other pollution. The organization published two images to illustrate the benefits of jet-biofuel in the economy and the environment. The first image is about the data of airplane, and the second image presents the comparison between lifecycle emissions and airplanes that use jet-biofuel verses airplanes that use petroleum-based fuel. The two images show the benefits of jet-biofuel and the future progress of the aviation field. Therefore, it is important to analyze the meaning of the data and the differences of the two lifecycle emissions through rhetorical appeals. The first image contains three rhetorical appeals: ethos, pathos, and kairos. First, the image shows the ethos by data. Ethos is a rhetor perceived by the audience as credit. The ATAG organization collects all the greenhouse gas emissions and other data from their members, such as American Airlines, Emirate Airlines, Delta Airlines, and so on; so, all the aviation corporations provide their data to the organization and they all admit the accuracy and facticity of the data. Also, the carbon dioxide emissions of airplanes provided in the image is consistent with the data collected by NOAA Climate Government. For example, 781 Li 2 million tonnes of carbon dioxide emissions is about 2% of total 40 billion metric tons of human carbon dioxide emissions (Scott & Michon & Rebecca). Furthermore, the image shows that the jet-biofuel can reduce the carbon dioxide emissions by 80%, which the data matches with the data provided by the U.S. Department of Energy. The department stated that use reduces carbon dioxide emissions by 74% compared with petroleum (Alternative Fuels Data Center). In addition, B100 is a pure form that only contains biofuel, which is not best for normal engines; so, the efficiency is low and it will affect the emissions as well. Therefore, the data of the image is credible and trustable and contains ethos; also, it can be tested with data. Second, the image contains a few pathos, like surprise and sadness. Pathos is a rhetor to persuade the audience by making them feel certain emotions. The huge amount of carbon dioxide emissions can be surprising, at 781 million tonnes. Also, it makes people feel sad due to the air pollution and global warming; meanwhile, they may be ashamed that they cannot give up the benefits of airplanes. However, it is consolable that the aviation industries create 9.9 million jobs and nearly 63 million related jobs for people. Also, the colors used in the image is green and blue with white background, which it implies a nice environmental- friendly feeling because green and blue are related to the plants and oceans; also, the green color indicates to sustainability. Therefore, the image contains pathos by illustrating emotions through dramatic data and colors. Third, with the severe environmental problem, the image is published at the right moment; so, it contains kairos. Kairos is a rhetor indicated the timeliness. The air pollution is getting worse every day. The air quality decreasing at a fast rate and it can cause many Li 3 problems to human health and other species. For instance, the air pollution in China is very serious, and the fresh air becomes fog and haze, which contains many heavy metal and chemicals. Also, the haze increases health problem, such as heart disease and cancers (Effects of air pollution). Also, the global warming is an important issue, and the problem has caused the loss of biodiversity and habitats, such as polar bear. Furthermore, the global warming has rising the temperature and cause the glaciers melting and the sea level risng. Those countries which consisting of one or more islands are facing many serious problem due to the rise of sea level. Therefore, the image contains kairos because it is very important to reduce the greenhouse gas emissions to keep or increase the quality of the environment and reach a sustainable lifestyle. The second image contains three rhetorical appeals: ethos, logos, and kairos. First, the two lifecycle emissions paths provide the ethos of the image. The left-side lifecycle shows that airplanes which use petroleum-based fuel release a huge amount of carbon dioxide emissions into the atmosphere because the plants and trees cannot absorb that much. On the other hand, the right-side lifecycle shows the emissions of airplanes which use jet-biofuel, and the sector of feedstock growth absorbs the carbon dioxide produced by airplanes instead of going into the atmosphere. The ATAG organization builds the two-lifecycle emissions based on the data they collected, and this data are trustable. Also, each sector of industries and transportations is accurate because the organization contains all sectors of aviation industry and it knows how the airplane and operation work. Therefore, the image is credible and contains ethos. Li 4 Second, the image contains logos through the lifecycle emission. Logos is a rhetor to persuade the audience by a logical interpretation. In the left-side lifecycle, each stage contributes a small amount of carbon dioxide emissions to the atmosphere with small blue arrows showed in the image. The main contributor of carbon dioxide emissions are airplanes, as the image illustrates with the blue curving line passes through every single stage. This is logical, because the aviation industries and transportation processes produce less carbon dioxide emissions compare to airplanes which use petroleum-based fuel. Also, the nature system cannot absorb the great amount emissions without any human activity. In the right- side lifecycle, four sectors contribute a small amount of carbon dioxide emissions to the atmosphere, and the stage of feedstock growth absorbs the carbon dioxide emissions produced by the main contributor, airplanes. This is also logical because the stages of extraction and ship transport change to feedstock growth and processes, these changes reduce some carbon dioxide emissions and increase absorption of system by planting more trees and vegetable for biofuels. Also, the road transport uses biofuel and airplanes use jet- biofuel instead of petroleum-based fuel, which it dramatically decreases the carbon dioxide emissions by at least 74% (Alternative Fuels Data Center). Then system can absorb the emissions produced by airplanes and the lifecycle emissions become a circle. Therefore, the two lifecycles are logical and the image contains logos. Last, the image shows kairos too, due to the environmental and economic issues. The importance of alternative resource can reduce the impacts of human activities and environmental impacts. The jet-biofuel reduces the carbon dioxide emissions and air pollution to decrease the rate of cancer and other diseases. Also, the new resource can create Li 5 many direct and related jobs for people by building new industries and product lines. It can increase the local and global economy to narrow down the economic gap between countries or people since the global economy gradually slows down. Therefore, the image is at the right moment. In conclusion, the ATAG organization provide two images to point out the importance of jet-biofuel and the benefits of it. Also, the two images contain multiple rhetorical appeals based on the information provided by the images. The first image shows ethos, pathos, and kairos to determine the meaning of data, and the second image shows ethos, logos, and kairos to determine the differences between the two lifecycles. The images are credible, convinced, and emotional to the audience. Therefore, it is important to change the human behavior in some activities, such as aviation field, road transportations, industrials, and so on, to maintain the quality of the environment and provide a better life for future generations. Li 6 Figure 1 Data Li 7 Figure 2 Sustainable Circle Li 8 Li 9 Work Cited Alternative Fuels Data  Afdc.energy.gov. U.S. Department of Energy, 21 Sept. 2016. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Effects of air  Defra.gov.uk. Department for Environment Food and Rural Affairs, 10 June 2013. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Scott, Michon, and Rebecca Lindsey. Which emits more carbon dioxide: volcanoes or human  Climate.gov. NOAA Climate.gov, 15 June 2016. Accessed Web. 27 Feb. 2017. WHO WE  Atag.org. Air Transport Action Group, n.d. Web. Accessed 27 Feb. 2017.