Davison 1 Neckodemos Davison Professor William Drugan ENC-1102-085 01 April 2017 Project 2 Final Draft Demilitarize with Demilitarize All around the world, and especially in the United States of America, war consumes vast amounts of government money. An organization called works reduce the global military spending thanks to the cooperative works made by the organizations of civil (Global Campaign on Military Spending). They do this by leading global campaigns on military spending worldwide and by holding discussions on how to move military funds away from war and towards development, climate, peacemaking, and humanitarian action. The first image chosen from advertisements presents the currency of all different nations and silhouettes of soldiers composed of those currencies with a pitch black background. Another image from Demilitarize shows a military jet dropping bombs on the left and a baby on the right with facts directly underneath both. The two images created by the Demilitarize organization encourages the audience to support the reduction of military budgets worldwide through the use of logos and pathos through the use of imagery and ethos utilized through sentence structure. Logos is the art of persuasion with the use of logic or, according to Merriam-Webster, that in ancient Greek philosophy is the controlling principle in the The logos in the first image, with currency, lies behind the representation of military funds by the Davison 2 soldier silhouettes. This uses symbolism to show how all countries around the world pour large amounts of their resources into military activities. Which is accurate because, on average, the world spends over 1600 billion U.S. dollars each year on military budgets (Global Campaign on Military Spending). It is objective to reduce this budget for all nations in order to have the world redirect its resources to other elements of civilization. These elements include a focus on education, employment, health care, and climate change that would overall improve living conditions and longevity around the world. This objective can also be seen in the second image, with the airplane and the baby, in the way that statistics are used to show the true cost of having an expensive military. Right underneath the plane it states, military spending is worth $245 per person every This statement serves to tell the audience how much money is being funneled into the world militaries every year, and shock the audience into agreeing with Demilitarize. The quote underneath the baby states, 1 million children die on their first and only day of These statistics use logic to support the emotional side of this image in case someone in the audience needs reasoning to sympathize with the children of war. Pathos is known as an appeal to human emotion or element in experience or in artistic representation evoking pity or  Merriam-Webster). Demilitarize has a lot of potential to use pathos in its advertisements simply because the organization takes action on such a touching topic and these images reflect that. The first image, the one with currency, uses the silhouettes to put the images of tired soldiers and war into the heads. These images paint depressing pictures of soldiers far away from their homes and families. The black background not only helps to emphasize the silhouettes but also serves to add a feeling of despair to the image. As if the soldiers are cursed to wonder around hostile lands forever, never making it home again. The bold, white, caption then plays off these felt Davison 3 emotions of despair and depression to work as a call to action that tries to solidify those imprinted negative feeling behind military spending. The way the caption is written, with the use of ellipsis and is meant to make the audience that supports military spending feel guilty for doing so. The image is making them question whether war and violence or human needs and peace should take priority in regards to resources. The second image, the one with an airplane and a baby, uses the image of a baby to bring out the empathy of the audience and makes them feel anguish for the children born in warring nations. A bright, yellow-orange gradient in the background causes the image to reflect a feeling of anxiety and urgency in the opposite way that the black background affects the first image. The airplane has bombs in mid-drop that appear like they are heading towards the child. This combination of pictures bring up the fact that even today in warzones, babies and their families can get caught in the crossfire of two combative groups. The quote by the emphasizes the lack of longevity by stating, first and only day of This quote further plays on the emotions of the audience in an attempt to make them feel sorry for the children that never get to enjoy even a sliver of life. The use of the caption is an attempt at making the reader feel a moral obligation to choose one side, military spending, or the other, human needs. Ethos is distinguishing character, sentiment, moral nature, or guiding beliefs of a person, group, or  Merriam-Webster). This may also be known as the use of credibility through morality or other means to provide support for an argument. The first image, the one with currency, tries to take the moral high ground by using the FOR HUMAN statement. This is a rhetorical question that is meant to make the audience think about the topic and which side of the argument is more ethical. The use of ellipsis puts the word against in a way that should make the audience favor Davison 4 the latter. The negative connotation of in comparison to the level of importance of is where this image gets most of its power. The second image, the one with an airplane and a baby, uses statistics and quote from Save the Children to establish credibility. Save the Children is an organization with beginnings as far back as 1919 that children a healthy start, the opportunity to learn and protection from (Official USA Site Save the Children). By quoting an organization, Save the Children, that is nearly one hundred years old, argument and its credibility dramatically increase. Another thing that adds to the credibility of this image is the fact that the website in the upper left corner ends in rather than which typically makes people who search through the internet a little more trusting of any site with that domain name because the majority of harmful websites are going to end in The Demilitarize organization not only works to make the world a safer place by reducing the size of the militaries but also to make the world a better place to live by redirecting military funds to reduce human needs. These images are trying to sway the audience into believing that the priorities of government budgets need to be shifted towards nonmilitary organizations and projects. As for wars, the organization prefers to support more diplomatic and non-violent resolutions. Demilitarize believes by using a combination of diplomacy, legal arbitration, and increased economic and environmental cooperation that a large amount of violent disputes involving resources in this world can reach a peaceful resolution. Davison 5 Works Cited  Merriam-Webster. Merriam-Webster, n.d. Web. Date accessed 26 Feb. 2017.  Merriam-Webster. Merriam-Webster, n.d. Web. Date accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Official USA  Save the Children. N.p., n.d. Web. Date accessed 26 Feb. 2017.  Merriam-Webster. Merriam-Webster, n.d. Web. Date accessed 26 Feb. 2017. The  Global Campaign on Military Spending. N.p., n.d. Web. Date accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Davison 6