Stagg 1 Brooke Stagg Drugan ENC 1102. 071 1 April 2017 Project 2 Final Draft The Reality of Trophy Hunting Trophy Free EU Group is an organization that was founded in 2014 that aspires to bring awareness to the world about the adverse effects that trophy hunting can have on the fragile ecosystem. This joint project of three conservationist organizations strives to bring awareness by hosting several campaigns that aim to educate the public on how dangerous trophy hunting can be to the ecosystem and to the animals themselves (Trophy Free EU Group). On their website, the organization has several advertisements that address how the act of trophy hunting is not a sport but is a dangerous pastime that will affect everyone in time. One of their main goals aside from education is to disprove the belief that trophy hunting is a form of conservation using various techniques to highlight the harsh reality of what trophy hunting is. These techniques include providing photos that reflect the rhetorical appeals of pathos, ethos, logos, and kairos. Rhetorical appeals are elements used to persuade an audience to feel a certain way. The two images selected below illustrate the belief that trophy hunting does not help in conservation efforts, using the rhetorical appeals of pathos and ethos. The first of several images on this website that highlights the harsh reality of trophy hunting features a lion that is trapped behind several fences in a large enclosure. There are fences that separate two groups of lions from each other. This image shows how trapped the lions are in order to make it easier for the tourists to have a kill. Some advocates of Stagg 2 trophy hunting believe that this is a more favorable alternative to trophy hunting of animals in the wild. The second image that helps illustrate this point of view is an infographic that features a close-up view of the face of a lion in captivity. There is also a statistic about the number of lions that are being born, raised, and slaughtered in contained trophy hunting scenarios every day. The two images use pathos and ethos to appeal to both the emotions and morals. Pathos is a rhetorical strategy that aims to appeal to the emotions. The first image appeals to pathos by providing a sense of helplessness for the viewer because the image clearly depicts the desire to be free. Viewers of this photograph can tell the animal would like to be let loose from this enclosure because it is at the barrier of the enclosure. This implies that the lion has explored all that there is to explore inside of his contained area, and would like to see the rest of the world. The containment of these majestic animals is so against their nature, that it makes the animals restless and uncomfortable to be held in captivity. This photograph forces the viewer to feel the anxiety that these animals must feel because of the composition of the photograph. There is also an appeal to pathos by making the viewer feel the loneliness that these animals face while they are in captivity. It is unnatural for a lion to live with only one other animal. It is necessary for lions to receive the socialization that comes with the existence of a pride of lions. In the image, the fence is dividing two groups of loins into smaller groups to facilitate easier hunts for the tourists that occupy the establishment where this photograph was taken. These animals are forced to get their natural amounts of socialization through a chain-link fence. The photograph was taken to clearly portray how miss treated the lions are in hopes of bringing out emotions of sadness and anger from the viewer. Stagg 3 The second image also uses pathos to appeal to the viewer by forcing them to feel the depression and loneliness the lion feels. Even though there is only one of the eyes visible, the expression on the face is clearly a depressed one. The way the photo is zoomed in on part of the face creates an emotional effect on the viewer by forcing the viewer to look into the lifeless eyes. This angle pushes the viewer to realize how poorly the living conditions are. The lion appears to look depressed because it has found itself enclosed in a confined space, and all it can do is peer out the slit of the cage. This advertisement can be found on a website called Cannedlion.org which aims to use various pathos strategies to expose the reality of trophy hunting and more specifically, canned hunting. a world without the lion. No mighty roars or glorious manes. A world without the most glorious and majestic animal on (Edward Bourke 1). Bourke is a young member of the canned lion organization and spends his volunteer hours educating the public about the changes that need to be made. He shares the same standpoint that Trophy Free EU Group does regarding the dangers of trophy hunting. Bourke believes that it is impossible for trophy hunting to exist as a continuation of hunting efforts, just like Trophy Free EU Group does. Ethos is another rhetorical appeal that is centered around morals and credibility. Both images selected have a moderate amount of ethos portrayed in them. The first image appeals to ethos because of the chain link fence running through the middle of the photo. The fence expresses how the pride of lions are forced to be separated for hunting purposes which are clearly immoral and cruel to the wild animals. The inclusion of the fence to separate these two groups of lions forces the viewer to consider the morality of the practice. It makes the viewer think about how they would feel if their family were split into two groups and not allowed to have the socialization and interaction that they need. In the photo, there is a yellow sign stating Stagg 4 please stay in vehicle or at least 10 feet from This is because of the aggressive nature of the animals as well as the built-up anxiousness and anger the lions have from being trapped within a specific area. The sign makes viewers think about how immoral it is to confine wild animals behind a fence. The second image appeals to ethos by including the logo of a popular news outlet on the photograph. This lets the viewer know that the information is coming from a credible source. The inclusion of this logo was not done accidentally, for it was included to make the image and the Trophy Free EU Group seem more credible. If the problem is being reported on by a major news network, then it must be a real problem. This is the thought process that the common viewer of this image may have. Major news outlets like MSNBC would not waste their time reporting on things that are not considered real issues. The second image is an ad ran by MSNBC to promote the premiere of a documentary entitled Blood Lions which aired October 7 th of 2015 (Freidman 2015). The documentary exposed the true facts of both trophy hunting and canned hunting, explaining how the industry is strictly for profit purposes. Trophy Free EU Group collaborates both globally and nationally to educate people on the dangers and impracticality of hunting in African countries. It is clear their beliefs are founded in scientific merit as well as care and compassion for the animals that are forced to fight against the practice. One of their ways of educating the public is through their use of rhetorical appeals in their photos and campaigns. Perhaps their biggest strategy is grasping the attention using pathos, however ethos is strongly used as well. Every year, lions and other big game animals are being killed for monetary purposes however, it is something that can be stopped with enough people behind it. This is a belief that is shared amongst many different influential groups throughout the globe, and hopefully this belief will help put an end to trophy hunting. Stagg 5 Stagg 6 Works Cited Freedman, Liz. Blood  premieres Wednesday October 7th on   MSNBC. NBC Universal News Group, 21 Sept. 2015. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Trophy Free EU Group Trophy Free EU  Trophy Free EU Group Trophy Free EU Group. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Young  Campaign Against Canned Hunting (CACH). N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Stagg 7