Cat Miranda Miranda1 Professor Drugan ENC 1102-071 02 April 2017 The Humane Society of Tampa Bay and the Rhetorical Appeals Behind It The Humane Society of Tampa Bay is a place for unwanted and wanted dogs. It is a place that animals who have never found a place they were comfortable in, feel safe and wanted. In the two pictures found on the last page of this paper, there are three rhetorical appeals found in each picture. The three rhetorical appeals are ethos, logos, and pathos. Ethos is the what is ethical, which basically means what is right, and what is wrong. It also determines if an article, picture, or a website has credibility. Logos is the appeal to logic. This means that the readers can see how things are done and why they are the way they are. It also means that there has to be hard facts behind their argument, like statistics about the animal shelters and the animals in the animal shelters. Pathos is the appeal to the emotions. It has the readers question what the animals are feeling, and how the readers feel because of the way the animals are feeling or acting. The Humane Society of Tampa Bay stands up for animals and take in those who have been abandoned or abused. Their stake in the topic is how they believe in caring for animals. The Humane Society also wants to stop the overpopulation of animals so that there be as many animals in the shelters, when they could be in homes. The two pictures found on page five and six have ethos, logos, and pathos. Due to the pictures both having these three appeals, it gives the Tampa Bay Humane Society credibility, logistics, and emotional factors to it. Miranda2 In the first picture, ethos is shown because the animals and the little girl petting the dog are in the animal shelter. This shows the credibility of this picture because a little girl has come to visit, and possibly adopt, or volunteer at this animal shelter. This picture is ethical because it shows where the animals are living. They are not hiding anything and the dog looks happy being there, with that little girl. In the second picture, it shows a single cat in the cage by itself. This proves ethos, or credibility because it shows how ethical the Tampa Bay Humane Society is. The animals get their own cages and people who volunteer take care of them one by one. There is also a human hand reaching out for the paw, this also gives credibility by having human interaction, again it shows the how ethical the humane society is and the steps it takes to be in an animal shelter. Logos is the appeal to logic. It gives an explanation for why and how things happen in the humane society in the most relatable way possible. The little girl is interacting with the dog in its natural environment. That alone shows a logical appeal, because the girl realizes that this dog could have been through hardships, that is a fact, so seeing him and interacting with him kindly in his home is a logical way she showed how mindful she was to the dog and respected boundaries. The second picture shows the paw and the human hand reaching for one another. This appeals to logic because it does not show a picture of the human hand wrapped around the paw. That would make the cat uncomfortable and it would show how stressed the cat was. This was a very strategic picture on the animal part, because it shows the time they took to get a picture that shows a cat is taking its own time, and making sure it is comfortable before reaching its paw out to the human. Miranda3 Both pictures have pathos in them. This is the appeal to the readers, or the emotions. The little girl and the dog are smiling in the picture which makes the viewers want to smile, because when someone sees a happy child and a happy animal, it tends to make them happy as well. This picture was a great choice for the animals shelters to use because it shows how happy this one child is, which means the animals from the animal shelters could make the children just as happy as the little girl in the picture. The little girl has red and blue in her plaid, and the dog has a blue collar and a red leash on, which suggests excitement and tranquility. Red is an eye catching color, it demands attention, which correlates with excitement. Blue reminds people of water and the sky, which is peaceful, ergo tranquility. Both of these emotions can be felt at the same time because the dog can be excited that meeting a new person, but it is calm because in the comfort of his safe place. In the second picture, the cat looks calm and trusting. It is almost as if the cat is a newborn and it is learning to live with humans. The cat is neutral toned which gives off a cautious vibe, and the cautiousness shows through the body language. The cat reaching for the human hand gives off an emotional appeal because it is getting a second chance with humans and it is showing how it takes time and how humans need patience. Furthermore, the picture with the dog and the little girl being happy in the animal shelter, and the cat cautiously reaching for the human hand both have three rhetorical appeals in them, ethos, logos, and pathos. Ethos shows how credible the pictures are. This is done by having the pictures taken in an actual animal shelter with the animals in the pictures. Logos is the appeal to logic. Which means why things happen and how. The animals are in the animal shelters because someone put them there. Now the volunteers are trying to adopt them out to give them better Miranda4 lives, by making them comfortable with people, helping them learn how to trust humans, and the new places they may inhabit. Finally, pathos is the appeal to the emotions. Whenever people see an animal happy or sad they tend to feed off of those emotions. The animal shelters advertise themselves with happy animals so people who watch correlate happy animals with animal shelters. The two pictures below all have ethos, logos, and pathos; due to the pictures having these three appeals it gives animals shelters credibility, logistics, and emotional factors to them. Miranda5 Work Cited Steneroden, K. K., et al. Environmental Sampling for Salmonella Spp. In Colorado Animal  Zoonoses & Public Health, vol. 58, no. 6, Sept. 2011, p. 407 The article has pathos in it because it shows the emotional side of animal shelters. How when they came in they were abused or abandoned. Then they have the commercials about animal shelters that show their sad faces so they can get adopted out. You ask yourself why should I listen to this article and you realize why because you see there are personal accounts and references. Gillis, Charlie. Give Us Your Mangy  vol. 126, no. 14, 15 Apr. 2013, p. 14. This article is about ethical side of animal shelters. Which means it show how animal shelter are helping animals instead of hurting them. It also means that the pictures they are using makes their argument credible. Logic is used in articles to persuade their readers. Vasigh, Morgan1. Smile, You Are under Arrest: The Misappropriation and Misuse of Mug Shots  Information & Communications Technology Law, vol. 22, no. 3, Oct. 2013, pp. 277-298. Miranda6 Logos is in this article because it shows the statistics behind animal shelters. It also talks about the amount of volunteers that the animal shelter acquired, and what they do around the animal shelters. This article appeals to logic because it shows the behind the scenes of animal shelter by going through the volunteers. This is a great way to get information because the volunteers talk about what the animals they see and how things are run. Humane Society Gets Donation of Pet  The St. Petersburg Times (St. Petersburg, FL), 2009. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ed sgov&AN=edsgcl.202367675&site=eds-live. Miranda6 Miranda7 https://aos.iacpublishinglabs.com/question/5de3edf2ab1bfe1c0356bfdf3d5de283/aq/700px- 394px/good-animal-shelters-located-