Abdiel Compres Dr. Drugan ENC1102 February 23, 2017 The Anti-Nuclear Organization For years, nuclear energy has been the bane of environmental agencies such as GreenPeace and Anti-Nuclear.net. Not only have these organizations worked to combat nuclear energy industries, but they have fought to preserve the natural ecosystem around these nuclear reactor sites. The Anti-Nuclear organization is an Australian based online organization that works to not only stop the rise in nuclear energy lobbyist, but also fight against the use of taxpayer money to help fund the decommissioning and waste disposal of nuclear rector sites. They routinely use rhetorical appeals of pathos and kairos to appeal sense of duty to help protect the planet. They constantly release news stories regarding the latest nuclear reactor mishaps and try to expose nuclear reactor lobbyists as corrupt organizations whose sole goal is profit. It is with this mindset that the Anti-Nuclear organization has released multiple images condemning the expanse of nuclear energy. The following images released by the Anti-Nuclear Organization demonstrate some of the issues of utilizing nuclear energy either by portraying how nuclear energy affects the natural environment and its use directly influenced by corrupts politicians. !1 The first image depicted above depicts a barren landscape with red, green and pale wine glasses located toward the viewer with a sickly yellow backdrop. In the distance the viewer can see a black road leading to black factories spewing out black smoke while black clouds rain over the factories. The image is a representation of the Champagne province in France, a beautiful area dominated by rolling green hills and crystal blue which have been a staple of France for generations. Lately however, Champagne has been threatened by nearby nuclear waste dumping from the surrounding nuclear reactors. The waste from these nuclear reactors has seeped into some of the ground water, causing radioactive material to contaminate the surrounding area. The artist uses pathos with the goal of invoking an emotional response from the viewer. They do this by using colors such as yellow to create a sense of sickness and disease, as if to say the land itself is not well. The artist also uses black to symbolize death, as seen with the black nuclear reactor sites and clouds raining over head. This meaning goes hand in hand when one considers the black road leading to the factories symbolizing that the viewer is on the actual road to death, as it heads toward the nuclear reactor sites. One does not need to look far to see that the situations that are portrayed have happened before. Events such as Chernobyl, a nuclear meltdown, that through human error and faulty reactor design leaked dangerous radiation throughout the surrounding area in 1986. This radiation poisoned the surrounding landscape to becoming inhospitable to life and causing the deaths of 31 people . The black rain and clouds can also be seen as victims of the nuclear reactors themselves. Clouds are usually represented as pure and clean, but due to the the nuclear reactor waste seeping into the ground water, the water becomes hazardous causing the clouds to rain down hazardous materials. Another meaning that could be taken from the image is that the grapes that get their nutrients from the surrounding soil !2 are now being contaminated by the use of nearby nuclear reactors. The wine produced in Champagne France to becomes contaminated as a result of the radiation and could possibly hurt consumers. The artist then decides to depict a sense of impending doom on the viewer, the most literal depiction of this being the road, which as stated above represent the road of death. The artist is using kairos to try and tell the viewer that if we do not change our course of actions then we will face the full force of the consequences. The second image depicts a spider at the center of a web with a blue backdrop. Surrounding the spider are speech bubbles depicting common phrases used by nuclear lobbyists to excuse and promote nuclear energy. The author uses pathos to invoke a sense of unease or distrust in the viewer by depicting a spider. The blue backdrop is also used to create a false sense of trust and calm. With a more in depth look, one might even conclude that the spider representing nuclear industries, is trying to attract the viewer, the fly , into the web by using attractive ideas. The image represents a literal web of lies. The author then depicts the spiders legs as bent forward to demonstrate Kairos showing the immediate danger that the viewer is in !3 by portraying the spider as prone to attack. The truth however is that many of the lobbyists use these common excuses as a way to promote their agenda for the purpose of profit. A common example that is used is the argument that nuclear energy solves climate change. While many nuclear lobbyists show that nuclear energy accounts for twenty percent of the energy produced in the United States, the truth is that in order to incorporate a wide scale use of nuclear energy world wide, there would not be enough materials in terms of cement and steel to construct these nuclear reactors. As stated by Weyler Rex, a journalist for the Green Peace Organization world now operates about 434 nuclear reactors, not counting those in current meltdown or closed for repairs. To replace current hydrocarbon energy production with nuclear power at the current average capacity would require about 7,000 nuclear reactors. To replace half our hydrocarbon energy with nuclear (3,500 reactors) by 2030, we would have to build 175 new reactors per year, 3 new reactors per week for twenty Another point that is commonly brought up is that nuclear energy is clean compared to energy derived from fossil fuels. While this is true, it is only half true. The average life cycle of a nuclear reactor is only sixty years. Once the life cycle of the reactor has been used up, the surrounding area can not be utilized for environmental or commercial use. Another argument commonly used by nuclear lobbyists is that it is economical, and while this is somewhat true when comparing the cost of maintaining a nuclear reactor when compared to the cost of a coal mine. The truth is that nuclear reactors routinely go over budget when in construction. On top of the usually expensive construction of the reactor, the cost of maintaining the reactor site does not usually incorporate the cost of decommissioning the reactor itself. Lastly, nuclear energy, although self sustaining, creates waste that stays hazardous for decades. The problem comes from actually trying to store the radioactive material; which has the !4 possibility of leaking into the surrounding environment. While there are nuclear waste sites currently under development such as Yucca Mountain, there are not nearly enough facilities to contain the massive amounts of nuclear waste material, on average 2,000- 2,300 metric tons in spent nuclear fuel every year, in order to contain a mass production of nuclear energy. The money needed to build these new sites would be taken from local tax-payers. These tax-payers would then likely protest the burial of nuclear waste near their surrounding environment. The goal of the Anti-Nuclear Organization is to use images such as the two above to shed light on the realities of using nuclear energy as they strive to expose the corruption that has plagued the industry for years. Through the use of symbolism, these images such as these have the potential to impact how people feel about nuclear energy. While there are many organizations that argue that nuclear energy can be utilized to create weapons, the Anti-Nuclear Organization tries to focus more on the impracticality of using nuclear energy and its long term effects. !5 Work Cited Accident Www. World Nuclear Association.org.N.p, Nov.2016. Web. 23 Feb.. 2017 Macpherson, Christina. ANDRA nuclear waste dump leaked radioactivity into wine growing  WwwAntinuclear.net. N.p., 10 Feb. 2017. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Macpherson, Christina. Martin Ferguson endorses new Australian pro nuclear spin  Www.Antinuclear.net. N.p., 11 Aug. 2011. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Weyler, Rex. Www.Green peace.org.N.p, 7 July 2011. Web. 29 Jan.2017 On-Site Storage of Nuclear Waste Used Nuclear Fuel and High-Level Radioactive  Www.nei.org. Nuclear Energy Institute, n.d. Web. 2 Apr. 2017. !6