Spencer 1 Kevin Spencer Professor Drugan ENC 1102-070 19 April, 2017 Imagine walking down the street, and you spot a woman handing out voting forms. As she hands you a form, she explains that she is out there to get people to sign ahead of time, to vote yes on amendment 1, in case they make it in November. She also quickly explains that the amendment is about an right to use solar panels on their roof, and that when passed it will help keep these rights protected.  you think, what a pro-active person volunteering for a great cause, why everyone signed  And many people just sign and go on with their day. Unfortunately there is more to the amendment than this, and that women was hired to be there. There is actually a great potential injustice hidden in this amendment that, if passed would severely limit solar usage. Amendment 1 intends to put a stop to net metering, and this will make solar less affordable for the average Florida citizen, unless we work together to vote no on 1. It is important to understand who that woman was and why she was there. The unfortunate reality is, that woman was hired by an organization whose prime directive is to rally support for amendment 1, an organization called Consumers for Smart Solar. Consumers for Smart Solar is funded by a conglomerate of various utility electric companies, and of people with ties to the energy industry, such as the Koch brothers. Although Amendment 1 does have sections about individual rights to use panels, it also goes on to explain that net-metering will be capped and controlled by utility companies in the future. With less than a month away from the vote, it is easy to imagine how a few people hired for minimum wage to talk to people can actually seize up a bunch of signatures, while also spreading misconceptions about the Spencer 2 amendment. Millions of dollars have been put into funding support for this amendment through signatures, and advertisements. The Consumer for Smart Solar website features a video that highlights the manipulatively, simple way they are presenting the amendment. As a result of their efforts, Consumers for Smart Solar have effectively made it so that this bill appears harmless, and goes unnoticed by the general public. To understand what this bill is trying to accomplish, it is essential to understand how net- metering works. Oil, nuclear, and several other energy sources are centralized, which means one place produces the power and it is effectively divided from this point of origin. Solar is a decentralized form of energy (when used on individual rooftops) as it is produced in smaller scale, and one persons roof, can provide them the energy they need. However, as days and seasons vary with different amounts of sunlight, different amounts of energy are generated, and this would be an issue for consistent solar use, if grids designed to solve this problem. Solar uses a decentralized grid, and this grid is set up so that the extra energy a particular successful panel produces will be added to the grid, and will be channeled to another solar source that needs extra energy. In the same way, when one home does not produce all of the energy they need, the grid provides them the extra. We are able to track individual energy usage, and this is helpful, because solar users can always have extra energy if they need it, and they also will save money if they are producing more energy than they consume. By sharing a grid, stability is ensured, and costs become more efficient, because no extra energy is lost. Amendment 1 intends to end this practice of net-metering, which will effectively make solar energy much less affordable. Utility companies know this will result in less solar use in Florida but this would also serve to damage the reputation of solar energy and would paint it as an expensive form of energy. The lowered costs that some solar users are achieving with net-metering are some of the Spencer 3 primary drivers that keep solar costs competitive with other forms of energy used in the home. Without net-metering solar stand a chance of getting mainstream usage. Price was evidently an issue before when solar was a very rare thing because it was unaffordable for most households. Information has gotten out that even on the future ballot in November, all that will be written on the ballot about the amendment is that is protects rights to generate solar. Many people are gathering together to speak out against this. Many writers across the state are banding together again the amendment, some examples being Steve Newborn from WUSF, and Bill Delaney who manages a blog out of Jacksonville. The Tampa Tribune and other newspapers should also be credited for calling out what this bill is hiding. They unanimously agree that our solar rights are already protected, and that this bill must be stopped before true purpose is fulfilled. No one sums it up more clearly than Neville Williams, a solar entrepreneur. He remarks, The proposal also claims it will consumer but solar customers are already protected by state and local building regulations, electrical codes, installer licensing, certified solar practitioners and state-sanctioned utility  (Williams 1). The knowledge is out there, and it needs to be spread before it is too late. The amendment has already made it on the ballet, so it is imperative that everyone come out and vote no, as this is the last opportunity before it becomes law. There are many websites devoted to helping spread this message and serve as community hubs of support where real Floridians can talk to one another. One of these is the Vote No on 1 Facebook page, and another is the Vote No on 1 website flsolarchoice.org. be afraid to talk to your friends, family, and neighbors as well, and shy away from an intelligent conversation about the amendment. Florida Solar Choice features a pdf document you can print out that bullet points what you need to know about the amendment, Spencer 4 and how to learn more. If you ever feel tongue-tied refer to this information and if they have further questions refer them to the sources listed. We have been deceived, but it is not too late. We know now that this bill is not about solar rights, and is really about net-metering. Al Gore has called the bill a sham, and major newspapers have begun to call out the trickery that has taken place. Now more than ever, momentum against Amendment 1 is building, and with a community of effort, a major difference can be made for those living in Florida. Get out, spread the word, and above all remember to vote no on 1! Spencer 5 Works Cited: Klas, Mary. Florida Voters Say No to Misleading Solar  Miami Herald.com. Miami Herald, n.d. Web. be fooled by Solar Amendment; Vote  Http://www.sun- sentinel.com/opinion/editorials/fl-editorial-solar-scam-20161028-story.html. Sun Sentinel, n.d. Web. 12 Apr. 2017. Floridians For Solar  Http://www.flsolarchoice.org/who-opposes-amendment-1/. Flsolarchoice, n.d. Web. 12 Apr. 2017. Consumers for Smart Solar. Vote Yes on Amendment  Https://smartsolarfl.org/. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Apr. 2017.