Nielsen 1 Christian Brandon Nielsen William Drugan ENC 1102 25 February 2017 Greenpeace Rhetoric Classical Greece was the birthplace of many genius philosophers, ideas, and western values. Many of these philosophers theorized methods of argument known today as rhetoric which are persuasive ways to make arguments and support claims. These rhetorical arguments used several different strategies to get the attention of the reader. They are pathos, ethos, logos, and kairos, each of which appeal to an audience in a very specific way. Greenpeace is a modern organization, who like many others, uses these rhetorical strategies to speak to their audience. The omnipresent goal of Greenpeace is to fight climate change at every angle that the organization can manage. Visual rhetoric is one of the methods employed by Greenpeace, often using appeals to pathos and kairos due to the nature of climate change. When it comes to global warming timeliness is essential because once catastrophe strikes, it will likely be too late to take any action. Appeals to pathos are often made, because it is easy to point out the destruction and heartbreak that climate change causes to so many people and places. Greenpeace is able to effectively use rhetorical strategies to support their cause by appealing to the emotions of people and the importance of timeliness. Greenpeace is a non-governmental organization (NGO) founded in 1969, they refuse to take donations from governments, corporations, and political parties, and instead rely on the individual contributions of its several million members and supporters. With locations in over Nielsen 2 forty different countries around the world, and a general consultative status at the United Nations, they have proven to be a force in the movement to prevent climate change. Greenpeace has done a tremendous job of taking on large and powerful corporations or entities, but it has also faced controversy for questionable and sometimes illegal methods. Nevertheless heart is always in the right place and stays true to their mission statement: Greenpeace is an independent campaigning organization, which uses non-violent, creative confrontation to expose global environmental problems, and to force the solutions which are essential to a green and peaceful future. goal is to ensure the ability of the earth to nurture life in all its diversity. (Greenpeace) At the end of the day, the goal of Greenpeace is to protect the Earth and all its inhabitants, which include human beings. Arguably the biggest and most important fight Greenpeace faces is the fight against climate change. Climate change is one of the biggest threats mankind faces in the modern era, and Greenpeace has recognized this threat and championed the fight against it for decades. Greenpeace fights climate change in a variety of different ways, from educating the public to fighting international mega-corporations who contribute to global warming. One of their most popular techniques involves targeting individuals, large part by directly appealing to individual participants using what we might call grassroots (Luxon). In this way Greenpeace hopes to influence individuals to support them and do their part individually to help the environment. Greenpeace also works to uncover those who undermine the fight against global warming for profit undercover sting by Greenpeace has revealed that two prominent climate were available for hire by the hour to write reports casting doubt on the dangers posed by global (Goldenburg). Uncovering climate skeptics for profit Nielsen 3 is a critical step in proving to climate deniers that the threat of global warming is very real. In addition, Greenpeace puts out propaganda, political cartoons, and such to help reach a wider audience of people. Over time, Greenpeace has put out many pieces of propaganda that can very effectively get a message across . These images are visual arguments that can be broken down and rhetorically analyzed to better understand the use of rhetorical arguments. The first image is a fictional picture of Barack Obama in the year 2020 saying, sorry. We could have stopped catastrophic climate We In the image, Obama looks somber and has grey hair to illustrate that he has aged and time has passed. In addition, at the bottom of the picture it says 2009 act now-change the and This alliteration indicates that some sort of clock is counting down, or that time is running out. Rhetorically analyzing this picture reveals that it was meant to appeal to kairos or the importance of timeliness. Everything about the image appeals to time. statement implies that there was a time when something should have been done to stop catastrophic climate change, but those in power failed to take action at the right time. The ticking in the image is a representation of time running out to make a significant impact on the future of climate change and the words above it are a call to action for exactly that reason. This image screams to its audience that timing is everything and that climate change can no longer be ignored. This endorses position that the time for action against global warming is now, and that the world can no longer sit idly by until catastrophe strikes. It also acknowledges that the ability and technology to end the threat of catastrophe exists because something could have been done in the days of the Obama administration, which have now come to pass. Nielsen 4 One of the common strategies of Greenpeace is to try to pull at heartstrings. In the second image we see many tree trunks with the faces of many crying people and animals. In the bottom right corner of the image across several tree trunks it says a tree falls it takes other lives with This is a clear appeal to pathos, or the emotion of the audience. Each tree trunk represents a fallen tree, and in each trunk there is a person or animal who represent the lives taken with each tree. Most paper-based and wood-based products require that trees be cut down to create them, many of these products are used in everyday life without a second thought. This appeal to pathos is meant to target individuals and make them feel personally responsible for when they are wasteful with wood-based products, because those products cost lives. The intention of this image is to bring attention to deforestation, and also to get people to be more aware of the impact that they have and to be conscious of their wastefulness. Greenpeace often employs the use of grassroots movements, and this is an attempt at that. The intention is to get individuals to be less wasteful and to recognize the cost of products that are used on a day-to-day basis. Two stated goals of the Greenpeace organization are to protect biodiversity in all its forms and additionally to prevent pollution and abuse of the ocean, land, air and fresh water (Greenpeace). By using visual rhetoric and rhetorical strategy, Greenpeace is able to advance these goals in several ways. They are able to play on the emotions of their audience to change their behavior and act in a more environmentally friendly way, and to push their supporters to action by appealing to their sense of timeliness and the importance of acting at the correct time. Through the use of their visual rhetoric Greenpeace is able to effectively campaign against climate change. Nielsen 5 Works Cited Greenpeace  Greenpeace, n.d. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. Goldenberg, Suzanne. Greenpeace Exposes Sceptics Hired to Cast Doubt on Climate  The Guardian. Guardian News and Media, 08 Dec. 2015. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Luxon, Emily Matthews. Global  Taylor and Francis Online. Informa UK Limited, 14 Feb. 2017. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Nielsen 6 Image 1 Image 2