Diess 1 Carly Diess Prof. Drugan English Comp II 2 April 2017 Project Two Final Draft Animal Testing in Cosmetics and Household Products In the United States alone, about seventy million animals are injured or killed each year by testing the safety of products. Animal testing in cosmetics and household products is and has been one of the most underappreciated issues worldwide. Huge manufacturers are driven by a fear of lawsuits, but continue to poison, burn, and blind animals by performing these tests. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, also known as PETA, believe testing on animals is inhumane and cruel, not only because it is extremely harmful, but it is also expensive. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals are doing everything they can to try to get people to stop buying products tested on animals. The two ads chosen, depict beliefs on animal testing. The first image clearly shows ethos because it illustrates how unethical it is to kill animals for benefit. The second picture shows more pathos since the goal of the ad is to make the audience feel bad for the animals and stop using the product. With the help of the rhetorical appeals, pathos and ethos, these two visual arguments appropriately display the concerns of PETA, which is to ban animal testing worldwide. Every year, millions of animals die or get severely injured because humans test products on them that most likely are not safe. The first visual argument depicts an innocent bunny getting held up by a human with a needle pointed at its arm. This part of the ad is supposed to show how scientists stick needles in mouths, eyes, and bodies, and when it is injured Diess 2 and not useful anymore, they are killed. chemicals often burn the skin, leading to tissue damage. Rabbits are also given no pain relief during this excruciatingly painful (PETA). At the top of the visual argument, is spelled out in huge, capitalized letters. This picture singles out the company since they actively test all their products on animals. Cleverly, the word is added on to the name to show viewers the reality and what actually happens to the animals just so they can create make up. Scientists who work for buy rabbits and other animals in mass amounts, then they apply the makeup, shampoo, soap, or hair spray, which can harm, blind, or kill the animals. Next, they check to see if any of them get skin irritancy or eye tissue damage. If the animals do have those problems, they send the product back to the company and they try to make it differently while the animal is injured or dead. Aside from the rabbit looking frightened in the ad, there are smaller letters that say, testing cosmetics on to show viewers that doing this just for benefit is inhumane. This specific visual representation clearly depicts the rhetorical appeal, pathos. is an appeal to emotion, and is a way of convincing an audience of an argument by creating an emotional (Your Dictionary). The eyes scream fear as the needle is about to pierce its skin, causing it to be injured, or even die. Whoever views this ad cannot help but feel horribly sorry for any animal injured in this process. The goal of this visual argument is to make humans stop buying products from out of symphony for the animals. Since pathos is an appeal to emotion, I believe this rhetorical appeal best represents this visual representation. PETA supports this ad because they are completely against and warn people all over their website that this company is unethical since they test every product on animals. Diess 3 Although many believe animals are severely tested on to keep humans safe, nervous systems are different from humans and can have different reactions. Generally, when products are tested on animals, humans with skin diseases end up getting rashes or inflammatory skin diseases (Dreno, 2014). Since humans are also getting injured from these tests and there are alternatives that are more accurate, why even test on animals? The next picture shows two completely different reasons not to test cosmetics on animals. It says, long eyelashes this is how 300,000 lab animals suffer each It illustrates a woman who appeared to put on mascara and the left eye is perfectly done up, but the right eye shows irritation and blood dripping down from it. The obvious goal of this ad is to show people that her left eye is what happens to animals, while the right eye shows what humans experience. Many people do not even know about animal testing; therefore, they only see the outcome on their faces without even thinking about how that product was made and what was killed in the process of making it. The second goal of this ad, which is a lot less obvious, is that it is very common for humans to get rashes or irritation on their faces if the product is tested on animals. There is a high chance of these tests being inaccurate, because humans and animals are completely different species. If the tests can potentially injure humans, then why even bother killing innocent animals. There are many alternatives companies can use so they have to injure or kill innocent animals. Contrary to popular belief, there are alternatives that are more accurate than animal testing. companies have been using computational tools to evaluate toxicity for years and these methods look at the structure of the chemical compound, run it up against a database of chemicals, and search for substances with similar chemical (Mone, 2014). This alternate does not hurt animals or humans and is a lot more accurate, therefore many organizations believe it should be implemented worldwide. PETA, along with non-animal Diess 4 testing organizations, apply the three rule. This rule is, replace the use of animals in scientific procedures with non-animal alternatives, reduce the number of animals used in any animal-testing procedure, and refine procedures so that animals experience less pain, suffering, or discomfort. Many companies that test on animals are driven with lawsuits because humans get irritations and rashes from their products because they are inaccurate. For example, many people, including my own sister, got a rash around her lips from using a product from the company Eos. Eos told FoxNews.com that their lip balms are hypoallergenic, dermatologist tested, made with the highest quality ingredients, and meet or exceed all safety and quality standards set by our industry (Fox News). Eos did not even mention that their product is animal tested and even with all the lawsuits, they made it clear that they are not changing the way they make their lip balm. People of the Ethical Treatment of Animals strongly believe that there are other ways to research and test household products without hurting animals and humans, so why do it? This visual argument clearly represents the rhetorical appeal, ethos. is an appeal to ethics, and it is a means of convincing someone of the character or credibility of the (Your Dictionary). This illustration portrays how unethical it is to harm animals for the sake of humans to look good. It shows that 300,000 lab animals suffer, or even die, each year just so humans can put make up on. It makes viewers wake up and realize that buying from these companies is completely inhumane and there are companies that do not hurt animals that make even better make up. This goal is to make people question their ethics if they buy from these companies. Ethos is a huge part of this ad because it shows that there are other alternatives and other make up people can buy. The visual argument makes the audience feel bad and forces them to think ethically. Diess 5 Testing on animals is dangerous to not only them, but also to us, and there are many alternatives to this issue. PETA tries to get people to start looking at the labels on products that show that it is not tested on animals because it is becoming a huge issue in this world. They believe that if they can prove how bad this issue actually is, they can get a lot of people to stop buying products tested on animals, which will force most of the companies to go out of business or force them to find an alternative. Animal testing in cosmetics and household products is both inhumane and revolting since it can harm or even kill them. Two visual representations relate to the stakeholder PETA, because they both honestly show people what happens when they give companies who test on animals their money. One ad shows pathos because it makes people want to feel bad for the rabbit that is about to get injured. The other picture shows ethos because it makes the viewers realize how unethical it is to use these products. Over the years, manufacturers have created many different alternatives that do not involve injuring or killing anything. If scientists are okay with taking an innocent animals life, they deserve the right to make products and sell them for a profit. Diess 6 Diess 7 Works Cited Dreno, B., E. Araviiskaia, E. Berardesca, T. Bieber, Jeremiah Hawk, and M. Sanchez-Viera. The Science of Dermocosmetics and Its Role in  Journal of the European Academy of Dermatology and Venereology : JEADV. U.S. National Library of Medicine, n.d. Web. 28 Feb. 2017. Eos Settles Lawsuit over Rashes,  Fox News. FOX News Network, n.d. Web. 28 Feb. 2017. Mone, Gregory. New Models in Cosmetics Replacing Animal  ACM. N.p., 01 Apr. 2014. Web. 28 Feb. 2017. Rabbits in  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Feb. 2017. Examples of Ethos, Logos, and  YourDictionary, n.d. Web. 28 February 2017