Nielsen 1 Christian Brandon Nielsen William Drugan ENC 1102 10 April 2017 Time for a Global Reality Check on Global Warming One of the principle threats that mankind faces today is climate change. For decades climatologists and researchers have been trying to warn the public about the impending threat of global warming but until recent years many just wrote off global warming as a non-issue. Today it is widely accepted that climate change is not only real, but also a danger. Greenhouse gases have polluted our atmosphere, not only degrading the quality of air but also trapping heat causing the Earth to warm. The warming is problematic for a variety of reasons. This warming threatens to cause super hurricanes, drought, food shortages and perhaps worst of all, sea level rise. worse is that global warming threatens all people not just those on coastlines or already drought prone regions. All lives will be touched either physically, economically, or culturally by global warming. This is what makes it essential that this threat is no longer sidelined to other more trivial problems. The time for letting politicians strong-arm this issue into obscurity is over, it is time for concerned citizens to stand up for their safety and security because those trusted to protect them have failed. The evidence supporting that global warming is an ongoing phenomena is undeniable, to declare that the Earth is not warming would be akin to telling the global scientific community and climatology experts that they are wrong. The idea of climate change due to human activities was first theorized at the turn of the 20th century by Swedish scientist Svante Arrhenius. This Nielsen 2 theory was developed shortly after the advent of the industrial revolution, in which humans began pumping excess CO2 into the atmosphere. It is a known fact that CO2 is a greenhouse gas and that greenhouse gases trap heat. It is indisputable at this point in time that CO2 is warming the atmosphere so therefore climate change is occurring (Fischer). These days there is the IPCC or intergovernmental panel on climate change which is widely considered to be the most comprehensive and reliable source for climate science considering it is comprised of a multinational assembly of scientists and researchers from a variety of backgrounds. In order to kill any doubts one might have, in the fifth IPCC report the summary stated I Fourth Assessment concluded that most of the observed increase in the globally averaged temperature since the mid-20th century is very likely due to the observed increase in anthropogenic greenhouse gas (IPCC 2016) so it is with a high degree of accuracy that one could state that humans are the cause of global warming. Allegedly some scientists would even go so far as to suggest that they are as certain that climate change is caused by humans as they are that cigarette smoke causes lung cancer (Plumer 1). After answering the question of global is happening, which it is, the next question one might ask is what will be left in its wake, what will it cause to happen. Rising sea levels are among the most frightening and damaging of the effects we can expect to see from global warming in the next 100 years (Miller). Approximately 23% of the population or over 1 billion people are in areas that will be impacted by coastal changes and rising sea levels (Church 1). This would be a crisis the likes of which our species has never seen. To put this into perspective one might look to the Syrian refugee crisis. million Syrians have fled to other countries as (World Vision) many consider the Syrian refugee crisis Nielsen 3 to be quite severe, but what is 5 million refugees compared to hundreds of millions. Those who live far from the coast might imagine they are safe, but they are wrong. No one would be safe from the economic collapse that would follow, no one could stop the relentless tide of many millions of refugees desperately looking for a new home. Such an event would shape the economic, cultural, and geopolitical future which affects us all. In addition to this harrowing eventuality global warming will manifest itself in other ways and rear its ugly head for all to see. There will also be drought to contend with, warming is expected to increase the frequency and intensity of droughts in the twenty-first (Cook 1). Areas like California which already experience drought should only expect more frequent and severe droughts. This is due to the fact California and most states surrounding the Rocky mountains are fed by glaciers which are melting. Any area that is supplied with water from glaciers can expect to face water supply shortages in their lifetime. For those who live in areas that experience hurricanes, it can be expected that hurricanes will become more frequent and powerful due to warmer oceans and seas, which give storms their power. These hurricanes are sure to disrupt live in urban areas like New York, Tampa, and Los Angeles. During the summer season stronger more prolonged heatwaves are to be expected, which will mostly cause school closings and general discomfort but easily has the potential to kill. Every year already many of the elderly and young children die from heat waves and with global warming they will only continue to be ever more deadly. On top of all of this poor air quality is also expected to impact human health. Poor air quality can make asthma more severe and will likely cause more asthma among young children especially in urban areas. Nielsen 4 At this point the feeling to do something about this approaching crisis might be overwhelming. It is common for those who want to something about climate change to experience a feeling of helplessness in the face of a world seemingly unwilling to cooperate or listen. The truth is, you have more power than you think. All it takes to have a significant impact is to be more conscious of wastefulness, trying to conserve, and teaching others to do the same. One of the best things someone can do to start making an impact is to consume less. A large portion of waste and greenhouse gases comes from manufacturing, if everyone tried harder to consume less and not be quick to throw old but good items away, it would reduce manufacturing. Homeowners can also look to replace some of their appliances with ENERGY STAR labeled appliances. their lifetimes, products in your home that have earned the ENERGY STAR label can reduce greenhouse gas emissions by about 130,000 pounds and save you $11,000 on energy (EPA) not to love about saving the Earth and some money? Drivers and commuters can reduce their impact by replacing their vehicle with an electric model or by driving smart AKA going easy on the gas and brake or keep low while driving (EPA). Using water efficiently is essential for a variety of reasons, first because of the amount of energy required to purify, heat, and pump water and also because water is becoming a scarcer resource which we all need to live. So take shorter colder showers, leave the sink running, and use water unless you need to (EPA). For those that have the ability and desire to go above and beyond, installing renewable energy on your home can help to reduce your carbon footprint. It is usually expensive initially but the government will often subsidize homeowners who wish to instal renewable energy sources on their homes and in the long run you will save more than you spent. For those wishing to influence policy, call your local and state representatives. Let the Nielsen 5 voice of the people be heard and tell your representatives what you want, legally they hang up and have to listen to voiced concerns. The time for inaction against climate change has come and passed. For decades climatologists have been warning politicians and the public but their cries were ignored due to skepticism and greed. That skepticism can now be eliminated and replaced with a certainty of what we know to be happening. The next step is to do something about it. It is now in the hands of every individual powerful or not to take a stand and fight for a future worth living in. Actions both small and large are required to make a difference. Lead by example reduce, reuse, recycle and spread the word. Small actions like using 1 less tissue have a rippling impact and over time add up dramatically. Even if things seem dark it is essential to remember that this fight is for us and our children and the children that come after them. Nielsen 6 Works Cited Summary for Policy  IPCC - Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. IPCC, n.d. Web. 13 Nov. 2016. Syria Refugee Crisis: Facts You Need to  World Vision. World Vision, Inc., 18 Apr. 2017. Web. 22 Apr. 2017. What You Can Do: At  EPA. Environmental Protection Agency, 29 Sept. 2016. Web. 22 Apr. 2017. Church, John A., et al. Understanding Global Sea Levels: Past, Present And  Sustainability Science 1 (2008): 9. Academic OneFile. Web. 4 Oct. 2016. Cook, Benjamin I., Jason E. Smerdon, Richard Seager, and Sloan Coats. Global Warming and 21st Century  SpringerLink. Springer Berlin Heidelberg, 06 Mar. 2014. Web. 22 Apr. 2017. Fischer, Douglas, and The Daily Climate. Why Carbon Dioxide Is a Greenhouse SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN, A DIVISION OF NATURE AMERICA, INC., 16 Aug. 2011. Web. 22 Apr. 2017. Miller, Laury, and Bruce C. Douglas. 2004. Mass and volume contributions to twentieth-century global sea level rise. Nature 428 (6981): Plumer, Brad. The science of global warming has changed a lot in 25 years. The basic conclusions N.p.: The washington post, 2013. Web. 16 Oct. 2016.