Betti 1 Alexandra Betti ENC1102 Professor Drugan 25 February 2017 Different Worlds, Same Problem We second guess ourselves on different subject matters every day; we ask ourselves I have said that have been executed will I come back from But what we second guess ourselves on is when we help others, when we do community service, or when we donate money to people in need. Freedom from Hunger works on stopping hunger in twenty-four different countries, including South Africa and India which the images below focus on. Their aim is to work from the bottom up, by helping those in poverty and in need, build a hunger-free life. Rather than just giving them the money they need for food, they walk them through the steps it takes to grow crops efficiently and make a profit off of them. What the three images provided below are asking the audience to feel is realization that they too can help people and children fight hunger. The three images featured below pertain to the organizations goal of fighting hunger/poverty by using youth, diversity, and symbolism to show the logos, pathos, and Kairos. These elements work to make the audience realize how simple things in our life can seem like luxuries to others. In the first image featured below are children in the sub-Saharans of Africa gathered around waiting to be given a handful of food to eat. The pathos in this case would be the children, they are made to pull more emotion out of people because youth often symbolizes Betti 2 helplessness. The kids cannot help that they are poor and have not been given the opportunities in life that adults have. This tactic makes people, especially those with kids themselves, want to donate, help, and become actively involved in helping these children find the opportunities in life that their own children have. The image itself is displaying a small preview of the logistics in this image. It shows just a little portion of the 75,000 children that are suffering from hunger in the sub-Saharans of Africa Boko 2016). It is logos that usually startles people into helping organizations like Freedom from Hunger because it tells the story behind the image, the reality of it all. Though the image itself grabs attention, it is the facts that are hidden within the picture that push people to give aid and support. Eight thousand miles away in Kolkata, India there is a festival that occurs every spring called the Annakut Festival. This festival is meant for people who wish to have enough food to last them for the rest of the year, the people in this photo are not just reaching for grains of rice being thrown down upon them. They are reaching in hopes that their God Krishna will bless them with food and water for one more year to come in 2015). That logos in itself connects us with people seemingly half a world away by showing how all societies celebrate and have festivals. Not only is this ritual intriguing, but it teaches us of the Betti 3 hunger that Indians suffer from yearly. If you focus on the expressions of the people reaching from below you can see the pathos, their faces show hope and elation during the festival, they are excited to be receiving rice. It is a symbol of prolific ability to procure food and nutrients for the Indian people. Found in both pictures is the same Kairos affect; with any hunger and/or poverty situation the to act is generally used. More importantly is the connection between the logos and Kairos and how it helps to create an urgency. The facts shown in the image alert people that acting quickly will help save the hungry they see before them on a poster, on the news, or in a magazine. Additionally, the collections of color and patterns in both of these images show how people are coming together from different families and different parts of where they live. The following picture is a representation of the logos which are the drought and hunger that Madagascar is experiencing. Food is compromised by the dry weather and locusts that are deteriorating the land causing four million people to go hungry everyday. The barren ground shown in this image tells the viewer just how bad the circumstances are for the Malagasy people, without them even having to know the facts and statistics that these people are suffering from. The small amount of grass sprouting up can be seen as a symbol of the small 8% of people that live on no more than $2 a day, because the rest of the population survives on just that. These unfortunate facts are what push people to act now, the Kairos in the image is the desolated land and small amount of hope that comes from the blossoming grass. Because it shows that despite all of the hapless circumstances, that there is still hope if people help now and take action in donating and saving Betti 4 Madagascar and its people. The little to no color in this image elicits emotion from people because where there should be fertile land and wholesome people there is starvation, malnutrition, poverty, and death. When readers and viewers see images like this, knowing that that is not land people can live off of, it should make them feel mournful. The chalky tan color of the ground symbolizes starvation and a lack of food and wealth, yet the green of the grass in the photo symbolizes renewal and thus shows that there is still a small amount of hope for food and rain one day. But not without help from the reader/viewer who should feel motivated to engage in helping restore the Malagasy lives. People uniting with one another from different families and different parts of where they live, to work together and help others like the Malagasy and Nigerian people is what Freedom for Hunger advocates for. Helping a collection of people fight hunger no matter where they are in the world. The ethos, logos, pathos, and Kairos found in the above three images are what elicit response from readers using vibrant symbolism and examples of daily struggles. These push readers to join organizations like Freedom for Hunger ensuring that poverty, starvation, and desolation will one day be eliminated. Betti 5 Works Cited Boko Haram: 75,000 children dying of Topic BBC News, 15 Nov. 2016, http://www.bbc.com/news/world-africa-37991798. Accessed 25 February 2017. Maulik, Sudipta. in 25 Jan. 2015. National Geographic, http://www.nationalgeographic.com/photography/photo-of-the-day/2015/1/annakut- kolkata-india-food/. Accessed 25 February 2017. from https://www.freedomfromhunger.org/. Accessed 25 February 2017. 18 May 2015 Photo WFP/Graeme Williams. UN World Food  UN World Food Programme. N.p., 18 May 2015. Web. 28 Mar. 2017. Reuters. Madagascar drought: catastrophe looms as 850,000 go hungry, says  The Guardian. Guardian News and Media, 20 Oct. 2016. Web. 02 Apr. 2017.