Chen 1 Annie Chen William Sayers Drugan ENC 1102 Section 072 1 March 2017 Project 2 Final Draft Life Verses Hobby The relationships between animals and humans are quite complicated. Animals and people could be partner who brings happiness among each other. Based on the website Pet Partners, human and animal can influences the health and wellbeing of When people adopt animal(s) as their house pet such as dogs and cats, a method that human tries to assist those dependent animal species by providing them with habitats. Over time, this type of relationship develops the concepts of, trust, love, and care, and yet, the pet becomes part of the family member which reduces the loneness that many individual human goes through sometime in life. However, most of the time things always as pleasing as imagined on the positive side. Human-animal could also be predator-prey, respectively, who seeks to gain valuable benefits from one and the other. Such that, people hunt elephant for their tusk, and after their tusks have been taken away the elephant die, but suffer in severed pain. Logically, when private territory has been invaded, anyone will fight to defend and protect their land, including the animals. Unfortunately, when animal species encounters the invaders of human beings, they will most likely end up suffocating and losing their habitat. Yet, the People for the Ethical Treatment Animals (PETA) organization designed comic images to show examples of how cruelly animal suffers due to human hobby and avariciously gain benefits through the Chen 2 sacrifices of animal through the uses of pathos, logos, and ethos. educating children not to become a character of the scary scene. PETA teaches parents and children lessons about caring for animals by establishing pathos in their advertising images. Pathos is a rhetorical appeal that relates to emotion. The first image is a cartoon graphic that shows a man in the role of a father, physically destroying the fishes that he hooked from fishing. The captions on the image states, DADDY KILLS and YOUR DADDY WHY HOOKED ON These words convey fear toward the children, acknowledging that their father is pursuing in a hobby that involves the wounding and killing of animals. Children are innocent and once notified that going fishing will hurt the fish, then that will trigger their naive mind in the matter of protecting fishes from getting injured is by not go fishing. The use of colors is another form of emotional signal. The image consists of many darker colors that successfully indicate the negative effect of people injuring animals for their benefit. The background of the image is covered with the colors of black and lilac purple, which suggests the darkness and evil spirit of animal slaughtering. The skin color of the father is shaded in with the combination of light brown and yellow, which shows the emotion of craziness or someone who is out of their mind doing something insane. Also, when the father digs out the organs of the fish, emphasize the direct grossness and All the uneasy feelings formed by this image will distance the children themselves from growing up into an adult that has vicious personality like the character in the image. Chen 3 Pathos in the second image similarity demonstrates the theme of educating children the unacceptable concepts of bodily tearing up of animal for commercial purposes. The second image, illustrates the female human beings style of abusing animals as a type of necessities for living. The image shows a mother in the center of the page, stabbing a bunny with a sharp, bloody knife. The facial expressions in this image symbolize the predator-prey relationship between the bunny and the woman. The mother is smiling evilly and wickedly, greatly displays her excitement to rip off the skin and make a stylish new fashion product out of it, such as clothing and other accessories. The mother lifts the bunny by its ear with one hand and a knife in the other hand, with red blood splashing everywhere. The plot and setting constructed by this image is terrifying and it is harsh for young children to visualize that such a scary scene does happened around the world. But on the positive side, having the kids comprehend the situation that harming animal is bad, is a process to assure that animals will be well taken care by the next generation. The scene reaches out to parents and children about how heartless and sick they are when they perform such a treatment toward the little helpless animals. Furthermore, viewing this picture emotionally isolates and distracts the relationship between parents and children. Children usually enjoy seeing neither people nor animals getting hurt; therefore, identifying the fear and discomfort on the face generated by their mother who wears animal fur clothing, emotionally distanced the relationship between heartwarming children and uncaring parents. Logos is the rhetorical appeal relating to logic. In the second image, logos is presented precisely and in a straight Chen 4 forward manner. It has a caption that states, MANY ANIMALS SHE KILLED TO MAKE HER FUR COAT? THE SOONER SHE STOPS WEARING FUR, THE SOONER ANIMALS WILL BE These words are direct in what PETA is trying to reach out into the world. Animal have rights, freedoms, and opportunities to live for their purpose of life. Animal mistreatment begin with the cause of applying basic human needs, such as making clothing by peeling off animal skin and constructing jewelry from body parts. For instance, based on the website, EleAid, human hunters seek for tusks to make products such as balls, piano keys, identification chops, and many other items for human Yet, how many people even consider about the value of the elephant tusks for the elephants themselves and the amount of pain it caused toward the elephant when people hunt them down. Elephant use their tusks as a weapon to protect themselves from predators and part of their tusks are deep in the In contrast, people who understand the afflicted situation these animals are in and the limited rights of animals probably will not take actions in these activities. PETA demonstrates the use of logos through a form of educating children on not becoming one of the adults who trade life for their happiness. Also, parents usually do not like their children to think of them as a negative influence because they want to be their role model and life time teacher that represents positivity and motivation in the growing up process. As of result, parents will try to stopping themselves from buying animal fur products and reduce the number of time going fishing. In both images, PETA is the developer of the comic details, so the credibility and truthfulness of the information, also known as ethos, can be higher quality trusted by audience. logo is printed on each of the two images. PETA is quite a popular global animal rights preserving organization. In contrast, people who understand the afflicted situation these animals Chen 5 are in and the limited rights of animals probably will not take actions in these activities. The use of dictions such as, and specifies the targeted audience of these images is targeted toward younger age children; therefore, communication should be more specific and simple to understand. Also, the younger the audience, the easier it would be to persuade the innocent mind of audience. Most importantly, both images present theme of are not ours to eat wear, experiment on, use for entertainment, or abuse in any other In conclusion, PETA produced two images that illustrates the issue of animal mistreatment due to selfishness through the uses of pathos, logos, and ethos. Educating children to learn that having a kind heart toward animals is a good habit and providing a lesson for the parents that engaging the suffer of animals as part of their enjoyment is not acceptable. Animal saving is never too late and if the sacrifice continues, then eventually more animal species will become endangered. Chen 6 Works cited People for The Ethical Treatment of Animals. PETA, 2009, http://www.peta.org. Assessed 28 January 2017. EleAid. Elephant Tusks, 2002, http://www.eleaid.com/elephant-information/elephant-tusks/ . Assessed 5 March 2017. Pet Partners. Benefits of the Human-Animal Bond, 1977, https://petpartners.org/learn/benefits- human-animal-bond/. Assessed 20 March 2017.