Kranjcec 1 Sydney Kranjcec Mr. Drugan ENC 1102 19 April 2017 Intermediate Draft NFL Concussion Crisis Pro Football, undeniably the most watched sport within the United States, bringing in an average an annual salary of nine billion dollars a year making it the most lucrative league within the world. But Pro NFL players are among the highest percentage of athletes to endure concussions within their career. Concluding that, trauma affects one in three players in the National Football (The New York Times). With increased awareness regarding this type of injury, the NFL Concussion Crisis has been implemented, which aims to give back to the retired players who have been permanently affected by this injury as well as put forth organizations which will inform the athletes of today how to play safe and learn about the possible injuries one may acquire. The NFL has also donated thirty million to The Foundation for the National Institutes of Health in order to conduct research on the medical conditions prominent in athletes. As well the NFL has The NFL Player Care Foundation which works to give back to the players who have given so much to the game over the years, this foundation helps to integrate these athletes back into normal life and address any health concerns. By increasing the awareness through the NFL Concussion Crisis, the Player Care Foundation as well as the Foundation for the National Institutes of Health has helped to acknowledge and improve the game for the better well-being of its players. Kranjcec 2 With concussions only being defined as a blow or jolt to the head or body causing the brain to shake and hit the skull, what most do not know about this injury is that it is one of the leading causes of permanent brain damages, conditions, or diseases. The department of Veterans Affairs brain bank revealed that out of seventy-nine players, seventy-six of those deceased players had a degenerative brain disease. The most common diseases that these players suffer from is CTE, and dementia. One of the most talked about cases that really sparked the research regarding concussions within the NFL is that of the autopsy of Mike Webster. Webster was a former NFL player of the Pittsburgh Steelers that played Center linebacker, arguably the most important position on the field, he died unexpectedly at the age of fifty after playing seventeen years of Pro Football. It is estimated that Mike Webster sustained more than 70 thousand blows to head during his entire career, and these hits were equivalent to being hit on the head with a sledge hammer. Which ultimately caused a buildup of which caused a change in the individual he was known to be and most even came to say that he was unrecognizable to himself. Shortly after Mike autopsy was done another Steeler passed away by the name of Terry Long, he was a Middle Linebacker so he played alongside Mike Webster so the hits he endured were arguably just as bad. His career was only eight years and he took his life by consuming antifreeze. The same doctor that did Mike Webster autopsy Dr. Omalu did autopsy as well, and his autopsy revealed the same markings within the brain as Mike Webster. It was concluded that these injuries were acquired playing football and they led these athletes as well as many more after them to take their own lives or have their lives cut short due to the fact that they did not receive the medical attention that they desperately needed. Kranjcec 3 Now being educated on what a concussion is and what the long term effects of a concussion are we as the public need to become aware of what precautionary steps need to be taken in order to insure the least possible damage to our future athletes. Young future football players need to become educated on how to play safe within the game in order to prevent permanent long term neurological damage. Through the NFL they offer the National Football League Foundation, and their mission, to support the health, safety and wellness of athletes, youth football and the communities which support our Through this foundation the NFL aims to teach young athletes proper football fundamentals, how to be active and to have fun, and most importantly how to play safe. These children have young, fragile, growing brains so it is essential that we educate these young athletes how to play safe. Not only do the athletes themselves need to be educated but parents as well need to be aware of the symptoms of concussions which are headaches, inability to concentrate, pupil dilation, nausea and many more. So if one experiences these symptoms it is imperative that we keep that athlete away from the game until they are fully cleared to play, because when an athlete is put back into the game too soon when the athlete is at risk for permanent damage. Being educated is knowing what to look for and when to look for it, and if we know what to look for there will be a decline in the amount of concussions within our athlete population. We as the public need to become fully aware of what is needed from the NFL in order to create a change that will create an environment that is safer for our athletes. We can donate to Foundations such as the National Football League Foundation in order to ensure our future players are getting the education necessary to play the game. Donate to the NFL Player Care Foundation to give back to the retired Pro football player that have given so much of themselves Kranjcec 4 to the game. Finally, we can give funds to The Foundation of the National Institutes of Health in order to continue research on our athletes, to try and find a solution. In order for the problem to be solved there needs to be an action in order to make it known. Through past and present scientific research of concussions within NFL it has been proven that this injury can and will have lasting effects on the brain if not treated the right way. With being educated on this topic the future players of this sport will be able to understand the possible injuries as well as the treatment that they will need if they do acquire this type of injury. Football is a large part society, and it has left us with many influential human beings. One of those human beings is Mike Webster. Mike autopsy is known as the that Forever Changed because of the fact that his symptoms as well as brain trauma led us to look into the effects that football truly has on the brain. With that being said the game is going to forever change but for the better. Kranjcec 5 Works Cited Harris, Jay Barry. Only Just Begun: Determining Who Pays After The Approval Of The NFL Concussion  Defense Counsel Journal 83.2 (2016): 156-164. Business Source Premier. Web. 27 Jan. 2017 Pomerantz, Gary M. Their Work: The Brotherhood of the Pittsburgh Steelers. , 2014. Print. Hudson, Rob1, rhudson@ussa.edu, and Brandon1 Spradley. Concussions: A Sport Ethics  Sport Journal (2016): 1-7. Education Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 29 Jan. 2017. NFL Concussion Settlement Clears Final Court  All Things Considered, 2016. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ed sglr&A N=edsgcl.475378686&site=eds-live