Spencer 1 Kevin Spencer Professor Drugan ENC 1102-070 February 26, 2017 Final Draft Project 2 Media Generated by Companies to Sway the Florida Voter In the election last November, the Florida Solar Amendment 1 was shot down. However, it was close to passing, and this was mostly due to one particular stakeholder, Consumers for Smart Solar. Consumers for Smart Solar(CFSS) is an organization that is a conglomerate of large Florida companies that are all with the organization and pay to be a part of its goals and impacts. Together their funding is 95% of the funding that went into promoting the amendment throughout the legislative process. They have the biggest stake in this amendment and it passing would be something that would be beneficial to them, likely in forms of a financial gain. From the way their website is designed, there is a theme that can be found of misleading the audience, the Florida consumer by not mentioning aspects of the amendment. In many formats, they speak about irrelevant details found in the amendment while hiding the substance found in the fine print. This substance is in fact a provision that would make sure the ability to use net metering would be taken away from the consumer. Net metering is the right a solar user currently has, to sell back the extra energy they create to the energy grid for cheaper bills. It seems exceedingly likely that they are in fact motivated, not by the idea of providing easy and safe solar, but by the financial benefit that would come to their companies to the loss of the consumer. Examine their media in detail, and one video in particular is full of images that show the almost propaganda- like approach Consumers for Smart Solar takes when it presents their video. Dissecting two separate images gives quick insight into how Consumers for Smart Solar are Spencer 2 using rhetorical appeals in there media. The rhetorical appeals that the images make will be addressed, in order to see the deceptive nature of content, and their real intent. The first image makes strong rhetorical appeals to logos, or to the sense of logic as well as to ethos, where effort is made to convince the audience the information is valid and trustworthy. This image features tanks at the bottom that are labeled  and Special  They are firing up at what is labeled as the Florida Constitution but that fire is being blocked by a protective barrier, the acclaimed Amendment 1. This is suggesting that the amendment is the logical solution and it will metaphorically be the protective barrier that will keep the consumer safe from politicians, and special interest groups. They claim in the quote that Amendment 1 Guarantees Your Right to Generate Your Own Solar (CFSS Home ). However many believe that already have a guaranteed right. Journalist Tim McDonnell explains, For one thing, Floridians already have that right, even though not explicitly mentioned in the Constitution (McDonnell). One of the appeals to ethos is in the choice to have an emblem and a quote both appearing to be taken directly from the Florida Constitution. They feature a quote that explains). This quote appears next to these official looking emblems in order to send a message that this information is legitimate and they are a credible and knowledgeable source. A quick viewer might see this image and assume that this is an official governmental video, that must be true beyond all doubt. Appeals to kairos and pathos are also present in this first image, but in a smaller and more subtle way. Kairos, is often described as an appeal to  They indeed planned the release of this video to be before the election, with much of their funding directing this video towards the Florida voters that would make the decision in the end. With the use of Your  in the wording of the text, put next to the Florida constitution, they are appealing to Spencer 3 emotions by framing the issue in first person and making it about the audience. They give the audience their idea in this way because people get concerned over their own individual rights and freedoms. The second image from CFSS video has a very powerful appeal to pathos, as well a strong appeal to logos that is quite different than the appeal made in the previous picture. Pathos is the overall appeal that is in every aspect of this image, but in a subtle way. The appeal to logos is much more obviously stated and apparent, and Pathos is more the underlining that helps gives people an emotional feeling in order to deepen the impact of the message. Text at the center of the image reads, If you go Solar, You Lose Solar  The message of this text is part of the logic they are implying, that supporting this amendment is going  and this amendment will be a safe choice, as consumer solar protections will still be in play. In reality, they are not referring to any particular solar protection laws, and are simply guaranteeing consumers the rights they already have as Americans under the constitution. While technically consumers will keep these rights, local solar companies would actually be subject to new fees with the amendment, and this is the information Consumers for Smart Solar is purposefully choosing not to cover. Although they are not lying to the audience, they are intentionally leading them down a narrative that does not have much to do with the actual substance of Amendment 1. Pathos is at play with the design of the factories pictured is a colorful and simplistic art style. The colors are soft, bright, and happy and even the text seems to have a comforting shade of blue color and gentle looking font. The colorful factories pictured are a gas power plant, a nuclear reactor, a solar panel, and a couple others along the same theme. This makes an emotional appeal because unconsciously people associate these soft colors with positivity, peace, and harmony. Spencer 4 The reason all types of power generation are pictured is to form the logical conclusion that they can co-exist independent of each other with no negative results. Consumers for Smart Solar uses its media, although not technically to lie to the audience, but instead to lead them down a different path that paints an incomplete narrative about Amendment 1. By focusing on people fears and worries about their solar rights, they are able to avoid even mentioning net metering. They want people to focus elsewhere until it is too late, and the bill is passed. If the bill went through people would soon start to see the hidden impacts start to come to fruition, and a slow uphill battle would have to take place to change the laws back. If this Amendment had passed, solar would have also become a less desirable resource, as the net metering can no longer help to make solar affordable for a Floridian with panels. The analysis of these images helps us to see Consumers for Smart Solar for who they really are, instead of just how they portray themselves. Spencer 5 Image 1: Image 2: Spencer 6 Works Cited: Timmcdonnell. Are Big Power Companies Pulling a Fast One on Florida  Mother Jones. N.p., n.d. Web. 21 Feb. 2017.  Vote Yes On Amendment 1 Consumers For Smart Solar. N.p., n.d. Web. 21 Feb. 2017.