Bojanic 1 Ella Bojanic Professor Drugan ENC 1102 February 26 2017 GMO: Friend or Foe? From big biotech industries to local farmers, both organizations and individuals alike have been part of a long and controversial debate regarding the use of GMOs. Genetically modified organisms are in many of US grocery store products including corn, soy, and potatoes. While they prevail in our products, skepticism remains over their effects towards human health and the environment. Physicians for Social Responsibility, or PSR, is one of the many nonprofit organizations currently engaged in the ongoing debate of GMOs. Like numerous other health and environmental organizations, PSR worries about the health effects of GMOs, and demands for GMO products to be labeled. Their mission to a healthy, just, and peaceful world for both present and future reveals itself in their attempts to provide the public with research regarding the possible hazardous implications of GMOs. By providing a multitude of peer reviewed studies revealing negative effects on GMOs, PSR persuades consumers to fight for GMO labeling. Reflecting the same interests as PSR, two anti-GMO ads utilize emotional and ethical appeals to promote mistrust in the GMO product while revealing their corruption, in order to have consumers fight against genetically modified food products. Similar to PSR, the first ad heavily focuses on the health aspect of GMOs. In bold letters, the ad reads you know what you are capturing the focus of the ad to the middle of the page. Resting under the question is a brownish green toad morphed into an apple, exposing the unnaturalness of genetically modified organisms. This emotional appeal directly questions Bojanic 2 the individual consumer on their awareness towards GMO ingredients. While pairing the question with the toad picture, the ad raises both disgust and cynicism towards the product, suggesting its fabricated composition. On top of the unusual pairing of both toad and apple, the ad indicates that the GMO product is unhealthy, and evidently abnormal. This aspect of the ad coincides with claim that is no consensus that GMO foods are safe for human health or the when portraying the fruit as a toxic and harmful mix of DNA. In addition, the apple also reveals the misinterpretation in the GMO product. What may seem to be an apple, could really be a combination of DNA that is not suitable from human consumption. Under the image, the advertisement demands that we label genetically modified foods. In a communal tone, solution reads label genetically modified suggesting the importance of both consumer and company considerations to the option (GMO Awareness). Labeling GMOs is also firmly supported by the Physicians for Social Responsibility, and favored by numerous countries around the world. Currently, 64 countries including Russia, Japan, and all European Union nations require the labeling of GMOs so consumers can make informed decisions about the products they buy (Right to Know Center). While the US has not yet adopted this requirement, the ad hastily pushes for this measure, pairing the combination of question, revelation, and solution in an emotional way to persuade the reader. First it targets the consumers by asking if they know what is in their products, then it unfolds what their product may actually consist of in the apple image, and finally, the ad offers a method to combat the issue. When the audience visualizes this sequence they are prone to feel curious, then disgusted, or shocked by the revelation. Compelled by the imagery, consumers may be more willing to participate in the fight to label GMOs. When directly addressing the consumer, the ad seems personal, creating Bojanic 3 an effective approach in persuasion. In comparison, PSR utilizes research to shock readers and persuade them to demand labeling in GMO products, much like the imagery does in the ad. The advertisement also presents ethos when displaying organizations that support its mission. Resting on the bottom right corner, the Non-GMO Project logo asserts its endorsement to the ideals of the advertisement. The Non-GMO Project is a nonprofit organization comprised of industry experts, directors, and staff that work to provide the public with facts and awareness about GMO products. Because of its efforts in both research and initiative, this logo provides more credibility and authority to the ad. Also exposing the corruption of GMOs, the second ad holds much similarity to the first ad. However, while the first ad attacks health concerns, the second ad specifically attacks the agricultural business that heavily utilizes GMOs and GMO seeds. With a bold quote in the middle that reads, root of all evil begins with a seed from the ad is direct and highly opposed to this global company. Monsanto is a large agricultural business that creates new species of GMO seeds that they sell to many farmers across the globe. While they do work towards more sustainable crop harvesting, their patent on GMO seeds has been criticized by scientists and environmental organizations alike. PSR is only one of the many organizations that actively speak out against Monsanto and their practices. Physicians for Social Responsibility explain that the corporate takeover of our food system, eating a meal has never been so (PSR). Highlighting the offenses to rights environmental and public PSR would agree with the firm disapproval of patent on seeds and monopoly influence in the market (PSR). This proclamation on evilness is highlighted in green bold letters, with the word Monsanto contrasting in orange, capturing the eyes to the middle of the image. Behind it lies a tainted crop Bojanic 4 with green and brown leaves, possibly symbolizing the contamination Monsanto creates within their crops and the environment. Above this in small orange letters a statement from Monsanto reads, biotechnology will find a supporter occupying the White House next year, regardless of which candidate wins the election in (FDA). Displaying own words in the ad, the quote evokes a theme of political corruption and lobbying. The pairing of these two quotes may more strongly confirm that intentions revolve around corporatism and power, rather than sustainability and consumer concern. When consumers read these quotes, they may become skeptical just like they would in the first ad. By drawing attention to political words, viewers can gain a sense of mistrust in the company responsible for creating many new GMO seeds and crops. Pairing the quotes with a picture of a contaminated plant subliminally reveals to viewers both the fraudulence, and the fraudulence within their GMO products. To top it all off, the ad is sealed with the FDA, or the US Food and Drug Administration, logo in the bottom right hand corner. Since the FDA is responsible for supervision of food safety, their support for this ad offers more credibility and authority to its claims and opinions. Much like PSR, this advertisement tries to persuade readers to oppose large corporations who control GMO crops and food products. Because both ads utilize emotional and ethical appeals to expose corruption to consumers, they share many similarities to PSR, who utilizes logistical research in order to persuade consumers to oppose GMOs. By weaponizing fear, both ads tap into the uncertainty consumers may have towards GMO products, ultimately persuading them to be against GMO products. Perhaps the greatest tool for the ads, is the lack of long term research on GMO effects, which they can utilize to their advantage. Because there is scarce research, consumers may have doubts, which both ads utilize in order to amplify consumer fear against the product and big Bojanic 5 companies that create them. The famous proverb you know, hurt evidently does not apply here, as both advertisements do an excellent job in opposing that phrase. A more accurate statement to summarize the persuasive techniques could be, you know could possibly kill While this is a dark tactic, it shines through both ads, granting them their ultimate goal: to raise doubt in order to promote opposition. Bojanic 6 Works Cited Center for Food Safety and Nutrition. from Genetically Engineered US Food and Drug Administration Home Page. Center for Food Safety And Applied Nutrition, n.d. Web. 01 March 2017. FDA. N.p., n.d. Web 01 March 2017. GMO Awareness. N.p., n.d Web 01 March 2017 Around the Just Label It. Right to Know Center, 2017. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. Physicians for Social Responsibility. N.p., 2016. Web. 01. Mar. 2017