Smith 1 Bryan Smith Mr. Drugan ENC1102.070 18 April 2017 Project 3 Int. The Impact of Automation on the Future Job Market As time moves forward, the rate at which technology progresses grows exponentially. This can especially be seen in automobiles. One hundred years ago the first cars were being rolled out for public use, and today, self-driving cars are on the horizon. However self-driving cars, and autonomous machines in general, present an issue when looking at the future job market. Artificial intelligence has advanced to the point where it could conceivably replace human intelligence in various fields of work. This presents an issue because if a considerable amount of jobs go away, there could be disastrous consequences. A study done by economists and experts on artificial intelligence at Oxford predicts that within the next two decades, up to 47 percent of the workforce is at high risk of being replaced by robots or artificial intelligence(Frey and Osbourne 254). That figure is 22 percentage points higher than the unemployment rate during the great depression, 25 percent. The future in which many jobs just exist anymore due to automation is pretty much inevitable. The logical solution for the long-term would be to enact socialist policies that would aid those who are unemployed due to automation. Concerns about the automation of jobs new. Every time a new tool or piece of machinery, that can do jobs faster and better than humans can, this worry arises. For an example, one could look at the robotic arms that work on assembly lines building cars. A job once done by Smith 2 humans is now almost exclusively work for robots. At first, people were worried that they would be pushed out of their careers, and their livelihood would be at risk. However, this the case for most. Humans have the ability to learn and think for themselves, things that the robots on the assembly line do. Rather than being pushed out of work, they were pushed up to work that requires more skill and is more interesting. A trend that has formed over the course of human history is one that shows that innovation has always gotten rid of jobs that people want to do. With low-skill jobs being done by machinery, people have been able to specialize and find more fulfilling work. However, this is something that might change in the future. So if machines in the past resulted in widespread unemployment, why is it such a major concern today? The main reason for this is the rapid advancement of artificial intelligence or AI. The earlier innovations such as farming equipment and robotic assembly line worker serve one purpose and one purpose only. Artificial intelligence is different in that it is designed to be able to think, learn, and make decisions on its own. This can be seen with Watson. Watson is an AI that is most widely known for its appearance on the game show although it has many uses across fields such as voice recognition, sentiment analysis, business analytics, and These are tasks that just be pre -programmed into a machine. For an AI to do this, it needs to be able to make decisions similar to how a human would make them Not only that, but to justify its use, it would need to be able to do so more efficiently than a human could. A factor that can be seen in the proliferation of self-driving cars in recent years. Although, autonomous vehicles are still quite a while away from reaching their full potential, what can be seen in the tests taking place is nothing short of promising. Self driving cars as they exist now have shown that they are capable of making all of Smith 3 the decision a human driver can. Together, fleet of self driving cars have driven 2 million miles on public roads over the last 2.5 years and have been involved in 23 traffic accidents (Vehicles). This rate is expected to get even better as the technology improves, and according to the Chairman of the National Transportation Safety Board, driverless cars have the potential to save the majority of 32,000 who die in traffic accidents every year (Seyton). So artificial intelligence has shown that it is capable of performing the same tasks that humans can. But what are the most at risk in the near future? When looking at industries that are at high risk of being automated the mind is immediately drawn to transportation and customer service. This is because these are industries where the end consumer can see the early implementation of this technology. If and when the aforementioned autonomous vehicles are widely adopted, those who work transporting goods and people may find themselves without jobs. As for the service industry, many hotels, restaurants, and retail stores in major cities have begun replacing bellhops, servers, and cashiers with machines that essentially do the same job. However, there are plenty of other industries that quite as visible, that are still at risk. For example, in the finance sector artificial intelligence has already gotten to work trading stocks and calculating financial risk for things like loans and insurance. In the legal profession, a law firm could purchase software that sorts through thousands of texts, e-mails, and phone records for relevant information in a matter of hours. Something that if left to humans would be done slower, less accurately, and for more money. Even in journalism there is software that has the ability to write articles that sound like they were written by a human (Jenkin). And as said before, technology progresses at an exponential rate. Nobody really knows what artificial intelligence could be capable of within the Smith 4 next 10 years. Hearing this may leave one feeling hopeless. With artificial workers able to perform increasingly complex tasks, what chance do they stand in the workforce? However, there is a potential solution. Before America can begin to address the problem that automation presents, an honest discussion must be had about it. Many politicians seem content to blame China or Mexico than address the actual root of the problem. The jobs go overseas, they just exist anymore. In the short-term, the best thing that an individual could do would be to call their elected officials and encourage them to make automation a talking point when they are up for re-election. Once this is agreed upon, practical solutions for the long-term can be considered, and debated. The solution that is probably the most viable, would be for the government to enact socialist policies that protect those who have either lost their jobs and/or find gainful employment due to automation. These policies could be funded by placing taxes on goods and services that involve the use of autonomous workers. Not only would this provide a safety net for those displaced, it would also incentivize corporations to use human labor. In conclusion, the rapid advancement of AI presents a major issue for the future job market. Many jobs that were once considered viable careers, could quite possibly just disappear. However, if America prepares for this by introducing policy to help the people who are displaced then the effects of automation can successfully be mitigated. Smith 5 Works Cited: Frey, Carl Benedikt, and Michael A. Osborne. The Future of Employment: How Susceptible Are Jobs to  Forecasting and Social 114 (2017): 254-80. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. Jenkin, Matthew. Written out of the Story: The Robots Capable of Making the  Guardian News and Media, 22 July 2016. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. Knight, Will. Watson Is Everywhere Lately-but What Is  Technology MIT Technology Review, 27 Oct. 2016. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. Seyton, Joe. NTSB Chairman: Driverless Cars Could Save 32,000 Lives a  N.p., 01 July 2016. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. Vehicles, California Department of Motor. of Traffic Accident Involving an Autonomous Vehicle (OL N.p., n.d. Web. 17 Apr. 2017.