Bora 1 Marcel Bora Professor Drugan ENC 1102.085 30 March 2017 Project 2 Final Draft No Cage is Big Enough The majority of humans care for other animals; it be helped. why advertisements, such as the animal cruelty videos that show around Christmas, tug at heartstrings and help bring awareness to the subject. NOAH, an organization for the care and freedom of all animals, is attempting to bring this care for other animals to focus on zoos. By using advertisements in areas that people can easily see them or have to see them, the organization makes use of human emotions to bring the cruelty of animals being kept in zoos to light. In the following two ads, the organization uses both logos and pathos as the method of appeal. NOAH is a German animal rights organization that fights for the fair treatment of all animals. The not-for-profit group claims to be or People for Animals and have many campaigns to try to end unjust treatment of animals. These range from ending the fur trade to stopping the clubbing of seals. They also have many programs to help abused and mistreated animals and donate to animal shelters. In fact, the website has a section that one can use to adopt animals from shelters. The organization also frequently takes ads out in magazines and television to attempt to bring issues to the attention of the public. The first advertisement is a photo of an elephant scrunched up into a poster frame that it too small to fit it. Written across the poster are the words Cage Is Big NOAH is a Bora 2 German animal rights organization that commissioned the creation of this advertisement. The advertisement is meant to show that animals, such as the elephant in the photo, are not meant to be in cages, and that no cage is as big as their natural environment. It is also meant to give the feeling of being cramped or squished into a small area. The unnatural twists in the photos are also slightly unsettling, as one could imagine an actual animal being squished and crushed into shapes like this. The main appeal that this advertisement contains is pathos. This can be seen because the ad creates an emotional reaction to this photo of a squished elephant. Most people have compassion towards animals and wish them harm, so this image speaks to those people strongly. This advertisement also contains some logos, as it is not logical to keep a large elephant in a small cage or container, considering it is the largest terrestrial animal. Research shows that elephants in the wild walk thirty to sixty kilometers a day in the wild so the ad shows that zoos are woefully inadequate (Elephants in Canada). It is plain to see that this advertisement mostly relies on pathos to get its message about elephants in cages across. The second advertisement is an image of a pelt although the strips are in the shape of barbed wire. The text in the image says Life In Prison Goes Against This image likens animals living in a zoo to living in a prison because both are behind bars and wires to keep them caged. It relies mostly on pathos because it causes the person seeing it to have empathy towards the trapped animal or to feel sorrow that an animal is being caged for no reason other than existing. The barbed wire for stripes is also to make the person feel as if the animal is in pain or that the barbed wire may also be rubbing against the skin. It is easy to look this advertisement over as just tiger fur but if one pays enough attention, they can see that not all is as it seems. This can be said for zoos in real life because if one glances at a zoo it seems fine and Bora 3 the animals seem healthy but if enough research is done or the zoo is looked into enough, it may be seen that the zoo is only doing the minimum to keep animals alive. It is common for rights organizations to use emotion as a main method of bringing a message across and NOAH is no exception. Both of the advertisements rely heavily on pathos and attempt to make the person viewing the ads feel sadness or anger at the state that the animals are being kept in. The minimalist feel of the advertisements also give the organization a professional feeling which may also make the viewer trust the group more. The use of logos is not uncommon for rights organizations either, as the first advertisement uses a little of this logical approach to get viewers to rationally think about how elephants and other animals should not belong in cages too small for them. One would have to be heartless not to feel the plight of these animals from these adertisements. Bora 4 Bora 5 Works Cited Frequently Asked  Elephants in Canada. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Mar. 2017. <http://www.elephantsincanada.com/frequently-asked-questions> Gurp, Marc Van. No cage is big  Osocio. N.p., 24 Jan. 2015. Web. 18 Feb. 2017. <http://osocio.org/message/no-cage-is-big-enough/>. NOAH Menschen Tiere E.V.  NOAH Menschen Tiere E.V. Projekte. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Mar. 2017. <http://www.noah.de/wp/mitgliedschaft>. Zoos: An Idea Whose Time Has Come and  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 17 Feb. 2017. <http://www.peta.org/issues/animals-in-entertainment/zoos/>.