Cabal 1 Manuel Cabal February 16, 2017 ENC 1102-072 Project 2 Intermediate Draft How the U.S. Military Gets You During the past century, war has been a prominent part of our history. Soldiers are a major necessity of war, as they can protect our county and its citizens. The United States of America has always used different types of advertisements and various methods to recruit for the U.S. military in order to ensure the safety of our nation and citizens. During wars such as World War I, World War II, and the Vietnam War, there would be flyers and many other advertisements about enlisting for the military. Advertisements addressing civilians also played an important part during time of war. They aimed to get support through either buying war bonds or working in factories to make weapons and ammunition for the men overseas. The United States military needs intelligent and strong citizens to work in order to make sure that employees are well equipped for the tasks at hand, such as investigating terrorist acts, protecting the United States from people who want to do harm, and making sure that terrorists attacks are stopped before they can occur. Each of photos from the United States military that will be discussed contain similar rhetorical appeals. The first picture uses red, white, and blue to show patriotism. The photo also makes the audience feel desired or special when they look at the ad as it points at them saying they are wanted for the Army. In the second photo, the image also makes the viewer feel that they need to help and without their Cabal 1 help, the soldiers have supplies for the war. The United States military makes sure that pictures like these go through rigorous testing to ensure that they get individuals to support the war or enlist to serve their country. 1 st image The first image is a classic ad when it comes to the United States of America recruiting for the Army. This image uses the United States colors (red, white, blue) to show patriotism and thus attracts American citizens to serve their country. When someone looks at the image, the message is in large bold letters that therefore stand out and emphasize the importance to the viewer of this ad. Furthermore, the word is the only word that is completely red, which makes it pop out in comparison to the other words in the picture. This makes the person looking at this picture feel as if directed at them. Uncle Sam is also pointing in this picture to the direction of the viewer, which further makes them feel as though they are needed. The appeal of the oversized text and the finger pointing is part of Cabal 1 pathos as it tries to appeal to emotion. This occurs because humans like to see big things as it draws their attention. Emotion is also triggered as the image makes them feel wanted by pointing at them and making the stand out in red. Having the recruiting in the image tells people where to go to enlist for the United States Army. The audience that this picture appeals to is every American over the age of eighteen that is able to fight to protect our country. When the image uses our colors, it also appeals to pathos as it relates to our country and aims to find brave soldiers willing to put their life on the line to protect our country and its citizens. 2 nd image The second image is from World War 1 and portrays our troops in trenches firing at the enemy. This image deals with the same criteria as the first image, but instead of encouraging Cabal 1 enlisting in order to help our country during a time of war, the image encourages viewer to support our troops by buying war bonds to help pay for the war costs. This image shows the war bonds being used as ammunition. This appeals to ethos because it is logical if a citizen buys a war bonds as it helps supply the military with weapons and ammunition. War bonds are extremely crucial to help win a war, bonds are a mean for governments to borrow money in times of (International Encyclopedia of the First World War). The font in this image draws attention to the text and thus makes the message stand in order to get the point across. The appeal of big text is part of pathos because as stated previously, large text appeals emotion since people are drawn to large things as it catches their attention more easily. This image also has every phase in a different color while the front size gets smaller as it goes down the image. This is because the importance of each phrase goes from most important to the least as the viewer reads down the image. The United States Treasury Department wants citizens to feel the urge to help the soldiers by getting the war bonds so they have the funds to continue fighting the war to keep our country safe. This appeals to kairos, because it make the American citizens want to pull out their wallets and buy war bonds to help our men overseas. The bottom of this ad appeals to ethos when it says by the United States treasury as the source gives the ad more credibility and therefore make it a reliable source. The demand for soldiers and the support of the American people to help fund the cause have always been important in times of war. In order for the United States of America to attract soldiers and get average citizens to help support a war, the government and its departments must create advertisements to draw the attention of its people. These two advertisements by the United States Government appeal to two different types of people. The Cabal 1 first image appeals to individuals who want to serve the U.S. by becoming a soldier and fighting on the front line to protect our country. The second image appeals to the average citizen that chooses not go to war, but still wants to support the cause and our troops by spending money on war bonds. During war, the United States government must create new ways in to get people to either join the war or support it in order to make sure our country is safe. Cabal 1 Work Cited - War Bonds International Encyclopedia Of The First World War . Encyclopedia.1914-1918-online.net. N. p., 2017. Web. 1 Mar. 2017. - U.S. War . U-s-history.com. N. p., 2017. Web. 1 Mar. 2017. Uncle Sam Poster - Propaganda: Influencing War . Sites.google.com. N. p., 2017. Web. 1 Mar. 2017. - The Posters That Sold World War I To The American . Smithsonian. N. p., 2014. Web. 1 Mar. 2017. - Army To Spend $300 Million On Bonuses And Ads To Get 6,000 More . USA TODAY. N. p., 2017. Web. 1 Mar. 2017.