Peck 1 Meghan Peck Professor Drugan ENC 1102 070 19 April 2017 Project 3 Intermediate Dakota Access Pipeline It is official. Despite the protests, marches, and mass discontent, the Dakota Access Pipeline will be operational next month, May 14, 2017. However, the fight for justice is far from over. It is important now more than ever to step up and advocate for the people of Standing Rock and for the sustainability of our Earth that we share as a species. The Dakota Access Pipeline is a multi-tiered issue that goes above the project itself and requires the cooperation of environmental organizations, activists, as well as Standing Rock Sioux tribe members to combat the project. There are many reasons as to why this pipeline is so problematic, ranging from human rights violations to environmental racism and justice. This paper will educate, engage, and empower the reader to take a stand against the pipeline that threatens all of us, humans and animals, as a collective entity occupying this Earth. The Dakota Access Pipeline is 1,172 miles long travelling from North Dakota to Illinois, and is capable of carrying over 400,000 barrels of crude oil per day. The and highly (Standing Rock Sioux) oil will travel within a half mile of the Standing Rock reservation, travelling under lake Oahe, which connects to the Missouri River. Lake Oahe is a major source of water for the Standing Rock Sioux, located in North and South Dakota. Sacred sites have also been disrupted in the construction Peck 2 process. In December of 2016, the Obama administration halted the construction of the pipeline in response to the mass opposition. However, the Trump administration signed executive orders to push the pipeline forward in January 2017. Tribal leaders and environmental organizations, such as Earthjustice, who represent the Sioux, continue to fight for their right to land and water. The American Anthropological Association (AAA), in a statement, claimed that the pipeline, the cultural and collective environmental human rights of the tribe to life, land, cultural preservation, health, clean water, and a clean (Nicola Jones, SAPIENS). All Americans should care about this issue and here is why: the pipeline poses a major threat not only to Standing Rock, but also to our environment, citizenry, and is a example of environmental racism. Environmental racism is a form of institutionalized racism that occurs when a minority or ethnic group is burdened with a disproportionate share of environmental hazards compared to more privileged groups (Ramon Jacobs-Shaw). With environmental hazards come adverse health outcomes. As mentioned earlier, this pipeline was routed within a half mile of the Standing Rock reservation to avoid the areas of Bismarck (Standing Rock Sioux). In an event of an oil spill, water and land will be devastated, disrupting hunting and fishing, which the Sioux tribe relies on for sustainment. The cleanup process would be expensive and tedious, requiring all contaminated soil to be removed and put into a landfill. This happened recently to a pipeline owned by Magellan Midstream Partners on January 25, 2017. The 12-inch in diameter pipeline ruptured and resulted in the spill of 138,600 gallons of diesel into farm fields and covered an area between an acre and an acre and a half (Sierra Club). Despite efforts to remove the contaminated soil, the soil in that area Peck 3 will be less fertile. In that respect, fears of the Dakota Access Pipeline, which is 30- inches in diameter and under extreme pressure, are very well founded. All of these concerns point towards the Dakota Access Pipeline as a matter of environmental justice. Our environment suffers from our continued dependency on oil. We have seen the effects of global warming on our planet and minimizing our impact should be our top priority. Possible water contamination from the Dakota Access Pipeline would affect Americans on a national scale. current route of the DAPL will cross over the Ogallala Aquifer (one of the largest aquifers in the world) and under the Missouri River twice (the longest river in the United States). The possible contamination of these water sources makes the Dakota Access pipeline a national (Standing Rock Sioux). What can we do as environmentally conscious Americans to help the Standing Rock Sioux? For starters, the Standing Rock Sioux official website and Greenpeace includes a link that allows you to donate funds to help with their cause. However, since the pipeline is currently in its final stages of completion, we may not be able to halt the pipeline at this point. Now, we should focus our attention to our government and legislation to implement policies that protect the environment. Our current government wants to deregulate and defund the Environmental Protection Agency, who is responsible for protecting human and environmental health. fear is that rolling back on clean water regulation will affect not just the water sources of tribes such as the Standing Rock Sioux but water sources throughout the country, with low-income communities near major water sources being at most (Ramon Jacobs-Shaw, Health Affairs). Peck 4 Budget cuts will result in deregulation of important environmental health measures. As Jacobs-Shaw pointed out, low-income communities will be most affected, and we will see more incidences of environmental racism. Reaching out to Congress is a great way to voice your concerns and be active in the policy change process. The National Resources Defense Council provides an easy way to send a personalized letter to Congress regarding EPA budget cuts. This letter urges Congress to oppose Trump in his actions to the budget and and to move forward with the Dakota Access for examples (NRDC). In our current political climate, it is important now more than ever to get involved and make a difference. The Dakota Access Pipeline poses a threat to all of us and embodies everything unjust. Clean water, a clean environment, and public health should be our top priority as a nation. Despite DAPL supporters claim that oil pipelines are a safe way of transporting oil, we have seen that that is not the case. For example, the Magellan pipeline that I have discussed earlier, and the Deepwater Horizon oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico in 2010. Pipelines are capable of disrupting land and marine ecosystems with lasting effects. The Standing Rock Sioux tribe would be burdened disproportionately in the event of an oil spill due to the proximity of their border. The Dakota Access is in its final stages, and the flow of oil will begin next month. Reach out to your local state representative, call Congress, or donate directly to the Standing Rock Sioux in order to help. Time is running out, and it is up to us whether or not to make a difference. Peck 5 Works Cited Jones, Nicola. Dakota Access Pipeline Protests Spark Historic SAPIENS, 15 Sept. 2016. Web. 19 Apr. 2017. <http://www.sapiens.org/culture/native-american-activism-standing-rock/>. Access Sacred Stone Camp Sacred Stone Camp, n.d. Web. 19 Apr. 2017. <http://sacredstonecamp.org/dakota-access- pipeline/>. the Bakken Iowa Chapter. Sierra Club, 17 Mar. 2017. Web. 19 Apr. 2017. <http://www.sierraclub.org/iowa/stop-bakken-pipeline>. Jacobs-Shaw, Ramon. Standing Rock Teaches Us About Environmental Racism and Health Equity. Health Affairs Blog, 17 Apr. 2017. Web. 19 Apr. 2017. <http://healthaffairs.org/blog/2017/04/17/what-standing-rock-teaches-us-about- environmental-racism-and-justice/>. Brady, Heather. Key Impacts of the Keystone XL and Dakota Access National Geographic. National Geographic Society, 14 Apr. 2017. Web. 19 Apr. 2017. <http://news.nationalgeographic.com/2017/01/impact-keystone-dakota-access- pipeline-environment-global-warming-oil-health/>. Congress: Stand Up To Anti-Environment Natural Resource Defense Council (NRDC). Natural Resource Defense Council, n.d. Web. 19 Apr. 2017. <https://secure.nrdconline.org/site/Advocacy?cmd=display&page=UserAction&id=4 9363>. Peck 6