Student 1 Student Professor Lewis ENC 1102 30 April 2017 Everyone Can Make an Impact A life full of happy days and positive smiles is a life almost everyone hopes to have. Unfortunately, a serious mental illness is preventing some people from achieving this life. Depression is defined as illness that involves the body, mood, and thoughts and that affects the way a person eats, sleeps, feels about himself or herself, and thinks about This mental illness must not be mistaken for the simple mood of for depression is more complex than a simple emotion. Depression can affect not only the person who is diagnosed with it, but also family members of the victim. Depression is not a genetic illness, so it could form at any given time to an individual. Imagine not being able to feel happiness no matter how hard one tries. The most common treatment for this mental illness, unfortunately, is antidepressants. life should not depend on the daily dosage of pills. Although it may appear as simple as a mood, depression is a serious illness that needs effective treatment that everyone can easily contribute to. Depression is not a newly developed mental illness. It has been around for thousands of years and was first recognized in 400B.C. Evidence is present in artwork, letters, diaries, and biographies from people all over the world. One example discussed by McKay and McKay is severe melancholy or Samuel diary entries agonizing over his despondent Also back in 400 B.C., during the ancient Roman and Greek times, melancholia was the term used for depression. A vase is available that Euripides is on appearing Student 2 upset, history states that during those times he was depressed, McKay and McKay also explain his symptoms such as lack of appetite and motivation. This evidence suggests that people have been dealing with this illness for over a long period of time and it is time to make a difference and preventing it from recurring. The general population must be informed of what depression is and how it affects people. This mental illness does not just simply damage perspective but as well as internal organs which then corrupts normal bodily functions. Systems that are affected include the cardiovascular system, the digestive system, the immune system, and the central nervous system (Pietrangelo,2). most recent studies exploring health and major depression have looked at patients with stroke or coronary artery (WebMd). Depression is nearly always misinterpreted as a mood, but it is much greater than that and a possibility of fatality if untreated or ineffectively treated. Heart disease is one of the highest ranked causes of death in America, and depression could worsen a chance of developing heart disease. and anxiety disorders may affect heart rhythms, increase blood pressure, and alter blood clotting This illness increases levels of stress thus causing the blood pressure to rise as well as increased glucose which then shunts blood off from the digestive system to the brain. can affect the appetite. Some people cope by overeating or binging. This can lead to weight and obesity-related illnesses like type 2 diabetes Nobody is immune to depression; vaccines are not available for this mind corrupting illness. To decrease this fatality rate, everyone needs to do what they can to get involved. To just be willing to have an open ear could immensely impact life suffering from depression in a positive manner. Student 3 Although, one may be informed on what exactly depression is and how it affects someone, not much is being done to prevent it because it may not directly affect the individual. There are still many recurring cases of depression. 2014, around 15.7 million adults age 18 or older in the U.S. had experienced at least one major depressive episode in the last year, which represented 6.7 percent of all American adults The numbers presented are fairly high and people in every city are suffering from depression. In order to take a stance, the people not directly affected by depression need to become more supportive of helping cope the illness for it is not a decision to develop depression. This illness occurs at any age, and could result in bullying which rapidly makes the things worse. Nobody wants to see children suffer or go through a tough childhood, and depression can eliminate life from having any source of happiness. With depression, the brain alters the perspective of the victim into a gloomy and unhopeful one. An interview was taken with a 19-year old teen who has suffered from depression at the age 15 to get a better understanding on how one may feel that is suffering from it and establishing hope for others going through it. When asked how it felt like to live with this illness she responded, with myself during depression is the hardest thing for me to do. I can accept mistakes but mine. Everyone is beautiful but me. Everyone has something going for them but me. Everyone is in a great relationship but me Essentially, it is difficult to understand what exactly someone feels when suffering from this illness, but with the knowledge that it could be fatal should shift people into wanting to help. Even though this disease may not directly affect someone, action should still be taking place for those who are going through it. Anti-bullying campaigns are active at some schools and should proceed to go worldwide because children are being bullied every day for having Student 4 depression which then leads to worse outcomes. To conquer the of depression being of the thus leading to loneliness, there must be no tolerance for bullying at any school in America. By doing so, it will support more friendships during childhood rather than isolations. Family issues are hard to avoid for they linger around the comfort zone of There needs to be an ultimatum including free therapy readily available for those who are suffering from depression and are in need. In public schools, there are plenty of guidance counselors to speak to; however, in the real world, health insurance must be at hand and if not then money shall be in order to speak to someone when undergoing depression. Money lures people away; it does not attract them into taking action to overcome their illness. Volunteering positions need to open up for the people in need before the illness gets worse and could have a drastic ending result. Earth would be a happier place if everyone had someone to go to when they are in need for a listening ear. It will be beneficial to the individual suffering and the individual willing to give a listening ear. Someone suffering from depression now has a source of relief rather than living in a dark place and the individual with a listening ear is developing social skills, building a relationship, and making a difference in life. Human interaction is taken for granted, for it is the reason why there are issues, love, trauma, relationships, connections, emotions, problems and solutions. Overall, depression should not be overlooked because it is a possible fatal illness. This illness affects thousands of people all over the world and at all ages. Even though it may not directly affect someone at this given moment, the future is not clear and nobody is certain what it holds. Coming together as one to support one another will effectively increase the hope of one suffering from this illness to have a happy life and see the world from a brighter perspective. There are plenty of people in need of something, but with the knowledge that one has support at Student 5 every corner for their depression will help them overcome it with a positive mindset. Everyone can make a difference. Although it may appear to be as simple as a mood, depression is a serious illness that needs to be treated immediately because every person deserves to have a chance to feel happy. (W.C. 1373) Student 6 Works Cited ADAA. Home Anxiety and Depression Association of America,  Home Anxiety and Depression Association of America, ADAA. ADAA, 05 June 2010. Accessed. 22 Jan. 2017. https://www.adaa.org/ McKay, Brett And Kate. The History of  The Art of Manliness. The Manliness, 25 July 2016. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. <http://www.artofmanliness.com/2015/03/16/the-history- of-depression/>. Pietrangulo, Ann. The Effects of Depression on the  Healthline. Healthline, 30 Sept. 2014. Web. 13 Apr. 2017. <http://www.healthline.com/health/depression/effects-on- body>. Robert, Teri. Teen Depression - An  HealthCentral. HealthCentral, 10 July 2015. Web. 13 Apr. 2017. <http://www.healthcentral.com/depression/teens-304402-5.html>. Vargas, Rachel. Medical Definition of  MedicineNet. MedicineNet, 6 Dec. 2012. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. <http://www.medicinenet.com/script/main/art.asp?articlekey=2947>. WebMD. Untreated  WebMD. WebMD, 09 Aug. 2011. Web. 13 Apr. 2017. <http://www.webmd.com/depression/guide/untreated-depression-effects#1>.