Trotter Duce Duce Professor Aranda ENC 1102 March 5 th , 2017 1 Project Two Final Draft People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) is one of the largest animal rights organizations in the world. Since 1980, PETA has stood up to animal abuse on many fronts and brought cases to court in order to improve the lives of countless animals who have no say in what is done to them. Their website reads focuses its attention on the four areas in which the largest numbers of animals suffer the most intensely for the longest periods of time: in the food industry, in the clothing trade, in laboratories, and in the entertainment (PETA). This organization uses many tactics to bring awareness of its cause to the public, such as education, cruelty investigations, research, animal rescue, legislation, special events, celebrity involvement, and protest (PETA). One of their most effective means of spreading public awareness is the use of posters and other images put up on the internet. These images are usually attention grabbing in some way, and present at least one out of the four main appeals; ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos. Attached are two of these aforementioned images, the first of which uses ethos, pathos and kairos to make a point against domestic animal abuse, while the second image uses pathos and logos to expose the inhumanity of the meat industry. The first image features Wacka Flocka Flame, a famous rapper, holding a rescued puppy, with the following phrase next to him: Cowards Abuse This advertisement grabs the attention with the large red words and Wacka very recognizable image next to them. Additionally, the word is highlighted in a deep red, which is a psychological tactic advertisers often use to invoke feelings of urgency or arouse anger. The use of Wacka Flocka in this ad is not an unusual move for PETA, as they often incorporate famous Duce 2 figures in their campaigns to rally more support. This particular use of ethos is very effective because Wacka Flocka is also holding a dog identified as one that was rescued, presumably through PETA efforts. By doing this, PETA is trying to convey that they are an organization and cause that people from all backgrounds can get behind and support. Fans of Wacka Flocka may see this ad and decide that they also agree with stance on domestic animal abuse, just because a person they hold in high esteem is featured in one of their advertisements. Pathos is also heavily utilized in this image, and the use of the puppy and the emphasis on the word were intended to target the emotions of the viewer. The cute puppy seems so innocent that the very idea of harming it seems absolutely horrid to the average person. This is reinforced by being written in dark red, making the viewer associate the abuse of animals like the puppy with that negatively connoted word. This combination of content and color choice leads the viewer to feel anger that such things are going on in the world. In addition, this advertisement includes a kairos appeal at the end of the second to last paragraph. It urges the viewer to always report any animal abuse to the authorities immediately, and in the last sentence states, lives may depend on referring to the animals. This combined with the emotional effect the image of the puppy has on the viewer add a sense of urgency to the situation, making the viewer feel like they have to take action as soon as possible. The second image consists of a package of sausage styled after Kirkland brand. At first glance, without reading the label, it seems harmless enough. On closer inspection, however, the Kirkland logo has been changed to say and the label itself contains from the pig that the sausage came from. This includes the packaging date being changed to I Died in and below that a sort of firsthand account of the life and death of the pig. This image is remarkably effective in its subtlety, and has shock value that really Duce 3 drive home the point that PETA is trying to make against the meat industry; that meat is murder. The use of logos is prevalent through the label, which contains facts and statistics about the living conditions the pigs were subjected to, such as the statement that claims that 70% of the pigs in these farm factories have pneumonia by the time they reach the slaughterhouse. The use of pathos is conveyed through word choice, such as in and me and my 1100 friends were killed within an These hard-hitting sentences add to the shock value that this image is built on, and really make the viewer feel pity for the pigs that are killed for human consumption. Additionally, this ad makes the viewer feel lied to as far as where their meat is coming from, and the image of these negative words so casually put on a label on a package containing food that consumers regularly buy make for a really effective advertisement. There really is no ethos or kairos in the image to speak of, but the combination of pathos and logos more than picks up the slack. When compared side by side, the images are both portraying two different but equally important sides animal abuse. The first is a call to action directly to the public, and the second is more of a mixture of an attack on the meat industry as well as spreading public awareness. Both effectively utilize pathos appeals, but in different ways. The first uses the picture of the puppy to create positive feelings in the viewer, while the second image uses word choice and the connotations that come with those words to create negative feelings towards the meat industry. In conclusion, both images effectively use the rhetorical appeals to convey claim. The two images serve to prove how this organization has mastered the art of public persuasion against the abuse of all animals. PETA has proven to be a very effective and influential stakeholder in society and continues to do work advocating for animal rights around the Duce 4 world. These two images are just a small sample of the many advertisements and campaigns that PETA has done, and will continue to do in the future. Duce 5 Works Cited About  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Waka Flocka Flame: Be Their Protector, Not Their  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 22 Mar. 2017. PETA 2 CAMPAIGN - Matej Balaz - Graphic  PETA 2 CAMPAIGN - Matej Balaz - Graphic Designer. N.p., n.d. Web. 22 Mar. 2017.