Rashida Dacas Comp 1 PROJECT 3 Living in america while being a black male. said we forget. Michael brown jr , eric garner, tamir rice, jerame reid this list goes on. If these names ring a bell in a pattern then one must have been living under a rock during these modern times. These names are the names of unarmed black men in america who have been killed by armed enforcement. Many of which were said to wrong place and time. Wearing a hoodie while being black is now a crime ? Even with these modern events Black men still remain at the forefront of racism within the American justice system. Topic 1 - general factually support from interpretations on the amendment 4 and v The United States Topic 2- BLM and cultural events leading to the topic of race to resurface in modern times hard to argue that racism is completely diminished when one look within the minds of others. Black lives matter, a more current movement sparked by the abundance of black men and women being killed or harassed on the basis of being black. These events sparked something in young people today starting a new generation of activists. They saw the hurt from these families and loved ones and tried to work harder for awareness. They wanted to be heard. Counter argument - is it brought on by actions and are blacks making themselves feel targeted with no real threat . racism has died ? Blacks are said to be moe angry and aggressive than other races. What they put it into the world is said to be given back. If blacks were to respond more respectful to authority than these shooting and arrests be so high. Does that really matter. When faced in a situation where the opposition already has prejudice how can anything help. A better attitude can help the situation but that can only go so far. Topic 3 - jim crow laws redefined. Obstacles for ex cons Since jim crow laws the majority of black men still find a way to be controlled by the government the mass incarceration of black males in the us seems to rise and rise each year. Michelle alexander argues that the war on drugs was a way to get black men off the streets . after serving time the system is set in way where ex cons have almost the hardest path to succeed. They are restricted to live lives as poor man in order to support their families and lifestyles they need well paying jobs. Laws Restrict black men from obtaining high paying jobs resulting in them finding themselves in the same predicament as before. A man who has nothing to lose is a dangerous man. Willing to do anything to live happily. A vicious cycle all from the lack of opportunities offered for them. Now this generally affects those with criminal records but when the criminal population is mostly one race it affects this cultural harder than the rest. In a country where immigrants are said to flee to for opportunity and freedom why is it so difficult for criminals to also do so. Is this just another way to keep the black man down ? three basic needs money, shetler , and a job. All three things are next to impossible when one has a felon no matter how long ago or even what the felony was for. Felons cannot receive welfare. They can also risk their families being evicted if caught in houses. And with the question have you ever been convicted of a on almost every job interview it makes it close to impossible to obtain a good job. Now when asked to obtain a good amount of money what must they do ? often times reverts them back to fast money. Which in many cases fast money is illegal and resulting to incarceration again, Topic 4 - Personal impression on the justice system from black men With all these notions on how blacks men may feel and assumptions how they are treated in this world. Majority of the time when surveyed black men agree with feeling like a large target in american society. They constantly feel as though they are under a constant microscope. They have to work harder than the rest to be considered eligible at the lowest levels. They have to conform to how society sees a suitable. Blacks have to constantly feel the need to watch their backs from the same people they pay in order to protect them. Topic 5 - personal belief Black men have been seen as aggressive people since times of slavery. But just that a stereotype from a time of horror amongst blacks. A time where black men had to be aggressive to survive. A time where rights were stripped from them and they had to work for respect. America is progressing but not fast enough the race not longer resides forefront but lies under the thoughts and laws within citizens. Blacks ask to be brought to this country they were simply forced. Once america no longer saw the need for their help they wanted the blacks of america to disappear but now we are here to stay . CLOSING - Being a black male in America seems to still be a hard struggle. Now this is not to say that other races also experiencing hatred and race issues in this country but since the time when blacks were forced to come work the fields for the white man. Once the government realize the need for black men to work in the fields and in factories they found another way to get rid of blacks. The vicious cycle of blacks in the prison system is a way that allows the justice system to bring down the spirits and accomplishments of black men. Even when wanting justice in cases for these black men . a lot of the people behind the killings seems to fight and beat their cases. Due to better lawyers , wrongful charges , better resources. The justice for this men and the lives they have lost seem to be getting justice.