Hamed 1 Ahmed Waleed Hamed Sabah Uddin ENC 1101 4/23/2017 Project 3 Although anabolic steroids are known to have a large quantity of short term benefits, in the long run, anabolic steroids are more dangerous than they are beneficial. Based off of numerous studies, anabolic steroid use has a strong correlation with psychological and physical damage to the human body. The short term effects of the drugs are completely diminished when usage of the drug stops, even for the smallest duration of time. Many could argue that anabolic steroids are beneficial due to the significant change of scientific research over time. However, these arguments are easily refuted based off of scientific proof. Firstly, a highly prominent counter-argument made by numerous bodybuilders, is that anabolic steroids can increase muscle mass and athletic performance in a significantly faster duration. Anabolic steroids are synthetic versions of the hormone Testosterone. This hormone is in charge of regulating muscle and bone mass in the human body. When the body has a large amount of Testosterone, it increases its ability to create more muscle fibers. However, this increase in muscle mass comes at a deadly cost. When the human body has an external source of any hormone, it begins to seize creation of said hormone organically. When a user takes synthetic Testosterone for even the smallest duration, he or she is damaging their ability to create the hormone. Thus, when one gets off the drug, Testosterone levels will drop and Hamed 2 destroy any muscle gains made while using the drug. Even worse, the body will have very hard time creating more muscle because of the lack of Testosterone the body will offer. In Kuiper Effects of Androgenic-Anabolic Steroids in , Hartgens establishes this huge folly in anabolic steroid use. steroids will increase the human ability to create muscle temporarily, however if usage continues the body will shut down its ability to produce Testosterone naturally and thus limit the ability to create muscle (Hartgens 513). The lack of organic Testosterone production creates numerous permanent setbacks for the ability to create new muscle fibers. Another widely used argument, is that anabolic steroids are beneficial due to their ability to enhance athletic focus and energy. Due to the increase of Testosterone in the body after usage, the stamina level is increased to new heights that it could never reach without the steroids. However, many fail to realize the huge psychological drawbacks that come with these improvements. Anabolic steroid usage is correlated with significantly increased reactions to stressful stimuli. Steroids, will also cause numerous feelings of anger, depression, and shock in the user. In 2011, a group of sports medicine scientists designed an experiment in which they would give a group of female mice anabolic steroids for 9 weeks. Every week one of the scientists would play an acoustic stimulus for the mice. The mice that did not take any anabolic steroids showed no reaction to the stimulus, while the mice that did, reacted much more. This experiment illustrates one of the many negative psychological effects that anabolic steroid use could have on the human body. The fact that anabolic steroids will give enhanced focus in the gym is completely overlooked by the large quantity of detrimental psychological effects on the human brain. Hamed 3 One of the main reasons recreational bodybuilders take steroids, is to increase their physical appeal. In today society, many people are willing to do almost anything it takes to increase their physical and sexual appeal. This is the reason why non-competitive bodybuilders use the supplement. Contrary to what many steroid users might believe, anabolic steroids WILL NOT increase physical appeal. The increased Testosterone in the body does increase muscle mass but has numerous other effects on the body. Among these effects are hives, acne breakouts, increased body hair, and even baldness. Females taking anabolic steroids grow large amounts of facial hair. Sports medicine scientists, David Jenkinson and Alisson Herbert explained why these occurrences happen in their journal American Family cause many hormones in the human body to increase to ridiculous plateaus that should not be possible for any normal person to reach. Due to this occurrence, the human body reacts to this large portion of hormones in many ways. The effects include acne breakouts, oily skin, hair loss, and for females, breast size (Jenkinson 5). Another argument female bodybuilders seem to frequently use, is that anabolic steroids will help increase their benefits at the gym. As said before, anabolic steroids are basically synthetic Testosterone strains that are put into your body to increase the production. One of the main differences between the male and female body is that males produce a large portion of Testosterone while females do not. When women increase their Testosterone levels using anabolic steroids, much of the female anatomy literally transforms into that of a male. The voice will deepen, body and facial hair will increase, breast size will decrease, and the women will have a bulky physique. The female body could forever change after only the smallest cycle of anabolic steroid use. Hamed 4 Due to the large amount of anabolic steroid use going around in the bodybuilding and fitness industry. It is wise to obtain knowledge about this critical subject. Anabolic steroids are highly detrimental to the human body and should not be used under any circumstance for bodybuilding purposes. The human body should not have this enormous quantity of Testosterone in its system. Steroids have been proven to permanently damage the human body in many ways. Psychologically, they will induce feelings of stress, fear, anxiety and anger. Physically, anabolic steroids could cause body disfigurements, liver diseases, cancer, and a complete halt in the natural Testosterone production. Anabolic steroids will not increase muscle mass and they certainly will not enhance athletic focus during workouts. They will only destroy the human body inside and out, and halt any true progress that could have been made at the gym. Steroids are more detrimental rather than they are beneficial. Hamed 5 Work Cited 1. Kuiper, Hartgens F. Effects of Androgenic-Anabolic Steroids in  Sports Medicine 34.8 (2012): 513-54. Print 2. Jenkinson, David M., and Allison J. Harbert. Supplements and  Am Fam Physician, November 1, 2008, 1039-046. Print 3. Costine, Beth A., Donna M. Porter, and Joseph G. Oberlander. Chronic anabolic androgenic steroid exposure alters corticotrophin releasing factor expression and anxiety-like behaviors in the female  Psychoneureondocrinology 35.10 (2010): 1473-485. Print. 4. Lenehan, Pat. Anabolic Steroids and Other Performance-Enhancing Drugs. London: Taylor & Francis, 2003. Print