Student 1 Student Professor Lewis ENC 1102 30 April 2015 Military Veterans with PTSD Need More Support The issue of military PTSD, Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder, is prevalent in our society. Patriotism is a key value of American culture, and with that comes an appreciation of military veterans and servicemen and women. So why are the citizens of the United States allowing emotionally traumatized veterans to come home and go without treatment? Proper support and treatment for military-related PTSD is crucial for recovery or coping with the disorder. If left untreated, PTSD can cause severe emotional distress and mental issues and can potentially lead to suicide (Gregory, 1). The main provider of military-related PTSD support and treatment is the USDVA, the United States Department of Veterans Affairs. Unfortunately, the department is vastly underfunded. Since the United States government is not sufficiently providing for its servicepersons, American citizens must advocate for change. Even non-engaged stakeholders can become game-changers in the fight for military-related PTSD support. The more people involved, the more likely that those effected by military-related PTSD will get the necessary care they need. To initiate positive social change, a national military-related PTSD fundraising campaign should be started at colleges and universities around the country. Involving American youth in this issue will attract more supporters and donors to the cause. PTSD is a common mental disorder that develops in veterans and military personnel while deployed. On average, 20% of military personnel will develop PTSD while deployed 1). As recognized by Zwanziger, common signs of military-related PTSD Student 2 are drug and alcohol addiction, emotional distance, and nightmares (48). But a of combat-related PTSD merely an alcoholic or a drug addicted veteran. a father who is emotionally distant from his family. a mother who control her anger. a grandfather who sleep at night because he is plagued by nightmares of the front lines. So why these people deserve proper treatment and support for their disorder? Especially when one considers how much he or she sacrificed to preserve freedom. Further, PTSD just an issue that torments the veteran who suffers. It also effects his or her family and friends. Since the USDVA is drastically underfunded and does not receive its funding on time (Blake, 31), the agency is unable to provide the best care and support for veterans with PTSD. Generally speaking, Americans do not argue against veterans getting proper PTSD treatment and support. The main disagreement in this issue surrounds the quality of PTSD care provided by the USDVA and the distribution of federal funds (i.e. tax payer dollars). The USDVA claims that it provides the best possible military-related PTSD treatment and support it can with its current funding of 1). This claim is supported by the research of Carl Blake, Associate Executive Director of Government Relations at the Paralyzed Veterans of America. According the research, the USDVA has developed an Enrollee Health Care Projection Model to manage its given funds to provide all the services military veterans and personnel need (31). Regardless, the quality of the PTSD services provided is not close to the standard needed to properly treat military-related PTSD. The most common way the USDVA treats veterans who develop PTSD is to provide monetary compensation and a referral to a physiatrist of 1). However, this is an ineffective practice because most veterans do not pursue psychiatric treatment due to a lack of USDVA clinics nearby that offer mental health services (Cigrang et al. 110). So while the claim of providing Student 3 PTSD-related services inaccurate, a significant improvement is needed in the quality of treatment options offered to veterans. There are many reason as to why there needs to be more advocacy for military-related PTSD treatment. First of all, the USDVA is not sufficiently funded to provide quality PTSD services to veterans (Blake, 31). This is a great disservice to veterans because, as part of their military medical compensation, they are promised full medical coverage, but the government cannot even provide proper services to a prevalent disorder among veterans. Another reason to advocate for more PTSD treatment is that PTSD is not a personal issue that effects just the veteran, it effects the community at large. PTSD can negatively affect the life as well as their and lives though emotional distance, mood swings, and paranoia. But research has shown that through proper PTSD treatment, veterans with PTSD can vastly improve their social relationships (Blow et al. 261). The final reason that there needs to be more advocacy for military-related PTSD is that no one should have to suffer in silence. Research has shown that the more people in a life who understand the symptoms of PTSD, the more likely the veteran will be able to successfully recover from or manage his or her disorder (Zwanziger et al. 47). These three reason are enough to demonstrate why America citizens have to advocate for more PTSD funding and education. There are many stories of experiences with military-related PTSD. One such story is of a U.S. Army soldier by the name of Major Carlos Huerta. This soldier was diagnosed with PTSD in 2004, but kept it secret from his unit due to fear of being seen as Five years later in 2010, when he came home from the battlefield, he started experiencing severe panic attacks. After the panic attacks became too much to bear, he came to terms with his PTSD and sought help. He then realized that PTSD is not something to be ashamed of, but rather something that Student 4 needs to be talked about (Huerta, 1). story may help other soldiers who have PTSD because, according to his account, the military culture has a tendency to ridicule mental health disorders. Feeling ashamed, soldiers with PTSD tend to not get treatment because they do not want to be perceived as weak. Hearing this story may convince other soldiers that suffering from PTSD is not something to be ashamed of and may even convince them to seek help for their disorder. Considering the number of lives in danger, getting a non-engaged stakeholder involved is crucial to obtaining the necessary funding to provide proper military-related PTSD support. Current non-engaged stakeholders that may be interested in this issue are collegiate Greek organizations. All Greek organizations have a philanthropy, an issue or organization that the fraternity or sorority raises money to support. Greek organizations frequently host philanthropy events on college campuses to raise money and awareness for their pet organization. Currently, Alpha Omicron Pi, a national Panhellenic Sorority, collects items to be sent in care packages to soldiers overseas in an event named Sisters for Soldiers (AOII, 2017). A way that collegiate Greek organizations can create awareness and raise money for military-related PTSD is by adopting the cause as their philanthropy. Another, more simple way, that Greek members can take action within a college community is to collect pocket change on campus. Even small donations can help fund non-profit organizations, such as the PTSD Foundation of America, which provides military-related PTSD awareness programs for families and the community (PTSD Foundation of America, 2017). It is imperative that non-engaged stakeholders, such as college youth, become involved in national issues so they can better impact the future of this country. Student 5 For the time being, many servicemen and women depend on the USDVA for medical treatment, even though the care provided by this government agency is sorely lacking. While the number of military personal and veterans who suffer from PTSD continues to grow, the USDVA remains underfunded, causing a disturbing number of veterans to live without access to proper PTSD treatment and support. Because of this, military veterans and personnel who are effected by military-related PTSD need community-based care and support. It is important to our nation that the citizens of these United States work together to advocate for more monetary support for military-related PTSD education and treatment. As the old adage states, there is strength in numbers. If everyone works together, the goal of adequate military-related PTSD treatment will be achieved. (WC:1337) Student 6 Work Cited AOII. Sisters for  Alpha Omicron PI. Alpha Omicron Pi, n.d. Web. 29 Apr. 2017. <http://www.alphaomicronpi.org/Websites/alphaomicronpi/images/REVISED%20Sisters %20for%20Soldiers%20Manual.pdf>. Blake, Carl.  Target: sufficient, timely, & predictable: veterans groups push for real VA healthcare funding  Paralyzed Veterans of America (2009): n. pag. University of South Florida. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Blow, Adrian J., Ansley Franser Curtis, Andrea K. Wittenborn, and Lisa Gormen. Relationship Problems and Military Related PTSD: The Case for Using Emotionally Focused Therapy for  Contemporary Family Therapy 37.3 (2015): n. pag. University of South Florida. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Cigrang, Jeffrey A., Sheila A M Rauch, Jim Mintz, Antoinette Brundige, Laura L. Avila, Craig J. Bryan, Jeffrey L. Goodie, and Alan L. Peterson. Treatment of active duty military with PTSD in primary care: A follow-up  Journal of Anxiety Disorders 36 (2015): 110- 14. University of South Florida. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Gregory, Debbie. for PTSD Awareness and Treatment: Military Military Connection, Gregory Media Inc., 20 June 2015, www.militaryconnection.com/blog/6040/resources-for-ptsd-awareness-and-treatment- military-connection/. Accessed 21 Jan 2017. Huerta , Carlos C., Chaplain (Maj.).  Leaving the battlefield: Soldier shares story of  U.S. Army . N.p., 25 Apr. 2012. Web. 2 Apr. 2017. Student 7 Foundation of PTSD Foundation of AmericaCamp Hope, n.d. <http://ptsdusa.org/>. Accessed 29 April 2017. Department of Veterans Affairs U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs , U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs , www.va.gov/. Accessed 19 Feb 2017. Veterans and PTSD. statistics: PTSD, Depression, TBI, Veterans and PTSD, 20 Sept. 2015, www.veteransandptsd.com/PTSD-statistics.html. Accessed 12 February 2017. Zwanziger, Tona, Colleen Anderson, Jennifer Lewis, Regardt Ferreira, and Charles Figley. Resilience and Knowledge of PTSD Symptoms in Military  Traumatology (2016): n. pag. University of South Florida. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.