Velasco 1 Christina Velasco ENC 1102 Professor Hanson April 26, 2017 The Importance of Gender Neutral Bathrooms For the average person, using the restroom is simply something that is done throughout the day. For those who are transgender and gender non-conforming, using the restroom consists of careful planning, and preparation. In a study done by Kristie Seelman, college participants not using bathrooms as frequently as they would if they felt safe and not drinking water on campus to avoid needing to use the (Seelman 6). Kathryn Anthony elaborates on this idea, explaining that a vulnerability we feel in public restrooms we feel in other (Qtd in Lopez). Regardless of race, ethnicity, religion, sex and gender, every single person deserves to feel safe. The installment of gender neutral facilities will give those who are transgender and gender non-conforming that chance to feel secure. As posted on the University of South website, USF is proud to create a safe environment for all students. Because of this, there are thirty four unisex/gender neutral restrooms around campus; all of these are accessible to students, and most are accessible to the general public. Overall, it is important to recognize that one have to be transgender or gender non-conforming to support this cause. Gender-nonconforming and transgender are not interchangeable terms. GLAAD, a successful LGBTQ organization, explains the differences between these identities. GLAAD Velasco 2 states that transgender is umbrella term for people whose gender identity and/or gender expression differs from what is typically associated with the sex they were assigned at Further down on the page, gender non-conforming is defined as term used to describe some people whose gender expression is different from conventional expectations of masculinity and of These descriptions and overall concepts are still fairly new; this may explain the reason why many Americans are against gender neutral bathrooms- simply because they understand. When authoritative figures are questioned on the topic, they know how important it is to get the message across to the millions of people who will later read what said. President Obama is one of many influential figures who have spoken in favor of the topic. At the time when the interview occurred, new federal laws were in place that promised safety for transgender students. When asked his views behind these gender neutral laws, he explained that who has been in school, in high school, who has been a parent, should realize that kids who are sometimes in the minority; kids who have a different sexual orientation or are transgender are subject to a lot of bullying, Later in the discussion, the President summarized his thoughts with a statement reminding the people that part of our obligation as a society to make sure everybody is treated fairly, and our kids are all loved and protected, and that their dignity is (Korte). Without a doubt, gender neutral restrooms can make a positive impact on communities all over the United States. Despite efforts while he was in office, other current politicians, such as President Trump, feel that these protections are unnecessary and are example of federal (Lopez). Saying that this issue can be ignored is simply a sign of ignorance. Friends, coworkers, family members even, could be affected by those who ignore how important gender Velasco 3 neutral bathrooms are. For example, Syrus, a transgender man, has shared his story about the violence experienced in his workplace- The troubles I had in using the washroom started shortly after I began [a new I entered the staff washroom the same time as another man As I locked the stall door behind me to pee, the other man in the bathroom began expressing concern about why I was using the facility For 15 min, he berated and screamed at me from outside the stall I huddled silently in the corner of the stall, fearful for my safety, as the man tried to peer inside the stall through the crack and even over the door. Eventually, he left the bathroom, but not before yelling that I was and that I was something wrong in Over the next three years, I went all the way home during the day to pee. (Qtd in Bender-Baird 5) The events that he experienced that day are also often experienced by the 1,397,150 people who identify as Transgender in the United States (Flores et al. 3). Though Syrus will never get those three years back, supporting gender neutral amenities can change the lives of current and upcoming generations. There are countless ways that the community can get involved with this cause! One of the simplest ways is to be informed, and able to spread awareness in community. Recently, Yelp, a website for reviews, created a page that helps members of the community find gender neutral bathrooms in their area. If you pass a restroom that is designated for those who are transgender or gender non-conforming and upload its location to the site, you are making a positive impact on life in your neighborhood. If you are a business owner, there are Velasco 4 many printable signs on the internet that you can print out and hang in front of the restroom door. If you own a business but know someone who does, have a conversation with them, and let them know that having a gender neutral facility in the building will inform customers that the building is a safe environment for them. More than 1.3 million people identify as transgender or gender neutral in the United States. As citizens, our job to come together and stand up for their rights. Without a doubt, it is clear that nobody should feel fearful when using the restroom. A change is needed, and gender neutral bathrooms are the answer. Supporting these efforts is simple, yet rewarding. Whether by having a conversation with someone about gender neutral bathrooms, or physically hanging up a sign in ones place of business, acts like this will create a safer environment for years to come. Velasco 5 Works Cited Bender-Baird, Kyla. Peeing Under Surveillance: Bathrooms, Gender Policing, And Hate Gender, Place & Culture: A Journal Of Feminist Geography 23.7 (2016): 983. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Diversity, Inclusion & Equal  University of South Florida System. N.p., n.d. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. http://www.usf.edu/diversity/disability/unisex-restrooms.aspx. Flores, Andrew R., Jody L. Herman, Gary J. Gates, and Taylor N.T. Brown. How Many Adults Identify as Transgender in the United  The Williams Institute (2016): n. pag. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. https://williamsinstitute.law.ucla.edu/wp-content/uploads/How-Many-Adults-Identify-as- Transgender-in-the-United-States.pdf. Glossary of  GLAAD. N.p., 13 Feb. 2017. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. http://www.glaad.org/reference/transgender. Korte, Gregory. Transgender Bathroom Rule a Matter of Dignity, Obama  USA Today. Gannett Satellite Information Network, 16 May 2016. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/politics/2016/05/16/transgender-bathroom-rule-matter- dignity-obama-says/84460430/. Lopez, German. Anti-Transgender Bathroom Hysteria,  Vox. N.p., 05 May 2016. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. http://www.vox.com/2016/5/5/11592908/transgender-bathroom-laws-rights.. Seelman, Kristie L. Transgender Access to College Bathrooms and Housing and the Relationship to  Journal of Homosexuality, no. 10, 2016, p. 1378. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1080/00918369.2016.1157998.