Hamed 1 Ahmed W. Hamed Sabah Uddin ENC 1101 March 13 th , 2017 Anabolic Steroids: To Use or Not to Use Performance enhancing drugs have always had a unique controversy in which any position taken will have its pros and cons. This controversy comes from the shifts of positions made by researchers based on how information has changed over millenia. As time has gone by, researchers have changed their views on anabolic steroids from a beneficial standpoint to a more modern detrimental outlook. In the 1970s, bodybuilders would casually use anabolic steroids prior to their physique contests. This period of time was considered as the Golden  of Physique Contests due to a large quantity of high-end competitors coming on the scene. Mr. Olympia himself, Arnold Schwarzenegger, would use anabolic steroids one to two weeks before his competitions so he could have the edge over his opponents. So how come one of the most influential bodybuilders to have ever lived, . The modernization of Sports Sciences has informed researchers with the true harmful nature of anabolic steroids. Firstly, in the year 2010, an experiment was performed on female mice by a psycho- neurologist team, consisting of professional Sports Medicine scientists. The goal of the experiment was to try to analyze the effects of anabolic steroids on stressful and traumatic emotions. Beth experiment argues against past research performed by David Jenkinson, Alisson Herbert, and Patrick Lenehan by arguing against their standpoints that steroids are more beneficial rather than they are harmful. According to the research: Hamed 2 As with adults, anabolic steroid use by adolescents is associated with a range of behavioral effects, including increased anxiety and altered responses to stress. It has been suggested that adolescents, especially adolescent females, may be particularly susceptible to the effects of these (Constine 1473) The experiment was performed by applying an acoustic stimulus to startle the female mice. Although, the stimulus given to both types of mice was the same, the mice that had the anabolic steroids in their system reacted, while the mice not under the influence had not. This experiment provides evidence in regards to the negative psychological impacts that anabolic steroids have on the user. In contradiction to the experiment preformed on the mice, Patrick Lenehan, another sports scientist, released a book in the year 2003 that praised the benefits of anabolic steroids. The book was made to illustrate the benefits of anabolic steroid usage for athletic performance in the bodybuilding industry. In book, Anabolic Steroids and Other Performance Enhancing Drugs states anabolic steroids, are essentially synthetic testosterone hormones that produce the benefits that athletes look for. The term anabolic refers to ability to build up organs and  (Lenehan 11). The fact that this hormone is artificial and not naturally created goes completely against recent research based off of his experiments. According to Kuiper Effects of Anabolic Steroids in Athletes: such as testosterone and HGH are added to the body synthetically, which may increase mass but however will damage the ability to produce its own natural (Hartgens 513) The majority of steroid users take anabolics for the purpose of gaining muscle mass and keeping a low amount of subcutaneous body fat in short periods of time. This book focuses, on the benefits of taking steroids by focusing on this particular reason. Due to this fact, the research performed in the book Hamed 3 is highly supportive for the usage of anabolic steroids. However, the more modernized research experiment performed on the female mice could argue otherwise. The use of anabolic steroids may decrease the amount of time needed to gain lean muscle mass, but the psychological effects found in the experiment would still be prevalent in the user. It could be argued that the negative neurological effects of anabolic steroids could easily undermine the increased athletic performance. However, it could be disputed that the effects are subjective based on the user. An athlete, could be less worrisome of the mental impact as long as the athletic effects are prevalent in his usage and vice versa. In the year 2012, Medical Scientist, Hartgens Kuiper preformed numerous experiments regarding anabolic steroids. These experiments were conducted to find any detrimental effects of steroid use on human subjects. Kuiper states that there is indeed a massive correlation between steroid use and psychological trauma based on the results of the experiment. use in athletes is associated with mood and anxiety disturbances, as well as reckless behavior, in some predisposed individuals, who are likely to develop various types of psychopathology after long-term exposure to these (Hartgens 514). Both of the experiments conducted agree that there are numerous psychological drawbacks that come with the use of steroids. However, Patrick earlier study could argue that anabolic steroids are much more beneficial due to them allowing the user the ability to make muscle and lose body fat much faster. In 2008, sport medicine scientists, David Jenkinson and Alisson Herbert created a largely comprehensive journal entry that was published by the Family which contradicted with approach on the danger of anabolic steroid use. This entry focused on the numerous supplements that correlate with bodybuilding and weightlifting, mainly, anabolic steroids. The article focused on the health and performance benefits regarding to steroid use. The entry states that anabolic steroids increase weight by increasing the amount of lean mass the user can hold while keeping body fat levels the same. Jenkinson and research contradicts with viewpoints by Hamed 4 stating use of anabolic steroids increases strength and body weight, with the increase in body weight attributed to an increase in lean mass without a decrease in fat (Jenkinson 1041). All research conducted before the year 2010, illustrates the true potential anabolic steroids have in regards to increasing performance and lean muscle mass. However, newer research states that anabolic steroid use correlates with negative psychological behaviors and numerous detrimental attributes. Patrick book goes hand in hand with David Jenkinson and Alisson data. Both entries focus on the benefits of anabolic steroids regarding performance and muscle mass increase. The three scientists also focused on the increase of muscular protein synthesis attributed to steroid use. However, Kuiper Hartgens and the medical science team that preformed the experiment on the mice agree otherwise. Both Kuiper and the medical team focused on the adverse side effects of drug usage, more specifically, the psychological detriments associated with the drugs. According to the cumulative research, steroid use has both detrimental and beneficial attributes. While usage will increase muscle growth, it will also cause numerous psychological issues such as increased stress and depression. Hamed 5 Work Cited 1. Kuiper, Hartgens F. Effects of Androgenic-Anabolic Steroids in  Sports Medicine 34.8 (2012): 513-54. Print 2. Jenkinson, David M., and Allison J. Harbert. Supplements and  Am Fam Physician, November 1, 2008, 1039-046. Print 3. Costine, Beth A., Donna M. Porter, and Joseph G. Oberlander. Chronic anabolic androgenic steroid exposure alters corticotrophin releasing factor expression and anxiety-like behaviors in the female  Psychoneureondocrinology 35.10 (2010): 1473-485. Print. 4. Lenehan, Pat. Anabolic Steroids and Other Performance-Enhancing Drugs. London: Taylor & Francis, 2003. Print