Boatman 1 Christopher Boatman Ms. Aranda ENC 1102 3 March 2017 The National Education Association in a Picture The National Education Association champions fairness, equality, and equal opportunity to education for all children living in the United States. They believe in opportunity, just society, democracy, professionalism, partnership, and collective (nea.org). Despite the enormity of this stakeholder organization, they are often forgotten about due to the lack of needed attention towards education. Over the past few years, studies on education and teacher salaries have proven that they are among the lowest paying jobs in the United States. According to Hazel Davis of Salaries, but salaries in the smaller cities still were below the pre-depression (228). The two selected images address the National Education efforts to provide equality and their struggles with these efforts. Both images utilize rhetorical appeals such as logos, pathos, ethos, and Kairos to convey the sense of urgency, sympathetic emotions, and the credibility of renowned public figures. The main issue at hand is the lack of attention towards education and teachers. The intended audience is the unaware public who do not understand the importance of a fair teacher salary. These images are related not only because of their efforts to support the NEA but because of their use of controversial topics to invite attention to the picture. The first image depicts a polar bear standing on a melting ice cap. The acronym drawn on the side of the polar bear suggests the NEA is experiencing a similar issue. Sooner or later the ice Boatman 2 cap will melt and the polar bear will have nowhere to go. Similarly, if we do not save education now, the NEA will crumble. This is an example of Kairos, which is the main rhetorical appeal used in the image. This underlying message that is being shown is that education is being treated as a less important issue by other, more well-known issues such as the NAACP, which supports African Americans under the law, and the NWLC, an organization that supports rights. Education reform, like climate change, is a very real issue that needs to be fixed. This is an example of logos because it is logical that the issue needs to be fixed. The audience does not want the ice cap to melt because that would mean the polar bear has nowhere to be. The image also uses pathos by incorporating emotion into the polar face. The look of despair and need for help creates a sense of sorrow in the audience and makes them want to do something to help. Ethos can be found in the inclusion of credible organizations on the solid piece of land. Ethos can be even furthered with the use of climate change yet again. The second image shown was taken at a National Education Association meeting in Washington of 2016 and favors ethos because of the inclusion of Hilary Clinton, a distinguished public figure in America. At the time, Mrs. Clinton was the Democratic presidential candidate of the United States. told the union she wants to see professional development seriously ramped up. And she wants to pay teachers more. No educator should have to take a second or third job just to make ends  she (edweek.org). The logos appeal of this image is that she is a recognized public figure so people have reason to believe what she is saying. However due to the media and particular events during her campaign, many Americans developed a reason to dislike her and not listen to what she has to say despite her intentions to better education. This dislike is what creates pathos in the image. As far as the appeal to ethos, Clinton has established her own sense of credibility over the course of her political career. Clinton made it clear in her Boatman 3 presidential race that she was going to make a difference in education. Because of the limited amount of time she had to campaign across America she had to choose specific topics to discuss, topics that she truly cared about and thought were the most important. She picked education ad one of her topics and this helped her during the election. This adds the appeal Kairos to the image and also adds to ethos. The main way that these two images are similar is their use of relatable and controversial issues. There are people living all around the world who believe climate change is not happening. Even our current President of the United States, Donald J. Trump, does not believe it is a real threat. But despite their ignorance, climate change is a very real issue. Just as depicted in the first image, the polar bear is standing on top of a melting ice cap and although that was intended to be a metaphor, it is actually happening. In the case of image two, Hilary Clinton is seen standing at a podium, open arms with a welcoming smile across spread across her face. On the podium is the NEA logo. The audience can assume that Mrs. Clinton is in support of the NEA and education. What sets this picture aside from the others taken at this event is Mrs. Clinton herself. Because of her influential effect, she has the power to get people to support education the same way she does. On the contrary, she also has the power to push people away because of her affiliation with the Democratic Party and her past private e-mail scandal. This could possibly encourage and anyone with strong feelings about this scandal to be against the NEA. . Education has slowly been dwindling but with the support of organizations like the NEA it can be restored to the way it was when every American had quality access. The NEA strives towards a better future in education. The organization has over three million members, all of whom believe in quality education and equal opportunity for all. Both images exemplify the Boatman 4 problems within the organization and the necessity to find a solution. It is important that the public sees these types of images, that way they know what is going on and they can aid the organization by joining or simply putting their voices out there Images Boatman 5 Works Cited Davis, Hazel1.  Review of Educational Research, vol. 10, no. 3, June 1940, pp. 228-234. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=hu s&AN=18826870&site=eds-live. Klein, Alyson. Hillary Clinton to NEA: If I Win, Educators Will Have a Partner in the White  Education Week - Politics K-12. N.p., 06 July 2016. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. NEA, Civil Rights, and Declarations of  Education Reform Now. N.p., 01 July 2015. Web. 05 Mar. 2017.