Cherilus 1 Christina Cherilus April 15, 2017 Maria Theodosiou ENC 1102 Why Should Animal Testing End Animal testing is one of the many controversial subject in society. This therefore hides the topic from conversations, which makes solutions or alternatives to the issue rare and little. Animal testing is a method that has been going on for centuries. This can be traced back sine the 17 th century with research on blood circulation, by using various animal species as subjects, (UAR, Resources). Although animal testing did not blow up until the 19 th century, the public did not become aware of the cons until the late The rise in science experiments and research over the years also meant a rise in animals used as test subjects, this reached to over 5.5 million animals experimented in 1970 only (UAR, Resources). While this seem concerning or important to many, it is to be understood that animals like the human race are built with most if not all of biological receptors. This means that they are subjected to feeling pain, pleasure, happiness, sadness and fear. Using animals as lab subjects is not the main problem though, what happens to them in those experiments that should raise an eyebrow. Animal testing is a damaging, cruel and outdated method which needs to end. It uses merciless techniques and has been proven to be very unreliable on various occasions, which is why we must try to stop it by finding alternative options where research can still proceed. Before explain why animal testing should be put to an end, it is fair to show the facts and stats that backs up this statement. The main reasoning behind this statement is that most test done Cherilus 2 on animals are to predict capability towards toxics or responses towards certain products and chemicals. Yet, most of the lab results, whether good or bad are not supported. Many of the results concerning risks levels done with animals are not scientifically supported. Although animals have similar genetic constructions as other animals, scientist such as Gio B. states that test offers plausible human calculations only for acute toxicities that results from the rapid derailments of generic life (Gio B 16). Now this means that most animals are used and tortured only to end with inaccurate results based on the many deadly diseases humans try to stay away from. The genetic construction of each species are so unique that in a research involving cancer, the results for rat subjects could not predict results for mice subject as they are different, yet biologically closer to each other than to humans (Gio B 17). If this enough to make you realize how inaccurate these results can get, you may be able to view the issues through the eyes of a lab rat. Another reason to help end animal testing is to help the animals themselves. According to CrueltyFree, over 115million animals are used in experiments worldwide every year. The tops 5 countries being USA, Japan China, Australia and France. Although animal cruelty is viewed as unacceptable by many, the method has not decrease but instead is increasing many counties (Crueltyfree, Home). A large portion of these animals are tortured through various methods. They can be burned, crippled, suffocated, poisoned and beaten. It may not occur to many, as when people think of animal testing they mainly picture rats and monkeys, however dogs, cats, birds, snakes and other animals are also used. Imagine someone suffocating your dog, to estimate how long can humans inhale certain chemicals. Think of someone burning your cat or placing a 400 degree leveled chemical on your hamster to discover how long can they handle the pain and Cherilus 3 calculate in only to end with inaccurate results about how much pain can humans take. Many of the tests done uses large numbers of animals for one test to the Humane Society, registration of a single pesticide requires more than 50 experiments and the use of as many as 1,200 (Dosomething, Home). Many test would be considered inhumane if brought to the public, such as animals being killed while pregnant to study the fetuses. like someone taking away everything that makes you human or someone just depriving your dog or your friend of what they are to be and have their soon to be dead, child studied like an object or the remains of an experiment. When using a human in an example, it makes it easier to see what the animals go through, and why it should end. This method should end because of its inhumane nature. We are mistreating and using animals for our own benefits without a care on how they are effected. As humans we claim to care for each other, for our non-human friends and for our planets. Yet we tend to take advantage and destroy the things we love the most. It is like a worker who experiments on animals every day, but come home to his wife, kids and his lovable dog who cherish and worships him in every way. It is not the research wrong, it is how done the problem. Fortunately, due to the constant improving in science, alternatives are being researched and some were even found. 2009, industry trade group Cosmetics Europe, along with a division of the European Commission on Research & Innovation, launched a $68 million research initiative to develop lab technologies and computational models capable of predicting the toxicity of chemicals in (Mone, 20). Tissue Chips are also a new alternative that could possibly replace animal testing, (Irish University,1). Although this research is still being done, tools to evaluate toxicity were being used for years, and with that knowledge new tools will be created such as the Cherilus 4 and old improved results will take longer than animal testing, however, results will also be more accurate. With these upsetting yet factual paragraphs, and this good ending discovery, it is being seen that there are ways to become aware and do something to help end animal testing. The first and simplest option is to spread the word, tell your friends, share a Facebook link, post an Instagram post, talk about it, let the world know that this is in fact a problem and it is happening right now. Another way is to be aware of your purchases, the main products to use animal testing are in the cosmetic industry. there was a ban in Europe regarding the issue, companies still use animals to test their (Fischer 613). Refrain from buying brands testing on animals, such as Maybelline or Mary Kay. You may think that the alternatives are pricey however there are many brands such as NYX or Wet N Wild against animal testing. Another way is to get physical and volunteer to local shelters and if you so happen to see a stray animal bring to a place of safety. This way stray animal be trapped and sent to be tested on and shelters shut down due to lack of help. Adopting is another way to help, if possible. Donation are also other options, you can donate to organizations fighting for the ban of animal testing, you can donate to shelters, you can choose from many options and can set up a yearly, or monthly donations to some shelters. The last option that will be given is to take this fight to the government, sing petitions and politically fighting for the end of the issue can be a great way to see change. With these given possibilities, you have a variety of options to choose from, up to you to decide which one. Cherilus 5 Once again, animal testing is wrong, it is a cruel and an inaccurate method which should end. If nobody does something about it, yearly millions of animals will be mistreated and harmed. It is up to us to try and fight for the end of this method it has proven to past its days due to the new alternatives that are being discovered. As humans we always say animals are your friends, and that we care about them, time to act like it. Cherilus 6 Work Cited Cruelty Free International. N.p., n.d. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Fischer, Kristian. Animal Testing and Marketing Bans of the EU Cosmetics Legislation Null  European Journal of Risk Regulation (EJRR), no. 4, 2015, p. 613. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=edshol&A N=hein.journals.ejrr2015.89&site=eds-live. Gori, Gio B. Regulating Unknown Risks: Heavy Dependence on Animal Testing Data Is Not Supported by  Regulation, no. 1, 2010, p. 16. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=edsgao& AN=edsgcl.223748414&site=eds-live. Mone, Gregory. New Models in Cosmetics Replacing Animal  Communications of the ACM, no. 4, 2014, p. 20. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=edsgao& AN=edsgcl.365477270&site=eds-live.  History of Animal Research. N.p., n.d. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Tissue May Become Alternative to Animal  Irish University Review: A Journal of Irish Studies, no. 12, 2016, p. 15. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=edsglr&A N=edsgcl.481243979&site=eds-live. 11 Facts About Animal  DoSomething.org Volunteer for Social Change. N.p., n.d. Web. 15 Apr. 2017.