Smith !1 Emma Smith Karen Hanson ENC 1102 April 16 2017 Humane Poultry Production The short lives of commercial chickens are hidden from the public by commercial farms in order to keep consumers coming back for meat and eggs. What the public see is the inhumane conditions and methods gone into raising the animals that many consume on a daily bases. Compared to other livestock, poultry has minimal to virtually no regulations on how the animal is raised and slaughtered, leading poultry businesses to use the cheapest methods possible whether or not the method is considered humane. One of these cheap methods consists of keeping as many birds as possible in the smallest space as possible to maximize the profits. The cruelty of the methods used will remain in practice until the consumers voice their opinions on the topic and make an effort to enforce change in the industry. Educating the public about the topic is the first step in change for the poultry raised for food. While educating the public, the word gets out about what is happening behind the scenes at poultry farms and the inhumane methods used there. Understanding place and impact on the topic of poultry production a connection is made and responsibility for their actions is addressed. Many people are unknowingly supporting commercial farms when they think they by purchasing free range eggs. Understanding poultry production, knowing place in the industry and by taking action, the torturous lifestyle of poultry can be altered. Smith !2 Without knowledge on the topic of poultry production there is no way for consumers to take action since they know there is a problem. The poultry industry does not want people to know, they want consumers to continue buying from them. A study done in Arkansa showed that were uncertain as to whether or not conventionally produced poultry possessed unsafe levels of antibiotics and the survey explained that many consumers are highly unaware of what they are consuming and how the poultry in produced (Estes). The majority of poultry produced for consumption is raised on commercial farms which consists of large warehouse like barns filled with large amounts of poultry either kept in small cages or loose on the ground. The main issue associated with commercial farms is overcrowding of the birds. The overcrowding has been proven to cause more stress on the birds thus increasing likelihood of cases of disease such as avian flu (Gomes). the cages used to house many chickens are excessively small and allow for proper movements or natural behavior. For the cage free birds their situation may seem better but in reality they are so crowded that a natural hierarchy cannot be formed causing them to continuously mutilate to one another. In a natural setting, chickens remain in smaller flocks in which there is an established hierarchy with the most dominate and strong bird at the top, with so many birds in commercial barns the birds continue to try to establish dominance over each other (Gomes). According to Bruce Friedrich and Stefanie Wilson, the Department of Agriculture (USDA) is by the industries it is supposed to regulate, leading to Wilson). This statement shows that there should be more regulations being enforced but the power of the big business gets around most of them. Overcrowding is a major issue but definitely not the only one. At just a day old the chicks of the egg industry are sexed and the males are ground up alive since they are useless Smith !3 when it comes to producing eggs. The chicks that live past a day old have the tips of their beaks burnt off in order to lessen the mutilation of other birds it will be housed with. Along with these housing methods, the actual chickens being raised are contributing to the inhumane industry. The chickens raised today for meat have been selectively bred and genetically modified to grow faster and bigger often causing their weight to cripple their own legs Chicken Acknowledging the problem with the methods used is an important step towards change in the poultry industry. These methods are not the only ones but are commonly seen along with mistreatment of the animals by the workers and inadequate diets for the laying hens. Consumers may assume they are not contributing to the horrendous side of poultry production by purchasing free range or cage free eggs and meat but as discussed earlier, these labels can mean nothing in the way of humaneness. The anti-cruelty laws that protect many animals such pets are often agricultural animals from anti-cruelty protections--is not unique to the United States. Rather, it is the norm globally, and the resulting animal suffering reaches an almost incomprehensible (Cassuto). People too often trust that the commercial farms are regulated to make sure the animals are treated well but this is far from the truth. Taking responsibility for the part one plays in the poultry industry can begin steps needed to make a change. A claim made by people who want to take responsibility may be that chickens feel pain like other animals or smart enough to know they are in bad conditions, both of which are completely untrue. Chickens are very intelligent and can be taught tricks like a dog and have even been known to be affectionate with their owners Chicken By denying that chickens are capable of emotion and pain just like dogs and cats, one takes the guilt away from themselves. The majority of the population consumes chicken daily without a thought Smith !4 of how the bird lived and died to be eaten. The consumer must ask themselves whether eating poultry is worth the inhumane lives they live. Knowing of what happens behind closed doors of poultry farms, it is time to take action. There are many ways to contribute to the end of inhumane practices. The well known animal rights organization PETA advocates to stop eating poultry all together to force the industry to end. This method is extreme in the sense that so many people consume poultry products everyday and is not a realistic option for everyone even if it is effective. Alternatively, one can find local farmers who produce poultry products with humane methods. A good place to look for these local producers is at farmers markets. Ones of the easiest things to do is simply help spread the word about what is happening in the industry, doing so gets more people involved. Another option is to get involved with organizations such as PETA or The Humane Society that will even rescue commercial chickens and raise them back to health in a good environment. There are plenty of petitions to sign that will head the industry toward the right direction. The goal of these petitions is to create more laws and regulations to protect poultry from inhumane conditions. New laws could consist of requiring more space for each bird or keeping them in smaller groups to enable hierarchies to form naturally. Some states have already began to put laws in place such as 2008, California took a stand against these inhumane practices by enacting the Prevention of Farm Animal Cruelty this act banned the use of with laying hens in California (Watnick). Protests are even another option which can get the word spread about poultry production and tell the industry how the consumers feel about their methods. Understanding the many different options, one can easily find one or more that fits in their life Smith !5 and can save the lives of many birds suffering today. Taking action gives an empowering feeling to those who do so by giving the feeling they are making a difference in something important. The poultry industry has hidden their true methods for too long. It is the consumers place to take action and take responsibility for what they are supporting. Educating self and others is critical in the path to changing the inhumane methods of the poultry industry. There are so many options that can be chosen from to take action there is no excuse for not doing so. The poultry on commercial farms are living out their lives crowded in dark barns unable to ever see the sun or scratch in the dirt or even grow at a normal pace. These animals are fully aware and able to feel all the emotions as any other animal. If the chicken industry switched to dogs or cats the reaction would be different and thats the problem, there is no difference between dogs and poultry, they should be treated with the same respect as they are both innocent lives. Smith !6 Works Cited Cassuto, David N. Be Cruel (Anymore): A Look at the Animal Cruelty Regimes of the United States and Brazil with a Call for a New Animal Welfare  Boston College Environmental Affairs Law Review, vol. 43, 01 Jan. 2016, p. 1. EBSCOhost, Estes, Stuart, et al. Consumer Perceptions of Poultry Production: A Focus on  Journal of Applied Communications, no. 4, 2015, p. 34. EBSCOhost Friedrich, Bruce and Stefanie Wilson. Coming Home to Roost: How the Chicken Industry Hurts Chickens, Humans, and the  Animal Law, no. 1, 2015, p. 103. EBSCOhost Gomes, A. V. S., et al. Overcrowding Stress Decreases Macrophage Activity And Increases Salmonella Enteritidis Invasion In Broiler  Avian Pathology 1 (2014): AGRIS. Web. 20 April. 2017 Chicken PETA. http://www.peta.org/issues/animals-used-for-food/factory- farming/chickens/chicken-industry/. Accessed 20 April 2017 Watnick, Valerie J. The Business and Ethics of Laying Hens: Groundbreaking Law Goes into Effect on Animal  Boston College Environmental Affairs Law Review, vol. 43, 01 Jan. 2016, p. 45. EBSCOhost