Murtha 1 Jonathan Murtha Professor Sabah Firoz Uddin Composition 1 April 22, 2017 Abortion and Homicide There has recently been a heated debate in the United States on the topic of abortion. This controversy became a popular topic after the verdict of the Roe v. Wade Supreme Court case in 1973. The Supreme Court ruled that abortion is to be considered legal in all fifty states. Many citizens opposed this decision; however, many others supported this decision. Those who opposed this decision are referred to as pro-life advocates. Those who supported this decision are referred to as pro-choice advocates. There are numerous topics within the broader topic of abortion; one prominent example is whether abortion should be considered homicide or not. Abortion should be considered homicide in the United States, whereas homicide is defined as the killing of one human being by another. Human beings come to be at the point of fertilization. A well-known christian philosopher Patrick Lee claims, biological evidence clearly shows that in normal reproduction a new organism of the relevant mammalian species is generated with the completion of the fertilization (Lee, pg. 8). After fertilization, an embryo is formed. Even though this new organism is at an early stage, the embryo has a purpose: to grow and develop into a human fetus. This embryo is a completely new, separate, and individual human being. Lee commented, this organism is distinct from any cell of the mother or of the father: in normal reproduction it has its own genetic make-up distinct from that of the mother or Murtha 2 (Lee, pg. 9). The embryo, even at an immature stage, can be considered a human being with complete and full moral worth and value. Lee emphasizes, with many others, I hold that the basic facts reported by the standard embryology texts are sufficient to show that the human embryo is a distinct, individual human (Lee, pg. 8). Therefore, abortion should be considered the homicide of a human being, since this new organism has complete worth and value. After the embryonic stage, this new organism enters into the fetal stage. Abortions violate the right to life, because an abortion is considered by many to be an attack against the fetus, as well as withdrawing the aid that the fetus depends on. Another philosopher, Timothy Hall, agrees with this, commenting, many abortions are not simply the withdrawal of aid to which a fetus has no right. Many abortions are attacks against the fetus, and these attacks will violate its right to (Hall, pg. 406). The fetus has an assumed right to life, even if this new organism have the right to the aid of the mother that it depends on. This assumed right proves to be superior to abortion. Hall calls this the from (Hall, pg. 406). Every human life, whether an elderly person, an adult, a young adult, a child, or even a fetus, has a right to life, and has full moral worth and value from the point of conception until the time of death. The philosopher Peter Augustine Lawler points out, every human life is dignified or significant, [pro-life argue, it is so from the time that it possesses a distinct genetic endowment that guides its development into a unique and irreplaceable human (Lawler, pg. 29). The point of conception is a jump from separate sex cells to an entirely new human being. Lawler emphasizes, William Hurlbut explains, act of fertilization is a leap from zero to (Lawler, pg. 29). Murtha 3 While most pro-life advocates argue that abortion should be considered homicide, many pro-choice advocates believe that this debate be looked at in terms of homicide, but in terms of choice. A great number of pro-choice advocates believe that women should have the right to choose to have an abortion or not. They argue that the right to choose to have an abortion or not recognizes that women are individuals who are capable of controlling their own bodies and limits. The philosopher Georgia Warnke argues, the right to choose in the context of abortion marks an important achievement insofar as it recognizes autonomy and pronounces them to be individuals capable of choosing their own (Warnke, pg. 165). Another argument by pro-choice advocates is that the right to choose is important because it recognizes that the woman is separate from the fetus. Another philosopher, Bertha Alvarez Manninen, who is also a pro-choice advocate, points out that through choice, affirm their own separateness [from the (Manninen, pg. 665). Some pro-choice advocates also argue that women should have the position to control their own meaning of pregnancy and abortion, but organized medicine has taken that capacity away from them. The philosopher Tracy Weitz asserts, medicine used scientific arguments against abortion to consolidate professional power and assert control over the meaning of pregnancy and abortion, thereby stripping women of that (Weitz, pg. 112). These are the arguments that the pro-choice advocates believe to be true. While the fetus is a separate and individual human being, and is separate from the mother, the fetus still depends on the mother for aid to grow and develop. The fetus has an assumed right to life, even if it have the right to the aid from the mother that it depends on in order to grow and develop. Hall disputes the claim by pro-choice advocates, arguing, Murtha 4 if a fetus has no right to the aid on which its life depends, [the Objection from runs, its assumed right to life will stand in the way of many (Hall, pg. 605). Pro-choice advocates argue that the right to choose shows that women are independent. However, the fetus depends on the mother for aid, and even if the fetus have the right to this aid, the fetus does have a right to life. Therefore, the from stands in the way of abortions (Hall, pg. 406). The topic of abortion has recently sparked a heated debate in the United States. This controversy picked up momentum after the verdict of the Roe v. Wade Supreme Court case, which ruled that abortion is legal in every state. While many citizens supported this decision, many other citizens opposed this decision. While talking about abortion, there are many topics to consider. One important topic is whether abortion should be considered homicide or not. Abortion should be considered homicide in the United States. While the topic of abortion is a sensitive subject for many people, there is a need to address it, because it deals with the lives of unborn human fetuses. Murtha 5 Works Cited 1) Hall, Timothy. Abortion, The Right To Life, And  Theory & 31.3 (2005): 405-429. Search Alumni Web. 10 April 2017. 2) Lawler, Peter Augustine. Reason, Sentiments, And Personal  44.4 (2007): 28-30. Search Web. 10 April 2017. 3) Lee, Patrick. A Christian View Of Recent Directions In The Abortion  Bioethics: Non-Ecumenical Studies In Medical 10.1 (2004): 7-31. Search Web. 10 April 2017. 4) Manninen, Bertha Alvarez. The Value of Choice and the Choice to Value: Expanding the Discussion about Fetal Life within Prochoice  vol. 28, no. 3, Aug. 2013, pp. 663-683. doi:10.1111/j.1527-2001.2012.013 02.x. Web. 12 April 2017. 5) Warnke, Georgia. The Right to Choose: A Hermeneutic  of Social vol. 46, no. 2, Summer 2015, pp. 161-177. doi:10.1111/josp.12095. Web. 12 April 2017. Murtha 6 6) Weitz, Tracy. Producing And Mobilizing Science To Oppose Abortion Rights In The United  Humanities 66.3 (2012): 102-117. Full Text (H.W. Web. 12 April 2017.