Stone 1 Jacob Stone Instructor Bob Botkin ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Call to Action Nuclear energy has tempted many scientists and governments across the world due to its potential to create one million times more energy than fossil fuels (Ward). Scientists will almost always be at war with each other when it comes to debating whether to implement nuclear energy into the United States. Due to this debate, it would be unsafe to continue the domestic installment of nuclear reactors until scientists and researchers can agree it is safe. This means reactors should meet both the safety standards to minimize risk and figure out what to do with nuclear waste. For the general public to make an informed decision on this matter, they must be informed of both the pros and cons of nuclear energy implementation. There are many cons to the continued increase in nuclear power plants. The Environmental Protection Agency (or EPA) has set many specific guidelines when it comes to nuclear energy and its by-products. In simple terms, nuclear reactors use the element uranium as a sort of fuel to create energy. When the uranium is depleted, according to the EPA it can still be hazardous for up to 10,000 years and cons of nuclear The toxic waste must be carefully observed and kept away from civilization for many years. The workers must wait until the fuel reaches its desired half-life until people can contact it again without contracting its toxic effects. For example, plutonium-239 has a half-life of 24,000 years which means it will take hundreds of thousands of years to decay to a state that is no longer hazardous Backgrounder on Radioactive Half-life of nuclear waste is not the only concern, a large concern according to researcher Ward is the meltdowns. They claim that large nuclear Stone 2 meltdowns in history released radioactive waste that had lasting negative impacts on the environment and surrounding (Ward). In a nuclear meltdown, radioactive materials spread out uncontrollably throughout the environment. This makes that area of land toxic for however many years the half-life lasts. Animals and ecosystems will be destroyed and altered due to the meltdown which will ultimately affect the humans living near it. Scientists are urging for better safety standards when it comes to managing not only the waste but also the nuclear reactors themselves. The general public should care about the rise of nuclear energy. They should be wondering about what happens when the entire world starts accumulating nuclear waste and what happens when governments want to save money. According to the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, spent fuel rods are placed in pools that are typically 40 feet deep and incased by concrete that is several feet thick (Backgrounder on Radioactive Waste). The public should realize that this costs money, and question the possibilities that the power plant may use 30 feet deep casks for storing spent fuel rods instead of 40 feet just to save money. A simple decrease in funding for safely storing nuclear energy products could prove to be devastating to the population. Power plants should obtain more than adequate funding to protect the public from the toxic properties that come with nuclear energy. Researcher Jeffrey Patterson comments on nuclear waste they (future generations) struggle to deal with a poisonous environment and waste that must be safeguarded for thousands of (EPA). The public must know that although nuclear plants can produce one million times more energy than fossil fuels, humans must take care of the waste it produces for hundreds of thousands of years to come. These power facilities are operated by humans, and that fact that humans can make mistakes must be accounted for as well. According to Scientific American, Associated Press investigation in Stone 3 March revealed 24 cases from December 2009 to September 2010 in which plant operators did not report equipment (THE EDITORS). This situation should be very scary to the public. In just one year, an investigation found that there were 24 instances where operators did not report defects. These unnoticed defects could have resulted in millions of dollars lost and the death of many. The fact that a potential loss of an ecosystem, life, and land is going unnoticed is very scary. Both operating facilities and waste facilities must be kept under close watch to make sure there are no potential flaws. Seeing as this waste is considered toxic to the population, waste disposal sites could be considered possible targets due to terrorism (Pros and cons of nuclear power). The constant care and security of these facilities will be a concern to the population. The general population must take steps to bring nuclear energy to a halt until scientists figure out the waste issue and the possible underfunding of power plants which could lead to a meltdown. It is their future generations that will be effected by the choices today for thousands of years. One large step is contacting their local representor in congress. According to ANS Nuclear the Republican party is against nuclear energy until the problem with the waste is figured out. They also claim that the Democratic stance on energy is to make sure that it does not have a negative impact on the environment (Hopf). It does not matter the party affiliation of the person, as long as they contact their representative and express their opinions. They should be increasing their watch over nuclear power plants and the waste disposal system to avoid a catastrophic event. Another step the public can take is to donate to any organization who either fund the continued research of nuclear energy or to simply end its global advancement. The Nuclear Energy Information mission statement is Energy Information Service is a non-profit organization committed to ending nuclear (Kraft). By donating, these organizations are able to lobby and even campaign against nuclear energy. Stone 4 Nuclear energy is a double edged sword according to the scientific community. This issue should be debated not only by professionals but also the general public. Nuclear waste has a very large effect for thousands of years into the future that voters must consider. Waste facilities are left up to human error for generations as the burden of nuclear waste is continued. Unless there are new waste disposal methods and a guarantee of safe storage, nuclear power should not be implemented. The future best interest should be considered before making this drastic decision. Stone 5 Works Cited Pros and cons of nuclear  Time for Change. Time for Change, 11 Jan. 2007. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Maehlum, Mathias A. Nuclear Energy Pros and  Energy Informative. N.p., 3 May 2013. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. EPA. Is Nuclear Power Safe for Humans and the  Pro Con. N.p., 24 Apr. 2012. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. THE EDITORS. Coming Clean about Nuclear  Scientific American. N.p., 1 June 2011. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Ward, David. Nuclear  Student Energy. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Backgrounder on Radioactive Waste  United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission. N.p., 3 Apr. 2015. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Hopf, Jim. The party platforms on  ANS Nuclear Cafe. ANS Nuclear Cafe, 18 Sept. 2012. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Kraft, Dave. About  Nuclear Energy Information Service. NEIS, 2017. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.