Christiana Owowo Professor Uddin ENC 1101 25 April 2017 Project 3 Intermediate Draft In psychology today, there are four major recognized parenting styles which were originally identified by developmental psychologist Diana Baumrind. These styles are: authoritative, neglectful, permissive, and authoritarian. Parenting styles effect many different factors that are significant in a development. Each one contains different characteristics that affect children differently. They show what discipline strategies are effective on each child and aid in establishing effective communication between parents and their children. For example, authoritative parents are warm but firm. They encourage their adolescent to be independent while maintaining limits and controls on their actions. Authoritative parents do not invoke the I said rule. Instead, they are willing to entertain, listen to, and take into their viewpoint (Kopko 1-2). The perfect balance between limits/firmness and warmth tend to have a positive effect on the development of children. It creates the healthiest environment for a developing child and helps to promote a productive relationship between the parent and the child. Another example is the neglectful parenting style. Neglectful parenting is one of the most harmful styles of parenting that can be used on a child. This type of parent decides to have little or nothing to do with their life which allows room for the child having a difficult time developing relationships with people in the future which makes it the worst parenting style among the main four. The authoritarian and permissive parenting styles clash because they both have their balance of beneficial and harmful effects on child development. Although authoritarian parents show little warmth and are very strict, their children tend to be more disciplined and they tend to show more respect to figures of authority. Likewise, permissive parents show warmth but enforce minimal rules and restrictions. When focusing on just these two parenting styles alone the ones that are neither the best or the worst ultimately, the permissive parenting style has better effects on childhood development then the authoritarian parenting style. Permissive parents are lenient and they want the best for their child. They want them to be happy so they also minimize boundaries, which are pivotal in childhood development. These parents can be seen more as friends to their children their parents because the lack of discipline. Children who are raised by permissive parents, however, grow with the ability to think creatively and be innovating. They know that their parents allow them to be free to pursue what they want and they are able to think outside the box Strict Parenting Vs. Permissive: Which is Studies also show that children who are raised by permissive parents also have less psychological issues, unlike many children who are raised by authoritarian parents. Many argue for authoritarian parenting because they think if boundaries are placed in early childhood, children will be disciplined and obedient. Studies show that children who are raised in authoritarian households tend to outperform their peers and achieve great things because of the discipline they are taught, for example, great artists such as Mozart and Beethoven were known to be raised by authoritarian parents which is a factor that played a major part in them becoming great artists Strict Parenting Vs. Permissive: Which is Although boundaries are set in place by these parents, the manner in which they are set can be very damaging to the maturation of a child especially psychologically. The presence of strong rule enforcement by punishment with a lack of nurturing and warmth lays a foundation for rebellion. reveals that adolescents of authoritarian parents learn that following parental rules and adherence to strict discipline is valued over independent behavior. As a result, adolescents may become rebellious or dependent. Those who become rebellious might display aggressive behaviors (Kopko 2). Studies have also shown that these very controlling parents always have children who achieve well academically. These adolescents actually have a increased risk for drinking, smoking, and drug usage because of that rebellious foundation. They also tend to have lower self-esteem and are more likely to attempt suicide and become depressed: effect of authoritarian parenting style on depression In a study on parenting style and depression among adolescents, Joshi et al. (2009) found that, adolescents who lived with authoritarian parents had more depression than those who lived with authoritative parents. Other researchers also found that authoritarian parenting and depression are strongly correlated (Milevsky et al., 2007; 28 2008; Patock-Peckham & Morgan-Lopez, 2009). Thompson, Hollis, and Richards (2003) also found that depression occurs among children between the age of 5 and 10 if they live in an authoritarian home. Taken together, these studies suggest that authoritarian parenting may contribute to depression in children (Noor A. Rosli, 2009, p. This mean permissive parenting is very effective though. findings show that adolescents of permissive parents learn that there are very few boundaries and rules and that consequences are not likely to be very serious. As a result, teens may have difficulty with self-control and demonstrate egocentric tendencies that can interfere with proper development of peer relationships. (Kopko 2). Although the permissive parenting style also has its negative effects, they are not as damaging as the negative effects of the authoritarian parenting style there is still nurture and warmth involved, which is very significant in childhood development. Works Cited: Strict Parenting Vs. Permissive: Which is Raise Smart Kid http://www.raisesmartkid.com/all-ages/1-articles/47-authoritarian-strict-parenting-vs- permissive-which-is-better Kopko, K. (2007). Parenting Styles and Adolescents. Parenting in Context. Retrieved from http://www.parenting.cit.cornell.edu/ Rosli, Noor A., Effect of Parenting Styles on Emotional and Behavioral Problems Among Different Ethnicities of Muslim Children in the U.S. Dissertation, Marquette University, 2009.