Melachrinoudis 1 Elizabeth Melachrinoudis ENC 1102 Bob Botkin 11 April 2017 Project 3 Intermediate Draft Chemotherapeutic drugs have a success rate of fewer than three percent, however it remains the most commonly prescribed treatment for cancer. Statistically the use of a drug that has such a low success rate should be terminated as soon as it is discovered to be that ineffective. Multiple alternative cancer treatments have been found to be much more effective than chemotherapeutic drugs without the harsh effects on the patients however they continue to fall drastically short of chemotherapy in regards to being prescribed to patients. effectiveness is often misconstrued to patients, leading them to believe its effectiveness will out way the negative effects on the bodies. Chemotherapy should no longer be used as the primary cancer treatment. This paper will go further into detail regarding why the use of chemotherapy should be discontinued and will discuss why a right to an education and choice of alternative methods should be implemented. In 2016 over one and a half million new cases of cancer were diagnosed and almost six hundred thousand people died from the disease in the United States alone. From 2012 to 2030 worldwide cancer cases are projected to increase by fifty percent from fourteen million to twenty one million and worldwide cancer deaths are projected to increase by sixty percent from eight million to around thirteen million. These terrifyingly high numbers make cancer one of the leading causes of death worldwide and unfortunately oncologists are nowhere close to a cure. Melachrinoudis 2 The only answer doctors have for cancer patients are to prescribe them chemotherapeutic drugs, which fail ninety seven percent of the times they are administered. In most cases regarding a fatal disease, any treatment is better than no treatment at all. However when discussing chemotherapy there is not much indication that it is ever the right choice and it may be in fact the wrong one. Holly analysis in JAMA Oncology showed that patients who choose chemotherapy when diagnosed with cancer experience a similar survival rate along with drop in their quality of life and therefore are arguably worse off than if they opted for the treatment. When regarding aspects like whether the patients could continue to walk on their own and take care of themselves, those on chemotherapy reported notable declines compared to patients who decided not to receive the chemotherapy. results were counterintuitive to some says Prigerson. finding that the quality of life was impaired with receipt of the toxic chemotherapy was not surprising. The surprising part was that people who were feeling the best at the start of the therapy ended up feeling the worst. They are the ones most harmed and who had the most to (Prigerson 1) Instead of helping patients fight their cancers, the chemotherapy is giving patients a false sense of hope and ultimately making their final days more miserable. While chemotherapeutic drugs may indeed kill some cancer cells that is not the exclusive purpose. you have a garden with flowers and bushes and trees and grass, and some weeds, you come with Agent Orange and kill it all off, and now all dead, and you hope only the good stuff is coming according to naturopathic doctor Leonard Coldwell. bombard the entire system and then they say the cancer is in He goes on to mention that statistics on the effectiveness of anti-cancer drugs refer to patient survival rates after five years. killed basically every bioelectrical and biochemical function in the he says. Melachrinoudis 3 nothing works anymore, for three years, you have no cancer, cured. just dead in five This method of discussing chemotherapy in such a positive light gives cancer patients a false hope. Pharmaceutical companies have the ability to truthfully say that chemotherapy does in fact kill cancer cells, what the companies fail to mention though is ability to kill all other human cells as well. The negative effects of chemotherapeutic drugs have prompted the research into alternative methods of treatment for cancer. The treatments mostly regard changes made to the diet or consumptions of specific vitamins and minerals. In 1952, Dr. Johanna Budwig discovered that many of the usual processed fats and hydrogenated oils were destroying the membranes of cells, which caused cells to become toxic and led to cancer. When processed fats and oils are replaced with unsaturated fatty acids, the cells will rebuild and are left rejuvenated instead of being left diseased. Multiple studies continue to support the theory that high levels of heart healthy, fat-soluble vitamins and minerals are key to keeping a body cancer free. More recently, there has been considerable progress regarding the role that fat-soluble vitamin D3 plays in cancer prevention. In one study, published in the American Journal of Clinical Nutrition, after just one year of intense vitamin D3-added supplementation, the risk of developing cancerous cells was decreased by seventy-seven percent. The use of alternative methods provides a more cost effective treatment for cancer while also leaving the patients feeling healthier and maintains quality of life more effectively than chemotherapy, even in terminally ill patients. Whether oncologists believe in alternative cancer treatments or not, plenty of research supports the fact that patients find them helpful, even the alternative methods solely maintains the quality of life and increases their optimism. However, due to an alliance between the American Medical Association and multiple major pharmaceutical companies over one Melachrinoudis 4 hundred years ago, the medical schools in the United States concentrate primarily on prescription drugs for cancer treatment while actively turning people away from natural remedies. This is particularly important because rejecting conventional treatments, sometimes permanently in favor of alternative treatments is becoming increasingly more common in cancer patients. Remarkably, according to a poll at McGill Cancer Centre, in a poll of sixty-four oncologists, fifty-eight indicated that they would not prescribe chemotherapy to a member of their families, due to the fact that the form of treatment is One solution to counteract this policy is to especially support the right of choice when it comes to their own treatments, as long as all the information has been presented and discussed between the doctor and patient. With cancer being such a prominent medical issue, it is imperative that patients are given the opportunity to decide what treatment they feel is best for themselves and those surrounding the patients must be educated on the different treatments available so they can best help their diagnosed loved ones. This is quite literally a life of death situation for millions of people around the world. The collaboration between medical school and pharmaceutical companies must be terminated. Through further education of holistic, alternative treatments it is possible for the mortality rate of cancer to decline over the years. Melachrinoudis 5 Works Cited Axe, Josh. Natural Cancer Treatments Hidden Dr. Axe, 6 Jan. 2017, draxe.com/10- natural-cancer-treatments-hidden-cures/. Bollinger, Ty. Most Doctors Really Think About Alternative Cancer The Truth About Cancer, 7 June 2016, thetruthaboutcancer.com/doctors-really-think-alternative- cancer-treatments/. Accessed 11 Apr. 2017. National Cancer Institute, 22 Mar. 2017, www.cancer.gov/about- cancer/understanding/statistics. Accessed 11 Apr. 2017. Prigerson, Holly G. Use, Performance Status, and Quality of Life Near Oncology, American Medical Association, 1 Sept. 2015, jamanetwork.com/journals/jamaoncology/fullarticle/2398177. Accessed 11 Apr. 2017.