Jessica Parker 1 Uddin ENC 1101 4/25/2017 TPP: Project 3 Joining the Conversation The Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) was created with the goal of binding Pacific nations by offering low tariffs and protecting the global economy from rapid economic growth and influence. What started out as a trade agreement between New Zealand, Singapore, Chile and Brunei, called the P-4, soon became the TPP when the United States announced its join in February 2008 under Bush presidency. One of the original reasons for act to join was to be recognized in the Annual Report on Trade Agreements. This report stated the TPP could give the opportunity for big US businesses to better their competition in the Asia-Pacific region; which was at a noticeably high exclusion rate as economy was developing. Soon the TPP was to become the largest regional trade agreement, consisting of Australia, Brunei, Canada, Chile, Japan, Malaysia, Mexico, New Zealand, Peru, Singapore, Vietnam and the United States. These countries put together contained roughly 40% of the global GDP and 1/3 of the world trade. Through the years of involvement with the TPP, saw no new jobs or major direct impact. Some big businesses had larger yearly exports to international low paying manufacturing jobs which limited competition and even raised prices on certain items. In the recent election of President Trump, the US resigned from its involvement with the TPP. Through my research I have concluded that since the U.S. signed on to the TPP, the trade agreement has not had any impact on the U.S. economy. An article from the New York Times, Trump Abandons Trans-Pacific Partnership, Signature Trade  written by Peter Baker discusses action of resigning the U.S. from the TPP. In the article, a quote from Trump states workers would be protected against competition from low-wage He included these low-wage countries 2 to be Vietnam and Malaysia. focus on American economics and the country great urged this resignation. ideals are focusing inward on the U.S. economy to create more American jobs and decrease imports. The TPP was made to control rapidly growing economy. While the U.S. was a part of the TPP, an invitation to join was extended to China but was never accepted. Since China never accepted, the TPP was making no progress in controlling economy. Taking on viewpoints, focusing on economy does not improve the U.S. economy and job growth, thus making the decision to resign from the TPP. The Significance of the Trans-Pacific Partnership for the United an article from Brookers written by Joshua Meltzer discusses the economic benefits the TPP was thought to have had on the U.S. economy. Analyzing benefits such as low trading tariffs shows to be almost negligible as he states low U.S. tariffs on imports limits the gains to the U.S. since the main benefits from trade liberalization accrue to the country liberalizing its There is limited growth on decreasing trade tariffs due to the U.S. being involved in low tariff direct trade agreements with all of the countries involved in the TPP. Researchers such as Delisle, who writes in the Case Western Reserve Journal Of International Law about International Law under the Obama Administration, discusses the positive impacts of the TPP on the U.S. economy, saying and TPP-strengthened economic ties between the U.S. and regional states promised to exert some counterforce to economic gravitational pull, and to bind the U.S. and East Asian states to the mast in their commitments to one another by giving them economic reasons to support the status quo in the region, including the U.S. security commitments that, while offensive to China, underpin that status With 40% of global trade and 1/3 of global GDP being a part of the TPP, China would feel more compelled to take part in the trade agreement which would make it easier for the countries in the TPP to control 3 their growing economy. Even if China join the TPP, binding most of the Pacific nations together with one end goal would strengthen the regional ties between the US and those nations. With stronger relationships, those countries would be more likely to follow the lead on future decisions for the trade agreement. Low trade tariffs were also provided in the proposal for the TPP. Although my opinion is that this would be negligible, other researchers say it is a positive outcome. Low trade tariffs could also strengthen the relationships between the US and the pacific nations. Arrgarwal, who writes in Globalizations about the US looking to trade west, looks at the down side of joining the TPP explaining that to negotiate an FTAAP(Free Trade area of the Asia-Pacific) ignores the reality of US trade politics by misunderstanding how the continuing and increasing US trade deficit with China in recent years has dramatically increased domestic protectionist pressure in the United The US did not consider thoughts on their personal trade deficit. China might think the US is acting on malicious reasons to trade with them. After all, why would the US suddenly want to trade with them now? This trade deficit with China and the US discourages China to join any trade agreement involvement with the US, being proven when China turned down the invitation to join the TPP. Taking these in to consideration, I believe that they all cancel each other out. As long as the US continues to strengthen their individual agreements, the personal economic benefits that proceed those trade agreements will outweigh the benefits of decreasing global economic effects. The TPP did not decrease any benefits the US economy was already receiving from other trade agreements. However it did not bolster any of those either. By growing previous trade agreements stronger and focusing on the US economy itself without much worldly outlook will produce an outcome with more economic benefits than constantly trying to degrade economy. Low trade tariffs that were proposed by the TPP are negligible when talking about what 4 the TPP can offer for the US economy. After being involved with the TPP for 9 years, US workers saw no changes in wage or overall job growth, which is one goal of joining any trade agreement. These reasons lead me to conclude that the Trans-Pacific Partnership had no effect on the US economy. However, China may be in the works of trying to join the TPP. Although I believe this trade agreement had any effects on the economy in the last 9 years, there may be long term effects that could be caused by not being involved with it. 5 Sources: Aggarwal, Vinod K. Look West: The Evolution Of US Trade Policy Toward  Globalizations 7.4 (2010): 455. Baker, Peter. Trump Abandons Trans-Pacific Partnership, Signature Trade  The New York Times. The New York Times, 23 Jan. 2017. Web. 11 Apr. 2017. DeLisle, Jacques. International Law In The Obama Pivot To Asia: The China Seas Disputes, The Trans-Pacific Partnership, Rivalry With The Prc, And Status Quo Legal Norms In U.S. Foreign  Case Western Reserve Journal Of International Law 48.1/2 (2016): 143-176. Meltzer, Joshua P. The Significance of the Trans-Pacific Partnership for the United States Brookings  Brookings. Brookings, 28 July 2016. Web. 11 Apr. 2017. Ravenhill, John. The Move To Preferential Trade On The Western Pacific Rim: Some Initial  Australian Journal Of International Affairs 62.2 (2008): 129- 150. Humanities Source