Graham 1 Jack E. Graham, III Bianca Hernandez ENC 1102.088S17 08 April 2017 U.S. Nuclear Power: The Key to a Better Environment The environment in the United States is in major trouble as the population continues to grow because a large population tends to produce more harmful carbon emissions that get released into the atmosphere. As Sergio Zubelzu, a mechanical engineering professor at Nebrija University and an electrical engineer, points out, import infrastructure services (gas, electricity and water, i.e.) necessary for industrial production and household (Zubelzu and Alvarez). What this statement is saying is that even the basic necessities for people to live, such as drawing a glass of water or turning on your lights when it gets dark out, helps to contribute to the carbon emissions produced in the United States. With this in mind, scientists have been looking for ways to lower the carbon emissions produced and be able to provide the same services to all Americans. After the atomic bombs were dropped on Nagasaki and Hiroshima, scientists have been hard at work trying to find a way to harness the incredible power produced from it into a way that benefits everyone. in the early nuclear power technology has and that evolution has allowed nuclear power to be able to prove that it does provide helpful benefits (Vujic, Antic, and Vukmirovic). Nuclear power is able to generate more electricity for future Americans while being able to produce little to no carbon emissions, which benefits everyone. However, after the disasters that occurred at Graham 2 Chernobyl and Fukushima, the support for nuclear power has dropped dramatically. With the dwindling support for nuclear power, it has created the effect that nuclear power plants are shutting down and that there been enough development of other alternative energies to reduce the carbon emissions as effectively as nuclear power. One major way of being able to improve the environment in the United States is supporting nuclear power by writing to your local congressman/congresswoman and donating to groups/organizations that support nuclear power. Nuclear power has been providing benefits for over 55 years that most Americans take for granted or are not even aware of, such as being a clean source of energy. The general process of nuclear power starts off with a hot rock that needs constant cooling. That constant cooling comes in the form of water, which flows over the hot rock and takes the heat away. Then the heated water from the hot rock goes into a steam generator, which has water to cool the heated water from the hot rock, and that cooler water goes back to the hot rock to repeat the process. The water in the steam generator takes the heat away, it will begin producing steam which will go to steam turbines that will be able to generate electricity. Once the steam leaves the turbines, it goes into a cooler that condenses the steam back into water and that water returns back to the steam generator to repeat the process. The cooler uses water from either a reservoir of water or from a body of water the power plant is built beside. The water in the cooler takes the heat out of the steam, which turns that into steam and exits out of the cooling towers seen at nuclear power plants. During this process, the water in each system described never comes into contact with each other to ensure safety to the environment. Jasmina Vujic, a professor at the University of California Berkley that holds a Ph.D. in nuclear Graham 3 science, points out power emissions of greenhouse gases are minimal, and nuclear power is the only baseload electricity source that could effectively replace fossil-burning plants and help in reduction of global warming (Vujic, Antic, and Vukmirovic). This is saying that nuclear power is the only electrical source that is able to reduce the carbon emissions produced while being able to maintain the same comfort afforded by other more harmful energy producers in the United States. With no worries of releasing more harmful carbon emissions, nuclear power is able to improve the environment in the U.S. while allowing Americans to relax and be able to live in peace. Nuclear power is also able to generate a lot of electricity while being able to minimize the carbon emissions released into the environment. The average nuclear power plant is able to produce approximately of power, which is saying that one nuclear power plant at 100% power is able to provide electricity to the city of Tampa and its boroughs with little to no brown outs on the electrical grid (Vujic, Antic, and Vukmirovic). This also means that since there is little stress on the electrical grid, it is able to keep up with the electrical demands of a rising population while hardly contributing to carbon emissions production the United States. Without support from the American people, the environment in the United States will have a tougher time of being able to recover from all of the carbon emissions being produced daily. The best way of ensuring that the environment in the United States gets better for future generations to enjoy is by ensuring that nuclear power plants remain in operation and the eventual production of more nuclear power plants. For a nuclear power plant to be able to be built and authorized to be operated in the Unites States, the nuclear power plant has to be approved through the U.S. Congress. The government plays a major role in whether or not Graham 4 nuclear power remains an option in the U.S. So, one major way the American people can help better the environment is by writing to their congressman/congresswoman or senators for their area in favor of nuclear power. An American can find who their congressman/congresswoman is by going online and accessing the U.S. Congress website. Once there, all they have to do is type in their zip code and it will bring up who their congresswoman/congressman is and their contact information. The same goes for looking up which senator is their senator, with the slight change of accessing the U.S. Senate website. By writing to the congressmen/congresswomen or senators, it allows the senators and congressman/congresswoman to be able to vote for bills that will help to authorize nuclear power to be built in the U.S. As Matias Travieso-Davis, a partner in energy practice area of Shaw Pittman LLP and specializes in nuclear energy, points out degree of political commitment at all levels of government may be needed in order to overcome this opposition and mitigate the additional expense and delay that the industry may face when ordering new This is saying that, without support of all Americans, nuclear power may just fade into the history books as a good idea. Another way Americans can help is by becoming members or donating to organizations, such as the US Nuclear Energy Foundation or the Nuclear Energy Institute, to help show support for nuclear energy. If someone donates their money to the US Nuclear Energy Foundation, you will be helping them to achieve their goal of grassroots education of accurate, information on nuclear (US Nuclear Energy Foundation). By supporting organizations such as these, the organizations will have more access to different areas in government and make them listen to what the American people want. It also allows Graham 5 them to be able to lobby for and ensure nuclear power is still around to continue providing clean energy to all Americans. The United States is currently in an environmental crisis as the population continues to rise with new Americans every year. As the population continues to rise, so does the demand for electricity which generates more harmful carbon emissions being released into the environment. Nuclear power is able to help reduce the carbon emissions produced while still being able to meet the electrical demands of the rising population. However, with the dwindling support for nuclear power and the stagnate buildup of nuclear power plants, the chances of making the environment better in the U.S. is dwindling as well. As James Stoutenborough, a professor who specializes in public policy and political psychology at Idaho State University, points out suggested by the differences in the above issues and the variety of risks that citizens and policymakers assess daily, not all risk is created (Stoutenbough, Sturgess, and Vedlitz). What this is saying that what the average American views as a risk, may not be a risk in the mind of a congressman/congresswoman or senator. This is why Americans need to make the effort to send letters to their congressman/congresswoman or senator, so that the risk can be viewed as the same. Without the support and help of the American people, nuclear power may fade into history books as a good attempt to help the environment in the United States. (Word Count: 1460) Graham 6 Work Cited Mission  US Nuclear Energy Foundation. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Apr. 2017. <http://www.usnuclearenergy.org/mission-statement.html>. Stoutenborough, James W., Shelbi G. Sturgess, and Arnold Vedlitz. Knowledge, Risk, And Policy Support: Public Perceptions Of Nuclear  Energy Policy 62.(2013): 176-184. ScienceDirect. Web. 16 Sept. 2016. Travieso-Diaz, Matias F., and R. Budd Haemer. The Outlook For U.S. Nuclear Power In The 21St  The Electricity Journal 8 (2004): 79. Academic OneFile. Web. 27 Sept. 2016. Vujic, Jasmina, Dragoljub P. Antic, and Zorka Vukmirovic. Environmental Impact And Cost Analysis Of Coal Versus Nuclear Power: The U.S.  Energy 1 (2012): 31. Academic OneFile. Web. 27 Sept. 2016. Zubelzu, Sergio1, sergio.zubelzu@upm.es, and Roberto2, ralvarez@nebrija.es A Simplified Method To Assess The Influence Of The Power Generation Mix In Urban Carbon  Energy 115.(2016): 875-887. Applied Science & Technology Source. Web. 22 Feb. 2017.