Goodson 1 Nicki Goodson Mariama Changamire 17 April 2017 ENC 1102 Rape culture and its spread on a college campus Rape culture, a noun that shows the normalization of rape and sexual assault, is commonly found on college campuses. Rape and sexual assault are both something that happen due to the many issues with masculinity complexes and the lack of information on the topic of rape culture. This lack of information adds to the underlying issue of rape culture and adds to the spreading of these ideas. The fault of rape culture is merely pushed away from the authority of colleges, and pushed more so towards the victims whom are unable to get their voices out and heard when necessary. These issues all play a role when it comes to rape culture, and its development throughout college campuses. According to author Jeremy Posadas, the case of toxic masculinity often times triggers male minds when it comes to the topic of rape culture. While rape culture has made its appearance over time, as a subject seen throughout the media and all over social media, rape culture does tend to lead men to place their masculinity in the way. While the teacher was trying to inform said students on the topics of rape and sexual assault, they often times created a rise over the issue of rape culture. More so focusing on the fact that their masculinity complex was challenged. Posadas then states, I came to realize that students could come away from the unit without coming to consciousness of the truth that sexual violence in the West is fundamentally the problem of masculinity-a manifestation of the phenomenon that gender Goodson 2 studies conceptualizes as toxic masculinity. Students need to understand that while rape culture is the mechanism that channels toxic masculinity into specific, socially legitimized practices of sexual violence, if we want to eradicate sexual violence, we must transform the apparatuses by which boys are subjectified into toxically masculine (Posadas, 2016). Because boys are always taught that boys will be boys and that it is okay to engage in violent structures, they are more likely to take action on themselves and on other females in aggressive manors. Due to this extreme violence and heightened amounts of aggression, males are more likely to engage in rape culture without even knowing that they are a part of it, or that it is even an issue that they are engaging in. This blindsided issue allows for rape culture to continuously grow and for the problem to even be hidden from the public eye. Victims are out there, they are making statements in attempt to be heard, yet there is an issue with what becomes exposed to the public and even what is placed in the media. While the belief of of exists, it is often not applied when it comes to the topic of rape culture. Through many campuses this topic is hushed away, or even kept out of the eye in general. Author Julie McCann goes into detail in her peer reviewed article, in attempts to bring the idea of how horrid rapes are to the eye of the common person. In said article she discusses the importance for talking about it, how it took her a long time but it needed to be done. People are more likely to take this information on a topic so corrupt and immoral and disregard it. This issue of rape culture develops also because of this. Rather than develop ways to stop this epidemic, people everywhere chose to go out of their way to avoid it and push it away. Another example of this issue can be seen in the consistent dilemma with the organization of planned parenthood. Planned parenthood, an organization dedicated to the rights of women everywhere. Planned Parenthood reaches out to people of all ages in attempts to create a sense of equality for Goodson 3 people and also to keep the safety of people everywhere. This organization takes extremes in attempts to educate people in order to stop them from doing things that will allow for them to harm others, especially women when involving that of rape. However, this issue of rape culture and the videos and information that Planned Parenthood shares is either debated, as to whether or not it is acceptable to share, or is shut down immediately in attempts to stop the spread of rape culture. This issue is present. Rape culture does exist, however, colleges are not held responsible and do things in their power to keep the statistics of one in five women getting raped within their first year of college secret. There is an extreme need for colleges to be held to authority for what they do in order to keep students safe. While rape culture is not something that starts in college, the development only gets more extreme over time and if nothing is done to stop this, there is an ongoing issue with safety of campus and all the people who attend college on a college campus. The necessity of colleges having responsibility in the issue of rape culture is extremely important. With the development of accountability for schools, colleges would have to take action against rapists. This accountability would require that students engage in activities against rape, that colleges go out of their way to ensure the safety of students and include programs that develop and ensure that people understand that rape culture is an ongoing issue, and that consent is not something that is just bargained, it is required. Rape culture and the ongoing spread of the indecency of both males and females on a college campus has allowed for people to not ensure safety while on a college campus. The idea of a masculinity complex and the issue that arises from males feeling as though they must engage in certain actions in order to ensure they are manly and masculine lead to an ever-so growing issue of rape and sexual assault. This masculinity also arises from the issue of people not Goodson 4 knowing of the victims, not hearing of them and losing connection with the question of whether or not rape culture is even a viable thing. Both of these issues tie in with the lacking amount of responsibility colleges have when it comes down to rape culture. Lacking in accountability, college campuses do everything they can to ensure a good title and good name rather than accepting their flaws and working towards solving the issue, whether that be implementing activities or raising money for the issue. College campuses everywhere have a serious issue to work on; rape culture is not something that is going to go away without the help of the higher ups in college administration whom can look towards the victims and organizations everywhere such as Planned Parenthood, dedicated to working towards ending violence and stopping rape culture. Goodson 5 Works Cited Gourley, Eleanor Christie1. Getting to Yes-Means-Yes: Re-Thinking Responses to Rape and Rape Culture on College  Washington University Journal of Law & Policy, vol. 52, July 2016, pp. 195-225. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx?direct= true&db=ofm&AN=121535881&site=eds-live. Teaching the Cause of Rape Culture: Toxic  Journal of Feminist Studies in Religion (Indiana University Press), vol. 33, no. 1, Spring2017, pp. 177-179. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx?direct= true&db=hft&AN=122344818&site=eds-live. Jeremy, Posadas. Teaching the Cause of Rape Culture: Toxic  Journal of Feminist Studies in Religion, no. 1, 2017, p. 177. EBSCOhost, doi:10.2979/jfemistudreli.33.1.23. Fisher, Connie S., Francis T. Cullen, and Michael G. Turner. The Sexual Victimization of College  NIJ (2000): 11-47. National Institute of Justice. Web. 13 Feb. 2016. <https://www.ncjrs.gov/pdffiles1/nij/182369.pdf>. Fraser, Courtney. From Ladies  to Asking for : Benevolent Sexism in the Maintenance of Rape  California Law Review, vol. 103, no. 1, Feb. 2015, pp. 141-203. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=bah&AN =100942472&site=eds-live.