AlDhubaiban 1 Abdulrahman Aldhubaiban Professor Bianca Hernandez ENC 1102 April 16 2017 Immigrants and Their Influence in the United States The United States is one of the most common destinations for immigrants worldwide. This is exemplified in nickname, Melting which references the numerous different cultures and religions mixing and residing within its borders. Their numbers are significant: as of 2015, over thirteen percent of the entire United States population was composed of immigrants (Zong, Jeanne 1). Given such a large population of immigrants, they substantially impact their new country in many fields. Immigrants play a great role on the American education and economy because they arrive from different backgrounds, which add new values and ideas to the country. In the interests of the prosperity of the United States, America should keep welcoming immigrants because they provide betterment to two major fields such as education and economy. To begin with, Immigrants have a positive impact on the educational system of the United States. A big portion of competitors at 2010 Intel Science Talent Search were from two nationalities India and China (Friedman, 1). This shows how immigrants have been working very hard to pursue knowledge and are tremendously contributing to the betterment of the educational system. This helps improve the life of both immigrant and non-immigrant populations in America. Furthermore, another positive immigrants contribution in the United States educational system provided by immigrants is AlDhubaiban 2 innovation. According to Pascual than one-third or 35.5 percent of U.S. innovators through STEM (science, technology, engineering and math) were born outside the (Pascual 1) Pascual shows there is a noticeable percentage of immigrants who contribute in the STEM fields. Which improve the quality of the education outcomes. Therefore, America should be welcoming immigrants because they could be potential innovators who may spur advancements in knowledge and technology. Moreover, an increase in immigrants with STEM degrees, who value knowledge in science and math, could result in a rise in math and science rankings as compared to those of the rest of the world. Additionally, Americans should be concerned with future innovations, particularly with regard to fields like medicine. It is possible that an immigrant to the United States will develop a cure for a disease such as cancer, a sickness that affects the entire population indiscriminately. Nevertheless, immigrants are key not only to STEM fields, but also to the humanities. For example, according to a Pew Research Center analysis of U.S. Census Bureau Data, immigrants who have recently come to the United States are the most highly educated in history of U.S and 41% of immigrants arriving here in the past five years had completed at least a (Richard 1). This shows how immigrants are mostly educated and can potentially help enhance the United States education. In addition, Immigrants also offer new ideas and ways of thinking. Many of foreign-born innovators hail from India, Africa, and the Middle East. Specifically, 21% of foreign-born innovators are Indian, 4.4% are African, and 3.2% are Middle Eastern (Mack 1). This statistics clarifies that more than quarter of the U.S innovators were born AlDhubaiban 3 outside the border of the United States. These innovators are adding to the country new technology that clearly advance American education ranking. Additionally, America is one of the leading innovators, and if Americans wish to maintain this position, the United States should increase its innovative capabilities by welcoming potential innovators. Immigrants clearly play significant positive roles both in American educational institutions and in increasing the knowledge base that allows American society to progress. In addition to benefitting education, immigrants are also advantageous to the United States economy. For example, Steve Jobs is a perfect example of the ways in which immigrants can favorably impact the American economy. Steve Jobs is the son of Syrian immigrant, and Steve jobs found one of most successful companies. The Apple brand and all of its devices have dominated the technology market. Apple has very positively affected the U.S. economy. As of December 2015, Apple is responsible for creating and supporting 1.9 million jobs (Apple). Steve Jobs is a clear illustration of how immigrants can give the United States a powerful technological superiority over the rest of the world. The jobs that can be created by foreign innovation can help to reduce the national unemployment rate as well as function to strengthen the overall economy. Furthermore, illegal immigrants fill many of the jobs Americans do not typically desire. Illegal immigrants are the backbone of farms and construction companies. Without these immigrants, America would experience difficulties in construction as well as in farm production. The highest quartile of illegal immigrants is paid less than a measly $6 an hour (Enchautegui 111). Illegal immigrants working for such low wages allows for American grocery stores to sell food for cheaper AlDhubaiban 4 prices, which makes their products more affordable for everyone. This results in increased spending, which aids the United States economy because consumerism is the basis of the American economy. Moreover, Immigrants are also very reliable as hard workers, especially considering that percent of illegal immigrant men between the ages of 18-64 are in the labor (Passel, Cohn 12). Removing such a large group of laborers would clearly have a negative impact on the United States economy. Another significant negative financial impact would be caused without them because pay more than $90 billion in taxes every year and receive only $5 billion in constituting an incredible contribution to the public treasury, without which incredible losses would be suffered (Cuomo 1). It is evident that immigrants help the U.S. economy significantly more than they detract from the U.S. economy. Provided such statistics, it should be clear that the best and perhaps only option will be to welcome these immigrants with open arms. Immigration has consistently been a driving force in the growth and developing of the United educational structure and economy. America has revolutionized the world with many of its innovations with regard to technology. In order for America to safeguard its position as a global innovator, the United States should be welcoming of foreign innovators who could give it a competitive edge over other nations. Immigrants constitute a significant portion of our educators and innovators, without whom our progress would slow greatly. Immigrants also play a major role in the economy, fulfilling necessary jobs, increasing and aiding the consumerist setup with their efficient farm production, and contributing tremendously to the treasury with their tax dollars. It is evident at this point that without this precious labor force, both the AlDhubaiban 5 education system and the economy would experience a slump. Such negative consequences would negatively impact the entire United States population, making it imperative that immigrants be welcomed and accepted into this society. AlDhubaiban 6 Work Cited  Apple. N.p., n.d. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Enchautegui, Maria E. The Job Quality Of U.S.  Industrial Relations 47.1 (2008): 108. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 30 Sept. 2016. Friedman, Thomas L. Real Dream  The New York Times. The New York Times, 20 Mar. 2010. Web. 24 Apr. 2017. Fry, Richard. newly arrived immigrants are the best-educated  Pew Research Center. N.p., 05 Oct. 2015. Web. 15 Apr. 2017.  Merriam-Webster. Merriam-Webster, n.d. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Mack, Julie. 6% of Michigan residents are foreign born, and 9 other facts about  MLive.com. N.p., 23 Nov. 2015. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Pascual, Katrina. Educated, Hard-Working Immigrants Are Biggest Innovators: Study. Tech Times. N.p., 25 Feb. 2016. Web. 21 Feb. 2017. Zong, Jie, and Jeanne Batalova. Frequently Requested Statistics on Immigrants And Immigration in the United  Migrationpolicy.org. N.p., 06 Apr. 2017. Web. 15 Apr. 2017.