Jonathan Ling Ling ENC 1102 Prof. Fennell 16 April 2017 1 The Effects of Global Warming, how it affects our environment, how we can prevent it Global warming is a constant warming of the climate and is also known as the term climate change, due to the fluctuating temperatures of Earth. Though climate change is a natural occurrence in cycle, we as humans are dramatically increasing the rate at which the planet is going through this cycle. Many human innovations have led to the release of greenhouse gases. These gases contribute to the absorption of infrared radiation which is responsible for deteriorating the ozone layer to increasing the global temperatures each year to the destruction of ecosystems. These high levels of gases and increased temperatures have devastating effects on the environment which in turn, leads back to us. This then calls upon the thought that we need to take action and start taking care of the world we live in, or else it may be ruined for us and future generations. Greenhouse gases lead to what is called the greenhouse effect. The greenhouse effect is exchange of incoming and outgoing radiation that warms the (Marc Lallanila) molecules that absorb thermal infrared radiation, and are in significant enough quantity, can force the climate (Michael Daley). According to the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) the biggest greenhouse gases in our atmosphere are methane, carbon dioxide, nitrous oxide, chlorofluorocarbons, and water vapor. Methane is a natural gas is usually produced when organic matter breaks down or created by organisms due to the breaking down of food. The gas is mostly supplied and released by agricultural byproducts, primarily cattle. Due to the worldwide necessity for beef, there are over Ling 2 one billion cows in this world grazing, according to news journalist Matt Blitz. When cows excrete waste they release methane in the air. However, cows the only source; places such as landfills and wetlands play a major role in the release of methane. With the rise in global temperatures common to see more wetlands in more tropical and temperate places. Carbon dioxide (CO2) is the most abundant human made greenhouse gas to enter our atmosphere and also the greenhouse gas that is doing the most damage to the planet. According to EPA.gov, 82% of greenhouse gas emissions is from carbon dioxide alone. CO2 is released by the burning of fossil fuels, human respiration, deforestation, and volcanic eruptions. However, most of the CO2 released by the burning of fossil fuels. These fuels are used to power vehicles and factories which then lead to the release of nitrous oxide. The fact that humans perform deforestation makes this gas even more destructive, since trees are a major source in absorbing the highly abundant greenhouse gas. Nitrous oxide is a greenhouse gas synonymously released with CO2. It is released due to the during of fossil fuels, but mainly released by fertilizers used in agriculture. Chlorofluorocarbons gases are long-lasting and are the main cause of the destruction of the ozone. They are released through aerosols, refrigerants, foaming agents, and more. They are synthetic human made compounds. However, many chlorofluorocarbons were banned decades ago, but they still roam our atmosphere to this day. Water vapor, believe it or not, is the most abundant greenhouse gas. Water vapor is water that has been heated and evaporated in to the atmosphere. Water vapor is in charge of sudden changes in climate. The vapors can completely trap heat on the surface and atmosphere of Earth. Due to the rise in global temperatures, there will only be an increase in the amount of vapor in the air. Ling 3 Even if the word has all of this knowledge, humans changed that much after knowing all of this. Earth is constantly accumulating more and more greenhouse gases. However, there has been a ban on chlorofluorocarbons and more people have begun to recycle, it still enough. More fossil fuels are burned each day and production in factories have skyrocketed. More people begin to walk on Earth and more people begin to drive cars. NASA states that over this century we will expect to see global temperature rise 2.5 to 10 degrees Fahrenheit. Though it may not sound like much, this increase will melt ice caps, which will in turn raise the sea level. This temperature rise will also kill off species that may need to stay in a certain climate and that species will disrupt the food chain. Though the global temperature is rising, the reason why the process is called climate change is because of the fluctuations in climate, temperature being one of them. With higher global temperatures, will cause the high temperatures in the days and months of the year to be higher, and the lows will be lower. This major fluctuation will disrupt weather patterns, causing more natural disasters such as tornados and hurricanes. In 2015, weather.com did a newscast on a very rare occurrence. There were three hurricanes circling the Pacific all of which were category four or higher. The scale only goes from category 1-5. This was then the first recorded occurrence of three hurricanes in the Pacific at the same time. But what is more worrisome the more unexpected weather patterns, but the ocean itself. According to a chart on NASA, 93.4% of the global warming effect is going to the ocean. With temperature changes in the ocean, we will expect to see a change in ocean currents. This will disrupt many species of marine life. Many of which rely on the currents to swim from one place to another to mate, migrate, and feed. The warmer temperature may also kill off species of fish and marine life which also greatly disrupts the food chain. Worst of all, the ocean is the largest collector of carbon dioxide. As the ocean collects the CO2 a chemical reaction occurs. This Ling 4 chemical reaction breaks down water molecules and releases hydrogen ions which make the ocean water more acidic. The acidity affects all marine life, eventually leading up to the death of many fish and plants. One of the biggest marine ecosystems, the Great Barrier Reef is being attacked by the CO2. Due to the large amounts of CO2 and the pH of water becoming more acidic it causes the coral reef to bleach. This leads to a weak coral that can easily break, has little to no immunity to fight diseases, and leave the coral to be inhabitable by fish. Though there is a lot of irreversible events, we can still reduce the amount of greenhouse gas emission and do some of the simplest things to keep the organisms and habitats alive and thriving. When going to work, think about walking or cycling, instead of taking public transportation or your car. Start reusing water bottles and plastic bags or buy a reusable one. That way, landfills pile up. Instead of dumping trash into the ocean, better to either store it in a landfill or burn it, the effects are still bad but much better than leaving it in the ocean. The ocean is the most affected by global warming, and since oceans cover about 70-75% of Earth, the problems will eventually come to us. Soon enough, a lot of marine animals will die off, the organisms that rely of marine food sources will be affected and then eventually we will be affect with food shortages. Algae, a plant that lives on the surface of water is a major collector in CO2. This can be good and bad. They help reduce the amount that goes into the water, however, they constantly grow with more CO2. Algae begin to cover the surface and block sunlight for marine plants and animals, killing them off. To sum it up, greenhouse gases are really harmful to the environment. Through some of the gases are inevitable, we as humans can reduce the amount we produce. In the betterment of humanity, we need to start changing before it is too late. It all begins with one person, and everyone follows. Ling 5 Ling 6 Citations Climate National Aeronautics and Space Administration. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Lallanila, Marc. What Is the Greenhouse  LiveScience. Purch, 12 Apr. 2016. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Methane: The other important greenhouse  Environmental Defense Fund. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Overview of Greenhouse  EPA. Environmental Protection Agency, 14 Apr. 2017. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Three Category 4 Hurricanes in the Pacific Ocean: How Rare Is  The Weather Channel. N.p., 04 Jan. 2016. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.