Hessen 1 Kareem Hessen April 15 th , 2017 ENC 1102 Project 3 Does it worry you to be alone? you sad because on your (Lennon and McCartney, With A Little Help From My Friends). Luckily Ringo had the company of his friends to comfort him, but this is not a truth for everyone. In American society, we shun cynicism and pessimism whilst pushing positivism and optimism. The fact of the matter is that there is a sadness in the world, and we cannot continue to deny it. Depression is a common but serious mood disorder that is unproperly educated on today, that believe worry that is a 1 st world disorder. The education on the two issues will properly give us a stance for a call to action. A mental illness that, in 2015, an estimated 16.1 million adults aged 18 or older in the United States had at least one major depressive episode in the past year. This number represented 6.7% of all U.S. adults (Major Depression among Adults, National Institutes of Health). Depression causes severe symptoms that affect how you feel, think, and handle daily activities, such as sleeping, eating, or working (Depression, National Institutes of Health). If you realized the normality of depression, the symptoms are of even more common quality. To recognize whether you need help or not, you must recognize the symptoms for at least two weeks. The symptoms (coming from, Depression, National Institutes of Health) include: Persistent sad, anxious, or mood Feelings of hopelessness, or pessimism Irritability Feelings of guilt, worthlessness, or helplessness Hessen 2 Loss of interest or pleasure in hobbies and activities Decreased energy or fatigue Moving or talking more slowly Feeling restless or having trouble sitting still Difficulty concentrating, remembering, or making decisions Difficulty sleeping, early-morning awakening, or oversleeping Appetite and/or weight changes Thoughts of death or suicide, or suicide attempts Aches or pains, headaches, cramps, or digestive problems without a clear physical cause and/or that do not ease even with treatment Research suggests that depression is caused by a combination of genetic, biological, environmental, and psychological factors (Depression, National Institutes of Health). Genetically and biologically, depression can root from a lack of dopamine and or serotonin, two neurotransmitters that affect stimulation and mood and directly could lead to depression. Environmentally and psychology, you could have grown up without parents, or being bullied, or being isolated that could lead to depression. There are two common treatments for depression, which are medications and therapy. Antidepressants are a broad group of drugs that are used in the treatment of depression. Although they do not cure depression, they are usually effective at improving mood and relieving symptoms such as restlessness, anxiety, sleep problems, and suicidal thoughts (Antidepressants, Drugs.com). Antidepressants include Prozac, Zoloft, Celexa, etc. could be provided by your doctor with a prescription after a checkup. For depression, there are two therapeutic treatments which Hessen 3 include Psychotherapy and Brain Stimulation therapy. Several types of psychotherapy can help people with depression: examples of evidence-based approaches specific to the treatment of depression include cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT), interpersonal therapy (IPT), and problem- solving therapy, which all resemble a counseling type environment (Depression, National Institutes of Health). Brain Stimulation is recommended for the more severe symptoms of depression. electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) may be an option to explore. ECT can provide relief for people with severe depression who have not been able to feel better with other treatments. Electroconvulsive therapy can be an effective treatment for depression where electrical impulses stimulate your brain: some side effects, including confusion, disorientation, and memory loss. Usuall y these side effects are short-term, but sometimes memory problems can linger, especially for the months around the time of the treatment course (Depression, National Institutes of Health). Once again, the commonality of the symptoms of depression to believe it is in fact a 1 st world epidemic, and belong to the lesser developed countries. Is depression a rarity in the 3 rd world? Is the fact that it is a 1 st world problem is telling to the repercussions of capitalism and globalization? An article published by the Washington Post A stunning map of depression rates around the the author Caitlin Dewey debunks the idea that depression is a 1 st world problem with her analysis of a 2013 study from the PLOS Medicine journal. The study reveals The Middle East and North Africa suffer the highest depression (A stunning map of depression rates around the world, WP). More than 5 percent of the population suffers from depression in the Middle East, North Africa, sub-Saharan Africa, Eastern Europe and the Caribbean (A stunning map of depression rates around the world, WP). Meanwhile, depression is reportedly lowest in East Asia, followed by Australia/New Zealand and Southeast Asia (A stunning map of depression rates around the world, WP). So why do we see these depression rates high in lesser developed countries? Well there are obvious environmental Hessen 4 factors that affect the psychology of the people in those countries. Higher unemployment rates, lesser amounts of opportunity, and an extreme income inequality that speaks for itself when seeing that the depression rates are higher in lower developed countries. Now it is also not disputed that even in America there is still a high amount of depression, but it is lesser than other countries in the world. Where does this belief that depression is a 1 st world epidemic? I believe it comes from a complete miseducation of the illness, and the illusion of social media. Social media is a phenomenon that humans never experienced before. Attention from anyone around the whole world at every second, perhaps the greatest peak of globalization. Now, the word depressed is thrown around so easily through Social media and through kids these days, but who is to call if they are truly depressed or just yearning for attention? It is important that there is help for anyone who claims to be or is actually depressed. Depression always lead to suicide, but there is a positive correlation that says those who commit suicide are more often than not, depressed or suffer from other mental illnesses. According to the National Institute of Mental Health, suicide is the second leading cause of death for young people ages 15 to 34. It is better to be helped If you know someone who is depressed or you are depressed, I urge you to follow the steps given by the National Institute of Mental Health in a call for action against depression: Try to be active and exercise. Set realistic goals for yourself. Try to spend time with other people and confide in a trusted friend or relative. Try not to isolate yourself, and let others help you. Expect your mood to improve gradually, not immediately. Hessen 5 Postpone important decisions, such as getting married or divorced, or changing jobs until you feel better. Discuss decisions with others who know you well and have a more objective view of your situation. Continue to educate yourself about depression. In conclusion, depression is a mental illness that does not need to be tiptoed around. There are severe effects on lives of those who are depressed. Those who are depressed do not always commit suicide, but the mistreatment of those who are depressed may lead those down that alley. With openness and education about the illness itself, we can together deal with depression collectively, rather than let those who are depressed suffer so we can all get by With a Little Help From Our Friends. Hessen 6 Bibliography Dewey, Caitlin. A Stunning Map of Depression Rates around the  The Washington Post. WP Company, 07 Nov. 2013. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. <https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/worldviews/wp/2013/11/07/a-stunning-map-of- Ferrari, Alize J., Fiona J. Charlson, Rosana E. Norman, Scott B. Patten, Greg Freedman, Christopher J.L. Murray, Theo Vos, and Harvey A. Whiteford. Burden of Depressive Disorders by Country, Sex, Age, and Year: Findings from the Global Burden of Disease Study  PLOS Medicine. Public Library of Science, n.d. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. <http://journals.plos.org/plosmedicine/article?id=10.1371%2Fjournal.pmed.1001547>. List of  Drugs.com. Drugs.com, n.d. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. <https://www.drugs.com/drug-class/antidepressants.html>. MacArthur, Linda. Dopamine vs.  LIVESTRONG.COM. Leaf Group, 14 July 2010. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. <http://www.livestrong.com/article/175158-dopamine-vs-serotonin/>. National Institutes of Health. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. <https://www.nimh.nih.gov/health/publications/suicide-faq/index.shtml>. National Institutes of Health. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, n.d. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. <https://www.nimh.nih.gov/health/statistics/prevalence/major-depression- among-adults.shtml>. National Institutes of Health. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. <https://www.nimh.nih.gov/health/topics/depression/index.shtml>. Hessen 7 National Institutes of Health. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, n.d. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. <https://www.nimh.nih.gov/health/topics/depression/index.shtml>.