Sulbaran 1 Helio Sulbaran Professor Karen Hanson ENC 1102 April 16, 2017 Electoral College The United States is considered a republic, instead of a democracy. This is due to the fact that the citizens do not elect their president by a direct vote for a candidate, but by casting their vote for a representative that represents a certain candidate. This is the Electoral College, the system that the United States uses. The Electoral College has become a highly debated topic due to the fact that it is out dated, and has created the question on whether it should be kept as it is or replaced for a better system used to elect the president. To understand the debate, people will need to learn the disadvantages of the Electoral College. They also need to learn how these problems affect them in a way on where the Electoral College might not actually represent the actual will of the voters. Taking all of these details into perspective the Electoral College should not be eliminated, but in fact, it should be updated, at the state level, to be able to keep up with the United States of today. To do this, the general public will have to help by signing a letter or a petition to be sent to the representatives asking for the change. Before expanding on the reasons of why the Electoral College should be updated, people must understand the history of it and how it works. The Electoral College is a process used by the United States to select their president and vice president. It was created by the Founding fathers with the idea of a between election of the President by a vote in Congress and election of the President by a popular vote of qualified is the Electoral They based it on the idea that the people will vote for a representative that will then cast their vote for the candidate that they represented. This is what makes the United States a Sulbaran 2 republic, because they do not have a direct democracy system, on where the people vote for a candidate directly. So, to win the presidency in the United States, a candidate will need to win the majority of the votes in the Electoral College. The Electoral College consists of electors, one for each of the 100 members of the Senate and the 435 members of the House of Representatives, plus three for DC. Each elector casts one electoral (Barthelemy). This means that to win, a candidate must have 270 or more Electoral College votes. Even though it is a good system, and it is based on a good idea, the Electoral College has its flaws. Some of these defects are that the winner of a presidential election does not necessarily have to be the winner of the popular vote, meaning a candidate can win by having a minority of people voting for them. The other error is that because a candidate to win must receive 270 electoral college votes, the candidates spend most of their time campaigning in states that have the most electoral college votes and the states that are so called the swing states, because of the winner take all system, creating in the voting power of citizens across states, and, in doing so, also provides empirical evidence that such disparities are rewarded in the fiscal policy (Duquette). This means that not all the votes are equal, depending on what state the voter is voting from, the more power their vote has. These Electoral College flaws affect the population in various ways. The first problem with it was the idea that a candidate could win the election without winning the popular election. There have been four examples in the history of the US on were a candidate won the presidency, without receiving the majority of the popular vote. An example of this is the election of 2016, where one candidate won the presidency with 304 Electoral College votes, but only received 62,955,202 popular votes, compared to the losing candidate which received 227 Electoral votes, but received 65,794,399 popular votes, winning the popular vote Electoral College Sulbaran 3 When one candidate wins without the popular vote, it implies that the candidate does not represent the majority of the country population and it does not represent the best interest of the majority of the people. The other problem that affects the people are that because of how the Electoral College is set, some votes possess more value than others, depending on the state they come from. This means that not all votes are equal, and that certain voters more voting power than other. Also, depending on the state, a state might receive more federal income they receive. This is due to the way the Electoral College is set, where each state is viewed different and the states that have more power to change an election, or swing states, receive more benefits than other states. As found by the research concluded by Duquette, Mixon, and Cebula, they concluded that empirical evidence that status for a given state in a given presidential election brings with it the potential reward/benefit of being the recipient of greater real per capita federal government grants to state and local This means that the states that receive the status of being swing states receive more aid from the federal government, because the fact that they can decide the result of presidential elections. Basically, the citizens that reside in the so called swing states receive more benefits from the federal government than the citizens living on regular states. To fix the flaws in the Electoral College, and correct these disadvantages made by it, the Electoral College should be amended at the state level. To fix this, the Electoral College should not be removed, but upgraded. The winner take all system should be eradicated and become more of a system that has proportional distribution of electors. It can be similar to the system that Maine uses. This system works as the divides itself into a number of districts, allocating one of its state-wide electoral votes to each the This means that the Electoral College votes are split according to the district they are in, and depending on Sulbaran 4 what their district votes for, that where their vote will go towards is. The system we are proposing however, does not divide the state into districts. Instead, the Electoral College vote will be split between the candidates, each receiving a proportional amount of Electoral College voters, depending on the popular vote. The district idea is abandoned to avoid gerrymandering, which means manipulation of district lines for partisan (Polsby). The proposal will also just be taken to the state legislature, so it does not go to the trouble of the federal government, and the constitution does not have to be amended. There are many different ways people can help. One is to sign a petition to support the cause at a national. The purpose to sign the petition is to have a count of all the people supporting the idea of amending the Electoral College at the state level. This information will be passed to every Electoral College voter, and to every representative to demonstrate the national support for change. Next one can be to sign a letter to their local representative on supporting the amendment at the state level. The letter will be already written, with the intention of supporting the amending of the Electoral College law in the state, and asking the representative to support the idea. The only thing required for people to do is to sign the letter and give permission for the letter to be sent. With this letter, it will put pressure to the representatives of the states and with enough letters the representatives will support the cause. And another one can be by donating to the cause to get more people involved and to recognize and support the cause. Now, the donations are the last action people can do to support the cause. With the donations, the organization can start advertising and spreading the word about this new proposal. It can also support the organization to bring more hands on deck to support the behind the scenes at the organization. All of these information is found on the webpage for the New Electoral College, with all the information located under the support tab. Sulbaran 5 The Electoral College has always been a highly debated topic. It is much debated due to the fact that this is the way the U.S elects their president. The Electoral College was very successful at the beginning, but with the time passing, there should have been upgrades to it. To fix the issues of having a candidate win the elections without winning the popular vote, and to not have some states have more power over others, an amendment to the state level should be passed. This amendment will divide the Electoral College votes of the state proportionally to the popular vote, and it will rim down the possibility of Gerrymandering. The way people can support the cause is by signing the national petition, by signing and sending a letter to their state representative and by donating to the cause. Sulbaran 6 Work Cited Electoral College National Archives and Records Administration, n.d. https://www.archives.gov/federal-register/electoral-college/2016/election-results.html Web. 13 Apr. 2017. the National Archives and Records Administration, n.d. Web. 13 Apr. 2017. <https://www.archives.gov/federal-register/electoral- S. Electoral College%3A Who Are the Electors%3F How Do They Vote%3F>. Barthelemy, Fabrice, et al. The Architecture of the Electoral College, the House Size Effect, and the Referendum  Electoral Studies, 2014, p. 111. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.electstud.2013.07.004. Duquette, Christopher, et al. Swing States, the Winner-Take-All Electoral College, and Fiscal  Atlantic Economic Journal, vol. 45, no. 1, Mar. 2017, pp. 45-57. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1007/s11293-016-9526-2. is the Electoral National Archives and Records Administration, n.d. Web. 13 Apr. 2017. <https://www.archives.gov/federal-register/electoral-college/about.html>. Polsby, Daniel D., and Robert D. Popper. Third Criterion: Compactness as a Procedural Safeguard against Partisan Yale Law & Policy Review, vol. 9, no. 2, 1991, pp. www.jstor.org/stable/40239359.