Alnajdi 1 Sayed Alnajdi Ms. Collins ENC 1102 April 16, 2017 Standardized Testing Shaping Careers Standardized testing has become a common standard for university admissions, jobs and for building careers. This process has become mandatory for everyone regardless of gender, age or nationality when undergoing life-changing decisions. In the past decade, education was focused on developing the learning system to improve and expand a well-educated country. Similarly, today the educational system shares the same goal, which is to nurture a strong nation of educated and cultivated people. However, a large amount students fail to meet the standards required to pursue their future career and preferably choose the college or university they wish to continue in. Standardized tests are arguably not the preeminent way to test general knowledge, for the generations are changing and with it the educational system therefore must be altered. While standardized testing organizations believe that standardized tests are the effective means of testing knowledge, SSLA- Student Success Learning Association believes that standardized tests are the main cause of the failure of many futures. This paper will aim to explain why standardized tests are not the effective way for assessing student knowledge, show how the educational system is failing because of standardized tests and finally elucidate what type of action needs to be taken to develop and fix the educational system. The debate concerning standardized tests are the affective way of testing knowledge has become of utmost importance in the world today. However, the debate did not progress to a matter giving the public full awareness of how standardized tests are edging the Alnajdi 2 students to academic failure. Yet still, the dominating side supports the idea of standardized testing, although many public figures are bound to rebel against the idea of general standardized tests. The former President of the United States Barack Obama states that students are spending too much time taking unnecessary exams (CNN 1). That being said, eight states in the United States presently give students the right not to take standardized tests. Moreover, a vast number of universes and colleges accept student admissions without standardized tests. than nine hundred four year colleges and universities do not use the SAT or ACT to admit substantial numbers of applicants (Fair Test 1). A large number of students suffer consequences from standardized tests due to their low score, which proscribes them from attainment their way to university. In the article Child is not a Test written by Monty Neill, he quotes focus of our education system should not be based on tests, but on the individual needs of (Neill 30). Therefore, the main concentration should not be on the practices of standardized test, but on how to get the students ready for the university educational level. One of the many drawbacks students face from standardized tests is stress and anxiety. State Board of Education of many US states say that over 700 school districts said concluded that standardized tests are causing anxiety and stress for students (NSBA 1). Standardized tests are causing stress that is affecting student academic level. This proves that standardized tests are not only preventing students from pursuing a major in the colleges and universities that they desire, but also taking a significant toll on their health. What other advantages do standardized tests reap if they are causing detrimental and uncalled for mental issues to students rather than aiding them to assimilate to colleges and universities, which would be ideal fundamental preparation for real- life scenarios? Therefore, providing a stress-free, nurturing and an adequate environment may Alnajdi 3 lead to a significant reduction in student stress levels. Building on that notion, standardized tests should not be the only way of determining the future of a student, as they clearly portray a positive correlation with student stress-levels. Standardized tests should be a measurement of testing student knowledge to determine placement of classes at college or university level. This method will ensure that standardized tests will not cause stress to students by being a deciding factor in the course of future and will greatly benefit and motivate them to achieve higher scores. Standardized testing is based on determining student level of understanding and to observe the general perception, comprehension and knowledge of each individual student, (College Board 1). College Board is an organization that believes that standardized testing is the most effective way to assess and determine student knowledge. However, a question may arise on how can standardized tests be the most suitable method to assess student knowledge when it does not include humanities or arts-related subjects such as history, music or fine arts. In the article Students the author states, well designed standardized test provides an assessment of an mastery of a domain of knowledge or (Gawthorp 1). By concentrating on the fundamentally general subjects of standardized testing, the organization College Board is limiting student acquaintance by choosing to solely asses students based only on STEM subjects (Science, Technology, Engineering, Mathematics) and literature, rather than providing a broader range of subjects that can enhance the general academic level and also appeal to students who find themselves not interested in pursuing a STEM related career. Due to this problem arising, students who wish to study arts at college or university face tremendous difficulties when taking standardized tests, since the subjects they are being assessed on subjects and material that will not aid them on the journey to pursuing their careers. Therefore, standardized tests need to emphasize and include a wider range of subjects to Alnajdi 4 adequately and fully guarantee the proper learning progression of all students. The action that has to be taken concerning standardized tests is to convince College Board and other standardized testing organizations to alter and improve standardized tests, while also basing them on general academic knowledge as well as fine arts courses and not solely concentrate on certain subjects. Parents need to be aware that standardized tests are causing stress-related problems to students, which would be detrimental to them progressing into the next stage of their academic lives. Therefore, this message needs to be conveyed to every State Board of Education council, so they can be aware that these tests are causing significant health issues to students and that there has to be a fast and suitable solution to the problem. A set of changes need to be placed on school curriculums, such as teaching courses related to real world problems and can be related to real-life scenarios, instead of preparing students for general and narrow standardized tests. Sets of action have already been set. As mentioned earlier, a vast number of universities today allow student admission without the requirement of standardized tests, while in several states, standardized tests are not mandatory for high school students to take as part of their high school curriculum. In conclusion, standardized testing is a major worldwide issue that many students face difficulties with and students are not to be blamed for failing these tests, for they are not effective and optimal means of determining a academic level. Alnajdi 5 Works Cited Fair Test. Test Scores Do Not Equal Merit. 2016. 09 September 2016 <http://www.fairtest.org/test-scores-do-not-equal-merit-executive-summary>. Gilmore, Harvey1. Standardized Testing, Learning, And Meritocracy: A Reply To Professor Dan  Touro Law Review 32.2 (2016): 367-405. OmniFile Full Text Mega (H.W. Wilson). Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Gawthrop, Jeremiah. Measuring Students Achievement: A Study of Standardized Testing & Its Effect on Student  N.p., 29 Apr. 2014. Web. National School Boards Association. N.p., n.d. Web. 13 Apr. 2017. Neill, Monty. A Child is not a Test Score: Assessment as a Civil Right  Root & Branch 11.2 (2009): 28-35. The Collegeboard  The College Board - College Admissions - SAT - University & College Search Tool. N.p., n.d. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Wallace, Kelly. Testing time at schools: Is there a better  CNN. Cable News Network, 04 Apr. 2016. Web. 13 Apr. 2017.