Student 1 Student Instructor Lewis ENC 1102 5 March 2017 Innovation and Standardization Back in 2014 a public dispute broke out between the largest energy provider in Nevada and a solar energy company that was beginning to enter the market. NV Energy, which is the largest coal based energy provider, has what is debatably a monopoly on energy market. Solar City sought out to take advantage of the naturally high utility costs in many communities and neighborhoods in Nevada by incentivizing and loaning Solar panels to people in a presumably mutually beneficial deal. Upon discovering the lower power utilization of the Solar City sponsored communities, NV Energy increased the per watt cost of their power. Despite the conflict turned legal, the resolution was not finalized, and therefore continued on for years. Solar City and NV Energy both have similar goals which they approach through very different means and for very different reason. Though they share common ground, these two principle philosophies greatly differ which provides both the basis for this conflict, and highlights potential solutions. With the love of Solar technology, and demand for mainstream energy, it is possible that a compromise can be made that provides relatively reasonable market share to both companies. There are a few things about Solar City that some people find beneficial, which would cause them to support them over NV Energy. The first involving the traditional dispute over climate change caused by nonrenewable recourses. Though climate change and its causes are Student 1 common knowledge, the technology behind solar panels is not, and therefore it is harder to defend (Pysch, Mette, Glunz). Morality would be the primary reason behind this claim as the slogan the has been used on countless occasions. The person who wants the solar panels for solely environmental reasons in this dispute traditionally falls in line with feeling that Solar technology is a sufficient replacement plan. Counter arguments to this idea have been made but that will be discussed at a later time. The supporters of Solar City also use the the power argument which states that although Solar technology is not a solo solution to the problem, nor is it a direct replacement for fossil fuel burning power plants, it is a powerful assistant that can help turn house into a power generator (Koepf, Alxneit, Wieckert, Meier). Basically, it would assist with efficient and clean energy distribution, while not directly opposing the standard energy companies. Possibly the most important argument for Solar expansion is economic. The most of a market for solar panels there is the more funding said technology will receive. This cause and effect like argument puts the potential for advancement into the foreground which is then used in defense of solar technology in general (Dowling, Alexander, Zheng, Zavala). Although many of these arguments are for solar technology and not just Solar City, it is important to note that Solar City is the largest manufacturer of solar panels in the world, making them the gatekeepers of this form of alternative energy. Despite what the overwhelming amount of rhetoric from the Solar City supporters may show, there are always two sides to every story. In order to understand NV position, it is critical to understand a little bit about how the power grid functions. All customers play a role in maintain the energy output of a power company. For example, during low usage parts of the day, although the power company decreases to power output, electricity is still being wasted as nobody is using it (Dowling, Alexander, Zheng, Zavala). This leads into an argument on the side Student 1 of NV decision to force Solar City out of the market. If people begin to have varying levels of usage throughout the day, then it becomes much more difficult for a coal based power company to make the appropriate adjustments throughout the day. The second argument is a counter argument to some of the Solar City supporters. The assumption the solar technology is efficient enough to totally replace traditional power plants is misguided and easy to defend against. Due to heat constraints, solar technology is unable to be the primary source of power for the world (Schwartzman). It must be accompanying with something, and supporters of NV Energy would claim that it is less costly to use preexisting fuels to satisfy the demands of consumers (Mokheimer, Esmail, Dabwan, Habib). Only in matters of principle can the actions of NV Energy be defended, because legal actions, is relatively a non-issue (Danielle). Considering the passion that has plagued this conflicts legal side, it seems that without one side submitting to the other partially, there will be no compromise. One suggested course of action may be the Grandfather principle. This idea has customers who are already using solar technology be allowed to be grandfathered into the standard energy rates, and new customers of Solar City would have to pay NV increases price to satisfy the will of both companies. Although this compromise seems to lean towards NV Energy as it secures that their market will not be disrupted, and prevents Solar City to entering new markets and expanding into Nevada, NV Energy has absolute control of the energy market in Nevada and is even facing legal action having recently been declared a monopoly (Hassler, John, Krusell, Olovsson). This makes any deal that harms NV Energy extremely difficult and unlikely to happen. Though the legal side is difficult to hash out, the conceptual side is simple and to the point. The coexistence argument that both technologies can exist with each other and not necessarily against each other is fairly simple, yet very powerful. A person cannot solely depend on solar panels for all power needs, Student 1 therefore a grid company can fulfill the bulk of demand while keeping marginal costs low. As Solar City grows and becomes more common place, companies like Berkshire Hathaway will have to adapt as this is then natural course of progression. If Berkshire Hathaway wants NV Energy to remain profitable for them, then there must be an adoption and adaptation of the new technologies. NV Energy must provide more than just standard coal power if it is to continue to hold its market share. Both of these organizations provide a similar promise. Inexpensive power for homes and businesses seems to be the most common ground; however, that is where the similarities stop. Common ground can be found through compromise and the mutual understanding that one needs the other and both can survive simultaneously without extreme conflicts of interest. Both energy forms can still maintain profitable businesses in a world of coexistence, but neither has to move to destroy the other. NV Energy can compromise with little resistance and problems as long as they are willing to see that the current market is trending away from oil and coal and moving towards dependable and sustainable energy. These two companies have very different ways of conducting themselves. From the legal action taken to remove Solar City from the market to the massive amount of propaganda meant to force NV Energy to not monopolize market share, both Solar City and NV Energy are natural enemies. But perhaps it is their common ground and potential to work with each other that provide hope for a settled future. Some of the disputes between the two parties have already been resolved, but only time can tell what the future has in store for these two organizations and this progressively optimistic conflict. (Word Count: 1204) Student 1 Works Cited Koepf, E., I. Alxneit, C. Wieckert, and A. Meier. A review of high temperature solar driven reactor technology: 25years of experience in research and development at the Paul Scherrer  Applied Energy188 (2017): 620-51. Abdi, Hamdi, Soheil Derafshi Beigvand, and Massimo La Scala. A review of optimal power flow studies applied to smart grids and  Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews 71 (2017): 742-66. NV  NV Energy. Berkshire Hathaway. (2001) Mokheimer, Esmail M.a., Yousef N. Dabwan, and Mohamed A. Habib. Optimal integration of solar energy with fossil fuel gas turbine cogeneration plants using three different CSP technologies in Saudi  Applied Energy 185 (2017): 1268-280. Pysch, D., A. Mette, and S.w. Glunz. A review and comparison of different methods to determine the series resistance of solar  Solar Energy Materials and Solar Cells 91.18 (2007): 1698-706. Dowling, Alexander W., Tian Zheng, and Victor M. Zavala. Economic assessment of concentrated solar power technologies: A  Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews 72 (2017): 1019-032. Student 1 Ola, Danielle. Nevada votes to end NV Energy  PV-Tech, 10 Nov. 2016. Go Solar with SolarCity! Discover Solar Power Energy  SolarCity. Schwartzman, David. The Limits to Entropy: Continuing Misuse of Thermodynamics in Environmental and Marxist  Science & Society72.1 (2008): 43-62. Hassler, John, Per Krusell, and Conny Olovsson. Oil Monopoly and the  American Economic Review 100.2 (2010): 460-64.