Vonhof 1 Cameron Vonhof Professor Uddin Comp 1 4-22-17 Violence Video Games Causing Aggression in Teens? Technology keeps improving, graphics are getting clearer, and video games are becoming more violent with each new edition. Over the years, one of the most popular genres has always been war and fighting. For example, in the it was Street Fighter and Resident Evil, then in the games evolved into Grand Theft Auto and early Call of Duty. Now, in the half the video games people utilize are violent. At first it was just shooting at targets that resembled humans, but now video games today look as lifelike as their cinematic counterpart. The targets now have more realistic human characteristics and mannerisms. With all the improvements, it seems as if video games are exceptional simulations of real war. Scholars used to think that if the teens of this generation are experiencing these realistic simulations, it be healthy for their brains. When the video game ends and the replication is over, the kids may still feel the same violent urges in the real world. However, as new technology is improving there are also better ways to test long and short term aggression levels. Violence in video games does not lead to aggression in teens, although until very recently, scholars believed that it did. To begin, in the scholars believed that violence in video games lead to aggression in teens. According to Steven Kirsh, a psychologist at Geneseo, a 2001 analysis suggests that violent video games, in fact, do influence aggressive behavior, aggressive affects, aggressive cognition, and physiological (9). This means that scholars in 2001 believed that video games with violence had many detrimental side effects to teens that played Vonhof 2 them. Kirsh tells us appears that the effects of violent video games should have their greatest impact during early adolescence. Although research has assessed video game violence during different developmental periods, currently there are not enough studies to evaluate the influence of violent video games across (9). This means that younger teens are more susceptible to lasting effects of too much violence in video games, however, the effect these video games have on development is still unknown. The big problem Kirsh realize however, was he was looking at a meta-analysis and not actual scientific studies. can only show association, but not causation. In 2009, Cheryl Olsen created a study to find out if there is a possible relationship between adolescent aggression and Mature-rated (M-rated) video games. According to Olsen, this study found significant relationships between M-rated electronic game play and routine engagement in bullying behaviors and physical aggression in a diverse sample of young adolescent game (194). This explains that there is a correlation between young teens playing video games and developing aggressive behavior. Olsen even went onto find out that odds of engaging in these behaviors increased with the relative of M-rated game (194). There is looking like a strong relationship between the violence witnessed and aggression in behavior, however, correlation does not mean causation. Moving on, today it is known that violence in video games dos not cause aggression in teens. Julia Kneer tested the mood of subjects after they played a video game where they were a first-person shooter. There were two different variables in the study, displayed violence and difficulty (5). Kneer writes the difficulty nor the displayed violence had an effect on psychophysiological arousal during play, post-game aggressive cognitions, nor aggressive (5). This study, from 2017, completely disproved any claims made by scientists before it who assumed that since there was a correlation there was also causation. Kneer would Vonhof 3 even go onto find out that the game play difficulty has more effect on emotions after playing (5). Most experimental studies involving violent video games (VVGs) have been done with college students and give varying results. Christopher Ferguson created a study that only tested children between twelve and eighteen years of age (2). According to Ferguson, levels neither decreased nor increased following violent game play. VVG exposure increased stress, but only for (2). Through using scientific studies, this paper, also from 2017, further adds to the evidence that video game violence has no effect on teens aggressiveness. In conclusion, violence in video games does not lead to aggression in teens, although until very recently, scholars believed that it did. In the Scholars like Steven Kirsh and Cheryl Olsen looked at and found relationships between video games and aggression. The problem is they never performed an experiment. In contrast, they just observed connections and assumed there was a causation. However, the link was disproven by studies made as recently as 2017 by scholars Julia Kneer and Christopher Ferguson. Instead of just observing, they could test the amount of aggression along with stress and hostility levels. Because of this, the more recent studies are more trustworthy and the data that is now accepted by all scholars. Ferguson said it best, levels neither decreased nor increased following violent game (2). These scientific findings are more significant than they may seem to the society we live in. As violence becomes more graphic through very popular video games, it is important to know they are not having negative or detrimental effects on our youth. If violence in video games does not have lasting effects on teens, then can their cinema counterparts? Vonhof 4 Work Cited Ferguson, Christopher J., et al. Violent Video Games Increase Hostility In Teens, But They Do Stress Girls  Psychiatric Quarterly 1 (2016): 49. Academic OneFile. Web. 14 Feb. 2017. Kirsh, Steven J. The Effects of Violent Video Games on Adolescents. The Overlooked Influence of  Aggression and Violent Behavior, vol. 8, 01 Jan. 2003, pp. 377-389 Julia Kneer, Malte Elson, and Florian Knapp. Fight Fire With Rainbows: The Effects Of Displayed Violence, Difficulty, And Performance In Digital Games On Affect, Aggression, And Physiological  Computers In Human Behavior 54.(2016): 142 148. Education Source. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Olson, Cheryl K.1, et al. M-Rated Video Games and Aggressive or Problem Behavior among Young  Applied Developmental Science, vol. 13, no. 4, Oct. 2009, pp. 188- 198.