Chowdhary 1 Nikhil Chowdhary Kristen Collins ENC 1102 Section 0018 16 April 2017 Go Vegetarian: The New Cool Lifestyle Across the globe, if there is one word that brings a sense of joy to a person from any culture, it has to be the word Food plays a major role in the society, from workplaces to parties, food plays a really important factor in any chore which one performs in everyday routine. In busy life, one often forget nutrition and indulge in a variety of delicacies. As soon as someone tells that they are vegetarian, suddenly the other person tries to bring their knowledge of nutrition, protein and meat into play. A famous Italian Actor, Pino Caruso once said that eat meant and think they will become strong as an ox, forgetting that the ox eats Finally, people have started realizing that food can be equally good without killing of animals, these days the organizations urge people to adopt a meatless lifestyle and turn into vegetarians. There are many organizations promoting this not so new lifestyle called vegetarianism, one such organization is PeTA (People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals). PeTA through its aggressive ad campaigns and social networking skills is urging people to quit meat and indulge in vegetarianism. All living beings deserve to live; no living being needs to die in order to enhance taste buds. God created all living beings equal, just because human beings have some more advantages than these poor, helpless animals, this give us any right to slaughter these beings. These animals equally deserve to live their life without fear and ill-treatment. These days many prominent personalities around the globe have started to follow the meatless culture upon Chowdhary 2 self realization of what the animals go through to come on our plates, there a kept in suffocating cages, fed on food which has no nutrient values, and even slaughtered with so much cruelty. Being vegetarian not only helps these poor beings live their life peacefully, but it also has a lot many health benefits for us. Various researches have shown that eating a plant based diet aids our body in many different ways, a vegetarian diet has its several advantages. Adopting a meatless diet reduces the risk of obesity and heart diseases as meat contains a lot of cholesterol and other fats which are not needed by our body. Other than that, fruits and vegetables contain a lot of fiber which aids the functioning of the digestive and the excretive system of the human body. Also, there is more energy gained from vegetables because they are the primary source of the food chain. There are many organizations that support the vegetarian lifestyle, one such organization is PeTA (People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals). PeTA is a worldwide organization founded in 1980, focuses its attention on the four areas in which the largest numbers of animals suffer the most intensely for the longest periods of time: in the food industry, in the clothing trade, in laboratories, and in the entertainment (About Us, n.p.). PeTA believes that animals have rights too and deserve equal treatment as human beings. This organization is very active through its unique and attention seeking campaigns. PeTA through its campaigns tries make people realize the severe cruelty that an animal has to go through, to end up in our plates. In all their campaigns PeTA, brainstorms a lot and uses specific visual rhetoric elements, which make people really fall for the views expressed in the adverts. By associative acts with famous celebrities like Paul McCartney, Brian Adams etc, PeTA also tries to spread their audience to all walks of lives. There have been a lot of research which tells us more about the differences between a vegetarian diet and a non vegetarian diet. According to a 2009 Chowdhary 3 Californian study comparing the impacts of vegetarian versus non-vegetarian diet on the environment, the researchers found that non-vegetarian diet used 2.9 times more water (Mach, 2000), 2.5 times more primary energy, 13 times more fertilizer, and 1.4 times more pesticide than a vegetarian diet (Marlow et al. 2009). Another Italian study presented in the European Journal of Clinical Nutrition evaluating the environmental effects of omnivorous and vegetarian diets gave similar results as the Californian research. They also concluded that meat diets strain the environment by using more resources as compared to a non meat based diet. Adding the environmental factors to the other factors against the meat based diet such as the health risks and the risks posed to the animals, a vegetarian diet proves to be a better option for the benefit of both the humans and the animals. Even after hearing all the cons of a non vegetarian diet, the meat eaters will argue, how will they meet their protein requirements. There are numerous foods which are high in proteins and are also accompanied by various other beneficiary nutrients such as Beans and legumes, Nuts and seeds, Tempeh, Tofu, Soybeans etc. Tofu, which is made from soybean curds, is naturally gluten-free and really low in calories, it contains no cholesterol and is an excellent source of protein, iron, and calcium and is one of the best source of vegetarian protein. Talking about the macros, Tofu has 23 grams of lean protein, 10 grams of healthy fats in just of half a cup. This protein to fat ratio is comparable to that of chicken, making tofu a super food indeed. Other than tofu, nuts and seeds are also great sources of protein. Especially chia seeds, just a 15 grams serving of chia seeds, just a table spoon contains up to 6 grams of proteins and 5 grams of healthy fats, making it a really healthy and tasty quick snack. Looking at the options stated above, it can be said that being vegetarian is not that tough as there are so many alternatives which are equally flavorful and even more healthy as compared to meaty foods. Chowdhary 4 The meaty lifestyle has a lot of ill effects ranging from the suffering of the innocent animals, to the environmental malpractices, to severe health issues to the human body. Due to these reasons, Vegetarianism is catching a lot of popularity these days amongst people from all walks of lives. Following a vegetarian lifestyle will not only help the world fight from these issues but will also give the innocent animals an equal chance to live without fear of being killed and inhumanly slaughtered as god created everyone to cherish life, not to please some taste buds. Chowdhary 5 Works Cited Maurer, Donna. Vegetarianism. [Electronic Movement or Moment?. Philadelphia, PA: Temple University Press, c2002. (Baltimore, Md.: Project MUSE, 2015), 2002. Web. 26 Feb 2017. Cloudflare Inc., About , PETA, 26 Sept. 1995. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Advantages Of Vegetarian Diet Biology  UKessays.com. 11 2013. All Answers Ltd. Web. 16 Apr. 2017 Bodybuilding.com. Food Nutrient  Bodybuilding.com. N.p., 06 Feb. 2017. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Lifelong Vegetarian Family Exemplifies Health  Vegetarian Journal, no. 2, 2004, Web. 16 Apr. 2017.