Robinson 1 Shamari Robinson Karen Hanson ENC: 1102 4/13/2017 Time to Ratify the Equal Rights Amendment. The issues of gender equality have shifted in the wrong direction for men and women. Because of a lack of relevant information, and the ease of access to biased information sources on the internet, the fight for gender equality is moving in the wrong direction. The current political climate and the media highlights of radicalised activism have misled and annoyed the public to the point that some people have become turned off by the conversation of gender equality. The Equal Rights Amendment is an opposed amendment to the constitution; It was purposed by the National Party as a way of creating equality among men and women. (Staggenborg. et al, 1). The proposed amendment abbreviated ERA was created to bring to light biases areas of society that men and women are still facing, areas, such as marriage, sexual health, abortion laws, maternity laws, custody of children, prison sentence and victim assault, but it failed to get the votes needed to get it ratified to the constitution. The time to get it ratified is now; we need to get the ERA ratified or these issues of gender inequality in society will continue to burden our civil liberties. Is the Equal Rights Amendment really that important and should we really care? In much of society men and women still truly equal A report by Betsey Stevenson and Justin Wolfer shows that the rate of marriage for young men, roughly between the ages of 25-35 are falling. This could be attributed to many different factors, but one interesting fact that is a point of Robinson 2 concern is that most men no longer see an incentive to get married, as marriage laws tend to favor the wife over the husband in terms of the divorce. These laws can range from, custody to alimony, and many other contributing factors (Stevenson et al. 3-30). In the event of alimony payments men are required to pay alimony even to the point of poverty, the consequence for non-compliance is prison. These laws have created a term coined, It is a term that reflects the state of absent fathers from the household whose only connection to their children is by means of alimony support. This has, in turn, increases the fatherliness rate in America, and because of this image young men are rejecting the notion of marriage. The increasing rate of fatherlessness is contributing to the increasing rate of child poverty in America (Kriesberg) therefore, the ERA needs to be ratified, if it were added to the constitution it could help regulate the way alimony is paid in America, because as it stands judges do not truly have a concrete way of assigning who gets the almonry payment which results in wives usually receiving the payment (Biscardi, 8-20). Joe Sorge wrote a book and film titled, Divorce Corp, to illustrate the corruption and inequality behind the family law system in America. The issues of family law are brought into the light. The film version shows how men are stuck paying alimony even if they get to the point of being unable to continue paying alimony, and this also perfectly illustrates why ratifying the ERA has never been more critical. Ratifying the ERA can also tackle the problems of relationship assault. Relationship assault is very a prominent issue for gender rights, and this has led to the creation of the of the Duluth Model, named after the area of its creation, Duluth Minnesota. The Duluth Model is a feminist psycho-educational approach that seeks to try to identify how an individual may triy to seek control over a submissive partner in an abusive relationship, while the initial creation of the Model was started with good intentions it has now turned into a Model that only targets men as Robinson 3 the aggressors of domestic violence, even if men are the victims of domestic violence themselves (Herman. 3-40). This is a problem not only for men but for women also, having a model that lumps the aggressors into one predicate class (one shoe fits all approach) makes it difficult to identify the actual assaulters and it only serves to drive them underground. The ERA could make this model obsolete by fairly punishing the aggressor not by gender but by action, this, in turn, would make it easier to identify assault victims and offer them better and more reliable help. The ERA would also be a great benefit for women in business, and birthing health as women still also face areas of disparity in this area especially, most notably in the areas of abortion and maternity leave. In an article written by Maya Manian, the author talks about the Federal Abortion Ban and Miscarriage and its aim to restrict the ability for women to get abortions even if they were victims of sexual assault or if the pregnancy would result in putting the mother in dire peril. The ban puts a major strain on physicians, and it makes it more difficult for the physicians to carry out their jobs of aiding the patients to the best of the medical acumen. (Manian. 1319-1330) In relation to this issue is the issue of maternity leave. The United states in the only developed nation that offer paid maternity leave for mothers, an analysis of the World Policy Analysis Centre Adult Labor Database, shows 96 percent of countries provide some pay to women during maternity leave. The United States is the only high-income country, and one of only eight countries in the world that does not mandate paid leave for mothers of newborns. (Gault et al. 2). The largest corporations used to be run by mostly male members in the early they saw pregnancy as a burden that mothers should be solely responsible for, and it come at the expense of the corporation. The Pregnancy Discrimination Act of 1978 and Maternity Leave was designed to prohibit employers from discriminating against pregnancy, but there was a loophole in the original drafting of the act; Robinson 4 only if the company offers disabled pay leave is the only time they are required by law to offer paid maternity leave (3-6). This is a perfect example of how laws designed to destroy dated ideas get passed, but are hardly updated and are riddled with loopholes. If the ERA were ratified laws that deter physicians and maternity pay would become draconian, it would be a constitutional right for women to be able to get paid maternity leave and it would put the decisions of childbirth into the hands of mothers. For any change to happen in the areas of gender equality, we the people, need to get the ERA added to the constitution. It is clearly understood that there is still a disparity between men and women in society which is exactly why the ERA needs to be ratified. We need to enforce our civil liberties to be treated as equal humans in society. There is a myriad of fallacious information about gender equality floating around different mediums and the real factual evidence about gender equality is being overlooked, ergo the time to act has never been more important. The ERA will enable, us to never face the issues highlighted in this essay; it will make sure your children will never face them, and their children also. Many large organizations have enacted petitions such as H. J.R.S.69 ( a house bill) and are also campaigning for the ratification of the E.R.A, but they do it alone and need our help. If you volunteer a small amount of your time or money to help ERA notable organizations such as the ERA coalition, you will be aiding in the effort to ensure that we never worry about these issues again. The burden falls upon us in discerning the kind of world we want to live in, and no one else can make the choice for us, inaction is a choice. Robinson 5 Work Cited Biscardi, Rachel. DISPELLING ALIMONY MYTHS: THE CONTINUING NEED FOR ALIMONY AND THE ALIMONY REFORM ACT OF 201. New England. Western New England Law Review. n.d. print Cahill, Bernadette Alice Paul the National party and the vote. Washington D.C. McFarland & Company. n.d. Print. Gault, Barba et. al Parental Leave in the United Department of Labor. Institute for Herman, Katherine et. al Outcomes from a Duluth Model Batterer Intervention Program at Completion and Long Term Follow. Up Taylor & Francis Group, LLC. January 1, 2014, Web April 04 2014. Kriesberg, Louis. Mothers in Poverty: study of fatherless Library of Congress n.d. Web. April 15, 20. 2017 Manian, Maya, The Consequences of Abortion Restrictions for Healthcare, 71 Wash. & Lee L. Rev. 1317 (2014), <scholarlycommons.law.wlu.edu> Parental Leave in the United States: What the Data Tell Us about Access, Usage, and Economic and Health The national policy for research. Web April 13, 2017. < https://iwpr.org/publications/paid-parental-leave-in-the-united-states-what-the-data-tell-us- about-access-usage-and-economic-and-health-benefits/ > Sorge, Joe. Divorce Corp. New York Candor Entertainment. January 10, 2014. print Robinson 6 Staggenborg, Suzanne and Taylor Verta, Happened to the n.p. Web. April 02 2017. Stevenson, Betsey & Wolfers Justin, and Divorce: Changes and their Driving Penn Libraries. University of Pennsylvania Scholarly Commons. n.d. Web. April 05 2017 <repository.upenn.edu>