Matich 1 Jake Matich Professor Mariama Comp 2 4/17/17 With the increase in technology, whether it be cell phones or cameras at every street corner and ATM, government surveillance has become a growing issue in the United States. The government is able to access many electronic platforms including emails, phone records, and video recordings that has many believing it is putting at stake the right to privacy as U.S. citizens. Although these complaints have been made toward these ever increasing surveillance policies- brought on in part by the Edward Snowden wikileaks scandal- the NSA still believes it is their duty to protect the well-being of Americans in any way possible, doing so by continuously conducting national security missions in the form of this government surveillance. The NSA has used a few instances where using mass government surveillance has led to the conviction of suspected terrorists, including Basaaly Saeed Moalin, who was supplying money and intelligence to terrorist groups in Somalia (Nakashima 1). Despite this, it still requires the unnecessary widespread surveillance of millions of civilians who now feel they are constantly being watched. Government surveillance needs to be either limited to actual suspects in question, or simply gotten rid of as a whole. Reasons for which include it is an invasion of privacy and is unconstitutional, doing so will bridge the gap between the citizens and the government formed by surveillance, and also limiting surveillance to suspected individuals could perhaps speed up the process of convicting these individuals. Matich 2 The use of widespread government surveillance throughout the nation affects millions of people every day. The reason in which this use of surveillance and has gained so much attention is due to the Wikileaks scandal, in which Edward Snowden released records from the NSA showing how they can access emails, phone records, and even access most cameras and microphones without even altering the technology. This has formed an ever-increasing disconnect between the government and the citizens, and the gap is only growing. Stand Against Spying, a coalition of organizations aimed to end the use of mass surveillance, made it clear that one of their goals is to have the government release all records and instances of mass surveillance and who it is directed towards, when it states, call on you to provide a full public accounting of the intelligence mass surveillance (Standagainstspying.org 1). What is unfortunate, however, is that this is an unlikely compromise due to the fact that there is such a wide gap between the NSA and U.S. citizens, and a release of these records showing how many people are affected by the surveillance could only serve to anger these citizens even further. Furthermore, the use of mass government surveillance is an invasion of privacy and is simply unconstitutional. The United States of America was founded on one main principal, which is freedom from an overpowering and controlling establishment. Now that our government is capable of accessing all of our emails, phone calls, and street/ATM cameras, it seems as if this is no longer the case with the government watching our every move. According to Neil M. Richards of Harvard Law Review, surveillance is harmful because it can chill the exercise of our civil liberties. With respect to civil liberties, consider surveillance of people when they are thinking, reading, and communicating with others in order to make up their minds about political and social issues. Such intellectual surveillance is especially dangerous because it Matich 3 can cause people not to experiment with new, controversial, or deviant As citizens of the United States, we have the right to think freely and have an open mind when it comes to social, political, and economic dynamics. Now that government surveillance is so widespread this is at stake, as it alters the way we think in these aspects. Lastly, limiting government surveillance to individual criminal suspects that are in question could make the process significantly easier/quicker, as well as not violating the rights of so many people in an effort to catch one person. If there is a case in which the NSA needs to in fact look up phone records for instance, they should do it in regards to specific suspects, not widespread people being inspected for no reason. According to reformgovernmentsurveillance.com, should limit surveillance to specific, known users for lawful purposes, and should not undertake bulk data collection of Internet (reformgovernmentsurveillance 1). This site supports the Stand Against Spying values by showing how we truly do need reform in terms of government surveillance and further illustrates its importance. A counterargument used by the NSA and government surveillance compliers is when they provide examples of how the use of widespread surveillance has led to the conviction of certain terror suspects, including the conviction of Basaaly Saeed Moalin who was supplying terrorist organizations in Somalia with money and intelligence to influence terrorist acts. Although they have been successful on different occasions with catching these suspects, it is still not the most efficient way to do so, and the way it is done now in turn affects millions of others who also had their records investigated. The reason for which someone who might not have known about this topic or who is not actively engaged in the topic is that clearly it affects each and every citizen in the U.S., as previously stated. Even someone who under investigation for criminal activity could be Matich 4 looked at, with their phone records, emails, and even locations through a phone or street camera can be tracked. This is simply an invasion of privacy and is downright wrong. A proposed compromise includes as previously stated is limiting the surveillance to suspected criminals under investigation. This would ultimately decrease the amount of people affected by this, as well as easing the tension between the government and U.S. citizens. A way in which you can get involved includes reaching out to local and state politicians about this issue and showing them how this is wrong and influencing them into signing a bill to limit or end the mass surveillance. Also, citizens can participate in walks and protests demonstrating the frustration we have because of this, which could also influence congressman. Something must be done to end mass surveillance, and if left the way it is, millions of innocent people will continue to have their private lives intruded by the government, and a bigger gap will form between the citizens and the government. Matich 5 Works Cited Page M. Neil, Richards. Dangers of Harvard Law Review. Web. 20 May 2013. Accessed 10 April 2017 https://harvardlawreview.org/2013/05/the-dangers-of- surveillance/ Nakashima, Ellen. Cites Case As Success of Phone Data Collection Washington Post. Web. 8 Aug 2013. Accessed 30 Jan 2017 www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/nsa-cites-case-as-success-of-phone-data- collection-program/2013/08/08/fc915e5a-feda-11e2-96a8- Stand Against Spying-About. N.d. n.p. Web. Accessed 28 Jan 2017 standagainstspying.org/about/ Reform Government Surveillance. N.d. n.p. Web. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017 www.reformgovernmentsurveillance.com/.