Charity 1 Richard Charity ENC 1102-007 Prof. Drugan Intermediate Draft 3 Human Immunodeficiency Virus and AIDS: Educate, Empower and Engage Throughout human history epidemics of all kinds have plagued different societies. As time has passed different society have learned to handle these different types of epidemics in their own unique way. The invention of medicine dates back to ancient times. Early civilizations like the Babylonians, Ancient India, Ancient China, Greece, and Ancient Africa, approached and practiced medicine differently. Herbal medicine and spiritual healing were popular among a number of ancient societies and this eventually developed into the multi-billion-dollar industry it is today. medicines are being used by about 80% of the world population primarily in the developing countries for primary health care. They have stood the test of time for their safety, efficacy, cultural acceptability and lesser side (Kamboj 36). In the 19th Century, the germ theory of disease was developed. The germ theory of disease was a theory that explained that many diseases are caused by microorganism. This theory helped find cures to many illnesses that inflicted the people of the late 19th century and 20th century. Although some illness could be explained not all diseases fit into that category. the beginning of the twentieth century, many diseases could be causally explained by the germ theory. However, other important diseases defied every attempted (Carter 119). Medical professionals all over the world would learn of different types of diseases and illnesses not defined by the parameters Charity 2 mentioned in the germ theory. Diseases that include illnesses that may be explained and understood, but are yet to be curable. Although some of these diseases are incurable it important to educate, empower and engage the world on these diseases. Diseases like the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) may be incurable but it is important to educate, empower and engage the world about preventative measures and available treatments in hope of eradication of the disease. People need to be educated about HIV in order to move forward in the eradication of the virus. Although HIV is a widely researched topic there are many misconceptions about the disease. Most of the world is misinformed and uneducated about the disease, some deny existence at all. It is important for all people to have a solid understanding of history, existent, and the process from which it spreads in order for humanity to have success fight against the disease. The human immunodeficiency virus is a retrovirus that has RNA strands instead of DNA strands. Retrovirus uses a distinctive property that allows them to transcribe their RNA strands into a DNA strands after entering a cell. linear single-stranded RNA genome of the virus is then copied into a double-stranded linear DNA molecule by the viral enzyme reverse transcriptase (RT); this conversion of RNA to DNA gives retroviruses their (Pollard 492). The human immunodeficiency virus attacks the T-Cells inside the blood streams. T-Cells or T lymphocytes are type of white blood cell. lymphocytes are specialized white blood cells that are essential components of the immune (Culvert 1). The HIV virus attacks these cells and transcribe its RNA into DNA then replicating. Over time this affects the immune systems because the T-Cell count will drop to level where the body will be incapable of fighting off infections. At this stage the human immunodeficiency virus has developed into acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS). AIDS is when the T-Cell Charity 3 officially falls under 200 cells per cubic millimeter of blood. Although, HIV can progress into AIDS, HIV have to progress into AIDS. It is important to educate people that HIV can be treated so that AIDS develop. It is important to educate people that there is hope, that HIV a death sentence. People need to engage themselves when comes to fighting the HIV epidemic. There are many ways for an individual to engage themselves in the fight. If one has already taken the first steps to educate themselves over the general information regarding the epidemic, they have The next step can vary from person to person. Donating money is one route a person can take to engage themselves in the battle against HIV. Funding research helps bring fresh energy and new perspectives to a field that has been extensively researched. This support is vital in the effort to eradicate HIV and find a cure. Millions of dollars of federal money each year go into HIV/AIDS research. Another way to engage oneself is to go ahead and get tested. Getting tested for HIV is a crucial step in taking measure to fight against the HIV epidemic. One in seven people with HIV do not know their status. People who are unaware that they have HIV are more likely to pass the disease on to other people. Getting tested early in the process and receiving treatment can be what helps an HIV positive person live a long and happy life. Empowering people with the resources is also a very crucial element in the eradication of HIV. People need to have the resource available to get tested and find information to inform and educate themselves. For this reason, there are plenty of government as well as non-governmental organizations and resources dedicated to empowering people to engage in the fight against HIV. Website like AIDS.gov, CDC.gov, Amfar.org. AIDS.gov is a for information and resources on HIV/AIDS. Their objective is the following. Charity 4 visibility of timely and relevant Federal HIV policies, programs, and resources to the American public. Increase use of new media tools by government, minority, and other community partners to extend the reach of HIV programs to communities at greatest risk. Increase knowledge about HIV and access to HIV services for people most at-risk for, or living with, HIV. Support the goals and objectives of the Minority AIDS Initiative Fund These resources empower the people to use the education that they know and take actions. This is essential in the fight against HIV/AIDS. Throughout human history epidemics of all kinds have plagued different society. Humans soon developed the germ theory to fight some illness even though some illness could not fit into that category of germs. Diseases like the human immunodeficiency syndrome. Medical professionals all over the world are currently learning of different types ways to treat HIV. Retroviral treatment is currently treating HIV patients even though HIV is currently incurable. Diseases like the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) may be incurable but it is important to educate, empower and engage the world about preventative measures and available treatments in hope of eradication of the disease. We need governments to fund research and to empower its citizens with tools to take charge against the war against HIV. come a long way from its discovery in the Bill Clinton once stated that is no longer a death sentence for those who can get the medicines. Now up to the politicians to create the comprehensive  to better treat the Charity 5 Works Cited Carter, K. Codell. The germ theory, beriberi, and the deficiency theory of  Medical History 21.02 (1977): 119-136. Culvert, L. Lee, BS, CLS. T  Salem Press Encyclopedia of Health, January. EBSCOhost Kamboj, V. P. Herbal  CURRENT SCIENCE-BANGALORE- 78.1 (2000): 35-38. Pollard, Victoria W. and Michael H. Malim. The HIV-1 Rev  Annual Review of Microbiology, 1998, p. 491. Sachdeva, Meenakshi, et al. Increased Expression of Negative Regulators of Cytokine Signaling during Chronic HIV Disease Cause Functionally Exhausted State of Dendritic  Cytokine, vol. 91, 01 Mar. 2017, pp. 118-123. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.cyto.2016.08.010.