Calabrese 1 Martina Calabrese Bob Botkin ENC 1102 16 April, 2017 Life in Plastic, is it Fantastic? Most people think of children beauty pageants for what they portray on the stage which is glamorous. This is not the case considering most people do not know what happens behind the curtains in preparation for a beauty pageant. Young girls are often times forced into a world of beauty that more times than not, they do not want to be in. They have to go through extensive amounts of training and extreme conditions to compete. Beauty pageants sexualize the girls who are competing in them, many at very young ages. On top of wearing an excessive amount of makeup and other add-ons, these girls are forced to wear provocative clothing and perform acts that are far too inappropriate to be doing at their ages. These requirements have the ability to lead these young girls to developing not only mental disorders, but physical ones as well. This paper will discuss why beauty pageants are degrading to young women and why they should be banned. Many people are unaware of the fact that there is a lot more to a beauty pageant than makeup and fancy dresses. Miss America pageant contestant, Carrie Prejean stated that prepping for a beauty pageant is no walk in the park either, especially with young (beautypageantsze.weebly.com) What judges and guest of a beauty pageant typically see is the physical appearance of the pageant contestants. They are forced to wear caked on makeup, hair extensions, false nails, sometimes even false teeth if they are missing their own teeth, get spray tans, etc. Most people do not realize the mental training that is put into competing in a beauty Calabrese 2 pageant. These young girls must maintain a certain weight in order to compete. Many times, young girls are seen starving themselves or over working their bodies to remain a weight that is acceptable for the pageant judges. Cynthia Zhang stated in her business insider article that she received many comments where people would tell her that she was getting chubby and that she needed to watch her figure. She also stated that girls did not lot of the girls were so self-conscious of the swimsuit part of the competition that they stopped eating days before the (Zhang, 2013) Girls in beauty pageants are very conscious of their image no matter how skinny or beautiful they are. These girls are experiencing a false representation of what really is due to all the rules and regulations that come along with being involved in a beauty pageant. Another aspect of the beauty pageant world that most people are unaware of is the fact that more time than not, these young girls do not want to compete in these pageants. They are forced to compete by their parents, more so their mothers. What these pageant mothers are trying to accomplish with entering their child or children into these beauty pageants, is trying to relive their childhood dreams through their children, which is unrealistic. For instance, an exclusive on Good Morning America conducted an interview on a mother who gave her eight-year-old daughter Botox injections. In the interview, the mother goes on to say how she is not the only mother doing this and that she does not see anything wrong with what she is doing. Although when they interviewed her daughter, she said the Botox injections hurt, she did not know why she had to get them done, and that she did not like them. (Hagan, 2011) This goes to show how her mother is forcing her to receive Botox injections and gives an understanding at how mothers in general are forcing their children into beauty pageants. When girls have enhancements on themselves to improve their physical looks such as Botox injections, at such a young age, it Calabrese 3 really takes a toll on how they portray themselves naturally. This also has the potential to lead these girls to continue altering their appearances as they get older which is not only expensive, but can also be extremely dangerous. Most people do not associate health issues with beauty pageants when they should. The reason being that many young girls suffer from not only mental disorders once competing in a beauty pageant, but they suffer from physical ones as well. These disorders stem from self- esteem issues, a wide range of mental disorders, Anorexia, and Bulimia. Considering these girls are always competing against one another over who is more beautiful, talented, and who has the best body, it is not hard for these girls to become self-conscious. In an article by ABC Action News, they had interviewed a Toddler in Tiaras beauty pageant contestant and asked her how she feels if she does not win. The nine-year-old, Brooke McClung, said is very important to win and when I do not win, I get very (Canning & Deborah, 2009). It has been said that many times when these young girls do not win their beauty pageants, they are seen developing signs of depression or do become extremely depressed. Not only are these girls becoming depressed when they lose, but they also start to compare themselves to the girls that won and wonder why they were not good enough to win or what the other girls had that they did not. That also follows into the low self-esteem category, which is one of the more popular disorders young girls develop when competing in a beauty pageant. Other common disorders seen in young girls who are in beauty pageants are the eating disorders Anorexia and Bulimia. Anorexia is a disorder where people do not eat in order to not gain any weight, making them skinny to the point where they are extremely sick looking. Bulimia is a disorder where people will eat but after eating, will force themselves to throw up all their food so they do not gain any weight from the food they just Calabrese 4 consumed, also making them look tremendously skinny. With these health issues happening at such young ages, it leads to greater issues as these girls get older. Considering most people do not know what goes on behind the scenes of a beauty pageant, the negative conditions are being overlooked and have become worse than ever before. With people thinking beauty pageants are anything but harmful to young girls, it makes it harder for these young girls to get the help they need. There is a lot more to these beauty pageants than the glamorous concept they portray. The disorders these young girls can develop from competing in beauty pageants have the potential to be long term and damaging to not only their physical health, but their mental health as well. With these young girls being forced into beauty pageants and forced into the provocative outfits they have to wear, what they have to say, and how they have to look, it really takes a toll on how they view themselves naturally and makes them feel as though they can only look beautiful while wearing makeup. Enhancements such as Botox and waxing are gateways to more serious cosmetic surgeries that are being pursued more as these young girls get older. If people continue turning a blind eye to the fact that these beauty pageants are doing more harm than they are good, the results can become far worse than they have previously been. People must stop these outrageous rules and regulations these young girls must go through in order to compete and let them go back to having fun. Beauty pageants should not be sexualizing young girls or making them feel as though they need to enhance themselves in order to be beautiful and win. They should be so that young girls can have a good time and to help build their self-confidence rather than destroying it. Calabrese 5 Works Cited Canning, Andrea, and Deborah Apton. Behind the Scenes: Toddlers, Tiaras, Tempers and ABC News. ABC News Network, 11 Aug. 2009. Web. 29 Ar. 2017. Hagan, Kelly, Sarah Kunin and Sabrina Ghebremedhin. Gives Botox to 8-Year-Old Daughter: How Young Is Too ABC News. ABC News Network, 12 May 2011. Web. 29 Apr. 2017 Beauty Pageants. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Apr. 2017. Zhang, Cynthia. What Really Like To Compete In Beauty Business Insider. Business Insider, 30 Aug. 2013. We. 29. Apr. 2017