1 Sackey Tyrique Sackey ENC 1102 Professor Grugan Intermediate Draft Cigarette Health important for everyone to know the dangers of smoking tobacco. Tobacco can be smoked, chewed, and even sniffed. Many people are currently dealing with Nicotine addictions. Nicotine is the main stimulant in tobacco. According to Drugabuse.gov, nicotine in any tobacco product readily absorbs into the blood when a person uses it. Upon entering the blood, nicotine immediately stimulates the adrenal glands to release the hormone epinephrine (adrenaline). Epinephrine stimulates the central nervous system and increases blood pressure, breathing, and heart Nicotine affects the reward systems in your brain. This area of the brain is made of neurostructures that become stimulated when pleasure is involved. Nicotine acts as a stimulant and releases hormones that cause the body to emit a positive response, this response leads to addiction because nicotine users always want to feel this emotion. Once you become addicted, Nicotine leads to many health issues and once you try to quit you endure many withdrawal symptoms which make it almost impossible to quit. act of smoking cigarettes is an unhealthy habit that can lead to lung cancer, gum disease, and even death. important that everyone is aware of the danger of smoking to save the lives of those addicted and the kids growing up and unaware of the danger. Smoking causes 1 in 5 deaths every year in the U.S. That is 480,000 deaths a year due to cigarettes alone. The causes of death all vary from lung cancer to heart disease. important to 2 Sackey Smoking damages blood vessels and can make them thicken and grow narrower. This makes your heart beat faster and your blood pressure go up. Clots can also form. It is also important understand that you may be affected by smoking whether it be first or second-hand, meaning even if you smoke you may still be affected by the negative health effects if you are around those who smoke. According to Betobaccofree.gov than 33,000 nonsmokers die every year in the United States from coronary heart disease caused by exposure to secondhand Children are at particular risk for exposure to secondhand smoke: 53.6% of young children (aged years) were exposed to secondhand smoke in In children, secondhand smoke causes ear infections, more frequent and severe asthma attacks respiratory issues, including coughing, sneezing, and shortness of breath, respiratory infections, including bronchitis and pneumonia , and an increased risk of sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS). It is important to ensure that kids and pregnant woman avoid being around cigarettes to avoid the unnecessary effects that kids who parents face. With 480,000 deaths due to the cigarette smoking in the U.S alone hard to imagine how many deaths have been caused due to it worldwide. Tobacco is known to kill up to half the users. tobacco epidemic is one of the biggest public health threats the world has ever faced, killing around 6 million people a important to understand the harm caused by tobacco and the chemicals added to make them more effective and addicting. smoke contains over 4,000 chemicals, including 43 known cancer-causing compounds and 400 other toxins. Some of these harmful chemicals include cyanide, Lead Arsenic, Ammonia Radioactive elements, Benzene, Carbon monoxide, Nitrosamines Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons. People are ingesting these chemicals on a regular basis. Imagine if someone 3 Sackey poured you a bottle that included all these chemicals and tried to sell it to you for $4.99, would you buy it? Well that is exactly what these cigarette companies are doing. I feel like it is the duty to protect the people of its country and when cigarette companies are able to produce these globally a problem. There are many countries that have smokers who are unaware of these harmful carcinogens and might not ever be informed of this information. In the U.S more and more people are getting informed and the help the need to avoid and quit tobacco. In 1998 lawsuits against the 4 major companies happened. This was due to the harm that tobacco was causing to people health and their health exchange, the companies agreed to curtail or cease certain tobacco marketing practice, as well as to pay, in perpetuity, various annual payments to the states to compensate them for some of the medical costs of caring for persons with smoking-related illnesses. The money also funds a new anti-smoking advocacy group, called the American Legacy Foundation, that is responsible for such campaigns as The Truth. The settlement also dissolved the tobacco industry groups Tobacco Institute, the Center for Indoor Air Research, and the Council for Tobacco Research. In the MSA, the original participating manufacturers (OPM) agreed to pay a minimum of $206 billion over the first 25 years of the I feel that cigarette companies should be held accountable around the 1 world. If these cigarette companies are held accountable it will pressure cigarette companies to use safer ingredients and if not they will face negative repercussions. Tobacco is very dangerous and it comes in many different forms, not just cigarettes. Some may include Cigar, Snuff, e cigs and Chewing tobacco. A lot of these are seen as safer 1 Tobacco Master Settlement  Wikimedia Foundation, 06 Apr. 2017. Web. 18 Apr. 2017. 4 Sackey alternatives, but reality that just true. A lot of these products include the same dangerous carcinogens that cause cancer as cigarettes. important for people to avoid tobacco products as a whole. Regulations and information on tobacco is essential not only in the U.S, but all around the world. As of recent the U.S has cracked down on cigarette companies and have pressured them to put caution labels on their boxes. They are also pushing for the minimum age required to smoke cigarettes to 21. In areas such as Indonesia or any developing country, their are little constraints on smoking and kids like the 2 year old in the picture are getting addicted to tobacco . All in all it is essential for the people to understand and be informed about the danger related to being around and smoking tobacco. Tobacco not only affects the health of people smoking,but those around them due to secondhand smoke. With half a million deaths contributed to tobacco alone very evident that it is a public health crisis and people need to be aware of the harm. 5 Sackey WORK CITED Tobacco Facts and  About Smoking and Tobacco Use Be Tobacco Department of Health and Human Services, 20 Aug. 2012. Web. 18 Apr. 2017. Tobacco Master Settlement  Wikimedia Foundation, 06 Apr. 2017. Web. 18 Apr. 2017. Health Effects of Cigarette  for Disease Control and Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 01 Dec. 2016. Web. 18 Apr. 2017.  Health World Health Organization, n.d. Web. 18 Apr. 2017. Harmful Chemicals in Tobacco  Cancer N.p., n.d. Web. 18 Apr. 2017. 2 2