Eric Hiser Professor Drugan ENC 1102.072 25 February 2017 Friend or Foe Pitbulls are given a bad reputation and they did nothing wrong to deserve it. In the media, pitbulls are given constant attention to being an aggressive attack dog. People will constantly see pitbulls coming up in the news for attacking people or young children. Never do you see the good of pitbulls where they are a family dog and show nothing but love. Pitbulls are not inherently dangerous. Pitbulls only got this bad reputation from being abused and neglected on purpose by their owners to become fighter dogs. To help pitbulls get the reputation they deserve, we the people need to take a stance to help protect pitbulls from the abuse and neglect they go through. To do this, we must help by rescuing pitbulls from their shelters and treat them the same way we would treat any other dog. Pitbulls are a breed of the American bulldog, Staffordshire bull terrier, and American Staffordshire terrier. pitbull was bred to pin and control large dangerous animals, such as Bulls, Bears and (Pitbullgear). Due to the pitbull breed being muscular, people decided to have fun with the dogs and use them in shows called baiting events. These events would consist of pitbull(s) against a bull and people would watch the pitbull fight the bull until exhaustion. This became boring to the public and soon turned to the pitbull vs monkeys, horses, and other smaller animals. This lead to the current day dog fighting rings. Pitbulls were used in these fighting rings to fight other pitbulls or smaller dogs as people found it to watch the smaller Hiser 2 animals get obliterated by the pitbulls. Soon the media would find out and dog fighting would become banned everywhere, but exist underground everywhere as well. So how did the pitbull become a fighter and why does the media portray the breed as dangerous and needing of a ban? This has to do with the way the owners of the dogs treat them. According to the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, dogs are typically raised in isolation, so they spend most of their lives on short, heavy By doing this, the owners can effectively induce anger to the dogs as they lose hope of ever getting to have fun or move around. The pitbulls are regularly conditioned for fighting through the use of drugs, including anabolic steroids to enhance muscle mass and encourage (ASPCA). With this type of treatment, it is safe to say that any dog given this much abuse and neglect would likely become aggressive and attack people or other animals. To help protect against this type of issue, the people will need to step up and take control of the abuse that is happening. One of the major issues currently with pitbulls is the overbreeding of them. Pitbulls are currently overpopulated, and are the most common dog to be found in a shelter. According to Ctpost, of Friday, there were 14 dogs in its shelter and nine of them were pit The reason this is so common is due to amateur dog owners who cannot dedicate the time to properly own an animal, not just a pitbull. Since pitbulls have a bad reputation to begin with, it is very rare that pitbulls actually get adopted from the shelters as they are seen as not a great family dog. This is discerning as they are great and deserve a wonderful life just like any other dog breed out there. With the help of the public and proper knowledge on pitbulls, we the people, can save the pitbull reputation and begin to help keep them out of shelters. Hiser 3 A big problem with the pitbulls is their use in fighting rings. Back in 2007, former Philadelphia Eagles quarterback Michael Vick and three of his associates were convicted of running a dog fighting ring. Newz which housed and trained over 50 pit bull dogs, staged dog fights, killed dogs, and ran a high stakes gambling ring with purses up to (ADFL). This type of media attention did not help the cause for pitbulls to be treated properly, only dug deeper into the hole that the media had given them before. In order to help the pitbull, one must be willing to go against the norm and see the good side of the pitbull. According to Petfinder, Pit Bull will do almost anything his favorite people ask of him, just to hear their With the pitbull being such a loyal dog, anyone who treats them kindly and just like any other house dog will be pleased at how friendly and loving the pitbull is. They are not inherently dangerous at all and are extremely social. Pitbulls are eager to please their owners which makes them great family dogs, especially towards children. With proper treatment, the pitbull is one of the best breeds of dog that a family could own. Other characteristics that make the pitbull a great pet is the fact that they love to cuddle and socialize with their owners. They absolutely crave attention and want nothing more than some praise from their owners. Why should the public even care about bringing the reputation of the pitbulls up to a standard reputation of other dogs? Why should the public want to help out pitbulls in need? Well to start, the dog does not get a say in who gets to own/adopt them. The owners dictate exactly how the dog will behave. If the dog is abused, neglected, and scared, it will avoid people, not socialize, and always feel threatened. This goes for any type of dog out there. Due to the loyalty of the pitbulls themselves though, they tend to do whatever their owners want regardless of the Hiser 4 treatment as they just want to please them. If more dog owners properly treated the pitbull breed, they would not be flamed so much for aggression. In order to help give the pitbulls a new life and new home, one could visit the ASPCA or local animal shelters and adopt a pitbull. This would dramatically help pitbulls in need and could vastly improve a life. This is a crucial step in shifting the way that the public sees pitbulls. Along with adopting pitbulls and placing them in healthy families, one could raise awareness and educate others on the true abuse and neglect that the majority of the pitbulls out there today receive. This is a very important step in creating a better life for the pitbull breed. Check with your local shelter and see if adopting a pitbull is the right choice for your next dog. Hiser 5 Works Cited Pit Bull  Pit Bull Abuse. Ed. Pitbullgear. Pitbullgear, n.d. Web. 19 Apr. 2017. ASCPA. Dog  Dog Fighting. ASPCA, n.d. Web. 19 Apr. 2017. ALDF. Animal Fighting Case Study: Michael  Winning The Case Against Cruelty. ALDF, n.d. Web. 19 Apr. 2017. Burgeson, John. Pit Bulls Dominate  Pit Bulls Dominate shelters. CTPOST, 16 Nov. 2013. Web. 19 Apr. 2017.