Phillipson 1 Ashley Phillipson Ms. Collins ENC 1102.017 16 April 2017 Poaching the Poachers that Poach Too many images of fly-swarmed carcasses of beloved animals such as elephants, rhinos, and tigers are left to decay under the overbearing sun and deteriorate under the gloomy moon. Humans establish a lasting impact wherever they go. These footprints may be positive such as space exploration on the Moon, or they may be devastating such as environmental impacts. Humans create disastrous implications on the environment which consequently creates negative repercussions; one of the many issues that humans generate is the act of poaching. Poaching is epitomized as the illegal hunting of animals on another territory (Ramsey). Poaching does not go unnoticed, but the efforts to remedy the environment-altering dilemma have proven to be futile. Nearly every country has a poaching dilemma dating back to the Middle Ages when peasants trespassed the lands of the elite to hunt the game on their land during times of famine (Shadow). Thus, generated a snowball effect that created the Black Markets for poached animals (Shadow). Africa is one of the many countries that play a tremendous role in the Black Market of Poaching because animal species present in Africa are hunted for highly valued commodity reasons such as ivory in the tusks of elephants and the horns of rhinos (Ramsey). Animals such as elephants, rhinos, tigers, gorillas, and turtles are all poached for one reason or another, but most are important species that allow their habitat to thrive as they are on the brink of extinction. These animals are additionally poached for food sources, medicine, and sport. Poaching seems to economically benefit third-world countries as the steady illegal income for poached goods is Phillipson 2 high in demand at the expense of the environment. Although poaching may create economic benefits for the citizens of the third world countries that commit these crimes, the environmental implications far outweigh the benefits, leading to long term repercussions; ultimately, poaching needs to end to prevent these consequences. Poaching affects everyone, the loss of biodiversity in animal species affects food production, agricultural growth, and other facets of society in an average life; procrastination is not an option when the lives of animals are on the line. The apparent need to poach animals derives from necessary human instinct to survival. In third world countries such as Africa, poached animals are one of the few food resources due to lack of vegetation in some regions. Many of these impoverished regions used the poach animals for their meat. Ultimately, poaching provides the community with sustenance although it may go against their morals. In certain regions of Africa, some animal species are held to a higher standard and are sacred to the people in various communities. Nisbert Taisekwa Taringa, a lecturer at the University of Zimbabwe ultimately exemplified the divinity of the various animal species in his award winning lecture. Taringa summarized the religious significance of a variety of animals in different African communities. To illustrate, the presence of a leopard in the Shona community was sacred and their skins were only able to be possessed by the chief leaders with their hunt being a rare occasion, at the same time in other regions of Africa, leopards are hunted when found due to the high valued print of the skin on the Black Market (Taiskwa). The previous example was one of many animals that are considered sacred in an African community. When each of the hundreds of thousands of African communities hold a select group of animal species as hollowed, it induces societal disputes between those who want to preserve and protect their divine species and those who desire to hunt the species for monetary benefits. Fundamentally, Phillipson 3 poaching generates a societal schism, adding to the long term repercussions when considering the endangerment or extinction of a sacred species. The primary opposition for poaching considers the environmental repercussions that are a result of the hunting of game. Killing specific animals for intrinsic incentives causes a disruption in the food web for animals. Keystone species such as elephants helps to maintain the biodiversity of a habitat by controlling populations that may dominate the food web or by providing essential resources to various species within the habitat (Thompson). Ultimately, a keystone species can dramatically affect the dynamic of the habitat. When a keystone species is endangered or eliminated, it follows a domino effect where other species would be eliminated following the loss of the keystone species (Rutledge et al). For instance, the presence of elephants in the savanna leads to the consumption of the acacia tree (Rutledge et al). This consumption maintains the grassland area of the savanna where antelopes, zebras, and other species graze (Rutledge et al). Small animals are able to hide in the soil, while predators are able to prey on grazers (Rutledge et al). Disrupting the balance of the habitat by poaching keystone species generates negative repercussions that will change the habitat and its residents. Considering the environmental consequences that poaching induces is a crucial reason as to why poaching needs to come to an end. It is often argued that poaching produces a positive benefit for those in third world countries. Residents reap the benefits of the tourism that takes place in these highly touristic game sites for migratory and resident wildlife. It is believed that when poachers arrive in these regions, the influx in travel, hotel stays, and necessary resources would provide economic benefits; however, just the opposite is proven true. On many accounts in the Serengeti National Park and in Tanzania, poaching affects careers in travel guides and drivers, hotel stays, and, Phillipson 4 restaurants that rely on the wildlife population for business. According to Wildaid, an organization dedicated to preserving and protecting wildlife, poaching in Tanzania has stunted economic growth in the country by affecting 3.8 million jobs in the tourism-sector focused on the wildlife (Wildaid). The rampant hunting of elephants and giraffes has almost dwindled the population down to half the original size in the span of five years (Wildaid). Although poaching can create personal economic growth for those willing to sell commodified parts of slaughtered animals on the black market, these selfish crimes provokes a negative impact for the environment. Furthermore, poaching only creates a temporary gain of economic prosperity because poached wildlife are being hunted and killed at a rate faster than their population can grow. Thus we come full circle, poaching is a problem and it is prevalent in our society. Pictures of slaughtered animals circle the Internet from different sources-- Asia, Africa, North America, anywhere. Poaching is the illegal hunting of wildlife. Procrastinating on fixing this problem will make the situation worse as the economic, societal, and environmental ramifications become more disastrous the longer we wait for someone else to fix the problem. Do research, spread the word, and talk to environmental groups. This is one problem that cannot wait to be fixed. (Word Count 1222) Phillipson 5 Works Cited Ramsey, P. S.  Salem Press Encyclopedia, January. Rutledge K, McDaniel M, Doudreau D, Ramroop T, Teng S, Sprout E, Costa H, Hall H, Hunt J. Keystone  National Geographic Society. Caryl-Sue, National Geographic Society , 09 Oct. 2012. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Shadow, S. How Poaching  9 December 2008. HowStuffWorks.com. Taisekwa, Nisbert T. Sacred Duty of Animals in African Traditional Religion and Future Africa: Appropriating Natures for the Future: Africa and Beyond, University of Zimbobwe, June 2005. Thompson, John N. Keystone  Britannica, September. WildAid. Tanzania: Poaching Threatens Tourism Industry  WildAid. N.p., 2015 Aug. 11. Web. 15 Apr. 2017.