Wilson 1 Isaiah Wilson Ms. Collins ENC 1102 16 April 2017 The Campaign to Eliminate Drunk Driving Within the past hour, someone died of an alcohol-related incident in the United States. Drunk driving accounts for nearly one-third of all traffic-related deaths. There is clearly a lack of respect for driving regulations within society, and this has led to a serious number of people losing their lives over something that could have easily been avoided. Various organizations within society are fighting to counteract this problem, but their efforts can only have so much impact. It is believed that by educating society on the problem, ensuring that they are conscious of their actions, and empowering them to actively tackle this problem, change will come. A significant number of drivers do not understand the concept of drunk driving. Drunk driving is term used when one is driving under the influence of alcohol. No matter how much alcohol you have consumed even if under the legal limit your ability to drive may be and Drinking alcohol affects your vision, hand/eye coordination, and reflexes. When a person decides to get behind the wheel of a vehicle intoxicated, their decision affects more than just them; they put those in the car with them, pedestrians, or even other drivers at risk. Why would someone choose to drink and drive? According to Eric Morris, is a sense of entitlement among people who perpetually drive over the limit. In their mind, they are Wilson 2 fine. It until an accident occurs that there is an People often exaggerate their abilities, and it is only until something happens to them that they begin to rethink things. By the time this occurs, it is too late. The worst part about drunk driving is the families that are forced to suffer due to the actions of these intoxicated drivers. In 2011, an intoxicated, unlicensed driver crashed into another car in the city of Chicago, killing a mother and her teenage son, and injuring three other children (Schmadeke). The mother, Claudia Delia, was an aspiring beautician and her 16-year- old son was a charismatic member of a high school dance squad. Perhaps even worse is the handicapped lifestyles the three injured children are forced to endure. stepson was a high school sophomore whose vision and hearing were permanently damaged on the left side of his head, forcing him to give up his dream of becoming a Marine. other son, who was only 3 years old at the time, broke a leg. What was supposed to be a pleasant camping trip to Wisconsin took a very unfortunate turn for the worst. The family members of those that have suffered from these tragedies are often scared for the remainder of their lives. On December 24, 2011, Cody Dewitt hugged his mother goodbye for the last time. He went to a house to enjoy the last of his winter break, and sadly, he and his friend got involved with alcohol. Despite being intoxicated, his friend attempted to drive him back home regardless and they hit a tree. Cody was killed instantly. He was just a few months shy of graduation. Cathy Dewitt, mom, visualized her oldest high school graduation she dreamed a time of joy, celebration, and planning ahead for the next stage of his life. Cathy was excited about the numerous possibilities for Cody; she never imagined that she would sit next to an empty chair covered with flowers and an unworn cap and of Cathy will be haunted by the memory of her death for the rest of Wilson 3 her life, and the worst part about this is the fact that this could have easily been avoided if friend simply obeyed the law and refrained from overstating his abilities. Society needs to work together if there is to be any change when it comes to drunk driving. Mothers Against Drunk Driving (MADD) has created a campaign to eliminate drunk driving, but they have a long way to go before it is eliminated. This campaign has three main goals. The first is to high-visibility law enforcement to catch drunk drivers and discourage others from driving to Eliminate Drunk Two-thirds of the drunk driving problem stems from those who make the decision to drive drunk and have yet to be arrested. Increasing the level of law enforcement seen on the streets will help deter these drivers through proven solutions like sobriety checkpoints. The second objective is to ignition interlock devices, or in-car breathalyzers, for all drunk drivers, to prove they are sober before their car will to Eliminate Drunk The remaining one-third of the drunk driving problem comes from repeat offenders. At any given point, society shares the road with roughly two million people with three or more driving offenses. Taking away their license is not enough because research shows that they will continue to drive drunk regardless. This is why society needs to implement ignition interlocks, which are devices that require drivers to blow into a mouthpiece before starting the vehicle, for all drunk driving offenders so that they are forced to refrain from repeating their crimes. Finally, the third objective of the campaign is to strengthen the technology used to detect whether a driver is above the legal limit. This will allow society to easily detect and prevent drunk drivers from getting behind the wheel. In addition, by improving this technology, such as Wilson 4 the ignition interlocks placed in vehicles, there would not be a need to improve the visibility of law enforcement and society will most likely save money in the long run. This campaign is not just all talk; MADD has made serious breakthroughs in achieving their objectives. Because of efforts, states and the District of Columba have mandatory all-offender ignition interlock laws, up from only one to Eliminate Drunk In addition to that, all 50 states now have some form of ignition interlock law, up from 45, and advanced in-vehicle alcohol detection technology is no longer just a concept; it is now in its second phase of development. This shows that MADD has been making great progress in achieving their objectives and it will not be long until drunk driving is no longer an issue that society will have to worry about. Anyone can take action and play a role in this campaign by donating what little they can afford to the cause. MADD has made it easy to donate by placing a secured link on their website. In addition, members of society can easily join the cause directly by pledging their support and getting the message out to friends and family. The more people that are made aware of the cause, the easier it will be to persuade drivers avoid getting behind the wheel of a vehicle drunk and respect the law. Drunk driving is wreaking havoc on the roadways. It is destroying families and taking away futures, even though it is so easy to avoid. Luckily, MADD has a plan to combat these reckless drivers, and by donating to their cause or directly spreading the message, society can assist in ensuring that no more lives are lost through alcohol-related driving accidents. The campaign to end the impact of drunk driving has already made a dent, and soon, this problem will no longer hinder society anymore. Wilson 5 Works Cited to Eliminate Drunk Campagin. Mothers Against Drunk Driving. Web. 14 April 2017. and ReachOut USA. Web. 14 April 2017. Morris, Eric. Call for Drunk-Driving Freakonomics, LLC. Web. 14 April 2017. Schmadeke, Steve. gets 15 years in DUI accident that killed mother, Chicago Tribune. Web. 15 April 2017 of Victims: The Story of Cody Voices of Victims Why Here. Mothers Against Drunk Driving. Web. 16 April 2017 Wilson 6 Website URL: https://wilsonisaiah0.wixsite.com/radd