Abdiel Compres ENC-1102-071 Professor Drugan 16 April, 2017 Funding NASA Since the end of the space race in 1975, the amount of money allocated to the NASA space program has decreased steadily over the past 40 years. At its peak, the amount of funds given to the NASA space program ranged a little over 1 billion adjusted for inflation or about 4.41% of the United States national budget. During the Kennedy administration and continued through the Johnson administration the American people were issued on of the greatest challenges of all time by president Kennedy himself. choose to go to the Moon! We choose to go to the Moon in this decade and do the other things, not because they are easy, but because they are hard; because that goal will serve to organize and measure the best of our energies and skills, because that challenge is one that we are willing to accept, one we are unwilling to postpone, and one we intend to It was this speech that propelled the NASA space program forward and allowed NASA the proper funding backed by the American people. No longer was space travel looked at as a waste of resources, but now as a matter of national security to beat the Soviet Union. During the ten year span the United States was able to develop new technologies such as cordless power tools, memory foam, water filters, and microchips as well as many more advanced technologies that we take for granted today. This massive increase in funding allowed NASA to reach its 10 year goal of putting a man on the Moon, and in July of 1969, Neil Armstrong became the first man on the Moon. With the help of the government and support from the people, technological advancements soared at a rate previously unseen since the industrial revolution. One example of such advancement being the power of flight. The invention of flight by the write brothers which only used bicycle parts in its design, to the Lunar landing which used rocket propelled fuel were separated by a mere 66 years of each other. However, as time continued and the cold war began to die down, the view on funding the NASA space program became less about investing in matters of national security and became viewed more as an overly expensive hobby. NASA started to experience budget cuts during the later years of the Johnson administration, dropping from 4.41% of the national to 2.61% towards his final years in office and dropped even lower during the Nixon administration. In the end, NASA became an emergency piggy-bank to be among the first organizations to have their budgets slashed should the need arise. Currently, the national budget for the NASA space program is about 17.1 billion dollars, or about 0.5% of the national budget. It is due to these budget constraints that NASA has had to stretch out the the development time lines for new satellites in space from what could be one to two year projects to ten and fifteen year timelines. Technological advancement is literally being hindered due to the lack of funds given to the Space program. NASA has now been forced to leave the burden on companies such as Space-X and Virgin Galactic to try and progress space travel to further levels. Space-X is currently focused on making rockets reusable and affordable compared to the older designs of rockets. Currently, Space-X has created the most powerful rocket ever created and is able to carry over 54 metric tons of cargo into space, the equivalent of a 737 jetliner with full crew, passengers and luggage. On the same note, Virgin Galactic is working on making commercial space travel a more common occurrence. With the combination of efforts between Virgin Galactic and Space X, these companies could pioneer the way for our first lunar colony. Many argue however, that although it would be nice to be able to increase funding into the space program, there are more urgent problems here on Earth and resources should not be wasted on space travel. However, this argument does not take into account many of the potential disasters that have been avoided because of the funding given to the space program. For example, the observance of other planets atmospheres by scientists from NASA allowed them to see how the carbon levels in our atmosphere were effecting the climate. It is also due to the space program sending out many satellites that allowed scientists to predict weather patterns as well as military personnel to determine the locations of possible terrorist cells throughout the world. The argument also does not take into account the actual amount of money that is allocated to each department of the government. Out of a 1.1trillion dollar annual national budget, the United States Military occupies 598.41 billion dollars or about 53% of that budget with the next biggest department being the actual government at 72.89 billion or 6.54% and education at 69.98 billion or 6.28%. This massive difference in budget sizes between military and the other departments is due to the actual politics at play. Most political candidates were able to gain massive amounts of supporters by advocating for an increase in federal funds towards the military, especially post 9-11. Recently however, the military budget has been a source of debate. Some say that the money spent to increase our defense is preventative while other argue that it is too much money spent on the military and that those funds would be better utilized else-where. Presently, many scientists have argued in favor of an increased NASA budget. Many of these scientists feel that if the government would simply raise the budget to the NASA program this would allow even more discoveries to be made further generating an interest from the population and in turn causing more children to aspire to be engineers, mathematicians, physicists, and chemists forcing the government to increase the budget. Scientists such as Neil Degrassi Tyson have spent the better half of a decade fighting for this change in the budget, a fraction of your tax dollar today, what is the total cost of all space-borne telescopes, planetary probes, the rovers on Mars, the International Space Station, the space shuttle, telescopes yet to orbit, and missions yet to Answer: one-half of one percent of each tax dollar. Half a penny. prefer it were more: perhaps two cents on the dollar. Even during the storied Apollo era, peak NASA spending amounted to little more than four cents on the tax From Space Chronicles, p. 25. The argument for increasing the budget for the NASA space program is not to slash the military budget or other departments of the government, but simply to recognize the value in funding more money to the NASA space program. It is up to the people to tell the government that the space program is not some waste of resources from a by-gone era, but a necessity for the future. So go and spread the word either via social media or in person. It is up to you to tell your congressman to put space back on the menu. Work Cited Federal Spending: Where Does the Money  National Priorities.org. N.p., n.d. Web. 19 Apr. 2017. Exploring Space Makes Life Better On  Www.Virgin Galactic.com. Virgin Galactic, n.d. Web. 19 Apr. 2017. Falcon  Www.SpaceX.com. SpaceX, n.d. Web. 19 Apr. 2017. Tyson, Neil Degrasse., and Avis Lang. Space chronicles: facing the ultimate frontier. Grand Haven, MI: Brilliance Audio, 2015. Print. Kennedy, John F. The Moon  Rice University. Rice Stadium, Houston, Texas. 12 Sept. 1962. Speech. Diaz, Jesus. Why the government should spend more money on  Gizmodo.com. N.p., 2012. Web. 19 Apr. 2017. Otto, Sasjkia. Apollo 11 moon landing: top 15 Nasa  The telegraph.co.uk. N.p., n.d. Web. 19 Apr. 2017. Nasa budgets: US spending on space travel since 1958  The guardian.com. N.p., Web. 19 Apr. 2017. <https://www.theguardian.com/news/datablog/2010/feb/01/nasa- budgets-us-spending-space-travel>.