Sruthi Nagabandi 4/24/17 Bill Drugan ENC1102.017 Project 3 Intermediate Draft Justice For Animals Animal testing or an animal test is any scientific experimentation used by researchers in which a live animal is forced to undergo a process which is likely to cause them suffering, pain, or lasting harmful effects. Animal testing is used by many large corporations including cosmetic companies, pharmaceutical industries, and research laboratories. Animal testing ranges from testing the potency of drugs to testing whether a certain chemical causes an animal to react or not. Many species including cats, rabbits, dogs, and mice are subjected to harsh conditions to test products before being released for mass products and human use. The scientific breakthroughs that have been discovered through animal testing are overshadowed by the ethical implications of harming animals. Because the Animal Welfare Act does not protect many animals that are used for experiments (mice, birds, rats, and other cold-blooded animals), there are many animal deaths that are unaccounted for. Millions of animals suffer and die in testing and other experiments. More than 100 millions animals face death in the U.S under harsh conditions (Mukerjee). Animals undergo suffering in classroom experiments and dissections. Many of these experiments are not necessary because the anatomy of animals can be studied through computer programs. Some animal experimentation is required by law, but most of it is not. Furthermore, many countries have banned the use of excessive animal testing methods or cosmetic companies utilizing animal testing. Animal testing is banned in the European Union, India, and Israel. In India specifically, the rights of animals are protected and considered to a certain extent. The mere concept that Sruthi Nagabandi 4/24/17 Bill Drugan ENC1102.017 animals are not able to give consent to being utilized in experimentation is considered by many officials. Some experiments that animals are subjected to include training exercises, dissections, and inhaling toxic fumes. Researches often inject lethal poisons into rats and mice. Effects of certain drugs are observed on mice and rats. Because of the biological similarities to humans, primates are often used in tests. They are surgically made to be diabetic or are injected with viruses (Gagneux). This is a way in which researchers observe the effects of various drugs. However, many times the drugs behave very differently on animals than humans. The modified or diseased monkeys are then released or killed. Animals that are released from research labs can very rarely survive in the wild and must be rehabilitated. There are some rehabilitation facilities that house animals back to life but it is not enough. Many animal experiments for cosmetic and household products cause many animals to suffer. Because of 21 st century science, animal testing is no longer necessary. Rather than calculating how long it takes for a chemical in a product to burn a eye, scientists can use organs made from stem cells (Gagneux). Three dimensional tissue structures are able to be produced because of many scientific breakthroughs. Furthermore, human skin cultures can be produced to test skin irritation levels. This is also more accurate than animal testing because many drugs interact differently with human skin as opposed to with animal skin. There are many studies that are done showing the ethical implications of animal testing. In 1959, the publication The Principles of Humane Experimental Technique, written by William Russell and Rex Burch highlights the importance of reducing the numbers of animals used (Ferdowsian). Many renown physicians and scientists discuss the benefits of progressive research such as stem cell research Sruthi Nagabandi 4/24/17 Bill Drugan ENC1102.017 or computerized research (Champaco). Testing on animals is also not always accurate. Many toxins and drugs are shown to perform completely differently on humans as opposed to animals. Specifically, aspirin is very toxic to cats but is not lethal to humans. Cats are not able to metabolize and excrete aspirin. Aspirin causes bleeding, kidney disease, stomach ulceration, and inflammation of the liver in cats. Additionally, the cancer research that is done using animal testing methods is not beneficial. Through taxes and private funding, billions of dollars have been spent on cancer research since 1971 (Champaco). But surveys show that many cancer drugs failed during human clinical trials. Animal of human cancer are not accurate predictions of how the drugs will work on humans. Techniques that are used include synthesizing human tumors and inserting them on rats. The efficiency of the cancer drugs tend to be different on humans and mice. Many animals are unnecessarily killed and their suffering is ultimately useless. Animal testing is not a cheaper or easier alternative. A way in which one can help end animal suffering is avoid purchasing from certain companies. Cosmetic companies that test on animals include Maybelliene, Lancome, and These large corporations often use animals such as mice, ferrets, and rabbits to test the irritation levels of the products. Avoiding purchasing from these companies will halt funding to the suffering of animals. There are many corporations that do not condone animal testing including Trader Aveda, Lush, Smashbox, and NYX (Champaco). These are some of the companies that use alternatives to animal testing. Cruelty free methods are often cheaper and more effective. Human testing is another method that can be utilized. Humans are often compensated to undergo experimentation and are able to give consent by signing waivers. Sruthi Nagabandi 4/24/17 Bill Drugan ENC1102.017 There are many injustices being done, and there needs to be a voice for the suffering animals. It is important to take action to help these unprotected animals. Signing a petition to send to a local congressman or avoiding animal testing companies are ways in which animal suffering can be reduced. Educating the public on the negative implications of animal testing is a useful way to help end injustice to animals. Campaigns which highlight safer and easier alternatives to animal testing are ways in which it can be reduced. It is important to help students and teachers end dissections in classrooms and experiments. Scientific papers regarding the benefits of alternatives to non-animal testing methods can be research and published. Volunteering to help rehabilitate released animals in rehabilitation facilities can help end animal suffering. There is a serious regarding the issue of animal testing. These injustices of the modern world should not be overlooked. People should understand that animals have rights and certain injustices cannot be done. Animal testing is done to a great extent in research laboratories, cosmetic companies, and pharmaceutical industries. The dangers of animal testing can be seen by the amount of animal deaths. Some organizations strive to give a voice to these mistreated animals. There are many alternatives to animal testing that need to be brought to light. We must help this cause by sharing information and knowledge to put a stop to animal testing. Sruthi Nagabandi 4/24/17 Bill Drugan ENC1102.017 Works Cited Annual Statistics of Scientific Procedures on Living Animals, . Understanding Animal Research. 2015. Champaco, Brent (15 August 2013). PETA: Madigan Army Medical Center Has Stopped . Patch. Retrieved 23 Apr. 2017. Ferdowsian, Hope R., and Nancy Beck. Ethical and Scientific Considerations Regarding Animal Testing and  PLoS ONE. Public Library of Science, 2011. Web. 25 Apr. 2017. Gagneux P, Moore JJ, Varki A (2005). The ethics of research on great . Nature. 437 (7055): 27 9. Bibcode:2005Natur.437...27G. doi:10.1038/437027a. PMID 16136111 Mukerjee, M (August 2004). Speaking for the . Scientific American. 291 (2): 97. doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0804-96. 23 Apr. 2017 Patronek, Rauch G. Systematic Review of Comparative Studies Examining Alternatives to the Harmful Use of Animals in Biomedical  Systematic Review of Comparative Studies Examining Alternatives to the Harmful Use of Animals in Biomedical Education Journal of the American Veterinary Medical Association Vol 230 , No 1. N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Apr. 2017.