Behling 1 Joseph Behling Professor Marinama Changamire ENC 1102 19 April 2017 Project 3: Protect Conceal and Carry Rights America is a country that stands for freedom. Freedom is the foundation for which the Constitution was written to protect. The second amendment of the constitution addresses the issue of citizens to have the right to bear arms and further states that this right is necessary to the security of a free state and should not be infringed upon. Today one specific gun right that is under attack is the law to carry a concealed weapon. There are many steps that must be taken to obtain this right to carry a concealed weapon and yet the second amendment states that this right should not be infringed. History clearly shows that gun ownership was a huge reason we won the revolution and our independence yet today many have become immune to the need to keep us country armed. Today Americans need to be educated on the facts of how our freedom depends on our right to continue to bear arms, engage in our rich history that many have shed blood to give you this right and take a stand to protect the right to carry concealed weapons. The law upholding the right for citizens to carry a concealed weapon is being threatened daily by those who feel the only way to prevent careless tragedies is by banning citizens from having them. Many stakeholders would like to take away this constitutional right. If we start to pay attention to these threats, we could lose this right all together. Here, in the state of Florida, invorder for the average citizen to carry a weapon it must be concealed. Today this requires a permit to be issued. In order to obtain this permit, you must have passed a course issuing a certification stating you have passed and are proficient with a gun and pay fees for the Behling 2 classes and the fees for the permit. While these restrictions on carrying, a concealed weapon have good intentions, they infringe upon our right to bear arms. We should not have to prove or pay for this right. The second amendment states A well-regulated militia, being necessary to the security of a fee state, the right of the people to keep and bear arms shall not be (Cornell) This in no way states anything to do with permitting or being given permission by the state to have or carry a gun. It clearly states it is a right not to be infringed. However, little by little our second amendment right is being dwindled away and continually attacked. So, we must educate ourselves and others on what is happening and how could ultimately affect us, before it is too late. The argument to keep our right to carry a concealed weapon has many different reasons to be considered. One of which is that if this is not defended, it is just another way our constitution is being attacked. We not only need to protect this right but expand on its ability to be given. It is where we stop the deterioration of the second amendment. The citizens of America need to be engaged in the argument of gun control. Every year more and more restrictions are being presented and we need to voice our opinions back. If we sit and let this happen, the next thing you know we will not be able to carry a weapon or possible even own one. The ProCon.org states that Concealed handguns deter crime. States that implemented  concealed carry laws reduced murders by 8.5%, rapes by 5%, aggravated assaults by 7%, and robbery by 3%, according to a 2000 analysis of FBI crime data by economist and political commentator John R. Lott Jr., PhD. Lott calculated that 1,570 murders, 4,177 rapes, 60,000 aggravated assaults, and 12,000 robberies could have been prevented between 1977 and 1992 if concealed carry had been legal in every US state during that time period. In addition, a 2013 peer-reviewed study in Applied Economic Letters, found that between 1980 and 2009, states with more restrictive CCW [carrying concealed laws Behling 3 had gun-related murder rates that were 10%  Detroit Chief of Police Larry Craig said permitted concealed weapons are a  and Good Americans with CPLs [concealed permit translates into crime  A 2013 survey of 15,000 current and retired policers found that 91.3% support the concealed carry of guns by civilians. (ProCon.Org). Guns have forever been a part of culture, if we did not have gun rights we would not have won the revolutionary war and who knows where we would be as of now, so why try to change the history. History also tells us that the US and Colonial governments demanded that all families with men of the age to fight in the military have possession of a gun in their home. From the time we became a free nation our gun culture only grew. In 1902 all colleges and universities had gun clubs. From this time on, peace grew in our nation and the awareness of the need for individuals to possess a gun to protect our freedom grew cold. Since then the attack of the second amendment has continued. Even as of last year Barack Obama made a gun law that stated Obama again called on Congress to enact or renew a law prohibiting the sale and possession of assault-style weapons and high-capacity ammunition (thought.co). Guns need to be educated and respected for them to be treated correctly, just because you ban a gun does not mean it still will not fall in the wrong hands, it just means you be able to defend yourself. Back in the old days conceal and carry not even a thing, they were publicly aloud to carry a weapon and this caused others to respect each other because they had self protection. The subject of guns and their laws and the right to carry a concealed weapon does not appeal to everyone. Many individuals have no desire to hold or shoot a gun, let alone own one. But what these citizens realize is that without our voice, we the people, this country could ultimately lose its freedom all together. History shows us that all countries who, with good Behling 4 intentions, that have taken away the citizens right to bear arms, have become communistic countries. The time is now, not later for us to make our voices heard. Whether or not you are a gun enthusiast is not subject debated. It is that if you ever do need to defend yourself, your family or your country, now is the time to protect that right . Not later when it could ultimately be too late. Write your Congressmen and Senators, even the President of the United States to let your voice be heard. Join us to keep our ability to carry a concealed weapon and protect the deterioration of the second amendment. Do not let the blood shed to give us that right disappear in vein. Join us now. America is a country that stands for freedom. Fighting to keep our right to carry a concealed weapon is crucial to upholding our freedom. The second amendment of the constitution addresses the issue of citizens to have the right to bear arms and further states that this right is necessary to the security of a free state and should not be infringed upon. Together we can stop the attack on the law to carry a concealed weapon.. History clearly shows that gun ownership was a huge reason we won the revolution and our independence yet today many have become immune to the need to keep our country armed. Americans need to be educated on the facts of how our freedom depends on our right to continue to bear arms, engage in our rich history that many have shed blood to give you this right and take a stand to protect the right to carry concealed weapons. Behling 5 Work cited Conceal the guns. www.concealedguns.procon.org, 1 Feb. 2017. Web. 19 April. 2017 Sheet: Guns Save gun owners. http://www.gunowners.org/sk0802htm.htm, 1 Feb. 2017. Web. 1 Feb. 2017 Information Constitution. 1 Feb. 2017. Web. 19 April. 2017 Rifle NRA, home.nra.org, 1 Feb. 2017. Web. 1 Feb. 2017 List of second amendment check. http://www.2acheck.com/the-boycott- list/nras-list-of-antis, 29 Jan. 2017 Web. 1 Feb. 2017 Policy violence policy center. http://www.vpc.org, Sep. 2016. Web. 1 Feb. 2017 Does History Say About When the Tried to Restrict Guns in the Guns in America. http://www.theblaze.com/news/2013/02/12/in-america-some-say-guns-are-in- our-dna-but-is-history-on-the-side-of-gun-rights-or-gun-control, 1 Feb. 2017. Web. 19 April. 2017