Mounzer 1 Hassan Mounzer William Drugan ENC 1102.071 19 April 2017 Project 3 Intermediate Draft Confronting Violent Video Games Addiction Many people all over the world have a desire to do something that they enjoy. This activity brings them joy and happiness. Successful people want that to be their work, hobbies, or studies, but this is not always the case. This is especially true with this generation, where most teenagers do not want any responsibilities. They simply want to spend their time doing something that does not require a great deal of physical effort, yet makes them feel like they are on top of the world. Playing video games provides the kind of drug that makes the players feel like they can do anything they can reach a set goal. The addiction to playing video games is one of the most dangerous types of addiction found in the world today. In order to help control or prevent this type of addiction, steps should be taken by those who are affected by it. When a person works hard to achieve something, he should be commended for such an achievement. However, this does not include sitting in front of a screen all day, wondering and fantasizing about being the guy in that video game. The scary part is that this is not the only concern. The real anxiety comes from violent video games, which can truly change a teenager into a violent and aggressive human being. Incidentally, a recent survey of over 600 eighth and ninth grade students, children averaged 9 hours per week of video game play overall, with boys averaging 13 hours per week and girls averaging 5 hours per (Anderson 7). Imagine Mounzer 2 a teenager sitting in front of a screen for more than 13 hours every week, being exposed to blood, shootings, and killings, with him being the one orchestrating these actions. This might leave a black stain in his heart, while simultaneously giving him a rush. This will cause him to want to play the game for a longer period of time and, eventually, become hooked. Fortunately, there are certain organizations that stand against violent video games in all their structures, and try their best to stop it from expanding. Rights Watch is an independent, international organization that works as part of a vibrant movement to uphold human dignity and advance the cause of human rights for (Human Rights Watch). While this main concern is not necessarily violent video games, their mission is to defend the rights of people worldwide. Human Rights Watch is an organization that cares about people and helps them reach their goals in life. Regarding this perspective, violent video games stand in the way of this organization and prevent it from achieving its targets. Addiction to violent video games has become a problem that many members of society are currently facing, which falls under the title of protecting human rights and interests. In regards to this point of view, Rights should interfere to convince people to stop playing violent video games. As it pertains to teenagers, they are at a stage in their lives where they are still developing and choosing the way they want to build their personalities and their behaviors. When teenagers are exposed to violent scenes while playing video games, it could encourage them to behave in a manner that they have little, or no control over. This is especially true with long term exposure to such scenes, which could lead to loss of control and transformation into an aggressive person. A 2004 study by Gentile, Lynch, Linder & Walsh found that who play violent video games for extended periods of time tend to be more aggressive, more prone to confrontation with Mounzer 3 their teachers, and may engage in fights with their  (Violent Video Games & Aggressive Behaviors). Playing violent video games does not only lead to aggressive and violent behavior, it is also a distraction for students. Dr. Peter Stevephenson, the chair of the computing department at the Norwich School of Business Management, states, So I think anything can distract a student; the problem with video games is that they can be really addictive and I think video games can be a bigger distraction if you happen to like video  (Video games can be addictive, distracting). Teenager students, feel like they need some type of distraction that could offer an escape from their ordinary lives and studies. This is a normal longing for human being who need a break from everyday tasks. This break could actually help them improve in whatever they are trying to achieve. However, when this distraction become an addiction, it becomes dangerous. Any addiction has its side effects, especially an addiction to something as horrific as violent video games. One of main concern, nowadays, is mental health and well-being. Many precautions are being taken by people to ensure that the mental health and well-being of humans, especially children stays positive. There are several reasons why avoiding violent video games must be among those precautions. The world Health Organization (WHO) embraces a definition of health as mental, and social When a teenager is spending all his time in front of the screen, he is violating the three main concepts of health. Physically, the teenager is not moving and is spending all his time sitting without any kind of exercise. Mentally, the teenager is being exposed to scenes that could affect him and change the way he thinks and sees things in life. Finally, socially, most gamers prefer to play alone against other gamers online, Mounzer 4 which lead to antisocial behavior resulting from not interacting with anyone other than the screen in front of them. There are many people who do not believe that playing violent video games leads to any side-effects or change in behavior. These people argue that the person playing the game knows that it is not reality. It is a form of entertainment. They argue that when the person stops playing the game, regardless of how violent it is, he will come back to reality and live life as he normally does. Unfortunately, these people are mistaken. As with anything in life, overindulgence can become a negative factor. When playing violent video games becomes an addiction that a teenager practices for a long period of time, it will make it harder for him to come back to reality. The game becomes his reality. It is crucial that time restrictions and precautions be taken to stop this from happening. Any type of video game can become addictive enough to stop a certain person from achieving certain goals in life. When a person plays video games for at least five hours a day, he might not have enough physical power to do anything beneficial for the rest of the day. In this regard, a gamer is driven to many kinds fences that could keep him away from doing anything beneficial in life. Video games are, in and of themselves, a distraction. This should be clear enough to anyone who has observed a gamer addicted to playing. The real concern, however, is the violence in some of these games that the player is excessively exposed to and how to find ways to control this exposure. Concerned citizens, with the help of organizations such as Human Rights Watch, should play an active role in bringing awareness to the negative effects of violent video games addiction and find a way to control it. Only when people work together can a solution be found. Mounzer 5 Works Cited Page games can be addictive, The Norwich Guidon. N.p, n.d. Web. 19 Apr. 2017. 7/25, Monica. Video Games & Aggressive Parenting Teens and Preteens. N.P, n.d. Web. 19 Apr. 2017. Anderson, Craig Alan, Douglas A. Gentile, and Katherine E. Buckley. Violent video game effects on children and adolescents: theory, research, and public policy. Oxford: Oxford U Press, 2007. Print. Rights Human Rights Watch. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Apr. 2017. McCarthy, Randy J., Sarah L. Coley, Michael F. Wagner, Bettina Zengel, and Ariel Basham. Does playing video games with violent content temporarily increase aggressive inclinations? A pre-registered experimental  Journal of Experimental Social Psychology 67 (2016): 13-19.