Matos 1 Andrew Matos-Pagan Ms. Kristen Collins Composition II 18 April 17, 2017 The many convincing distractions America a nation plagued by constant controversy whether it be, immigration, same sex marriage, taxes, foreign policy, or the criminal justice system each are discussed at length due to the concerns. The notion of white privilege extends to each one of these topics above considering white privilege involves an interactions with his/her societal systems. Under the belief of white privilege one could argue that in the criminal justice system white Americans are imprisoned less juxtaposed to African Americans. The same can be applied to immigration considering most if not all the discussion revolves around illegal Mexicans entering the united states. Yet despite all the debate on each. The term has not yet been formulated and thoroughly discussed. Take a moment to realize that the U.S being a capitalist nation has throughout history maintained a top 10%-20%, however this is true for almost any country. Once again despite all the debate on each the irrefutable fact that Americas wealth gap is ever increasing seems unworthy of its proper attention. This wealth gap can reflect on America 800 billion spent on an education system that factually is costlier and less efficient. Similar to white privilege allows an individual to access certain resources others may not have access to thus giving them an advantage. Liberals argue for a yet race theory rejects American liberalism and does not believe racial justice will ever be achieved within the confines of (Croll, Paul R.). Conservatives will argue simply that white privilege is nonexistent due to every Americans opportunity to be successful. Fundamentally there is evident flaws in both views. A liberal typically will argue skin Matos 2 privilege is made possible through the structures and logics of white (Bonds, Anne) however with this logic one could argue skin privilege is made possible through the structures and logics of black in countries who are predominately black. Conservatives will use examples of successful minorities in different areas of society-again a fundamental flaw because the use of a few examples does not include the majority or even a third of minorities. Yes, there are aspects of in America, but it has been completely blown out of proportion. Historically America benefitted from subjugating minorities it however was unavoidable due to various socioeconomic factors when America was first established. This does not justify the fact that white Americans still benefit from historical subjugation but still holds logical reasoning. When comparing the privileges associated with wealth and being white wealth provides vastly more privileges. The system referencing to Americas education, economy, and criminal justice system was established by predominantly white Americans and to this day predominantly controlled by white Americans. Not because Americans have but Americas wealth gap continues to grow more unequal not between whites and minorities but between the rich and poor. To accurately address Americas central issue, it is vital to strip race from the analytical approach to Americas issues. Throughout history and economic elites have always had close (Reeves, Aaron) take notice it does not say simply elite. Wealth does not see race. Gallup, Inc best known for its vast opinion polls done in America collected data that concluded only a merger 5% of Americans see education as one of the most important problems in America. There is a direct connection between a college education and economic success College access is one of the most influential and instrumental tools available to society for providing individuals with (Serna, Gabriel R.) The is at a distinct disadvantage when it comes to achieving a proper education to gain college Matos 3 acceptance. Every race is affected when born into poverty. Evidence shows that current income level of a family is the primary indicator for the future income and economic (Serna, Gabriel). It would however be excessively narrow minded to suggest that improving Americas laughable current education system will solve economic and racial disparities but it is a step in the right direction. The united states recently had an African American president from seemingly from a class family. Barack also got accepted into top prep academy Punahou. Not a standard public school most American children attend but a prep academy. Donald trump Americas president today was born into an class family. Never attended a public school but was educated through various independent or private schools. Schools commonly associated with the upper class. One with an extensive background in politics the other with an extensive background in business both achieved the title of presidency however. Further asserting the claim and economic elites have always had close A remarkable observation can be made when considering congress as well where % of Americans come from a working- class family, only 20 % of Members of Congress do. While 73 % of American citizens are without a college degree, only 1 % of Congress is in the same (Patrick Fisher1) Americas political leaders are fully aware of the flaws in public education but few improvements have been made to improve education. The cost for a college education has steadily increased making it difficult for low income families to be able to afford it Additionally, lower social status students tend to by choosing to not enroll in college after scoring low on admissions tests or failing academic (Serna, Gabriel) Lower class citizens are not adequately represented in politics and are also not given the same quality education as upper class citizens. Many argue the lower class lacks the will to better themselves economically this may be true for 1% of the population. This educational gap does not stem from lack of ability but Matos 4 evidence that for populations from low-income families, the achievement gap mirrors the income (Serna) An income gap ever increasing. Each representative in Americas democracy is elected by the citizens themselves. The people have the power and control over the government but this power is crippled when the people are uneducated. Americas system is increasing favorable to the wealth shown in Another study found that there is a consistent responsiveness of the Senate toward upper income constituents to the detriment of middle and lower classes. These findings imply that policy in the United States largely is based on the preferences of its wealthiest citizens and that American politics is characterized by extreme (Patrick Fisher1)The goal cannot be to change the culture of the class but to educate the class just as much as the upper class. It is time for American citizens to advocate change in education. unquestionably harms health, encourages bad decisions and creates (Reeves, Aaron). Americas education extends further than a degree but to each generations quality of life. 1138 Matos 5 Works citied Pizzigati, Sam. The Rich and the Rest: The Growing Concentration of  Futurist, vol. 39, no. 4, July/August 2005, pp. 38-43. EBSCOhost, Reeves, Aaron. Economics: The Architecture of  Nature, no. 7645, 2017, p. 312. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1038/543312a. Fisher, Patrick. Demographic Dynamics of the Wealth Gap in  Society, no. 5, 2016, p. 503. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1007/s12115-016-0057-x. Serna, Gabriel R.1 and Rebecca2 Woulfe. Social Reproduction and College Access: Current Evidence, Context, and Potential  Critical Questions in Education, vol. 8, no. 1, Winter2017, pp. 1-16. EBSCOhost, Bonds, Anne, and Joshua Inwood. Beyond White  Progress In Human Geography 40.6 (2016): 715-733. Academic Search Premier. Web. 24 Jan. 2017 Fuller, Laurie1, Ls-Fuller@neiu.edu. Feel White Privilege? It Might Be  Radical Pedagogy 13.1 (2016): 39-53. Education Source. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Croll, Paul R. A New Look at Racial Attitudes in America: Incorporating Whiteness by Examining White Privilege, University of Minnesota, Ann Arbor, 2008. Ethnic NewsWatch; ProQuest Dissertations & Theses A&I; ProQuest Dissertations & Theses Global; ProQuest Social Sciences Premium Collection,