Stagg 1 Brooke Stagg Professor Drugan ENC 1102. 071 18 April 2017 Project 3 Intermediate Draft Extinction is Forever Trophy hunting is defined as killing wild animals for their body parts, such as head and hide, primarily for display (Humane Society International). Just like gathering and scavenging, hunting played a huge role for survival hundreds of years ago. Today, hunting has become a hobby that is mainly used for recreational purposes. While viewed as outdoor entertainment for many, the violent act kills hundreds of thousands of animals each year. This has become a worldwide issue as many of these animals being hunted are at risk of extinction. Hunters often claim that trophy hunting is not harmful and that it is an act towards conservation however, there are multiple resources that prove what they are doing is nothing but damaging. Although the hunting industry is incredibly large, there are several ways to get involved and end the practice. While trophy hunting is commonly known to take place in Africa, it takes place in many other countries including the United States, New Zealand, Spain, Canada, and Argentina. The primary goal of trophy hunting is to kill the rarest and largest animal out there for the purpose of showing off the on walls or floors. These trophies that hunters are so desperate to find can be anything from elephant ivory tusks to deer antlers or even entire heads that are often mounted on walls. Those who are not as informed about the industry may believe that it is not Stagg 1 very common however, the number of animals that are killed each year by trophy hunters is alarming. Between 2005 and 2014, more than 1.26 million wildlife trophies were imported to the U.S., with an average of more than 126,000 trophies every year (Humane Society International). The 1.26 million trophies came from 1,200 different species. These species include, but are not limited to, elephants, lions, wildebeests, black bears, giraffes, and rhinos. A huge part of the industry is all about the competition. There are several different competitions hunters participate in that are supported by various organizations. One of these competitions is called the Hunter of the To win, hunters must kill over 300 animals across the globe. The competition is sponsored by the U.S. based organization called Safari Club International, with over 50,000 members. After researching about the massive industry, it puts into perspective just how many species are being killed every day, which has led to many species extinction. Over the years many hunters and their supporters have argued that trophy hunting is not something to be worried about. A few statements hunters have been known to claim is that the profits go back to local communities, hunting helps wild populations, it protects locals, and that canned hunting aids in repopulating species. While these statements would be amazing, none of them are true. Although most hunts take place in poor countries in Africa, the locals never see any of the profits. pay roughly $200 million each year for big game hunts in Africa however, only around 3 percent of those funds go to local communities, and the amount dedicated to conservation efforts is nearly negligible. The overwhelming majority of hunting fees ends up lining the pockets of middlemen, large companies, and local (Schelling). The massive number hunters pay for their activity could help local communities in need tremendously. One of the most popular claims is that hunting helps conservation. Specifically, hunters say that removing older animals from the population helps a species. While that may be Stagg 1 true, that is not what happens. Trophy hunters strive to kill the strongest and most elite they can find so that they can show it off. Unfortunately, what they say is not what they intend to kill. want us to believe that killing animals equals population control equals conservation, when in fact hunting causes overpopulation of deer, the preferred victim species, destroys animal families, and leads to ecological disruption as well as skewed population dynamics (Wild When it comes to protecting the locals, it is not the animals who are at fault, but the human population. As human lands rapidly increase, that means that living space for wild life diminishes. Instead of being threatened by animals who are just trying to survive, people should learn to live with them. As for canned hunting, repopulation of animals is the opposite of what it accomplishes. When lions and other animals are bred at canned hunting facilities, they are incapable of surviving on their own. This is because they are taken from their mothers too early. Another issue with canned hunting is the animals are often inbred, which weakens the species gene pools and causes various health issues. Although trophy hunting is popular across several continents, there are ways to act against it. One way to get involved is through petitions. There is a plethora of petitions available, it just takes some researching. Some different types to partake in include petitions to end the import of trophies, stop poaching, and others. Another way to get involved is through donations. Since it can be difficult to physically get involved, donating is a great alternative. Several organizations are open to donations and highly encourage them. These organizations can include Peta or the Humane Society. A more sentimental way to help is to write a letter to a government official. It may seem like a waste of time however, it is very hard to ignore hundreds of letters stacking on to the desk of a government official. No matter the choice of involvement, every action is a step towards the goal. Stagg 1 To put into perspective just how detrimental trophy hunting is, there are only 2,707 black rhinos on the entire continent of Africa, where there were once 100,000 (International Rhino Foundation). In addition, prices up to $40,000 a kilo have been recorded for the much-prized rhino horn - more than 5 times the price of gold (International Rhino Foundation). Those two statistics alone are shocking enough to hopefully encourage the public to realize many of the animals that are here now, may not be here in the future. It is important to educate those who are not as aware so that a stance can be made to those who believe that trophy hunting is not an issue. Trophy hunting may be rewarding to many however, the negative consequences are too massive. Stagg 1 Works Cited  International Rhino Foundation. N.p., 01 Nov. 2015. Web. 18 Apr. 2017. Humane Society  Humane Society International. N.p., n.d. Web. 18 Apr. 2017. Hunters Say Trophy Hunting Helps Animals. Why  The Dodo - For Animal People. N.p., 29 June 2016. Web. 11 Apr. 2017. Wild  IDA USA. N.p., n.d. Web. 11 Apr. 2017