Cat Miranda Miranda1 Professor Drugan ENC 1102-071 12 April 2017 Tampa Bay Humane Society Animal shelters are sanctuaries for animals in need of care. They not only fix the animals up upon arrival, but they provide a place for the animals to sleep, but they help put a stop a puppy mills, and they prevent the overpopulation of animals, and the benefits that come from overpopulation prevention. Animals that are abandoned or abused are taken to the shelter to help give them a fresh start. Animal shelters help stop puppy mills by informing people and the surrounding community all about how puppy mills operate and treat their animals. To prevent overpopulation, there are two options depending on the gender of your pet, if your pet is a boy they can neuter him, and if your pet is a girl they can spay her. The benefits that come with the prevention of overpopulation are far outweigh the possible deficits that can possibly come from neutering and or spaying of a pet. The Tampa Bay Humane Society has so much to offer the animals in the community and then time for people to see exactly what they do. Abandoned or abused, any traumatized animal is welcome at Humane Society. Once the animals are brought to the shelter they are treated for any types of physical problems that the doctors or volunteers find right away. Which is essentially ticks, fleas, and cuts of any degree. After the animals are clean, they are tested for any blood diseases, organ issues, and any type of worms that they could possibly have. The next thing that the doctors and volunteers do is rehabilitate the dogs so that they can be adopted out to new families. The Tampa Bay Humane Society is rarely recognized for all they do for unwanted animals, but when they are noticed for Miranda2 their work, people donate thousands of pounds of food so they can feed the animals all of the animals. The money that they would normally use to buy food is used for other things that the animal shelter needs but usually buy because of their budget. They provide for the animals more when they are given a helping hand. The Humane Society deserves recognition for all that they do. Puppy mills are dog breeders that are large enough to fit into warehouses. When you think of dog breeders you think of cute little purebred puppies living in a home together just running around. But in reality puppy mills are inhumane prisons for dogs. According to the Humane Organization website there are about 10,000 puppy mills throughout the United States of America. Puppy mills are essentially breeding factories for dogs. In these factories, animals are treated badly and are bred for the purpose of being sold in pet shops and dog stores. The demand for purebred puppies is always high so the puppy mills have a method of making money. Puppies that are born deformed almost have no use to the pure bred buyers; this causes the puppy mill owners to make the decision to abandon them or even kill them. These are the options because they cannot make a profit for a deformed dog when it is supposed to be a classic pure bred dog. Most breeding dog mothers are kept in cages that are stacked on top of each other in columns with the wire cage floor. The dogs are bred over and over again until they are no longer able to breed any longer. Once the mothers have lost their purpose, they are sold, abandoned, or killed. This is an issue with animal shelters because puppy mills essentially go against everything in which they stand. Puppy mills use these animals to breed, so they can make a profit without ever treating the animals in a humane way. Animal shelters want puppy mills to treat their puppies with care and possibly adopt out some of their animals to good homes for the Miranda3 dogs, instead of selling them to other stores to be bought for an even bigger profit. Humane Societies make it known what these puppy mills are doing and they have come up with a solution to prevent overpopulation of dogs, which is also caused by puppy mills. There is an abundance of puppies in this world due to overpopulation. Overpopulation is mainly caused by dog breeders such as puppy mills. This is a huge problem because not enough animal shelters to contain and care for unwanted dogs. But there is a way for pet owners to help prevent even more population. This would be either neutering or spaying your pet depending on the gender of their animal. When you neuter or spay your pet that will 100% assure that your animal would not add onto the number of animals who have homes or people to care for them. Not only is neutering or spaying your pet good for overpopulation, but good for the pet itself. According to the ASPCA website, if you do not neuter or spay your pet before the first time they are able to have puppies, their chances of getting cancer at some point in their life goes up 50%. The animals who do not have preventative surgery done on them have a 50/50 chance of getting cancer. So why chance it? The Tampa Bay Humane Society has helped its surrounding community immensely. Unwanted animals are cleaned and given needed medications, puppy mills are shown for what they really are, and preventative surgeries such as spaying and neutering help the issue of overpopulation. Animal shelters do so much for the animals and they get recognition for it. time for people to start helping out, and do what the animal shelters message is, help stop and or prevent the overpopulation of animals. Miranda4 Work Cited Steneroden, K. K., et al. Environmental Sampling for Salmonella Spp. In Colorado Animal  Zoonoses & Public Health, vol. 58, no. 6, Sept. 2011, p. 407 This article is about the testing of foods in animal shelters. This is important because it shows that the people who care for these animals actually put the animals well-being above the value of money. Salmonella testing is good for the animals because it will determine if the food is cooked enough, which in the long haul will be good for the animals and the owners of the animal shelters because the animals get sick, and the owners have to get medicine for all of the animals who got sick from salmonella. Testing the food is a preventative that protects the owners and the animals. The article has pathos in it because it shows the emotional side of animal shelters. How when they came in they were abused or abandoned. Then they have the commercials about animal shelters that show their sad faces so they can get adopted out. You ask yourself why should I listen to this article and you realize why because you see there are personal accounts and references. Gillis, Charlie. Give Us Your Mangy  vol. 126, no. 14, 15 Apr. 2013, p. 14. This article talks about cleaning the animals in the humane society. The importance of the animals being clean is for their health, and their image. A clean animal is a sign that it is well taken care of. The humane society makes sure that the animals are in the upmost Miranda5 healthy condition. The animals image is important for possible adopters. When people go looking for animals to adopt they want a cute, well-taken care of dog. This article is about ethical side of animal shelters. Which means it show how animal shelter are helping animals instead of hurting them. It also means that the pictures they are using makes their argument credible. Logic is used in articles to persuade their readers. Seaworld to End Orca Breeding Program in Partnership with Humane  All Things Considered, 2016. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ed sglr&AN=edsgcl.447612451&site=eds-live. This article is about how humane societies care for all kinds of animals. They stand up for animals because they speak for themselves. Humane societies are against sea world because they keep magnificent, giant-like creatures in tiny containers, and force them to do tricks. The size of the tanks, are about less an eighth of the size of the sea world parking lot. Logos is in this article because it shows the statistics behind animal shelters and what they promote as ethical behaviors towards any type of animal. It also talks about the amount of volunteers that the animal shelter acquired, and what they do around the animal shelters. This article appeals to logic because it shows the behind the scenes of Miranda6 animal shelter by going through the volunteers. This is a great way to get information because the volunteers talk about what the animals they see and how things are run. Humane Society Gets Donation of Pet  The St. Petersburg Times (St. Petersburg, FL), 2009. EBSCOhost, The humane society does a great job protecting animals. They are often rewarding for their good deed. In this article is talks about how the humane society gets food donated to the shelter because of all the work they do and because the animals deserve it. When they are rewarded with food they have to spend as much money on food, and it gives them the opportunity to buy something else that the animal shelter needs. The logos of this article is how the food that is given to them not only feed the animals, but it gives the opportunity for the owners to buy other things the animals need that they buy before because they had to spend the money on food for their animals. The ethos behind this article is that clearly the humane society is doing good work, because they are receiving thousands of pounds of food for doing such work, this proves credibility. The pathos that are in this article are how heartstrings are pulled when cute animals are being given good food because the owners of their shelters are taking good care of them. This shows that the humane society takes care of their animals, which also attracts more people to the humane society to adopt new pets.