Student 1 Student Instructor Lewis ENC1102 30 April 2017 Geothermal Energy: the Innovative Energy Source of the Future The issue of fossil fuels being overused, harming the environment, and running out faster than it can be harnessed is a current and vital problem that faces the generations of today and tomorrow. It is important to realize that this energy sustainability problem needs a solution: a better, more efficient energy source, specifically, geothermal energy. The use of geothermal energy as a safe, efficient, ethical, and environmentally friendly alternative is gaining momentum in the scientific and general community. A geothermal well, which is used to generate power from heat, requires the presence of rock permeability and abundant water. According to the Geothermal Energy Association (GEA), a geothermal reservoir is formed when water at high temperatures, including steam, is confined in cracks of layers of impermeable rock; experimental drilling and testing of these resources could lead to the tangible development of sustainable energy (Geothermal Energy Association 7). With rain water and melting ice, these hot water systems are continuously being replenished, which makes the energy source continually available and renewable. With the simplistic and consistent means of gathering this harmless but powerful resource, as well as its efficiency, ethical standards, and overall safety, it is important to support efforts to strengthen its use through fundraising and advocating for its development. Fossil fuels such as coal, natural gas, and oil are time-tested failed means of energy sources used by humanity. The use of natural gas by means of fracking is dangerous. Fracking is the process of using pressurized air to pop open layers of shale in order to release trapped Student 2 sources of oil (BBC News). In an article by Sari Kovats and others, it has been found that there is significant exposure to air such as volatile organic compounds, as well as other general pollutants, such as benzene in surface and ground water supplies (Kovats et. Al). This type of harmful effect needs to be taken in consideration when supporting how and by what energy is harnessed and utilized. These pollutants can severely damage human, animal, and plant life, as well as compromise the health of the surrounding environment. Specifically in the Keystone XL pipeline, which connects Canadian pipeline with United States refineries and ports, increases harmful greenhouse gases tremendously. It has been documented that net annual impact of Keystone XL could range from virtually none to 110 million tons CO2 equivalent annually. This spread is four times wider than found by the US State Department million tons (Erickson 1). With such dangerous consequences from using fossil fuels, it is important that new energy sources, such as geothermal energy, are promoted as primary sources of energy. With geothermal energy at large in some regions of the world, the amount of harmful pollutants in the atmosphere will steadily decrease over time. Geothermal wells are clean burning and will help to keep the environment safe. With water vapor being the simple, vital chemical in the geothermal energy harnessing process, people have nothing to fear in terms of their health and safety when advocating for this valuable resource (Union of Concerned Scientists). According to the Direct Utilization of Geothermal Energy 2010 Worldwide Review by John W. Lund and others, geothermal energy is accessible from all around the world, making it a prime suspect for a principal source of alternative energy. It has been stated that (ground- source) heat pumps have the largest energy use and installed capacity worldwide, accounting for 70.95% of the installed capacity and 55.30% of the annual energy (Lund 6). This indicates Student 3 that not only is geothermal energy widely accessible, it may be achievable as a reliable energy source in the United States as well as the world. Another stakeholder that is invested in this endeavor, R. Curtis and others from the Proceedings World Geothermal Congress of 2005, has found that geothermal wells one of the fastest growing applications of renewable energy in the world, with annual increases of 10% in about 30 countries over the past 10 (Curtis 1). It has also been found that the main advantage of this way of harnessing energy is that it utilizes normal groundwater temperatures that are available in all countries of the (Curtis 1). This is solid scientific support for the advancement of geothermal energy for the benefit of the human population, as well as the environment. The human population has suffered from the historical failed use of fossil fuels. The overuse of fossil fuels that has plagued the world has taken its victim and must be addressed as well the simplistic benefits of alternative energy. With harmful chemicals to the environment and to human and animal kind, it may be appalling to consider how unfortunate circumstances have been created at the hands of unethical energy production practices. Thinking back to the 19-20 th century in the United States, where coal mining was a common and dangerous profession. Breathing in dangerous particles and chemicals from the coal mines caused the miners to develop a disease known as Coal Pneumoconiosis. This disease, as described by Joseph E. Martin, is a slowly debilitating disease that took the lives of many coal miners. It was noted that the of simple pneumoconiosis makes the lung liable to a more disabling and killing disease-progressive massive (Martin 582). This limits the maximum breathing capacity of the infected person, effectively causing them pain, shortness of breath, and difficulties related to oxygen deficiency. This is relevant to the topic at hand, because it Student 4 illustrates tangible ways that people have suffered under the ignorance of how harmful chemical pollutants from fossil fuels actually are. As a modern example, the continued development of fossil fuel use is contaminating drinking water fir many people, including many indigenous cultures. They are current victims of this unethical practice of gathering energy resources. According to an article by Lauren Carasik, 1,886km Dakota Access would transport a half million barrels of fracked crude crossing multiple that serves as the drinking water source for millions of (Carasik). This contamination of natural gas into drinking water makes it dirty, have higher metal content, and can even make it flammable, according to the aforementioned source. Advocating for renewable alternative energy, especially geothermal energy, would prevent tragedies like this from happening again. Because of this stressed importance of human and environmental protection, it is important for as many people to get involved as possible. Non-engaged stakeholders regarding this issue, including the general population and those who are engaged in non-scientific or academic fields, should care about promoting geothermal energy. Future generations are going to face the impending shortage and extinction of fossil fuel usage. Essentially, this means that a reliable energy source should be more concretely established as soon as possible. In order to establish a world-wide or even nation-wide stance on the issue, a better awareness of the issue needs to be erected. Bold advancements for this issue would include marches, civil protests including petitioning, whereas smaller instances of action include fundraisers and information sessions. All courses of action would spread awareness to the general population in order to gain momentum and make their voices heard. Even modest steps, like people talking to their friend Student 5 and family or donating any amount of money to the cause, would greatly help in furthering research and innovation regarding the promotion of geothermal energy. Geothermal energy is an efficient, modern, and reasonable alternative energy source as opposed to other types of energy, mainly fossil fuels: oil, natural gas, and petroleum. This type of energy is widely accessible and clean-burning, which will help to protect the environment for future generations. The argument for geothermal energy, including that of the negative effects of fossil fuels versus how efficient and clean geothermal energy is, support the promotion of geothermal energy as a vital resource. Once message for any non-engaged stakeholder, as well as a stakeholder that may harbor an opposing opinion is to consider their health, the health of their children, and the health of the environment. With leading research and development on alternative energy sources, unclean, unhealthy, and overall dangerous forms of energy and its extraction can be eradicated from the modern world. With geothermal energy as a primary resource, a cleaner, brighter future is what may be to come. (Word Count: 1380) Student 6 Works Cited Carasik, Lauren. N Dakota Pipeline Protest Is a Harbinger of Many  Western New England University School of Law, 2016. Accessed 9 Apr. 2017. <http://digitalcommons.law.wne.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1133&context=media>. Curtis, R., and J. Lund. Ground Source Heat Pumps - Geothermal Energy for Anyone, Anywhere: Current Worldwide  Proceedings World Geothermal Congress 2005 (2005): n. pag. Amazon S3. EarthEnergy Systems, GeoScience Ltd, 2015. Accessed 9 Apr. 2017. <http://s3.amazonaws.com/academia.edu.documents/34086567/1437.pdf?AWSAccessKe yId=AKIAIWOWYYGZ2Y53UL3A&Expires=1491765717&Signature=9CYZyGNiD% 2F1oa9BPIappoZCaKO4%3D&response-content- Erickson, Peter, and Michael Lazarus. Impact of the Keystone XL Pipeline on Global Oil Markets and Greenhouse Gas  Nature Climate Change 4.9 (2014): 778- 81. Nature Climate Change. 2014. Accessed 9 Apr. 2017. <https://www.sei- international.org/mediamanager/documents/Publications/Climate/Erickson-Lazarus- 2014-KeystoneXL-NatureCC.pdf>. Going Six Feet Under -Tapping into Geothermal Energy: Jim Bose at TEDxOStateU. Perf. Jim Bose. Vimeo. The OSU Foundation, 2014. Accessed 2 Apr. 2017. <Going Six Feet Under -Tapping into Geothermal Energy: Jim Bose at TEDxOStateU>. Student 7 Louis. Adieu,p-tit Chipagan: 2e Ed. Moncton, Nk: 1979. Geothermal Energy.org. Proceedings World Geothermal Congress 2010, Apr. 2010. Accessed 9 Apr. 2017. <https://www.geothermal-energy.org/pdf/IGAstandard/WGC/2010/0007.pdf>. Kovats, Sarah et al. The Health Implications of Fracking: Article in the Lancet Frack Free  Frack Free Somerset. The Lancet, Mar. 2014. Accessed 9 Apr. 2017. <http://www.frackfreesomerset.org/2014/03/24/the-health-implications-of-fracking- article-in-the-lancet/>. Martin, Joseph E., Jr. Coal  American Journal of Public Health 44 (1954): 581-91. National Center For Biotechnology Information. Accessed 9 Apr. 2017. <www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov>. What Is Fracking and Why Is It  BBC News. BBC, 16 Dec. 2015. Accessed 29 Apr. 2017. <http://www.bbc.com/news/uk-14432401>.