Rob Garrett Del Castillo ENC 1102 4/19/17 Intermediate Draft Why Bioengineering is the future There are many misconceptions surrounding GMO (genetically modified organisms) or bioengineering of crops. Monsanto is an agriculture company that directly supports the research bioengineering, but there is a strict regulation placed on this research. Today there are many organizations that oppose furthering this research, one of them being the organic association. The regulation that hinders bioengineering our crops is primarily fed through public fear and lies. Genetically modified organisms are in fact not harmful for humans to consume but organizations such as the organic association lead the public to believe that it is. There are a few main points made against genetically modified organisms which are only potential harms but not current, but there is floating controversy which leads people to believe that organic foods are safer to consume than genetically modified organisms. One fear that organizations install into the mind is that if crops are bioengineered, there is a chance that the crops will produce toxins that make the crops inedible or poisonous when consumed. Genetically modified organisms are consumed everyday by Americans and yet there are no health problems related to genetically modified organisms. There is the attack that genetic modification does not actually increase yield but there are many factors that do positive factors. Genetically modifying our crops have also tremendous benefits when it comes to quality as well. Bioengineering or genetically modifying our crops should be supported by the public because the fears of bioengineering are misunderstood and bioengineering our crops can be very beneficial to society and our future. When crops are genetically tested, they are tested in a lab and the outcome of the yield is very closely looked at to see if the product is safe for consumption or not. When bioengineering it is true that hybrids and mutations of the crop can become completely null which is bad for the gene pool. Crops are safely selected by professionals so it is easy to select the plants from the gene pool that do not release harmful toxins. Contrary to belief this actually helps prevents selection of toxic crops as we get to choose the crops that do not release toxins over the ones that do. It provides less mutation and genetic diversity when it comes to agricultural harvesting and in turn makes it safer for human consumption rather than a dice roll with such organic crops. Bioengineered crops are consumed worldwide on a daily basis yet genetically modified organisms are never the blame for health issues, only soy allergies. Typically, health issues can be reasoned with another underlying factor which is diet. Genetically modified organisms can be selected over the ones that naturally occur so there can be selection of the crops that are the most nutritious in multivitamins. Through this the population worldwide of the impoverished can be fed more fulfilling food so nutrition is not such an issue. Increasing yield of crops is very important in many different aspects. If there are more food crops can be cheaper for everyone. One common saying that is spread is that GMOs are highly nutritious and affordable. With the addition of HMO to crops, the quantity and quality of the yield is immensely increased for both. Through genetic modification crops become denser with nutrients, giving a better bang for dollar. The growth of most of these GMO crops are sprayed with strong pesticides that labels the crop as inorganic yet the success rate of growing crops is immensely increased with use of heavy pesticide and GMO mixtures. There is always a large percent chance that crops will become diseased, spread and make the yield unusable for human consumption through regulation of health standards. The spray that Monsanto uses protects these crops from disease. These sprays are also pesticide dense which ward off many organisms that eat through a large percentage of crops. These sprays utilized by Monsanto have been proved to be safe for human consumption; in no way do these sprays compromise the health of humans if these crops are consumed. A lot of crops that the human society like to indulge in would not be so sought after if it were not for GMOs. Many organizations like to use statistics to disprove the fact that genetically modified organisms do no increase yield when it compared to regular crops. Credit is not given to the scientific breakthroughs that bioengineering research has discovered. For example, through bioengineering crops, much of agriculture are selected from the gene pool and the ones that are chosen are the ones that are resistant to viruses that make the crops inedible or useless. A factor that is not considered is that much of agricultural yield used to die to plant diseases which made the yield inconsumable but that occurrence has been reduced tremendously thanks to the ability to choose which breed of crops is used. Crops todays have also been genetically modified in order to be resistant to herbicide or roundup. With the ability to use roundup and herbicides on crops without damaging the crops much of the weeds are warded off from fields which cause for more available water for crops. Also, genetically modifying crops offers the ability for us to choose the plant in the gene pool that grows the fastest and bears the most edible yield. Through increasing yield and support of research of genetically modified organisms we can discover scientific breakthroughs that increase yield tremendously so agriculture can be more affordable to the public due to increased production. With support of bioengineering crops the public is also vicariously supporting a cause that also fights to end poverty. There have also been many discoveries that we have found from bioengineering our crops that we fail to see. For example, bananas that are sold in grocery stores are seedless. There was a time where all bananas had big black seeds within the banana. Another finding was yellow corn. Corn naturally comes in many different colors but the most nutritious and delicious kind is the one we are used to seeing which is the yellow one sold in grocery stores. The other types of corn are not fully edible. Soil all over the United States is not perfect for agriculture, there are parts of land that are very heavy in salt which makes crops very hard to grow. Soil salinity has been a major issue with agriculture for a while but bioengineering has found a way to make crops salt tolerable and able to grow in such an environment. Through examples like this we can expand our ability to grow agriculture in areas which we were unable to. The future of bioengineering holds many breakthroughs which many do not see. There is a possibly that bioengineering has the potential to immunize the population worldwide from the implementation of edible vaccines in our crops. In conclusion, research of biotechnology should be supported and fought for. What society can do to support biotechnology is boycott organic foods and vote for world leaders that support biotechnology of agriculture or Monsanto. Through support of biotechnology poverty can be seen as something that is part of this worlds past and we can gain more benefit from crops which lessens the quantity of consumption of crops.