Martins 1 Jozua Martins Professor DeCarion Enc 1102 4/16/2017 Right to Try Studies conducted by the National Healthcare Decisions Day organization have found that nearly half of all Americans have had a close loved one who has suffered due to the debilitating effects terminal disease within the last several years (NHDD). Those diagnosed with such an affliction have little hope, but fortunately new methods and remedies are being created and perfected in labs all around the world. However, these lifesaving treatments are more than frequently halted in the first several stages of trial and development by the United States Food and Drug Administration (F.D.A.) for a wide variety of reasons. The process of determining whether a drug or treatment is suitable for the general public is determined by the Drug Evaluation and Research Department (D.E.R.D.). This department was established guarantee that all drugs, medication, and treatments that are made available to patients are safe and effective. However, when the D.E.R.D. evaluates remedies, they often have found a wide variety of effects that depends on a multitude of factors such as health, age, and genetics, especially in cases where the patient has been diagnosed with terminal diseases (F.D.A.). These varying results from patient to patient forms the bases of the policy regarding experimental drugs. In 2016 the director of the Drug Evaluation and Research Department, Janet Woodcock, stated that drugs have when questioned as to why these treatments available to the already dying patients (Ruble, Kayla). The major controversy over this arises when the experimental procedure has positive effects for some patient but not the majority, thus being deemed unfit by the policies. Within the past, several decades this has been an ongoing legal battle, with one of the latest cases Martins 2 surfacing in April of 2016, when the F.D.A. chose to ban the use of a treatment which had shown positive effects in treating Duchenne muscular dystrophy, a muscle wasting affliction more than thirteen thousand boys in the United States suffer from (NPR). Billy Ellsworth, a fifteen year old boy, was prescribed the experimental drug and had shown significant stagnation of his disease, only to have to go to court to fight for the continued use of the drug. let me die declared the young boy to a panel of scientists and doctors who were set with the task of determining the future legality of the drug. Ultimately, cries for help were not enough to satisfy the panel, for the vital medication was discontinued on the bases that it did not provide sufficient data to support that it was safe and effective in other patients. The verdict of the panel left young Ellsworth with virtually no options of further treatment and an early grave (NPR). Another frightening case of this would be the decision to withhold treatments that have shown to decrease the effects of A.L.S., a muscle dystrophy disease which inspired the Ice Bucket Challenge that took over social media more than two years ago. The technique which slows the progression of the terminal illness, involves the injection of stem cells into specific areas in the spine. This treatment was proven to show great promise in clinical trials, but was unfortunately not approved by the F.D.A., who felt it was more important to protect the terminally ill from potential side effect of the treatment. (Nutt, Amy Ellis, and Brady Dennis). These are only two cases of almost countless instances where the policies of the F.D.A., an organization designed to protect the patient, has instead terminated their last hopes of survival. In response to the public outcry, the F.D.A. designed a selective program and process which they coined or The program allows patients who are suffering from a terminal diseases to apply for the chance to take some experimental drugs that are still in clinical trial and not available on the market yet. However, there are some major complications and requirements that severely confine the ability to obtain these drugs (FDA). A major issue with the program is the fact that in order for the terminally ill to receive the treatments that they need, Martins 3 they have to have their name placed on a waiting list. This forces these patients to wait for months, if not years in order to be eligible for further consideration. For a patient who is running out of time, every minute is crucial, meaning that thousands of patients die before they even make the top of the waiting list. To add to this complication, United States law forbids Pharmaceutical Companies from receiving payment for drugs and treatments that have not yet been approved by the F.D.A. (Center for Drug Evaluation and Research). This regulation essentially means that if a drug or treatment is not approved by the F.D.A., the companies that produce and distribute them are legally forbidden make any profit from their sales. This law leads companies to have little to no incentive to produce any these lifesaving drugs medications, even for patients who they have shown to be successful on In order for terminal patients to be able to obtain the medication that they so desperately need, there are undoubtedly several changes that need to be made to the process in order for it to be considered rational and humane. Firstly, terminally ill patients need to be granted the right to choose whether or not they are willing to risk worsening their current condition, in order to be able to have a chance at curing their disease. Terminally ill patients obtaining the to is crucial to allowing them to be able to seize some control of the own fates. Those who are opposed to the Right to Try often make the claim that allowing patients to try these un-approved drugs will only end up harming more them more than saving them. However, this is countered by a statement from the official website for the Right to Choose, states only treatments available under Right to Try laws are those that have already passed the basic safety testing and remain within the approval to Try) To assist the terminally ill, it is crucial that every day citizens take the stance alongside patients by voting in favor of politicians who support the to acts in Florida and around the country, a bill which has already gained support from legislators in 28 states (Right to Try). As those who are able bodied, it is obligation to stand up for those who are on their last leg. It is crucial to ensure that the injustice of limiting options for the deathly ill does not continue. Martins 4 Not only will the terminally ill benefit from a change in F.D.A. policies, so will everyone who stands at risk of any deadly disease. Martins 5 Works Cited Center for Drug Evaluation and Research. FDA Basics - What are unapproved drugs and why are they on the  U S Food and Drug Administration Home Page. Center for Drug Evaluation and Research, n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017 Commissioner, Office Of the. Expanded Access (Compassionate  U S Food and Drug Administration Home Page. Office of the Commissioner, 2016. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Controversy Continues Over Muscular Dystrophy Drug, Despite FDA  NPR. NPR, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Nutt, Amy Ellis, and Brady Dennis. ALS patients press FDA for quick access to controversial biotech  The Washington Post. WP Company, 03 Apr. 2015. Web. 16 Apr. 2017 Meet the Patients and Researchers Racing to Find a Cure for  Vice. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 Ruble, Kayla. to bill giving patients access to unapproved drugs may be a win for  VICE News. Vice Magazine , 28 Sept. 2016. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.