Lu 1 John Lu Mariama Changamire ENC1102 12 April 2017 No more Isolation for immigrants Immigration has always been a hot topic in United States, some people support it, while some people oppose it. Nowadays, immigrants are isolated by American government, also there are many groups more and more stronger that Anti-immigration, leading to so many immigrants are difficult to live in US, even the legal immigrants are also isolated. In addition, there are also a lot of people think that immigrants are useless, even some people think immigrants bring many bad things to USA, like: immigrants take away their jobs, they increased the crime rate, and they invaded American culture. Fortunately, there are organizations support immigration in United States, and they provide services and helps to immigrants, such as Community Initiatives for Visiting Immigrants in Confinement. CIVIC is an immigration group, which working to end U.S. immigration detention, also they help immigrants that are treated fairly and do not be isolated. According to the group there are over 400,000 immigrants disappear into vast network of 250 jails and private prisons across the United States every year (www.endisolation.org). Thus, this shows the situation of immigration is not optimistic, and immigrants are isolated in United States. In fact, this is not unreasonable that some Americans refuse to immigrants, because they think that immigrants bring many bad things to USA. According to the website of the page shows that there are so many immigrants into US in recent Lu 2 years, and they enjoy the United States of various resources. Nowadays, there are most of immigrants undermining American customs, culture, language, and institutions. For example, a large number of immigrants into the United States, to increase the employment pressure of the American. There are many American cannot find a suitable job, they rely on subsidies from government to live, over time, they become lazy, and do not want to work, lead to the whole nation will go downhill (www.immigrationcontrol.com). On the other hand, a large number of immigrants into America, lead to there are too messy culture, customs, and languages. However, the traditional American culture and customs are slowly disappearing, until finally completely integrated by other cultures. Also, Waters Mary, a famous university professor states that immigrants make crime rates is rising, lead to there are new forms of exclusion and discrimination in USA. Because there are a lot of low education immigrants and illegal immigrant into USA, and they cannot find a job, so they have to steal and grab for livelihood (Waters, 33). These show why are there so many anti-immigration organizations in US, and the reasons for they reject immigrants. The other side, the vast majority of Americans are friendly and sincerely to admit immigrants, because they think that immigrants are helpful for USA, just like the immigration group Erickson that mentioned above. According to the official website of Erickson, the page shows that there are more than 550,000 American think that the benefits of immigration far greater than the losses immigrants bring. Because immigrants bring a lot of workforce, and their hard-working, most of them working on grass-roots job that Americans are not satisfied. Not only that, they think that the culture brought by immigrants is not undermining local culture, customs, and language. On the contrary, they realize that Lu 3 immigrants make the United States more diversified, and became a talent gathering place (www.eiglaw.com). For example, the immigration increase competitiveness, to keep Unite states energetic and active because Americans are living in a cozy and developed country for long time. Inevitably, there are some people will be lazy and negative, just like  come from department of motor vehicles, their actions were super slow. However, immigrants alleviated this phenomenon because most of them came from developing countries, and even backward countries. In order to have a better life, they were more hard work than American, and they require less salary, so employers are more willing to hire them, lead to some American were left out, who are lazy and negative. There is no doubt that immigrants injected a dose of cardiac strengthening agent for United States, to awaken those negative Americans, and to make them more active. In addition, immigrants brought different cultures, customs, and languages from around the world to make the United States has become a melting  of the world, and there are elements and talents from all over the world, this may be a important reason for why the United States is overlord of the world. More importantly, immigrants made a great contribution for the American economy. of U. S. Immigration , an academic journals states that immigrants increased the GDP of the United States, and let it growth year after year, also immigrants led the consumption level to make the economy of US is more robust and powerful on the basis of the original (Orrenius and Zavodny, 948). As a result, these evidences show immigrants were helpful for the United States, and the organizations that support for immigrants have a right values, such as the Erickson immigration group. As it turns out, immigrants are helpful for the United States, even if there are negative Lu 4 impacts of immigration, but the benefits of immigration is greater than the loss. Therefore, American should continue to support immigration, since it is a right way for American development. However, undeniable that not all immigrants bring interests to US, so the screening of immigrants become more important. Just as the book The Impact Of  states that immigration is an indispensable road for United States, and it also is a double-edged , if the government use properly, there will be an inestimable harvest (Dustmann, 31). As a result, immigrants bring so many benefits to America, why are there so many immigrants be isolated? In my opinion, the American government should provide more benefits to attract outstanding immigrants, because they would bring many benefits to USA, and they would be one of the more powerful reasons for the United States. On the other hand, most of people have ability to compare the benefits between accept immigrants and refuse immigrants. Every American citizen has a choice to guide American government to find the right direction even though you just can use your tiny voice. People should take action to save the multicultural American. Actually, people can write letters to American government. This is the reason that everybody should let government know your opinions. This is the direct way to connect with government. In addition, people can go to some websites which have enormous influence to fight against. You can post an article about accept immigrant. It might can attract some eye. In the daily life, American citizen should take care of and help people who immigrated to America. Even they have enough experience to adapt the culture of American, the language, and so on. American is a country which is constitute by different immigrant. They brought their own culture to build the strong America, so they also need to be allowed be an respected people in the beautiful Lu 5 house. I hope there are no more isolation for immigrant in the future. It is a violent way to break the excellent country. No isolation is our objective, also it is the key to built the complete America. Lu 6 Works Sited Americans for Immigration Control. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. Community Initiatives for Visiting Immigrants in Confinement. N.P., n.d. Web. 1 March 2017. www.endisolation.org Dustmann, Christian, Uta and Jan Stuhler. The Impact Of Immigration: Why Do Studies Reach Such Different  Journal of Economic Perspectives 30.4 (2016): 31-56. Business Source Premier. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Erickson Immigration Group. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. http://eiglaw.com/our-firm/our-core-principles/ Orrenius, Pia M., and Madeline Zavodny. The Economics Of U. S. Immigration  Journal Of Policy Analysis & Management 31.4 (2012): 948. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 1 Feb. 2017. Waters, Mary C.1. Crime And Immigration New Forms Of Exclusion And  Issues In Science & Technology 33.1 (2016): 29-38. General Science Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 24 Jan. 2017.