Berrios 1 Gerson Berrios Silva Professor Taylor Poston ENC 1102-029 16 April 2017 Views on Illegal Immigration A much talked about topic that has been surrounding the United States through many aspects, including social media and politics, is immigration, and whether illegal immigrants should get benefits. Some citizens have the misconception that if immigrants are granted equal rights they would take away jobs or even hurt the system, when this is not true at all. Immigrants come to the United States in pursuit of a new beginning because either their country is facing economical/political issues or they have no means of supporting their family in their country. After all, the United States of America was built and established on the idea that every single person is entitled to equal rights and opportunities. ethnicity or language should not determine the rights a person is granted. For this reason, illegal immigrants should be granted the same entitlements as any other U.S. citizen. The population of immigrants and the topic in the United States has been at a constant increase. 13.3% of immigrants make up the U.S. population, according to the Migration Policy Institute (para 3) and this number only continues to rise. Immigration has been so influential that the topic played a big role in the presidential election. Immigrants vacate their place of origin because they either cannot provide for their family or there is no more potential. Others escape in search of religious freedom or reunification with residing family members. Sadly, the countries they live in are going through tough times which makes it harder for families to flourish. Families risk it all and come to America, or otherwise known to them as a place with hope and Berrios 2 chances. An organization that helps them in the process is MALDEF (Mexican American Legal Defense and Education Fund). MALDEF was established upon the values of providing opportunities to new comers, making immigrants attain the righteousness rights that they deserve as people, but most importantly, incorporate immigrants into American society. They continue to create and preserve opportunities for those in search and trust that immigrants should receive benefits. With their efforts and ideas, they raise the awareness and significance of granting illegal immigrants rights. Whether some might not believe so, immigration affects the American society as a whole. According to MALDEF, affects every family, business, and community in the United (para 1). Some citizens argue that if illegal immigrants are granted rights they will take over the open jobs and effect the American structure, when this is a misconception. In reality, immigration actually benefits the economy, whether those immigrants crossed the border legally or not. According to Jonathan Hoenig, fact that foreigners are eager to pick crops, clean houses, bus tables and produce allows more of us to afford cheaper food and better services, affording us even more wealth to enjoy and (para 1). Regardless of opinions, immigrants already pay taxes. In 2006, about 8 million illegal immigrants paid taxes, including both income taxes and Medicare and Social Security taxes. After all, everyone who buys things in the U.S. pays sales taxes, regardless of their immigration status. The concept also keeps the crime rate down. The majority of immigrants come with the idea of working and making money so they stay under the radar as much as possible, this steers them clear of breaking any laws. Lastly, immigration is a natural right. The idea that immigration needs to be authorized by the government contradicts the American values. Immigrants who come to America seeking the opportunity to pursue happiness ought to be able to stay for those Berrios 3 opportunities. The government does not own the country and political borders and are just drawn line on maps. We, as American citizens, need to realize that this issue is not one to easily ignore. This topic is and continues to affect the way the United States functions. Granting illegal immigrants rights is more than just a movement, it is a way to incorporate immigrants into American society. People need to break away from the misconceptions and actually understand the facts. They need to comprehend that not every illegal immigrant is here to take our jobs, cause harm, or that the majority are Mexican. The main reason they come is for hope. The illegal immigrants want to be able to provide for their families and ultimately have a better future. Us, the American people, can make this a possibility. One can do so by donating money to the organization MALDEF, where they use the funds to fights unjust court cases. Another way is by volunteering to tutor incoming children and adults English as their second language. Lastly, one can organize a march that lets the American people see the point of view rather than the false acknowledgements. The march can include a petition that can be sent to a local Congressman to show the awareness of the community and that we are willing to fight for this cause. Berrios 4 Works Cited Arizaga, Elizabeth. Why Do Immigrants Come to United States of  The Gramblinite. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Frequently Requested Statistics on Immigrants and Immigration in the United  Migration Policy Institute. N.p., 26 May 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Krayewski, Ed. 5 Reasons to Grant Amnesty to Illegal  Reason.com. N.p., 07 Feb. 2013. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Protecting  MALDEF: Protecting Rights. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Romero, Tom I. II. MALDEF And The Legal Investment In A Multi-Colored America  Berkeley La Raza Law Journal (2007): 135. HeinOnline. Web. 28 Jan. 2017.