Camacho 1 Fernando Camacho Professor Poston Composition 1102 14 April 2017 Intermediate Essay Draft Self-driving cars can provide an essential benefit to the lifestyle of humans as they endorse convenience and improve the safety of road transportation. These tools seek to propel humanity towards the future and maximize human efficiency by expanding our access to time. While some believe that autonomy poses an unnecessary, and potentially dangerous inconvenience to society, it must be understood that this concern is correlated to the amount of exposure to this modern technology: the lack of understanding perpetuates insecurity. Although the concept of self-driving cars is not new, the technology that allows it to be physically possible is just now recently emerging and proving to be practical. Despite this, the technology is faced with harsh, yet justifiable, criticism and speculation from concerned consumers who worry that could hinder software incorporation (Harris Poll Para 5). It is too quick to reject the potential of autonomous vehicles considering that the technology is not yet in mass fact, fully self- driving cars are not expected for commercial use until about 2021 (Muoio Para 2). This sector of the industry requires that time in order to fully develop and implement self-driving technologies, such as radar sensors, laser sensors, high-powered cameras, and sonar into a mass producible unit. These components, once correctly integrated into vehicles, with corresponding algorithms, are what will ultimately allow Camacho 2 for Level 4 autonomy: full autonomy in most driving scenarios (Union of Concerned Scientists Para 4). Utilities, such as sonar and lasers for example, propagate waves that are intended for reflection by nearby objects back to the point of origin in order to distinguish the space around the origin (Exploratorium Para 1). This kind of detection process accounts for outside factors, which include surrounding vehicles, barriers, and pedestrians, further increasing road transportation safety. The utilization of autonomous vehicles would almost completely eliminate human error, which is responsible for almost ninety-four percent of all car accidents (Department of Transpiration Para 5). Ideally, an autonomous vehicle will have the proper coding and instruments necessary in order to avoid any threat to passengers. In 2015 alone, 35,092 people died on U.S. large portion caused by human choice or error, which is why the federal government even endorses the campaign for an autonomous future. $4 will be committed to the development and adoption of autonomous over the next ten years (National Conference of State Legislature Para 5). While autonomy offers improved safety and security for passengers, this expanding realm of the automotive industry also provides an even more valuable incentive: more time. If one were to spend an hour a day manually driving, that would accumulate to approximately three hundred and twenty-five hours, or a little over fifteen days on the road. Through fully autonomous vehicles, one could reclaim the time lost commuting and utilize it towards productivity or even leisure. This promise promoted by autonomous vehicle manufacturers would be able to expand one of the most scarce resources, in turn, providing the necessary tools to maximize human efficiency. Camacho 3 Not only would autonomous vehicles eliminate the threat of human error and provide more time for humans, but they would also alleviate the inconvenience of traffic. The main cause of traffic in most highly concentrated areas of automobiles is driver miscommunication, whether it be when attempting to change lanes, not knowing which car has the right of way, or driver distraction. This miscommunication, which occurs frequently throughout everyday of the year, usually results in cars and surrounding cars slowing down, congesting roads, and, sometimes, colliding with each other (which cause even more congestion). Even when traffic is flowing normally signs of human delay can be recognized; acceleration is always hesitated due to fear of collision. Hesitating to accelerate until the car in front of you has already completely accelerated away from you results in a lag in traffic that is most notably seen by the very last person in a cue of cars who waits ten seconds after the light turned green to actually move. In a future that adopts autonomous cars, the idea of perfect synchronization is more attainable and practical. Hypothetically speaking, if autonomous vehicles incorporated a system of language that could be communicated wirelessly while operating, vehicles would travel in perfect sync. This would not only eliminate traffic, but it would further improve transportation safety and cut down on travel time. Congestion would be avoided, lag in traffic would be eliminated, and the probability of accidents reduces dramatically. The future is fast approaching with several promising benefits to society such as this. Although this path to the future is faced with severe skepticism, it is not the first. We have questioned everything that has brought us to wear we are now: computers, television, planes, phones, and even cars themselves. These tools were once the future, Camacho 4 but now we must venture out further into the convergence of technology and seek what is best for us . Autonomy defies the hubris of mankind; however, we must look beyond our own self-interests, and demand for control, and embrace this change for what it truly is: progress. Camacho 5 Works Cited Automated Vehicles  Department of Transportation. National Highway Safety Administration, Sept. 2016. Web. 30 Jan. 2017 Does Sonar Science Wire: How Does Sonar Work? Whales and Sonar Exploratorium, www.exploratorium.edu/theworld/sonar/sonar.html. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. Muoio, Danielle. 19 Companies Are Racing to Build Self-Driving Cars in the next 5 Business Insider, Business Insider, 12 Jan. 2017, www.businessinsider.com/companies-making-driverless-cars-by-2020-2017-1. Accessed 17 Apr. 2017. Cars Union of Concerned Scientists, 26 Jan. 2017, www.ucsusa.org/clean-vehicles/how-self-driving-cars-work#.WPQrqaOZP-Y. Accessed 17 Apr. 2017. Vehicle  National Conference of State Legislatures. Lexis Nexis, 12 Dec. 2016. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. The Driverless Debate: Equal Percentages of Americans See Self-Driving Cars as  Health & Life. The Harris Poll, 24 Mar. 2015. Web. 30 Jan. 2017