Feaster 1 Matthew Feaster Ms. Hernandez Composition 2 4/10/17 Gun Control in the US Gun control is one of the most controversial topics in the US today. For the most part people are split in the discussion of this topic. They are either totally for gun control or completely against. People are so passionate about this issue that if something were to change in the near future, there could be major problems in result. One of the biggest problems with this is not knowing who to trust. You have democrats saying get rid of guns and republicans saying protect the second amendment and it can all be a little overwhelming. The best way to deal with the issue of gun control is to educate the American people, engage them in conversation about the topic so they care and empower them to fight for the right to bear arms. Many people look at guns and see them as objects that do nothing but destroy. This mindset has led people to fight for gun control to restrict the ownership of firearms. But many look at the reasons why people own guns. In 1999, surveys showed that 49% of people who owned guns had them for hunting but in 2013 surveys showed that 48% of people had guns for protection (Clark). This shows that people just have guns to play with them. Americans have guns because they feel like they need them to protect themselves and their families. By taking away peoples guns you are taking away their ability to protect themselves from an armed criminal who may break into their house. You can make a connection between guns and drugs. It Feaster 2 is illegal to sell and do drugs like heroin and crack but people still sell them and still buy them. In 2010, 1,638,846 people were arrested for selling drugs in the US (A Drug). Those were just the people who got caught, there were probably thousands if not millions more in the US who were illegally selling drugs. Who is not to say the same thing happens in the US. For many people selling drugs makes them rich, so if in the future more restrictions are put on guns these people who were selling drugs could start selling guns. If there is a market for it, in most cases there will be people who are selling it. So, to just avoid a lot of anger from those who take the second amendment right very seriously and to ultimately keep people safe the best thing to do is to keep gun laws the way they are. The topic of gun control is a very important issue that everyone should care about. Things having to do with this issue can be the difference between life and death. One important topic having to do with guns are school shootings. 2013, there have been over 200 school shootings in America an average of nearly one a (Everytown Research). This is a terrible statistic and one reason why so many people hate guns. But the problem here may not be that there are too many guns in schools, it may be that there are not enough guns in schools. Currently schools are gun free zones making it illegal to have guns on school properties. But, if that were lifted and schools had armed guards then maybe these school shootings could have been stopped before the shooter killed anyone or at least made less significant. At this point in time if a shooter goes to a school you have to wait for police to come which by that time a lot of lives could have already been taken. So, if there were armed guards in schools they could have stopped the shooter before the police even arrive and in result save many lives. In this point in time it is just too easy for someone to walk into a school with a gun without being stopped because no one wants to confront someone with a gun if they have no way to protect themselves. Feaster 3 This can be most proficient way to solve the school shootings in the US which has become an issue which happens way too often. The only way to find out is by trying this and seeing if it will work. This is why Americans need to care about this issue and fight against gun control. There are many things that can be done to help the fight against gun control. One thing that can help is giving donations to pro-gun organizations like the NRA. The NRA is one of the largest pro-gun organizations in the US and their goal is to preserve the core of American values and traditions (NRA). By donating to these organizations, you help them by them more resources to fight and also this money allows them to hold more workshops where they teach people about the dangers of guns and how to properly use them. Another way to fight against gun control is to attend rallies and protests to have your voice be heard. The only way to make a difference is by standing up for what you believe in. By doing this it can show others how important guns are to some people and either change their view on the topic entirely or give them the courage to fight for what they believe in as well. With an issue as heavily debated as gun control you just sit back and let things happen. If people want to keep the second amendment intact they must come together to get the result they want. The third way someone could get involved is by giving their time to teach people about guns. There are many places where people can go learn about guns. One of those places being the NRA Annual Meeting that is held in Atlanta, Georgia from April 28- April 30. Here people can listen to speeches, attend seminars and demonstrations, and also go to workshops where they can learn how to properly use guns (NRA Annual Meeting). One reason why people find guns so scary is because they understand them. Just like everything else in the world people fear what they know. By teaching people about gun safety and about how guns are so important to many for protection some may change their minds and Feaster 4 realize that guns as bad as they initially had thought. By getting involved and taking action the American people can really make a difference. Guns are important to so many people and the way they live their everyday lives. In 2013, anywhere from 270 to 310 million people had guns (Desliver). Although this is a minority it is still a lot of people. By making guns harder to get many of these lives will change for the worse. Without people who live in dangerous areas could be in constant fear of their life being taken away by someone who got a gun illegally. No policy will ever stop criminals from getting guns. So, overall the only people that will be hurt is the people who follow the law and risk getting arrested to get a gun. This will result in more criminals being able to commit more crimes without people being able to stop them. This is why the American people have to fight against gun control. Feaster 5 Works cited A Drug Arrest Every 19 Seconds, Says Latest US Data  StopTheDrugWar.org. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. Clark, Mary Pat. Why Own a Gun? Protection Is Now Top  Pew Research Center for the People and the Press. N.p., 12 Mar. 2013. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. DeSilver, Drew. A minority of Americans own guns, but just how many is  Pew Research Center. N.p., 03 June 2013. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. NRA Annual Meetings  NRA Annual Meeting. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. NRA  home.nra.org/about-the-nra. NRA About the NRA. N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. The long, shameful list of school shootings in  EverytownResearch.org. N.p., 10 Apr. 2017. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.