Grant 1 John Grant Prof. Changamire ENC 1102 19 April 2017 Putting a Stop to Bullying Something horrible has been going on for quite a long period of time and society has seemed to turn a blind eye towards it far too often. This horrible thing is bullying. Bullying is something that affects people both in and out of schools. Bullying needs to be stopped. It affects people of all ages, genders, races, and cultural backgrounds. Even people who specifically targets of bullies can be affected negatively by others being bullied. Bullying is known in a large number of cases to have led to short- and even long-term problems in the lives of people. According to a study by Lancet Psychiatry in 2015, a large group of children in the United States, the risk of mental health problems was nearly four times greater for victims of bullying than for victims of child abuse. This is but one of countless negative effects of bullying. Bullying can also cause quite serious physical problems for its victims in both the short- and long-run. It can lead to short-term physical problems such as serious bruises and scrapes to broken bones or a broken nose. Some of the long-term physical problems brought on by bullying could include speech problems, loss of hearing, loss of eye sight, as well as numerous others. Now, not everyone views bullying as something that needs to be gotten rid of entirely. A fairly common argument made by these people tends to be that bullying is a of or that it While these may appear to be valid points and have been true for some people, truth is this only really happens for very few individuals when compared to the victims Grant 2 of bullying as a whole. The majority of the people that are bullied, rather than getting positive character development, wind up developing negative mental problems the least of which include trust issues and sleep difficulties. Far too many people continue to be victims of bullying in society today. More than 20.8 percent of students reported being victims of bullying in 2016 (National Center for Educational Statistics, 2016). Those numbers say enough. More than 1/5 of students that are victims of bullying, and those are only the numbers for those who actually reported being victims of bullying. In reality that percentage of students who are bullied is actually significantly higher. Think about the difference that could be made if those students who are victims of bullying yet did not report it to someone felt it was safer for them to report it. Think of the number of lives that could be saved had people known about the problem at hand and had been able to step in to do something about it. According to Bullying Statistics, is the third leading cause of death among young people, resulting in about 4,400 deaths per Not only that, studies show that people who are victims of bullying are actually 2 to 9 times more likely to consider suicide than (Yale University). The question of why this should matter to those people who direct victims of bullying may come to mind. There are numerous reasons why everyone should care about this topic. Imagine a very dear friend of family member is frequently bullied but feel that they are safe to open up to anyone. Eventually they decide that they put up with it anymore and decide to end their own life rather than ask for help, or worse they decide to take the lives of the bully/bullies along with the innocent lives of people around them. Had the dear friend of family just known that they could talk to someone about it and gotten help facing the bully this could have never happened. This is the case for far Grant 3 too many people who are victims of bullying. Far too often it ends in the loss of the life and/or the lives of others. All it may take to prevent the worst from happening is spreading the word that bullying needs to stopped and that those who are victims of bullying are safe to open up to their peers. People need to come together and put a stop to bullying once and for all. There are multiple effective ways for people to come together as a community and fight bullying. Quite a number of these ways are actually quite fun to take part in as well. A fairly common way for people to get involved is to host a charity walk. People could come together and raise money by creating and participating in a against Participants could donate money to the cause that would then go to support a non-profit organization created to stop bullying. Not only that, a walk usually gathers immense numbers of people. This is one of the most effective ways to spread the word to thousands of people in one area at a single time. Out of those thousands of people tons will talk to their friends about ending bullying and even take part in other ways of ending bullying. Another way to become involved in ending bullying is to volunteer for larger organizations that have already been in the fight for years. Many non-profit organizations such as the PACER National Bullying Prevention Center and PFLAG: Parents, Families, & Friends of Lesbians and Gays have been fighting against bullying for years and would greatly appreciate any help they could get. All it takes is for a single person to take action against bullying and others will soon join him/her. By talking to a teacher or faculty member of a school, programs can be created for students to participate in to learn about bullying and why as well as how they need to put an end to it. Students can come together to create clubs for students to fight bullying. Creating a safe space for students helps for those who are victims of bullying to come together and be free from Grant 4 the pain. Making it known to those students who are victims that they are not alone can be enough to save a life if not thousands of lives. A press release in 2015 stated that among students ages 12 to 18 dropped to 22 percent after remaining stubbornly around 28 percent for the past (NCES). That percentage has since decreased to 20.8 percent which is an incredible decrease however this is still over 1/5 of the student population. If more people where to come together to stop bullying that percentage would continue to drop drastically. Bullying is something that has seriously affected society over the decades and needs to be stopped once and for all. It can lead to serious problems in the lives of its victims both short- and long-term. Reports have shown that horrible mental disorders such as depression and even suicide have been results of people being victims of bullying. Bullying does not only affect the lives of its victims, but the lives of others as well. People who have friends or loved ones who are bullied are affected by the possibility that they can lose that friend or loved one. All it takes is for people to stand together to put an end to bullying. People can come together and host event to raise awareness of bullying and the ways to stop it as well as the reasons why they need to put a stop to it. One step at a time, people will fight and will end bullying once and for all. (W.C.: 1,257) Grant 5 Works Cited Help, Facts, and http://www.bullyingstatistics.org. Bullying Statistics. N.p., Web. 19 Apr. 2017. Data Show a Decline in School-based New Data Show a Decline in School- based Bullying U.S. Department of Education. N.p., 15 May 2015. Web. 19 Apr. 2017. Lereya, Suzet Tanya, William E. Copeland, E. Jane Costello, and Dieter Wolke. Mental Health Consequences of Peer Bullying and Maltreatment in Childhood: Two Cohorts in Two The Lancet Psychiatry 2.6 (2015): 524-31. Web. PACER National Bullying Prevention Center. www.pacer.org/bullying/about. PACER Center, Inc. 2016. PFLAG: Parents, Families, & Friends of Lesbians and Gays. www.pflag.org. PFLAG. 2017.