Michael Espinola Professor Jarad Fennell English 41 14 April 2017 Obesity in The United States Did you know that one-third of the United States is obese? This number has been on the rise for years and has showed no signs of slowing down any time soon. There are more than three million cases per year in the US and that is why I am making a call to action. Being obese affects your life and health in hundreds of ways but it is never too late too late to improve yourself. A lot of people will get discouraged because they think that they can never lose weight. That is not true! With hard work and little butt sweat anyone can do it! It will take time but it is progress nonetheless. I am calling for everyone to take a stand with me against obesity and to build a healthy America through exercising at least one hour three times a week. After reading this paper you will have a better understanding of what it takes to become the best version of yourself. You will have the knowledge of what exactly obesity can do to your life. As I said, the health impacts are shocking and eye opening. A study by cdc.gov found that being obese your risk for many serious health diseases and health Some of the examples they provided were causes of death (mortality), high blood pressure, Type 2 diabetes, coronary heart disease, stroke, gallbladder disease, osteoarthritis, sleep apnea, cancer, and a low quality of Not to mention the lack of self-confidence and not being comfortable in your own skin. Being obese only effect your health, it can affect your life in many ways. Your career, mental health, self-esteem, sex life, social life, and energy are all effected. A study out of Duke University showed that to 30% of obese people seeking help controlling their weight indicated problems with sex drive, desire, performance, or all The study also stated that who are overweight are more likely to suffer from erectile As for your career, foxbusiness.com says that employers look at obese candidates and immediately think, person failed to control their own health, how are they going to run a Obesities effects on life reach much further than health. Your self-esteem is at risk. You cannot be as open and social as you would like because of the lack of confidence. According to UsaToday.com, people who are obese can live up to 12 years shorter than someone of an average weight. This means not seeing your life threw to its fullest. The good news is that it is never too late to turn your life around! Diet is a huge part of losing weight. Almost more important than exercising. Although a proper diet combined with a moderate amount of exercise is the key to dropping the pounds as quickly as possible. It is tough to change your diet but there are a few tips and tricks that can help. Webmd.com says that the key to fighting food urges during the day is to eat a big breakfast. They found that starting your day a high-protein meal especially warm, solid food helps you feel fuller and less hungry Domenica Rubino, the director of the Washington Center for Weight Management and research, says to for 350-400 calories with at least 25 grams of Sometimes keeping a photo diary helps too. This will help you remember and track your meals so you know what you have eaten each day. If the meals you have been eating been working, you can look back at what you have been eating and choose to downsize or switch the meal all together. There are also plenty of apps to help you track and plan your meals. For example, My Fitness Pal does just that. You can set goals and enter your weight to see your progress. As for snacks, which we all love, try and find a meal replacement like a protein shake. Protein shakes come in all different flavors and sizes. It is a great way to fill your stomach with healthy proteins and carbs when you are craving food. These should be taken between lunch and dinner. Protein bars are also a great healthy snack. The bad news is that you will have to throw away the Oreos. If you fill your cabinets with healthy food and rid them of the temptation unhealthy snacks have. Out of sight, out of mind. Another study by webmd.com says to shelves in the pantry and the fridge so your healthy foods become easy to reach. Put fresh veggies and fruit at eye level instead of inside a drawer, and more likely to grab them when you open the Now once you have figured out your diet, it is time to exercise. You want to focus on more cardio activities than weight lifting for right now. Walking, jogging, biking, rowing, swimming, aerobics class, jumping rope, and anything else that will keep you moving is a great way to keep your heart rate up and running. Do this around your neighborhood or at a park before you try the treadmills at the gym. The gym can be a very intimidating atmosphere and can steer you away from wanting to go again. A bicycle can be a great way to stay comfortable and get a good workout in at the same time. forget to bring some headphones! Load up your playlist with your favorite songs and listen to them as you exercise. The right songs can be motivation all on its own! Time can also be an issue. People will often say they do not have enough time to exercise. This is not a valid excuse and is easy to work around. Walter Thompson, a PhD professor of kinesiology and health at Georgia State University says, will find time for things we and will argue that most people saying that they do not have enough time watch t.v. for a long enough time to exercise each day. Even if that is the case, grab a resistance band and do some resistance exercises while you watch your favorite show! There are always around excuses. Too tired? Working out provides you with energy. have time away from the kids? Take them with you. While they are playing, walk around outside with them. Bring them to the park while you get your cardio in. Keep a log of what you have done to keep you motivated and track your progress. Once you see results, you will be hooked and hungry for more. Obesity is a serious issue and needs to be taken that way. It can affect your entire life and even the people around you. Good news is that it too late to make a difference. Get your diet right and begin exercising to see the power you have! Keep these tips in mind when you begin your journey. Stock the cabinets and fridge with healthy foods and throw away all the unhealthy snacks! Keep fruit at eye level so that you will be more likely to grab it when you open the fridge. After a couple of weeks of healthy dieting and exercising you will begin to feel that confidence boost and self-esteem! Remember, no excuse is valid and you can always make time out of the week for things you care about. This will not be easy or short but it is worth it to better yourself and be the best person you can be. As the great rapper Drake once said, only live Works Cited being overweight can hurt your foxbusiness.com, 14 April 2017, http://www.foxbusiness.com/features/2013/03/04/how-being-overweight-can-hurt-your- career.html and exercise challenges and training Verywell.com. 14 April. 2017, http://content.healthaffairs.org/content/21/2/245.full Roland Sturm. The Effects of Obesity, Smoking, and Drinking On Medical Problems Medical Problems and Costs. Health Affairs. Vol. 21 no. 2. 2002, page 1 6 excuses and how to beat Webmd, 14 April, 2017, http://www.webmd.com/fitness- exercise/features/the-top-6-exercise-excuses-and-how-to-beat-them#1 to lose 100 pounds or Webmd, 14 April 2017, http://www.webmd.com/fitness- exercise/features/the-top-6-exercise-excuses-and-how-to-beat-them#1