Jones 1 Kiemon Jones Prof. Mariama Changamire ENC 1102. 19 April 2017 Medical Marijuana Marijuana is the most commonly used illicit drug in the United States. Despite the legal situation its acceptance has raised questions to why people would use it in the first place, because of the drugs relaxing and recreational properties. Although many people may use it for various different reasons such as the ones mentioned above, there are other benefits of the drug which if people were aware of its therapeutic value and had the opportunity and guidance to use it effectively, countless others could benefit from its therapeutic properties. (Mathre) Unfortunately, although there are countless studies done to prove the above statements the law still stands in most states which still criminalize the plant. all the negative consequences of prohibition, none is as tragic as the denial of medicinal cannabis to the tens of thousands of patients who could benefit from its therapeutic (norml) One of the organisations which support medical marijuana is AAMC (American Alliance for Medical Cannabis) this mission is advocacy, patient rights, and support. Additional aspects of the AAMC Mission include clinical research and educating decision (letfreedomgrow) These efforts aim to gain public as well as support in terms of legislation to influence the legalization of marijuana for of course, its medical benefits, its potential to boost government taxes as well as on the basis that could end the drug foot in marijuana trade. In 1913, California passed the first marijuana prohibition law aimed at recreational use by 1936, the remaining 47 states had followed suit. In 1937, the Marijuana Jones 2 Tax Act effectively discontinued the use of marijuana for medicinal purposes and marijuana was classified as a Schedule I drug in 1970. (Anderson) Although the drug was banned 80 years ago, in the United States, many people do not recognize the medicinal benefits today. It is in fact not even recognised by many healthcare providers solely because of its illegal status which could cause problems for professionals because any association with the drug may cause loss of professional licenses or prescription privileges and even criminal charges. (Mathre) Medical marijuana laws (MMLs) remove state-level penalties for using, possessing, and cultivating medical marijuana. Patients are required to obtain approval or certification from a doctor, and doctors who recommend marijuana to their patients are immune from prosecution. Medical marijuana laws allow patients to designate caregivers who can obtain marijuana on their behalf.(Anderson) Although this seems to be good news 19 out of 50 states have legalized the drug for medicinal purposes which means that much is still to be done to help treat sick people. In terms of morality, it should be wrong to punish someone who is trying to treat themselves especially for diseases that could be fatal. As of today, in Florida, State-qualified patients, except in cases where those are diagnosed with a terminal illness, may possess cannabis strains containing ten percent or more of CBD and no more than eight-tenths of one percent of THC.(NORML) Ignorance seems to be the main reason that medicinal marijuana has not been legalized in the majority, if not, all of the states. Although the demand for drugs like marijuana has increased dramatically over the years (therapeutic, natural drugs) , the prevalence of diseases such as cancer, glaucoma have increased, the laws are still the same. It has been proven that marijuana can treat a variety of diseases, such as the ones named above (glaucoma and cancer). In a study on the effect of smoked marijuana on chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting it was found that 14 out of 15 patients had a reduction in vomiting and nausea. While in a study on the effect of marijuana smoked for pain marijuana and oral THC Jones 3 decreased pain sensitivity, increased pain tolerance, and decreased subjective ratings of pain intensity in patients in the process of chemotherapy. (letfreedomgrow) It seems as though the plant is proving its worthiness to be more than just a recreational substance, but a drug which can be more effective than the ideal pharmaceutical solution for diseases such as cancer. In light of the current situation, it must be noted that people who are in support of the medicinal value of the drug or who are even slightly intrigued by it should take steps to get more involved with the drug since it seems to be having a major influence in changing times. There are three proposed ideas which people may get involved: talking to their congressional representative for e.g Kathy Castor for Florida, Tampa, joining organizations such as NLC to represent people who may criminalized for using the drug as well as attending seminars where the topic is on medical marijuana. In regards to the congressional representative aspect, congressional representative are people who introduce bills and resolutions, offer amendments and serve on the committee. By contacting these prestigious people, this enables to let their voices be heard to people who have the persons who have the power to change laws, and can actively do so. Governments cannot run countries without having people living in them, therefore in a democratic society such as the United States, opinions do count and whether or not the representative is in agreement, the action of voicing an opinion is powerful. The second method to getting involved is joining the NLC (NORML Legal Committee), the NLC assists NORML by informing NORML (National Organisation for the Reform of Marijuana Laws) of current trends in law enforcement and important judicial decisions, providing NORML with copies of relevant briefs and other legal documents, and by making themselves available to provide expert legal assistance in important cases. (norml) mission is to move public opinion sufficiently to legalize the responsible use of marijuana by adults, and to serve as an advocate for consumers to assure they have access to Jones 4 high quality marijuana that is safe, convenient and affordable. These types of committes are necessary as they can protect patients who use the drug but may be punished for it. This is one of the most influential steps one could take in the fight for legalization of medicinal marijuana as attorneys can prove to judges that the drug perceived negative side effects are beneficial as well as backed by medical evidence which help persons in modern times. The final method is for persons to attend seminars such as the Aspen Legal Seminar (held on June 1, 2 and 3, 2017, at the Gant Hotel) where issues are addressed such as: the latest science of marijuana, latest developments in intellectual property rights in the legal marijuana industry and problems arising in financing a cannabis business. These meetings aid in empowering persons with accurate and up to date knowledge on the plant which can hope to further the medicinal movement which has only reached 19 states. As for the Aspen Legal Seminar, NORML Deputy Director Paul Armentano will address the latest science of marijuana; Oceanside, CA attorney David Branfman will lecture on the latest developments in Intellectual property rights in the legal Marijuana industry; Former US Attorney Bill Nettles from South Carolina will discuss his efforts to legalize the medical use of marijuana in a southern (NORML) Seminars can also educate interested persons who may have a family member whom is ill and who would like to know more about the benefits of marijuana in terms of treating diseases. In conclusion, the stereotypical opinion on marijuana having all round negative effects needs to be altered. It has been proven time and time again that the drug has better benefits than alternatives such as pharmaceutical drugs. This opinion can be changed when you, the individual, takes initiative in one of the steps mentioned above which can assist in educating others about the drug, protecting people who are may be sick and more importantly, saving lives. (1303 words) Jones 5 Works Cited D. Mark Anderson Marijuana Laws, Traffic Fatalities, and Alcohol The Journal of Law and Economics, 17 April 2017 National Organisation for Reform of Marijuana Laws, http://norml.org/about/intro. 18 April 2017. Joan L. Kramer, MD Marijuana for American Alliance for Medical Cannabis http://www.letfreedomgrow.org/mission.asp 18 April 2017. Mary Lynn Mathre, R.N. Cannabis in Medical Practice: A Legal, Historical and Pharmacological of Therapeutic Use of Marijuana, https://books.google.com/books?hl=en&lr=&id=rYwQk3e77vYC&oi=fnd&pg=PR7&dq=%3 F%3Fprotests+for+medical+marijuana&ots=oOUhTbx3AL&sig=7PFh0- Iprbfb8PuS0ZfvpNaa01c#v=onepage&q=%3F%3Fprotests%20for%20medical%20m arijuana&f=false 18 April 2017.