Ferguson 1 Garrett Ferguson Professor Hernandez ENC 1102 13 April 2017 The change society needed to make10 years ago! Ever wonder how much wasteful fossil fuels are going into the atmosphere? Power has to come from somewhere right? Since power can neither be created nor destroyed, people will find their resources from somewhere in any way possible to survive. For instance, one uses coal or oil over green energy methods. Look at the history, since the dawn of a new age of technology, humans have been destroying the earth more than helping it. According to the World Coal Association are an estimated 892 billion tonnes of proven coal reserves worldwide. This means that there is enough coal to last us around 110 years at current rates of production. In contrast, proven oil and gas reserves are equivalent to around 52 and 54 years at current production How will earth strive and live once fully depleted of its natural resources? Humans are in a state of emergency. It is up to their ability to preserve their main natural resources with green energy. A green future will only come with agreeance and taking responsibility for their actions. One needs to check themselves and realize their actions of not using solar energy need to end. A step in the right direction starts with a start in a lifestyle and day-to-day living cycle. By attending the SEPA ( Solar Electric Power Alliance) Utility Conference on April 24 - 26, 2017 in Tucson, AZ, one can be a part of witnessing new technology that will soon be integrated into an daily life. Ferguson 2 For starters, one might be wondering what really is solar energy? Solar Energy is created from a storage of sunlight from solar panels. MIT describes a solar panels system of storage in this statement or photovoltaic (PV), cells, which convert sunlight into electrical energy, have a large role to play in boosting solar power generation globally, but researchers still face limitations to scaling up this technology. For example, developing very high-efficiency solar cells that can convert a significant amount of sunlight into usable electrical energy at very low costs remains a significant Does one know the past of solar first time in use for an actual house? Well in the eighteen-sixties, the birth of solar for a individuals home was created. According to a journal from the History of Solar Energy mathematician August Mouchet proposed an idea for solar-powered steam engines. In the following two decades, he and his assistant, Abel Pifre, constructed the first solar powered engines and used them for a variety of applications. These engines became the predecessors of modern parabolic dish With only being close to an eighty-year hiatus, one is introduced to an actual storage system created with a silicon solar cell. According to WhoInvented.org Ohl was the first inventor, who created the silicon solar cell in 1941. in 1954, the three American researchers Gerald Pearson, Calvin Fuller and Daryl Chapin were able to create a solar panel that could have the efficiency level of 6% with direct With the level of efficiency at six percent seems low at first. But, with time comes improvement and change. According to cleantechnica.com the efficiency level has increased almost 9 times since efficient solar cells by Soitec & Fraunhofer Institute. Notably, these world-leading solar cells from Soitec and Fraunhofer Institute are in the concentrator triple-junction solar cell Why would one use coal over solar? Coal may have its harmful effects to the atmosphere once heated for use of energy, but it has a higher percentage yield than Solar Energy for Ferguson 3 present society. How will one fix this problem at hand for creating a better economy and a heathier planet? Well, one will need to understand that Solar energy is going to be needed to be placed into an day-to-day lives for it to create any change towards the environment of the Earth. One needs to change their actions if one want to save the Earth, and yet we can afford the pricing to initiate this change in todays present. Just recently in 2011 a journal from MIT stated, cost of solar power is beginning to reach price parity with cheaper fossil fuel- based electricity in many parts of the world, yet the clean energy source still accounts for just slightly more than one percent of the electricity MIT points out a very interesting situation. Why is it that only one percent of the worlds electricity mix comes from green energy when we can afford to create a higher percentage of green energy into the mix? One might be wondering, if its solar is so great, why anyone done anything about changing over electric ways and regulations. due to how hard it would be to enforce people to have solar energy and use it. Of course, the government does do tax write offs for companies who use solar energy to power their stores. How does one start this huge trend? One needs to attend a conference or such to create a system to the plan. Why would one be just refered to a conference? Well this conference is to allow one to gather materials and understand the systems they will need for their house to make this change possible. Like this whole article has stated, it is up to the indvidula to make the step towards the right direction, no one person can force this worldwide change. That is why if many people attend the Confrence at SEPA to learn and gather materials for a solar and green home working systems to help those out with electricity bills and such. The operations at SEPA( Solar Electric Power Alliance) are to, as it states in its bio 1992, SEPA has been a trusted platform for smart energy education, research and collaboration to help the electric power sector Ferguson 4 deploy and integrate solar, storage, demand response and other distributed energy SEPA is the main alliance that is acting towards making change in the senate and state with technology they create and are introduced to. By one agreeing and signing up to register at SepaPower.org, to attend the Utility Conference, one is introduced to an atmosphere that is built to creating a system for individuals to take charge and have their own solar systems at their house. What will be discussed there? SEPA states this in their events page about the utility conference The SEPA Utility Conference provides a space where regulated utilities can network and learn from their peers in a confidential, intimate environment. You know technology is only part of the solution. Focus on the complete picture, from strategy and planning, to finding solutions that will delight your customers and move your utility This being stated, one can understand that there is nothing but forward for the future ahead for Solar Energy. The conference will also allow individuals to not only learn more, but also be a part of the process of becoming members of SEPA. Becoming members will allow one to have blueprints and instant access to articles and news updates about movements on solar laws in the senate and inventions towards better and higher percentages levels of the solar energy field. Becoming a part of such a movement will change the health of the environment of the earth and allow the world to preserve its natural resources. With attendance to the SEPA Utility Conference, and newly learned information, one can find a reason and ability/ say so on changing the use of the humans use of electricity. One can be able to start with instillations of a home solar system by attending the conference, with more and more people switching to solar, it will soon be a huge global trend for saving the Earth. One can understand the reason that this is up to each citizen on the Earth to act and hold responsibility for their own actions. The future is in an grasp, humans have clearly Ferguson 5 changed the game and change the use of technology to another level. With efficiency levels already so high, one can only imagine fifty more years at perfecting the use of Solar Energy. Be a part of the change, be responsibility. Imagine how many jobs will be put back into work with new technology to be researched on, and allow for more jobs to be created with needed instillation for many companies and people. With a healthier economy, one can rest assured that the earth will be healthier too. Make the right choice as a human being and respect the planet that allows humans to live. Ferguson 6 Work Cited History of Solar Energy - Go Solar California. N.p., n.d. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. Revision, 2016, Covani Says, and Anthony Says. Who invented solar  Who Invented? N.p., 22 Dec. 2016. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Office, MIT News. New solar cell is more efficient, costs less than its  MIT News. N.p., 29 Aug. 2016. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Which Solar Panels Are Most  CleanTechnica. N.p., 16 Nov. 2015. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. SEPA Utility  SEPA. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Where is coal  World Coal Association. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Apr. 2017.