Patel 1 Sasha Patel Taylor Poston ENC 1102-029 16 April 2017 Deforestation: Educate, Engage, Empower Imagine 48 football fields being lost every minute, well that is the rate of deforestation that is currently happening across the globe. Deforestation by definition is simply the action of clearing trees, but the actual meaning is more intense, and the effects that go along with deforestation are more global. Forests play a crucial part in maintaining climate change, especially since trees soak up free- floating carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases from the atmosphere, and replace them with fresh breathable oxygen, shortly defined as Forests are essential for the biodiversity or vast species that inhabit them and depend on the trees for their survival. Forests are so vital, that billion people rely on benefits forests offer, including food, fresh water, clothing, traditional medicine and Many of the forests around the world are being deforested because of agricultural methods such as: slash and burn (in which the forest vegetation is cut and set on fire to prevent any old growth) or clear cutting (cutting down every tree from the entire desired area). Deforestation is also resulted from ranching, logging for resources like timber and pulp, and even for the need of cleared land to build infrastructure. Forests all over the world are threatened by all forms of anthropological deforestation, and it is our job to protect them, so we can prevent jeopardizing the benefits that living forests give. Every person on this planet is somehow involved in the process of deforestation and standing together, we all can help minimize drastic rates. Patel 2 The understanding of the damage done is still unclear to many people worldwide. We need to realize that everyone on this planet uses trees in some type of way. 94% of rural population and 73% of its urban population use wood-based fuels as their primary energy (Okoko, 45). Many of the African societies use these wood based fuels mainly as an alternative to electricity. Despite their needs of wood, unsustainable wood harvesting practices that characterize the unimproved firewood and charcoal value chains produce the highest carbon footprints [compared to other cooking (Okoko, 60). These carbon emissions add to the atmosphere, thickening the climates and breaking down the ozone, causing extreme heat to enter the earth, creating global warming. Although the African need for firewood (burning fossil fuels) to make food was simply one example, there are many countries, like the United States, that are involved in greenhouse gas emissions. These greenhouse gases can only be removed from the atmosphere by trees. many people think of the environmental losses, but there is hefty economic loss associated with deforestation, currently absorb billions of tons of CO2 globally every year, an economic subsidy worth hundreds of billions of dollars if an equivalent sink had to be created in other (Bonan, 144). So we must began to stop cutting down the trees, because efforts to rebuild forests after destroyed them, cost a lot of money and time as well. Carbon emissions are one consequence of a loss of trees, but another consequence includes loss of biodiversity and habitat fragmentation. According to WWF many wildlife species have been affected such as tree kangaroos, amur leopards, Asian elephants, bonobos, chimpanzees, pandas, gorillas, orangutans, and rhinos, not including the loss of the smaller species. Many wildlife depends on one another. One researcher in the Amazon Patel 3 rainforest observed how deforestation triggered a loss of army ants, and that led to a disappearance of insectivorous birds that relied on the ants (Turner, 204). Everyone should care about deforestation because our future is affected. Not having trees to intake the carbon dioxide leads to the degradation of the ozone layer, causing global warming and climate change. Not having trees leads to low oxygen production, which eventually leads to all of life dying without clean air. The problem of deforestation only gets worst. life is affected, even our future generations are affected, because our mother Earth will not last long if her precious trees are being cut. This is time for humans to stop being selfish. As humans, we do not have the right to decide what species live or die either. Deforestation leads to habitat fragmentation and loss of biodiversity, extinctions start to begin with larger animals and eventually cascade down to smaller species of wildlife and plants. Local humans depend on these species as well. Many lives can be affected. In Indonesia the people depend on the Asian elephants for transportation. Indonesia used to have 48 million hectares of primary forest in 1990, but during 2005 they only had 20 million hectares left. The numbers continue to decrease, due to overexploitation of the natural resources, agriculture, and expansion of residential and commercial areas (pbs.org). Along with the environmental issues, current research shows that deforestation can cause health problems as is a major breeding ground for malaria. Malaria is a public health threat (Hahn, A malaria outbreak can happen as forest disturbances occur causing insects like mosquitoes to be displaced from their natural forest habitat, and finding breeding grounds near local residences. The study conducted showed how 4.3% increase in deforestation, caused a 48% increase in malaria incidences in Mancia Lima, Brazil (Hanh, not just the local people that are being affected, everyone is. Another Patel 4 reason why our lives can be affected, for instance, in 1991, 25% of all pharmaceutical products were extracted from tropical plants found in tropical forests. Reproducing these natural medicinal drugs can be possible, but the synthetic versions can be costly (James, 664). time to realize that everyone on this planet is somehow being affected by deforestation, either directly or indirectly. We need to start caring about this issue, because the lives of the species, the lives of the people (whether they are dependant on the forest/ wildlife or not), and the life of this planet, all are at stake. This is time time to take action. Thinking about this issue in a week or tomorrow, do anything. Enough time has been spent just time to do get up and actually make a change and do something different. Many people think planting a tree in their backyard might help. Although rebuilding forests and planting trees once again, after a specific area was deforested, may sound viable and remedial, and modified natural forests will face greater disturbances and risks for large-scale losses due to climate change than primary forests, because of their generally reduced (Thompson, 7). The question then arises, as to what we as a community can do together to reduce deforestation and its effects. Simply planting new trees as we destroy them, the only thing we should be doing. Along with planting new trees, we need to reduce the usage of the forest- based products and start switching to more healthier and options. Many of the daily products we use, contain parts of trees and wood in them. The paper we write on, the furniture we sit on, the rubber in our shoes, and even the bark found in our bottles as corks, are all parts of protect the forests and the wildlife that reside them, a simple decision to start buying products that have the Forest Stewardship Council TM label on them can make a giant difference. According to the Patel 5 WWF website, using products with the label means the product is from a responsibly managed where trees are harvested legally, highly hazardous pesticides are not used, the rights of indigenous people are World Wildlife Fund provides many other alternatives to reducing deforestation on their website at wwf.org. everyday choices like that can help make a significant impact on saving the trees. all the trees have been cut down, when all the animals have been hunted, when all the rivers run dry, only then will humans discover we cannot eat (Cree Prophecy). So next time, if you see the trees being cleared for that golf field you really needed, then open your eyes and see the reality to the loss of those trees. This is the time to change our actions. We know the consequences of deforestation, we know why it affects us and every other being on this planet, and now we know what we can do to stop the loss of trees. One simple environmentally friendly decision everyday can help stop a important tree from being cut down, prevent an animal from losing its home, and inhibit climate change. As a community, our efforts combined together can stop illegal and unmanageable deforestation. time to take action. References Bonan, Gordon B. Forests and climate change: forcings, feedbacks, and the climate benefits of  320.5882 (2008): 1444-1449.  WWF. World Wildlife Fund, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Hahn, Micah B., et al. Influence of deforestation, logging, and fire on malaria in the Brazilian  PLoS One 9.1 (2014): e85725 Patel 6 Disappearing Wild Elephants:  pbs.org. 2005. v.47, p5. James A. Duke 1993. Medicinal plants and the pharmaceutical industry. p. 664-669. In: J. Janick and J.E. Simon (eds.), New crops. Wiley, New York. Okoko, Abigael, et al. The carbon footprints of alternative value chains for biomass energy for cooking in Kenya and  Energy Technologies and Assessments (2017). Thompson, I., et al. Forest resilience, biodiversity, and climate  synthesis of the biodiversity/resilience/stability relationship in forest ecosystems. Secretariat of the Convention on Biological Diversity, Montreal. Technical Vol. 43. 2009. Turner, I. M. Species loss in fragments of tropical rain forest: a review of the  Journal of applied Ecology (1996): 200-209.