McAleenan 1 Nick McAleenan Taylor Poston ENC 1102-029 16 April 2017 Net Neutrality is the principle that internet users should be able to access web content, download or upload files, and communicate in methods of their choice without restrictions or limitations imposed by their Internet Service Providers(ISPs). Net neutrality was a movement that was most prevalent in early 2015, however that does not mean that it is not still an issue. When the latest president took office, the republicans also took control of most of congress and therefore its committees. The Federal Communication Committee or the FCC for short, who is the oversight for all things internet and phone, received a new chairman, a very conservative, pro Cable-Company politician. This does not bode well for the already pro company based presidency we are now in, so the battle is still very real. More details with the who is involved, why someone should care, and what you can do if needed will be described below. When it comes to Net Neutrality there are 3 big stakeholders to mainly think about. First there is the guys, the ISPs are the ones who are fighting hardest to get rid of the existing laws that allow freedom of data. The view is that if all data is created equal, then that means more up front costs to put in cables, more upkeep on existing cables and all around money spent on such in the short term. However since this is Big Business, the view of the is also the view of the next major stakeholder, the Government or the FCC due to lobbying and general under the table money. Also, as stated previously, the FCC is no longer a neutral oversight committee even before companies over 87 million dollars in 2016 alone to help push their decision along(Lobbying Spending Data). Now with both pressure from the committee members and lots of money being funneled into try and possibly censor the content of the internet brings us the third stakeholder, internet citizens. This is anyone ever used the internet, but the diversity among this group is amazing. There are some who only use facebook to see the cute pictures of the grandkids, those who publish daily blogs online, to those who use the internet to create income, either through video or maybe making a physical good and selling it through the web. But all of these would all be affected if the internet was no longer However not all internet citizens are aware of the threat looming over them, so education is a key to winning the battle for the internet. This may seem like a none issue to many, but this affects all people who use the internet, from those who use the internet daily, weekly, or even people who only use when absolutely necessary. One of the many worries that content creators have is that if a company has the ability to control the data that goes to you computer, they may slow down the connection to sites that owned by them or their companies. An example of this would be if Comcast owned Hulu, McAleenan 2 they may slow down the connection to Netflix, so as to make you want to use their service, which would seem super fast by comparison. This is an issue for platforms like Youtube, where people invest countless hours and lots of money to create a channel, a following and eventually a steady income. However that could all go away if half of their followers have Comcast, which owns a YouTube competitor and so watching a video on YouTube becomes unbearable. These are the sad realities of the possible future if the ISPs have their way. Seeing all of this information can be overwhelming, or even scary, so below are some links with very good information and ways to help, either by donating or a variety of methods. https://www.savetheinternet.com/sti-home This website will be the best to not only learn, but ways to help with either activism or donating to build a free internet for everyone. There are many articles and links on this site that you can use to educate, or share with others so that the most people can learn of the issue and become aware of the scary possibilities. https://www.battleforthenet.com/ This site is great for learning more about this issue with neat graphics and a very streamlined website. This page includes numerous links from a variety of sources, from the LA Times to The Guardian. This is the best site to use for a quick and easy explanation, even including videos. -open-internet This post is all about what you can do in your own community to have an impact on the fight to protect the internet. The fight for the Internet only take place on the internet, as your senators are critical members to sway, and as they represent the people, if the people all voice their opinions maybe they will be swayed. Annotated Bibliography FreePress. the FreePress, 1 Jan. 2017. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. This website is fantastic as a one-stop site for all the needs of a person both new and old to net neutrality. With tons of links to donation links, articles, videos, and many many informational pages. This site is the best of all of them, and if only one were allowed to be seen by a uneducated person, this would be it. McAleenan 3 Future, Fight For the. Battle For The  For The Fight for the Future, n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. This website is great as does it not only look good but it is very informative for people who may not want to read a lot or do not have the time. This site gave a large list of the players, if someone wanted to see more in depth on and Koebler, Jason . How to Protect the  VICE, 28 Mar. 2017. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. This article is good for showing more options than the usual forms of donating. Being proactive in your community is a very good way to influence a vote or outcome you want to happen. This was used to show the alternatives to what the normal is of donating or something of the sort. Lobbying Spending  Center for Responsive Politics , 25 Jan. 2017. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. This page uses public data to show the uneducated general public what kind of money is going where. This page is part of a larger website that has this data for all the big issues that our government faces. It provided good data and number with how much money is being funneled into our lawmakers, while also being a good source if a person wanted to learn more. FreePress. the FreePress, 1 Jan. 2017. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. This website is fantastic as a one-stop site for all the needs of a person both new and old to net neutrality. With tons of links to donation links, articles, videos, and many many informational pages. This site is the best of all of them, and if only one were allowed to be seen by a uneducated person, this would be it.