Verstay 1 Oakland Verstay Instructor Poston ENC1102.029S17 15 April 2017 The Need for Conservation One of most famous traits of a giant panda bear involves its peculiar diet of bamboo, so much so that the two heavily associate with one another. Biologist along with zoologist alike criticize the diet with valid arguments. However, considering the vulnerability of the species in its population and susceptibility of bamboo forests to deforestation, any alterations to the giant regime potentially have catastrophic implications. In regard to these concerns, conservation satisfies as the best panacea to rehabilitate the giant panda population alongside their environment. The origins of this phenomenon derive from the genes of giant pandas today. The umami taste receptor gene, which stimulates an increased level of endorphins released in the brain when eating meat, has deactivated inside of the species at some point (Jin et al 5). Speculations have erupted as this being the direct consequence of the bamboo diet. Without a proper discernment of what is beneficial to eat, the pandas began eating bamboo and found enjoyment in that. The obsoleted umami gene then passed through the entirety of the giant panda population, resulting in the current condition of giant pandas today. And after an extended period of time, the predator drive filtered from their instinct. Now sluggish hunters, the species as a whole gained traction from its docile, pacifistic, and adorable nature. Verstay 2 The phenomenon of the umami gene aside, the giant pandas have sustained their existence by consuming bamboo. So, the logical progression of thought to them eating bamboo all day would consider it good for them, or at the very least unharmful. Though not physically harmful, giant pandas relying on bamboo as a primary source of nutrients does come along with drawbacks. One of which comes from the insufficient supplements provided by the shoots and leaves of bamboo simple answer is: 1). Which clarifies the purpose of them eating the vegetation for 14 hours a day, accumulating to around 12 to 38 kg of it a day. Not only that, the species lacks mobility when it comes to migration and they cannot afford to exert themselves due to barely nourishing to required daily calories count, making them completely dependent on their bamboo forest setting. The most concerning aspect of the diet stems from its impediment to the reproduction process of the giant panda (Sekar 1). The deficiency in essential minerals and elements, such as calcium, halt the growth of panda embryos, explaining why the cubs of the giant panda when first birthed have considerably smaller bodies when compared to other bear cubs. Not only that, the lack of nutrients disrupts the health of the gamete cells of the giant pandas. So, the abnormal attraction to bamboo nearly has doomed the species of total extinction, especially when considering the deforestation of these habitats. Only recently have their numbers recovered with the help of human intervention defending their setting from destruction. Due to their design of being carnivorous creatures, bamboo cannot completely digest in the stomach of the giant panda as the has very low digestive (Mel et al 171). This has two implications, the breaking down of components to absorb into the body is not at all optimized and the seeds of bamboo pass through the intestines without being Verstay 3 destroyed. The latter of these observations fertilizes the seeds, allowing for the growth of more bamboo stocks 1). The pervasiveness of the woody evergreen on top of its prodigiousness with the help of giant pandas have protected bamboo forests from the threats of deforestation. To add to that, bamboo forests are home to many other endangered animals, emphasizing not only the lives of the giant pandas but other creatures that find sanctuary in the surrounding of bamboo. The dependency on bamboo leaves giant pandas vulnerable under the condition if this resource becomes scarce. Unfortunately, human activity in deforestation threatens the survival of the species above everything else. Organizations similar to the World Wildlife Fund invest their resources to conservation effort, which seems to come across as the best solution to the issues and already brought the overall giant panda population from the endangered list to a condition of vulnerability, certainly a long way to go but a start. In conclusion, the best way to support the survival of giant pandas relies heavily on the continuation of conservation efforts to preserve their habitat. Giant pandas need bamboo to survive and the animals allow the evergreen to prosper, considering this, conservation protects both from the human activity disturbing them in the state of nature. The best way to support the preservation of the vulnerable panda species is through support of a trustworthy organization that commits to conservation efforts. Donations to the World Wildlife Fund to adopt a panda justifies as an appropriate model on how to help save pandas in need of saving. Verstay 4 Works Cited WWF, 26 Jan 2017. simple answer is: WWF, 16 April 2017. Sekar, Sandya. pandas survived on their bamboo-only Science. 2014. p.1. 26 Jan. 2017. http://www.sciencemag.org/news/2014/07/how-pandas-survive-their-bamboo- onlydiet. Jin, Ke, Chenyi Xue, Xiaoli Wu, Jinyi Qian, Yong Zhu, Takahiro Yonezawa, M. James C. Crabble, Ying Cao, Masami Hasegawa, Yang Zhong, and Yufang Zheng. Does the Giant Panda Eat Bamboo? A Comparative Analysis of Appetite-Reward-Related Genes among PLoS ONE. 2011, Vol. 6 Issue 7, p1-8. University of South Florida Database. 28 Jan. 2017. Mel, Yonggang, John R. Speakman, Qi Wu1, Chenglin Zhang, Yibo Hu1, Maohua Xia, Li Yan, Hambly Catherine, Lu Wang, Wei Wei1, Jinguo Zhang, Fuwen Weil. low daily energy expenditure in the bamboo-eating giant Science. 2015, Vol. 349 Issue 6244, p171-174. University of South Florida Database. 28 Jan. 2017.