von Werder 1 Jade von Werder Ms. Poston ENC 1102-069 18 April 2017 As the only bear species in Florida, the black bear is a unique addition to wildlife. Coming back from being a threatened species in the largest land mammal has been kept protected and repopulating with the help of animal rights activists, biologists, and conservationists. In 2015 however, the Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation (FWC) issued over 3,700 permits to hunt and harvest 320 bears. This measure to deal with the growing bear population and growing encounters with civilization was unfavored by many Florida residents as they saw no purpose in the killing of black bears. In fact, 75 percent of 40,000 public responses received were against the hunt (Sampson). Most bears in Florida remain deep in the brush and vegetation and are not seen very often in the wild. With the advancement and development of civilization across Florida, however, black bears have lost a majority of their habitat. With a disappearing habitat, it is no surprise that the bears run into suburbia and humans while foraging for food. Also, unlike many other animals on a hunting list, Florida black bears are not a lethal threat. As seen in a study done by the Journal of Wildlife Management, not a single person in Florida has been killed by a black bear (Herrero et al. 598). Therefore, the hunting of bears for safety reasons was not a very strong reason. This made the public question why the FWC allowed for a hunt. The FWC claimed that the bear hunt was for population maintenance, but the public did not buy it. Many Florida residents began using the term to describe the proposed week-long open season. von Werder 2 The executive director of the FWC, Nick Wiley, sent out a letter in 2015 addressing the concerns of the public and alleged misconceptions about the first bear hunt. Bringing up the common misconception of the hunt being a Wiley stated that, primary purpose of a limited bear harvest is to manage the bear population while providing carefully regulated hunting par. 7). The only issue with this was the actual 2015 hunt ended with unanticipated mismanagement. The FWC may have had good intentions, but the outcome of the hunt is what sparked a strike among Florida residents against any future hunt. One of the regulations placed on the bear hunt was that in order for a bear to be taken, it had to be at least 100 pounds and without any cubs 8). This rule was broken when at least 2 bear cubs were brought in weighing under 100 pounds. Also, there was a set number of bears allowed to be hunted in certain hunting zones, and those numbers got exceeded. Reported by EcoWatch, the eastern Panhandle, hunters far exceeded the 40-bear quota for the season, killing 112 bears over the weekend, and in the central region, where the limit was set at 100 bears, 139 were par. 1). The FWC had to shut down the proposed week- long hunt after only 2 days because they reached their allotted number of bears much quicker than anticipated. Due to the hunt being mismanaged, people decided to protest and try to prevent innocent bears from being hunted again in the future. Why does this matter to any Florida resident? The reason it is important to protect the Florida black bear is because keeping this species alive simultaneously keeps the shared habitat of other threatened Florida species alive as well. The gopher tortoise, Eastern Indigo snake, and the Florida scrub jay thrive in the same habitat as the Florida bear Black par. 1). If were allowed to hunt bears, then there would be less reason to protect their habitat- von Werder 3 the same habitat of other species that call Florida their home. A fight to save the lives of bears preserves wildlife beyond just the bears. As civilization and development across Florida continues to spread, killing bears to prevent dangerous encounters should not be the solution. Instead, Florida residents should educate themselves on how to coexist with bears and how to live in a way that keeps themselves and the bears safe. Foremost, one way you can educate yourself about bears is to simply search and read information about Florida black bears on the Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation website. If you happen to reside in or visit an area where bears are commonly spotted, you can employ tactics to reduce bear conflicts in your area by implementing bear-proof trash cans and learning how to effectively and safely scare away bears from your property. Even if you do not live near areas heavily populated by bears, you can still spread awareness by sharing education materials or speaking up against the hunting of bears. One way of doing this is by signing the petition put out by the campaign, the Florida Bear to not issue another bear hunt this year. Everyone in Florida has a voice and the right to speak up for saving the bears from being hunted. The hunting of the Florida black bear issue is still current and on-going. It seems that the best way to find a solution to how to deal with the growing bear population and human encounters is to continue to spread awareness about the issue. There may be someone out there with an idea that no one has thought of yet or some insight that may help with the debate on what to do about the growing population of the Florida black bear. As for preventing another hunt on bears, as a Florida resident, the ball is in your court to stand up and speak for those bears who cannot. von Werder 4 Works Cited Guide to Bear Hunting in Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission, 2015. Web. 18 April 2017. 295 Bears Killed in First Black Bear Hunt in  EcoWatch. EcoWatch, 27 June 2016. Web. 18 Apr. 2017. Florida Black  Watershed Excursion of the Springs Coast. Southwest Florida Water Management District, n.d. Web. 18 Apr. 2017. https://www.swfwmd.state.fl.us/education/interactive/springscoast/blackbear.shtml. Herrero, Stephen, Andrew Higgins, James E. Cardoza, Laura I. Hajduk, and Tom S. Smith. Fatal attacks by American black bear on people:  The Journal of Wildlife Management 75.3 (2011): 596-603. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. Important Facts You Need to Know About Black Bear Conservation in  Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission. N.p., 22 June 2015. Web. 16 April 2017. Sampson, Zachary T. Wildlife Officials Approve Weeklong Bear Hunt in  Tampa Bay Times. N.p., 24 June 2015. Web. 17 Apr. 2017.