Seifeldin Wahba Ms. Poston ENC 1102 Project 3 04/16/2017 Human Activities and Global Warming With the improvement of technology and communications, people around the whole world have been connected together, thus sharing a lot between each other. Starting from sharing pictures and sports games till sharing the same events, festivals, political issues, and socioeconomic problems. One of these problems is global warming. From the term, it is an issue that affects the globe and not only a specific country or region. Before getting into the topic, knowing that there is responsibility towards the environment is very important. There is more drought than ever before, more floods, water scarcity, and environmental destruction. All of these are caused due to activities, specially burning fossil fuels and cutting down more trees. So, what is global warming? Global warming is the increase of temperature of the surface, oceans, and atmosphere. The temperature keeps increasing gradually throughout the centuries. The first-time scientists have observed this phenomenon was in the late 1800s. Through a lot of studies, global warming has become a well-researched issue; including facts and myths. One of the discoveries that became very evident; is the greenhouse effect. Josef Werne who was a professor in the department of geology and planter science at the University of Pittsburgh, was the first one to figure out the greenhouse effect only using a pencil and paper (Bradford, 3). The greenhouse effect can be considered as the bridge that temperature betakes to Earth. With the help of the greenhouse gases, the temperature is adjusted, as they keep the earth warm through the greenhouse effect which in return affects global warming. When humans induce some of these types of gases through the atmosphere through their activities, it negatively affects global warming and when the population gets involved. The more amount of gases introduced, the warmer the earth becomes. With global warming increasing, some issues begin to emerge, such as climate change; which accordingly, for example, causes hurricanes and glaciers melting. While the earth keeps evolving into oblivious with little information known, people have been taking the sake into consideration. Leaders, organizations, stakeholders, and citizens are now aware of this global issue, inciting different roles and approaches that each partake. Some people might not be aware of the issue that global warming entitles, because they only observe weather; which is an average of climate. With the change of climate, health can be greatly affected. For example, the effect of CO2 can cause respiratory failures, and increased allergies. Therefore, deteriorating the public health and affecting the cost of living. Through climate change, hurricanes and floods occur which require more utility usage and service prices. Food is also a huge downside of climate change, where some produce needs certain temperatures to be cultivated and harvested (Byrd, 4). Citizens should also care about climate change and global warming because it affects their daily lives and leisure. Outdoor activities are heavily affected by climate change, with the earth getting warmer, skiing might become a scarce sport for example. Climate change is a huge threat to coral reefs too, which affects diving and snorkeling too. (Byrd, Demates, 2). Truly climate change affects every spectrum of all population, however, third world countries can be one of the countries that suffer the most. According to some studies, million people will be driven into extreme poverty by (World Bank Report, 2015). With that being said, there are actions that people can take to help the global warming threat. The key for solving is issue can be summarized into reducing the emission of carbon dioxide. People can do that by using more renewable energy and transforming the energy system to a cleaner one and not dependent on coal and fossil fuels. Moreover, putting limits on factories and companies that emits excesses amount of carbon dioxide would help reduce carbon dioxide emission. In addition, reducing environmental deforestation and cutting down trees are a good start toward solving the problem. Finally, signing petitions against the polluters and stopping investment that goes to big companies that destroy the environment and increase the amount of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere would be an effective call for action. Works Cited Bradford, Alina, Is Global Livescience, December 15, 2014, Web. Byrd, Rosaly, You Should Care About Climate Change: Huffingtonpost, October 2, 2015, Web. Byrd, Rosaly, DeMates, Lauren, You Should Care About Climate Change Part 2: Outdoor Huffingtonpost, October 14, 2015, Web. Byrd, Rosaly, DeMates, Lauren, You Should Care About Climate Change Part 3: Leaving a Legacy & What You Can Huffingtonpost, November 13, 2015, Web. Warming Solutions: Reduce UCSUSA, Web. Climate-Informed Development Needed to Keep Climate Change from Pushing More than 100 Million People into Povery by Worldbank, November 8, 2015, Web.