Wright 1 Clyde Wright Ms.Poston ENC 1102 15 April 2017 Solving the Syrian Refugee Crisis Syria, also known as the Syrian Arab Republic, is a country in Western Asia and the Middle East on the Mediterranean Sea. Since 2011, the country has been involved an internal engagement that has come to be known as the Syrian Civil War. This confrontation started when peaceful protests of political injustice escalated to violence through armed rebels who now call themselves the Free Syrian Army (Purdy para 1). International involvement has dragged out the conflict, mainly through Russian support of the leader of the Syrian government, President Bashar al-Assad, and the United States arming of Syrian rebels. International militant involvement has also been on a rise in recent months adding even more destruction. Much of the fighting of the conflict has been in urban cities where the homes, businesses and livelihoods of thousands of civilians have been damaged or destroyed leaving many with no way to provide for themselves. According to the United Nations, the fighting has killed nearly 300,000 people, displaced more than 11 million Syrians, and left an estimated eighty percent of the population in poverty (Purdy para 1). The horrendous destruction of Syria has left its citizens with only one viable option for survival and prosperity and that is to leave their homes and seek a better life elsewhere. This mass exodus of Syrians, who are now considered refugees, to neighboring countries and Europe has come to be known as the Syrian Refugee Crisis. It is imperative for the successful aid of Syrian refugees that more countries around the world give support to ending Wright 2 this crisis. These refugees are in dire situations and require every aspect of humanitarian support. According to the United Nations, $4.5 billion was required to meet the urgent needs of Syrians in the most immediate distress in 2016 but, only $2.9 billion was received (Syria RRP6 22). Clearly there needs to be a revision in the amount of support being given and there is one country that has the means to make serious changes, The United States of America. The people of the United States have a moral obligation to help Syrian refugees in anyway possible including providing humanitarian support and sanctuary. Syrian refugees face a number of challenges trying to seek a new life in a completely foreign country. They lack the financial stability to provide the necessary care for themselves and their families. Not only do they lack the fiscal means to improve their situation but education within Syria and for Syrian refugees everywhere has been severely affected. Prior to the war, Syria had an almost 100 percent enrollment rate in schools. Today, it has the second worst school attendance rate in the world, due to the dangers of travelling to school amid snipers, bombings, in the wake of extensive destruction and the misuse of educational facilities (Akbarzadeh 9). Sadly enough Syrian refugees abroad are not faring any better in terms of education. Ninety percent of Syrian children are not attending school in Egypt and seventy percent are not attending in Turkey (Syria RRP6 24). This lack of education is going to have serious repercussions on these lives and their families. The problem goes deeper than just needing basic necessities and education reform. Syrian refugees are fleeing to the closest safe havens which happens to be neighboring countries such as Turkey, Lebanon, Jordan, Iraq and Egypt. However this puts a huge strain on these host countries to provide help to the refugees, which they are doing but, they only can provide for so many. In fact these five countries: Turkey, Wright 3 Lebanon, Jordan, Iraq and Egypt, contain 95% of the Syrian refugees (Winter para 1). In Lebanon, for instance, half of the population is made up of Syrian refugees and officials estimate that an average of 3,500 refugees cross from Syria into Jordan each day (Purdy para 16). In fact the struggle of these refugees in new lands is so bad that 93% of Syrian refugees in urban areas in Jordan are living below the poverty line, as well as 70% of Syrian refugees in Lebanon, 65% in Egypt and 37% in Iraq (Syria RRP6 25). It is clear that more help is needed and a large Western superpower such as the United States has the means to get it done. The United States must not allow anger and outrage toward ISIL terrorists and their cowardly attacks on civilians turn the America away from compassion and generosity (Collins 31). All of these issues posed by the Syrian Refugee Crisis point to one question, what can be done? The answer is is dependant on those willing to listen and stand up for what is morally right. The United States is a great vessel that contains millions of people who have the ability to be heard and make change. If they cannot make a difference no one will be able to, but they can, and they should. Any help regardless of the means such as donations, volunteering, or campaigning to call for more support, will have an impact. The futures of the Syrian people is not in their hands but in the hands of those watching from across the world. Having the capability to help millions in need without taking the action to do so is and should be considered immoral. Wright 4 Works Cited Akbarzadeh, Shahram and Dara Conduit. The Syrian Refugee  vol. 24, no. 2, 2016, p. 8. Collins, Doug, et al. The Pros And Cons Of Allowing Syrian And Iraqi Refugees Into The United  95.1 (2016): 14-31. Search Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Purdy, Elizabeth Rholetter, PhD. Syrian Civil  Press (2016): Research Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Winter, Chase. Arab Monarchies Turn down Syrian Refugees over Security Threat News DW.COM  N.p., 1 Jan. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. 2014 SYRIA REGIONAL RESPONSE  SYRIA REGIONAL RESPONSE N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.