Tayeb 1 Allaa Tayeb Instructor Poston ENC 1101-021 16 April 2017 Advocacy for Art Imagine a world with no art. No music. No films. No paintings or photography (and yes this includes snapchat and other social media platforms). Nothing. Just the silence and bore of our everyday lives. a scary right? That is what a world with no art would look like, because almost everything stems from a little creativity. The very pretext of our societies success is contingent upon the education of our youth. For this reason, it is so important for our youth to be educated in subjects that vary in content. This means that incorporating curriculum that services the arts and STEM (Science, Technology, Education, Math) subjects, collectively. The arts as a feature of public education is extremely critical for students. For one, public education was developed to benefit the needs and demands of the public, not just sole individuals. As such, it is unfair to assume all students will be drawn towards STEM subjects. Organizations such as the World Alliance for Arts Education (WAAE), advocate for arts to be kept within the frame of public school domains. Organizations such as WAAE support the notion that, arts are perhaps more relevant to those students who demonstrate an affinity or an inclination towards them [the (Gazatamibide-Fernandez 30). The arts have also been reported to provide students with essential tools of inquiry. One scholar reports that, kind of human meaning questions they [the ask about art and life, and the particular ways of conceiving and acting on these questions are the kinds of questions Tayeb 2 and way of acting that art instruction would be seeking to teach students to ask and act (Singerman 511). These life tools cannot be replaced by STEM education. Instead, the arts and STEM should cohabitate in curriculum to provide the most effective form of learning for students. Aside from the statistical evidence found to demonstrate the practicality of the arts, the arts also can furnish students emotionally. One scholar equates the arts with self-fulfillment, citing that the personal connections the arts ask individuals to make can indirectly contribute to cognitive and emotional development (Barchana-Lorand 170). It has also been found that children develop through art. Research has concluded that, detailed analysis of drawings proves that art is not only related to perception of external objects but also to expression and manifestation of the (Barchana-Lorand 172). This means that one may learn a lot of a emotional state by observing patterns in their drawings or artistic creation. Considering this, it should be obvious that the arts provide students with the ability to demonstrate artistic potential and encourage this potential instead of teaching students to suppress it. Expressing support for the arts in public education is rather simple; one can simply vocalize their thoughts by contacting local legislators. Education varies by state, so it is essential that constituents find those overseeing state curriculum standards and discuss their thoughts on the matter. Another important action aimed at increasing arts support is signing petitions. Merely finding local coalitions and signing petitions of support can make a big splash. Legislators can only be expected to listen to what they can hear, so signing these documents shows the level of Tayeb 3 support for particular measures. The more people who sign, the more evident issue becomes to those at the top of the ladder. The last action one may take is direct advocacy. Finding groups whose sole purpose is advocating for the arts and joining can be very helpful. Make efforts to join these activists whom most notably are responsible for spreading the word about social issues such as this one. While STEM subjects can be essential to preserving a society based on reasoning and logic, the arts can in contrast provide our world with the essentials of inspiration that make our world amazing and diverse. For this reason, the arts should be kept within the scope of our education system alongside all other subjects. Activism is one of the key features that can be crucial to showing the dedication our society has to ensuring each child is afforded an education flooded with all subjects that may suit their interests. Our world is more beautiful in color and life is happier with music, film, and art. Why deny ourselves of any of these? For what purpose does understanding parabolas and the Pythagorean theorem have that art does not? Support beauty. Support creativity. Support art. Tayeb 4 Works Cited Barchana-Lorand, Dont. Conquers All? Herbert Education Through International Journal of Art and Design Education, vol. 24, no. 2. 01 June 2015. Gaztambide-Fernandez, Ruben. Racheal Nichollis, and Alexander Arraiz-Matute. what purpose the Arts? An analysis of the mission statements of urban arts in high schools in Canada and the United Arts Education Policy Review. 117.1 (2016): 29-42. Web. 16 April 2017. Reeder, Laura K. Up Call: Advocacy in the Arts Education Visual Inquiry: Learning & Teaching Art, vol. 3, no. 3, September 2014, pp. 483-494. Singerman, Howard. Education: A Critical The Art Bulletin, no. 3, 1995, p.511. Snook, Barbara Helen & Ralph Buck. and Practice Within Arts Education: Rhetoric and Research in Dance Education, vol. 15, no.3, Sept. 2014, pp. 219-238.