Myroradov 1 Dan Myroradov Taylor Poston ENC1102.029 16 April 2017 Dealing With Censorship Over the years, the entertainment industry has become very popular, attracting more content creators and production companies who eagerly produce exciting content for the viewers. Not only does such content entertain masses of people with exciting stories, but it also affects their perceptions and beliefs. In lieu of this fact, explicit content and coarse language displayed can negatively influence some audiences. In order to protect viewers, Motion Picture Association of America (MPAA) provides censorship through the Rating System. With such a positive purpose, the Rating System delimits the opportunities of creators to yield, sell, and advertise their production, while restricting viewers from being able to access what they want to watch. In order to understand and resolve the issues with censorship, viewers should become more educated, engaged, and empowered, which will result in MPAA giving more freedoms for both, creators and viewers. With rapid development of the film industry, explicit scenes became more desired and at the same time concerned the municipal governments about the possible disappearance of the good image of American citizens. As a result, MPAA was founded in order to restrict or censor particular subject matter in film. In the past, the policies were much stricter, sometimes even dictating exactly what story lines were supposed to be like. In the article A Century of Film Censorship, Elizabeth McCauley explains that in the more filmmakers and viewers felt dissatisfied with the censorship Myroradov 2 policies, pushing the case to the Supreme Court. Subsequently, significant improvements were made, such as labeling some films with parental warnings and making the system less restrictive (McCauley par. 12). According to the image History of on the website, the civil rights movement had emerged in the which resulted in the replacement of the Hays Code with the Rating System (MPAA). With this decision, MPAA has made a step forward, by giving more autonomy to the film production companies. Even though MPAA has made significant progress in the past, its Rating System does not appear to be very effective today. As illustrated on the image Film Rating the system consists of the following labels: G (general audiences), PG (parental guidance suggested), PG-13 (parents strongly cautioned), R (restricted and requiring accompanying parent or adult guardian for those under the age of 17), and NC-17 (adults only) (MPAA). In the article Reality In Movie a famous film critic Roger Elbert explains that one of the main problems lays in the deficiency of some of those labels by giving a couple of examples that clarify how R-rated films can be easily accessed by teenagers, regardless of the fact that they are not supposed to watch them. In addition, most of the creators are not even able to produce films that would be classified under the category NC-17, due to the inability to present and market those films (Elbert 1). Therefore, some ratings are either completely useless for the viewers, or onerous for the creators. Besides the fact that ratings restrict abilities to freely express themselves in films or other content and do not fully protect young audiences from the explicit content, they are not relevant today. In SlashFilm, Germain Lussier elucidates Myroradov 3 that according to Roger Ebert viewers become much more desensitized to language, violence and throughout the decades (Lussier 1). Nowadays, the Rating System does not work very well with all types of subject matter displayed, since it does not constitute accurately what the ratings actually stand for. Lussier concludes that three categories are needed: for young audiences, for teenagers, and for adults. These would reflect the considered advice about a gestalt and interested (Lussier 1). In American Psychologist, Brad J. Bushman reminds that one of the main functions of the Rating System is to protect some audiences from the undesired explicit material. Therefore, censorship should remain implemented to certain degree. According to Bushman, the problem with the Ratings System is that it evaluates content and divides viewers by different groups. Descriptive content-based ratings could become more practical for the reason that ratings often indicate the presence and/or intensity of violence, sex, profanity, or other controversial elements but do not make recommendations about who should or should not use the (Bushman 4). For this reason, an application of the descriptive content-based system, instead of the evaluative, is another great option for MPAA to improve their approach to censorship. In this case, viewers will be warned and the creator will be able to freely produce without the NC-17 verdict. Viewers should become more engaged in resolving the existing problems with the Rating System when they realize that their ability to decide what films, shows, or videos they want to watch and to be warned about the type of content they get exposed to, has a direct correlation to whether the creators are able to freely produce and distribute their Myroradov 4 production. As they see all the improvements that could be made, such as decreasing the number of rating categories to only three, such as G (young audiences), T (teenagers), and A (adults) or even shifting from the evaluative Rating System to a descriptive one, they will become more empowered to raise awareness among each other and begin a movement for strengthening the of Just like in the MPAA will potentially respond to the interest of viewers and make improvements in their censorship policies. On the whole, in order to make some positive changes concerning the censorship policies, the viewers should be well educated about the Rating System, become more engaged, understanding that it affects their ability to choose what to watch, and feel empowered to raise awareness and deliver the message. Consequently, MPAA has to respond to the requests, as their history shows, and modernize their censorship policies. As a result, viewers would have a better assortment of films, shows, and videos to watch, creators would face new professional opportunities, fully practicing the freedom of speech, and MPAA will still warn all viewers by clarifying what to expect from a certain production. Myroradov 5 Works Cited Bushman, Brad J., and Joanne Cantor. Ratings For Violence And Sex: Implications For Policymakers And American Psychologist 58.2 (2003): 130-141. PsycARTICLES. Web. 16 April 2017. Ebert, Roger. Reality In Movie Roger Journal, 24 Sep. 2000. Web. 16 April 2017. Lussier, Germain. Ebert: are Only Two Meaningful Ratings: R and SlashFilm, 13 Dec. 2010. Web. 16 April 2017. Film Rating Motion Picture Association of America. Web. 16 April 2017. <http://www.mpaa.org/film-ratings/>. History of the Motion Picture Association of America. Web. 16 April 2017. <http://www.mpaa.org/our-story/>. McCauley, Elizabeth. Century of Film Back Story, 7 Oct. 2016. Web. 16 April 2017.