Bell 1 Monique Bell Professor DeCarion ENC 1102- 086 16 April 2017 The Fight For Marijuana Legalization Marijuana has easily become a part of mainstream society regardless of its illegal status making its way to others through its presence in media culture. Marijuana has been used for millennia from its first appearance as a crop 8,000 years ago to its usage by the roman empire in steam baths. Although this plant has a lengthy history of implementation by humans, it still remains shunned by many and has become associated as harmful or with degrading stereotypes. The average person who uses the drug is seen by society as a or making it seem that the laziest and most unsuccessful people are stoners and nothing good can come out of legalizing the herb. Contrary to popular belief, marijuana offers many benefits to those who use it medically and mentally as well as promoting a sense of community in troubling times. It is time to stop shunning a drug that our government promotes as dangerous and a threat to society though scientists have proved otherwise. Together as a nation we can collectively create a call to action and lift the ban on marijuana making its recreational and medical use legal in every state and available to everyone. The question that most ask is if marijuana is so harmless then why is it There was a time that marijuana was legalized in the U.S and even implemented in over the counter medications which made it easy access to everyone. However, In 1930 The federal bureau of narcotics was being threatened to have its cut and decided to pick marijuana as its next drug to demonize. The bureau decided to target the drug by using racist advertising suggesting that Mexicans who at the time Bell 2 were big users of the drug) were addicted, insane, and criminals targeting Mexicans and marijuana as dangerous. The public ate it up and in 1937 it was officially banned through congress and anyone in possession of the drug would have a minimum prison sentence between 2-10 years (Aanstoos, Christopher M., Ph.D.). So it was banned based not on its contents but on keeping money and power to those who were willing to throw the drug under the bus to keep it intact. Scientists leading up to the were hot on the case and proved that marijuana was not a harmless drug. However in 1973 when it was suggested to Nixon to legalize the drug and bring it back into mainstream society he refused and decided instead to repeat history and associate different drugs with different minorities making it easy to bring down minorities, their leaders, and his political enemies. Jhon Ehrlichman the domestic affairs advisor and an assistant in the war on drugs even came out in 1994 to state we know we were lying about the drugs?... of course we Because of its history marijuana continues today to be criminalized in most states and is associated with stereotypes such as creating lazy bums, being dangerous, and having absolutely no benefits in light of its legalization. What most know however that to this day marijuana is responsible for absolutely no deaths compared to its competitors of Alcohol which kills approximately 88,000 per year and tobacco ringing in around 480,000 deaths per year (Adam Ruins Everything). Some of the most successful people have been utilizing marijuana since their teen years including award-winning actress Whoopi Goldberg. time for everyone to set aside these stereotypes put on marijuana and consider the benefits using the drug would implement to everyone. Marijuana has been highly implemented in medicine helping patients with chronic illnesses cope with the symptoms that other drugs cause. Most medications in this day in age cause more problems than what they help resolve making doctors prescribe even more medication to fix and boosting sales in drug companies. Marijuana, on the other hand, is all natural and acts as a painkiller and releases excess Dopamine which can help everyday conditions such as depression and anxiety by promoting relaxed feelings. Although this Form of medication can be accessed in some states, most states still have not Bell 3 legalized it or have made few pharmacies in which it can be accessed. This creates the hassle for families that have to drop their roots pick up and move to states that have easier access to it. Legalizing marijuana medically across the U.S will help those with illnesses that cause unlivable symptoms including tremors in disease or those with seizures (Lotan Itay). Marijuana has also been incorporated into products that solve more common medical issues. Whoopi Goldberg has created a line of products focused on lowering menstrual cramps and promoting relaxation. Through her use of medical cannabis, it helps to solve issues that every woman experiences. However, her menstrual medications include medical marijuana so is only available in states that it is legal prohibiting more woman from having access especially those with conditions such as Endometriosis and Dysmenorrhea in which menstrual cramps are even more painful. The legalization of recreational marijuana is also an avenue of usage that should become legalized. Besides the fact that most find smoking marijuana enjoyable, recreational marijuana can act as a big booster for the economy. The marijuana industry is big and can help to create American jobs and boost our already suffering economy. For example, Colorado pulled in about 73.5 million dollars in just a few years after being the first state to legalize recreational marijuana. Creating easy access to marijuana here would not only create American jobs but also save the country approximately 46.7 billion dollars by minimizing international drug trade and ending the war on drugs (Hoover, Desirae). This intern will make drugs cheaper for everyone whether it is for recreational reasons or for medical purposes. Legalizing Marijuana is a lot bigger than making the average happy but is a revolutionary medical breakthrough in some of the toughest diseases, A major American job booster, and a way to save our hurting economy and make goods cheaper for the American people. It is these benefits that should influence others to come together and consider the greater good that this drug can influence medically and financially. For the stance of marijuana to make any kind of change in our community it is going to take the valiant effort of many supporters, getting involved and spreading the word. This can start by something as little as informing friends, and family on the drug, what it can do, and why it should be legalized. Bell 4 Surprisingly most people do not have any idea the benefits of the drug, and Instead, believe all of the fabricated lies passed down through marijuana prohibitionists and drug companies who want the drug legalized in fear of their businesses. Because of this marijuana is getting a bad rap and it is important that everyone knows the real facts about marijuana and its benefits if we are ever to move together as a country for its full decriminalization. Another way to become involved is by signing a petition that gets passed around to legislators in favor of legalizing the drug (NORML). Signatures show the interest in legalization by the community and if it becomes enough of a mutual consensus then it will be considered to be legalized. There are also rallies and marches happening almost every day all over the United States to courthouses, the white house, and other government buildings pleading, marching, and chanting for weeds legalization. This makes a huge impact not only for those who can see from in the building but nationwide as those events are usually filmed on the news and broadcasted throughout the country. There are multiple ways that people can get involved in the issue big or small and with every signature voice and spirit, there is hope in legalizing marijuana for everyone. Since the war on drugs in the marijuana has been criminalized and subjected to harsh that have followed it to anyone who uses it today. Marijuana has been categorized as stoners candy or for Mexicans and is unfit to be legalized in the united states. It is like this that makes people oblivious to the many benefits that marijuana can provide medically, recreationally, and financially. In order to have the drug legalized and in easy access to those who truly need it there need to be more voices pledging for its legalization. This drug is housed of so many opportunities and is being wasted because of false accusations and effects the drug can implement. It is time to put the behind us and consider the greater good of every great citizen of this country. Bell 5 Works Cited Aanstoos, Christopher M., PhD.  Salem Press Encyclopedia of Health, January. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ers&AN= 89407075&site=eds-live. Adam Ruins Everything - The Sinister Reason Weed Is Illegal. Perf. Adam. Tru TV, 18 Nov. 2016. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sXPOw2unxy0&t=269s>. Hoover, Desirae. 4 Reasons Why Legalizing Marijuana Could Be the Solution to  The Huffington Post. TheHuffingtonPost.com, 06 Sept. 2016. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Lotan, Itay, et al. Cannabis (Medical Marijuana) Treatment for Motor and Symptoms of Parkinson Disease: An Open-Label Observational  Clinical Neuropharmacology, vol. 37, no. 2, Mar-Apr, 2014, pp. 41-44. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1097/WNF.0000000000000016. Working to Reform Marijuana  NORML.org - Working to Reform Marijuana Laws - NORML.org - Working to Reform Marijuana Laws. N.p., 1970. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.