Whitcomb 1 Nathan Whitcomb Andrew de Carion ENC 1102 4/16/17 Fighting the Obesity Crisis In America, there has been a health epidemic occurring within the past two decades. More people than ever are overweight and considered obese. This epidemic is so bad that the United States is one of the ten most obese countries in the world (Carlson 2016). A potential cause for this was postulated by Bray et al. to be high fructose corn syrup (HFCS). They had noted a striking correlation between increases in the use of HFCS and rates of obesity in the United States. This observation of correlation set off a debate within the food industry on whether sugar or high fructose corn syrup are more detrimental to a health than the other. However, as noted by Burgermaster et al., the issue is more complex than figuring out whether sugar is better than high fructose corn syrup and vice versa. While sweeteners play a big role in the rise in obesity rates, their use is not the only thing that must be changed. The environment and policies in high body mass index (BMI) areas must also be considered. To fight rising obesity rates, not only must sweetener use decrease but we must also implement health- related campaigns and policies to promote exercise and decrease overconsumption. Sweeteners such as sugar and high fructose corn syrup are incredibly popular in the food industry. used in the majority of beverages and food produced, ranging all the way from iced tea to Oreos. Additionally, they also provide many benefits. Their sweet taste means they can be added to food and drinks that are on the bitter side of the flavor spectrum to make them Whitcomb 2 more easily consumable. They can also be used as preservatives due to how they inhibit bacteria growth and retain moisture in foods. However, as noted before, they also have several drawbacks. Consuming sugar-laden food and drinks can make teeth a prime breeding ground for bacteria, which can lead to cavities. Excessive HFCS can inhibit in dyslipidemia (or high cholesterol), hepatic steatosis (buildup of fat in the liver), and insulin resistance (obesity) (Lustig 2013). High fructose corn syrup is even though to be dangerous by individuals such as Robert Lustig due to how the sweetener is metabolized by the human body. While high fructose corn syrup is sometimes noted as just Lustig notes how dangerous it can be, even going so far as to call it without the More specifically, he notes how though high fructose corn syrup exhibit the same short-term effects as alcohol (such as depression and DUI accidents), it exhibits many long term effects that are similar to that of alcohol such as dyslipidemia, hepatic dysfunction, hypertension, malnutrition, and pancreatitis. Some may disagree with changes being made for obesity due to the personal nature of the topic and how it can seem like new policies and campaigns are telling people how to live their lives. However, the effects of obesity go further than just the individual. According to School of Public Health (HSPH), obesity also affects the economy both directly and indirectly. direct costs relate to those that from outpatient and inpatient health services (including surgery) while its indirect costs fall into several categories (HSPH). One indirect category of costs arising from obesity is the of lost As the title suggests, this refers to the cost from an employee not being able to make it to work. While all people miss work once in a while, HSPH found that obese employees typically missed work more often due to absences, long-term disability, and premature death than non-obese (HSPH). Another indirect cost is the cost of insurance, due to how obese employees typically Whitcomb 3 require higher life insurance premiums and require pay-outs more often than non-obese employees (HSPH). Additionally, in all of these areas not only are the costs of obesity rising, but also higher than costs in such areas that arise from smokers and alcoholics (Sturm 2002). Due to the effects of sweeteners and costs of obesity, it is necessary to promote health campaigns and implement policies to restrict sweetener consumption. This can be done in several ways. One way this can be achieved is by sending messages to local representatives. This is one of the most straightforward ways to push for changes to help the obesity epidemic in America because it involves writing a simple letter or email, or even a regular phone call to your representative. Additionally, another way to help reduce obesity in America is to donate to organizations like Citizens for Health who advocate against sweeteners such as high fructose corn syrup. Another way to help is to donate to campaigns that advocate for increased physical activity and against overconsumption such as the American Medical Association, Move, LIVESTRONG, NFL Play 60, Campaign to End Obesity, etc. These are all organizations that have seen success in improving access to healthy foods (that is still affordable), improving quality of life, hosting community events, educating the public, and bringing forth policy changes. They have also seen success in educating people on making healthy food choices. Additionally, they all have websites that are easy to navigate and make it easy to get involved. Despite the sweet nature of sweeteners like sugar and high fructose corn syrup, their long-term effects on the human body are quite the contrary. This combined with overconsumption and lack of physical exercise has led to an obesity epidemic, with the United States being one of the top ten most obese countries in the world. With more and more people becoming obese, action must be taken. A great way to get involved is to contact your local Whitcomb 4 representatives and tell them how action must be taken to reduce obesity rates. Another great way is to support organizations that focus on increasing physical activity and lowering obesity such as Move, LIVESTRONG, NFL Play 60, Campaign to End Obesity, etc. Supporting such organizations are a great and easy way to help improve the health of the community. By writing to representatives and supporting health-focused organizations, not only will obesity rates in the United States decrease but costs will go down and the quality of life will improve. Whitcomb 5 Works Cited Bray, George A., Samara Joy Nielsen, and Barry M Popkin. Consumption of high-fructose corn syrup in beverages may play a role in the epidemic of obesity. American Journal of Clinical Nutrition 79(4): 537-543. April 2004. Burgermaster, Marisa, Hiershenee Bhana, M. Dot Fullwood, Diego A. Luna Bazaldua, Elizabeth Tipton. Exploring the Role of Sugar-Sweetened Beverage Consumption in Obesity among New Yorkers Using Propensity Score Matching. Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics: 1- 10 Carlson, Tyler. 10 Fattest Countries In The Gazette Review, 17 June 2016, http://gazettereview.com/2016/06/top-10-fattest-countries-in-world/. Accessed 16 April 2017. Colantuoni, Francesca, Christian Rojas. THE IMPACT OF SODA SALES TAXES ON CONSUMPTION: EVIDENCE FROM SCANNER DATA. Contemporary Economic Policy 33(4): 714-734. October 2015. Lustig, Robert H. Fructose: Without the American Society for Nutrition 4: 226-235. March 2013. Sturm, Roland. The Effects Of Obesity, Smoking, And Drinking On Medical Problems And Costs. Health Affairs 21(2): 245-253. March 2002. Harvard School of Public Health. https://www.hsph.harvard.edu/obesity- prevention-source/obesity-consequences/economic/. Accessed 16 April 2017.