Wang 1 Evangeline Wang Instructor Andrew De Carion ENC1102.085S1725 April 16 2017 Renewable Energy and Its Development Fossil fuels have always been the dominant source of energy because they are low-cost and easy to be exploited. However, the dependence on fossil fuels has bought many problems such as environmental pollution and natural resources depletion. Meanwhile, as the global population grows rapidly, the demand for energy increases, which makes the challenge even more urgent. Therefore, policymakers and researchers have to find an alternative to traditional energy. Renewable energy has taken the spotlight because it is reusable and relatively clean. The report Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews by researcher Omar Ellabban and his peers defines renewable energy as that is collected from renewable resources, which are naturally replenished on a human (749). The types of renewable energy include wind power, solar, geothermal and so on. Despite its relatively high price and inaccessibility in some areas, renewable energy still has more advantages compared to traditional energy. The most important reason to find alternatives to traditional energy is that the environmental issues it caused are jeopardizing the world live in. As we know, traditional energy such as coals, oil and natural gas is formed by limited natural resources after undergoing complicated processes for millions of years. In fact, exploiting and consuming Wang 2 fossil fuels not only exhaust natural resources in many areas, but also pollute the environment and endangers many species. For example, researchers John Broderick and his peers studied the process of oil extraction and found that: well pad (in average 10 wells per pad) needs during preparatory and hydraulic fracturing process about 800 to 2,500 days of noisy (92). The persistent noise can damage the the hearing and health both of the local residents and wildlife. Meanwhile, carbon dioxide is the most significant waste of fossil fuels as it cannot be absorbed by the atmosphere and trapped carbon dioxide can prevent the emission of heat, and therefore increases the surface temperature. Besides global warming, the hazardous wastes of fossil fuels can also lead to acid rain, air pollution, biodiversity loss and so on. Committee of Inquiry into Emission Measurements in the Automotive Sector estimated that dioxide and other nitrogen oxides (NOx) emitted by road vehicles cause 430,000 deaths annually, and reduce life expectancy by almost nine (1). Thus, the most significant advantage of renewable energy is that it has less negative impacts on the environment. Unlike fossil fuels, consuming renewable energy and the manufacturing of its equipment only require a small amount of fuels. More importantly, renewable energy is free of pollution. Take solar energy as an example: sunlight can be converted directly into electricity by photovoltaic, without any pollutants such as carbon dioxide or other greenhouse gases. Similarly, the power generation of wind power depends on moving air, instead of chemical reactions that might generate toxic wastes. Moreover, energy can noticeably reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Statistics show that 10% increase in renewable energy share decreases CH4 emissions by about 0.26%. Renewable energy can Wang 3 mitigate emissions if the share of coal drops below (Squalli, 479). If the hazardous gases from fossil fuels reduce, the trapped heat and pollutants in the atmosphere are likely to be absorbed or emitted. Therefore, it is clear that renewable energy is currently the most feasible solution to environmental pollution. Some people argue that renewable energy is relatively more expensive than fossil fuels, and might not be the most economic plan for an uneven, or developing economy. Nonetheless, despite the price might seem high, renewable energy actually helps save considerable money and benefits the economy of some regions. In fact, renewable energy and its efficiency help revitalize rural areas. For example, wind turbines or solar panels can provide not only energy but also tax revenues for rural and suburban communities. Farmers on windy areas can rent their lands to the developers who want to install wind turbines, and then earn decent incomes every year for each turbine. Individually, even though installing a solar panel or wind turbine might seem pricey at first, its high efficiency can save a lot of energy and money. A study conducted by New York Independent System Operator estimated that 8 GW of wind capacity in New York State by 2018 would save $1.3 billion in power plant operation costs per year, roughly $65 per person (18). Thus, the total cost of renewable energy, including investment, transportation and consumption etc. Is actually less than that of traditional energy. Another possible restriction is that renewable energy sometimes depends on conditions of geography and weather. For example, it seems like difficult to develop solar energy in rainy, cloudy and cold regions such as in northern U.S. Similarly, hydroelectric power cannot Wang 4 be efficiently produced in places where there is no rapid flow of water. But as the technology advances, many equipment of renewable energy has been redesigned and upgraded. For instance, storage media such as batteries and fuel cells are keys for a renewable-powered grid. If battery storage is added to the system, it can supply electricity even after the sun goes down or through several cloudy or stormy (Pasolini 2012). Hence, even if the grid on a solar panel stops working, the photovoltaic generators (PVs) can automatically turn on and supply power. Apparently renewable energy is becoming more important with its undeniable benefits, and it is very likely to fully meet the demand for energy in the future. According to The Global Wind Report 2014 -Annual Market Update published by Global Wind Energy Council: of the end of 2015,the worldwide total cumulative installed electricity generation capacity from windpower amounted to 432,883 MW, an increase of 17% compared to the previous (11). Moreover, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) also summarizes on their annual report in 2011: sources accounted for about 13 percent of the energy in 2008 and the proportion likely to have (63). The report also points out that renewable energy sources account for nearly 80% of the energy supply in 40 (64). Since we are all responsible for the fate of our earth and our descendants, we should contribute to the development of renewable energy regardless of the currently limited governmental and legislative support for renewable energy in the U.S. For instance, we can purchase renewable energy credits from local green energy provider, or donate to green Wang 5 energy charity such as American Council on Renewable Energy at http://www.acore.org/donate. In these ways, we are able to support the promotion and further researches for renewable energy. In conclusion, renewable energy is becoming an important solution for the increasing energy demands. In the meantime, renewable energy is also the best solutions to environmental pollution, climate change, wildlife welfare as its exploitation and consumption process are both environmentally friendly. Abundant renewable energy resources also allow more space for economic development. Although it still has some shortcomings in cost and availability, the problems can be resolved as long as global governments and researchers are still trying to optimizing the alternative. With the legislative, individual supports and technological investments, the future of renewable energy is promising, and humans will be able to find the best way to establish a sustainable society. Words Counts: 1383 Wang 6 Works Cited Ellabban, Omar, et al. Renewable Energy Resources: Current Status, Future Prospects and Their Enabling  Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews, vol. 39, 01 Nov. 2014, pp. 748-764. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.rser.2014.07.113. Global Wind Report 2014 - Annual Market Update. Global Wind Energy Council, 22 April 2016. Broderick, John, et al. gas: an updated assessment of environmental and climate change 2011, www.tyndall.ac.uk/shalegasreport. Accessed Apr. 16, 2017. Squalli, Jay. Renewable Energy, Coal as a Baseload Power Source, and Greenhouse Gas Emissions: Evidence from U.S. State-Level  Energy, vol. 127, 15 May 2017, pp. 479-488. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.energy.2017.03.156. Accessed Apr. 16, 2017. IPCC 2011 Report - Renewable Energy Sources and Climate Change. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, 2011. Car emissions: taking tests out of the lab and onto the road. European Parliament, Jan 3rd, 2016. http://www.europarl.europa.eu/pdfs/news/public/story