Wright 1 Katie Wright English Composition 1102 Kevin Ip March 12, 2017 No Child Left Behind and Every Student Succeeds are two acts that were created to help our public-school children to be able to perform at their highest potential. The No Child Left Behind Act was originally made to allow schools to create a more inclusive and fair learning environment. It was created under the George W. Bush administration. This act was in place for many years until the Every Student Succeeds Act came into place. This acts main goal was to let schools focus on creating students that were fully prepared to thrive in college and in careers. Both programs had to use means of media and public promotion to convince lawmakers and the public that it was the best option. These two stakeholders had many means to share the knowledge of the programs, but people and organizations outside of the stakeholders also created media to share with the public. In particular, there were many political cartons made about these programs, as with many educational programs. The goal of a pollical cartoon is to persuade or to express an opinion on a topic in a more humorous manner than just using a typical flyer. The goal of these specific images are to persuade the audience to oppose The No Child Left Behind Act and recognize that the Every Student Succeeds Act is a better option for the students through the use of rhetorical appeals. The first image is a representation of the No Child Left Behind act. This image uses many different strategies to persuade the audience to have a negative attitude towards the No Child Left Behind Act. The intended audience of this image is the taxpayers of our country, the Wright 2 people who are a part of the funding for this program. They are the people that the illustrator is trying to reach because they are the ones who are have the ability to change the system using their voices. The illustrator wants them to understand what The No Child Left Behind Act is really doing to the students in the school system, taking away their ability to have any creative freedom and forcing them to be constantly assessed. Although when this act was first implemented it had a good intention of helping our students by ensuring and in the school system well as increased federal support for (A Guide to Education and No Child Left Behind, 12) over time the main focus of the program has shifted from the students to the test results of the students. The image depicts this shift very accurately in the change of frame from the outdoors to the indoors. The outdoors shows the arts and the extra- curricular activities that used to be a part of the everyday school schedule, but the indoors shows class schedules today where every child is unable to see the outdoors and can only see their test. An interesting aspect of the image to show the shift in the classroom is the change in color. Outside if the window where the arts, science, world history, and physical education are is in vibrant color, even the lettering of the words are in color. Yet, in the transition to the indoors where the students are taking their tests everything is in black and white. There is no longer any joy or diversity in the frame. This is an indirect message to the audience to show the effects that the testing has on the students, like the image their joy and diversity is gone too. In the image the illustrator clearing puts the text in a prominent spot so that the words stand out to the viewer. The placement draws the eye to it so that it can directly relate it to The No Child Left Behind Act. This image encompasses many rhetorical appeals as well. There is an obvious example of pathos, emotional (User) , in the color usage. As mentioned earlier, when the image shifts from color to black and white there is an emotional effect. You can visibly see the mood shift Wright 3 from joyful and free to sad and contained. This then causes the reader to have an emotional reaction to it, it makes the viewer feel sad for the children and their freedom and creativity being ripped away from them. The illustrator of this images brilliantly uses many strategies to persuade the viewer to have a negative view of The No Child Left Behind Act. The second image is representation of the Every Student Succeeds Act. This drawing uses many strategies to show how this act is a better option than the No Child Left Behind Act. The audience of this image is the same as the first image, the American taxpayers. These are the people who have the ability to change what is wrong in the program and to show their support and encouragement when something is good in the program. The illustrator wants to reach these people because they are the ones who pay for the program and they deserve to be educated on the act and what it does for the American school system. The illustrator wants the viewers to understand how this act is a smart replacement for the No Child Left Behind Act and this it is better option for the students. This acts main goal is to prepare students for college and future (Every Student Succeeds Act (ESSA)). It changes the focus from requirements for the schools and changes in the school to a stronger focus on the students and their future. The illustrator of this image positions the test in a manor where it is clearly legible and catches the eyes on first glance. The eye is automatically drawn the man on the new engine which is the Every Student Succeeds Act. The use of bold lettering on the building is also a smart technique to draw the attention to it. There is an almost humorous tone to the drawing when the viewer is looking at the huge new engine trying to fit into the old small bus. This new engine which represents the Every Student Succeeds Act is a huge improvement to the old act and it is so advanced that it even fit into the old education system. There needs a be not only a change in this program but in the education system as a whole. A very evident rhetorical appeal Wright 4 in this image is logos or appeal to (User). You can clearly see this in the logical analogy of the broken down bus and instead of getting a new bus they just replaced the motor. The motor is the most important of a bus and it is the mechanical heartbeat of an automated vehicle. This illustrator uses many strategies to persuade the viewer to recognize how much better the Every Student Succeeds Act is for the students that the No Child Left Behind. In conclusion, The No Child Left Behind Act and The Every Student Succeeds Act were both cast in the view by not only the stakeholders but by outside sources. People were interested in these programs and had opinions about them when they were being created and once they were put into place. There were opinions on which program was better that the other as well. The goal of these specific images are to persuade the audience to oppose The No Child Left Behind Act and recognize that the Every Student Succeeds Act is a better option for the students through the use of rhetorical appeals. Wright 5 I M A G E 1 I M A G E 2 Wright 6 Works Cited A Guide to Education and No Child Left Behind-- Pg  Home. US Department of Education (ED), n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Every Student Succeeds Act  Every Student Succeeds Act (ESSA) U.S. Department of Education. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Mar. 2017. <https://www.ed.gov/essa?src=rn>. Phyl. Sunday Comic not so  a Dragon in my Art Room. N.p., 01 Jan. 1970. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. <http://plbrown.blogspot.com/2011/10/sunday-comic-not-so-funny.html>. PoliticalCartoons.com  PoliticalCartoons.com Cartoon. N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. <http://www.politicalcartoons.com/cartoon/79cf16af-2f87-427d-8756- d0a56f851cb4.html>. User, Super. Home - Ethos, Pathos, and Logos, the Modes of Persuasion Explanation and  Home - Ethos, Pathos, and Logos, the Modes of Persuasion Explanation and Examples. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Mar. 2017. <http://www.pathosethoslogos.com/>.