Uzoegwu 1 Kelechi Uzoegwu ENC 1102 Kevin Ip February 26, 2017. Betsy DeVos and Education in America It is easy to see that liberal Americans have a negative view of the newly elected secretary of education. According to Democracy for America, a democrat website, Betsy DeVos is unqualified to be the new secretary of education because she is primarily focused on maximizing the profit gained in the education system rather than meeting the actual educational needs of children Trumps 1). Prior to her election, the website accused administration of being extremely bigoted in its cabinet picks and appealed to the nation to sign a petition to inform the offices of their concerns with Betsy DeVos. A lot of democratic organizations have also invested in putting out flyers, posters, internet advertisements and billboards to relay their common concern with the new secretary of education to the public and to raise awareness on the disaster that Mrs. DeVos is expected to cause in the educational system with her voucher program. The education voucher program is a program used by the government to provide funds for low-income students to attended private schools. It can also be looked at as a system in which the government uses public school funds to send children to private schools. An analysis of the visual rhetoric provided by these groups show that Liberal Americans believe that Mrs. DeVos is not qualified to be the secretary of education and that her voucher program is an urgent problem that needs to be addressed before it becomes detrimental to the educational system and standards in the United States of America. Uzoegwu 2 The democratic party and its supporters have strong views on the school choice system in the United states. According to Republican Views, most liberal Americans are in support of public school choice Views on 3). Public school, as used here, refers to all schools that are owned by the government including charter schools and magnet schools. According to Zumwalt, the voucher program is perceived as an easy fix to the more complex problem that exists in the American educational system and will force civilians to conform to a system that is borderline unconstitutional (Zumwalt 1). There is a popular belief among democrats that the voucher program adds more issues to the long list of problems already challenging the educational system. An example of this, as described by Zumwalt, is the fact that most vouchers end up funding religion based institutions which goes against the Establishment clause. The Establishment clause is a law that prohibits the United States government from directly or indirectly acting in the favor of any religion (1). Although most conservatives support school choice like liberal Americans, liberals are clearly against the school voucher program because their reality of school choice and secularization of education is threatened by most private schools. In addition to this, Zumwalt argues against the idea that private schools provide better education than public schools because there is no credible research available to make this conclusion (1). Liberals are in support of creating a plan to fix the internal public school problems. Betsy DeVos is collectively seen as an urgent threat because she fails to understand the liberal concerns with the voucher program, has negative history with schools in Michigan, and supports the need to have guns for protection in educational institutions. Zweifel states that another significant concern is that Betsy socioeconomic status prevents her from truly connecting with the public school system and gaining an unbiased view of the challenges in public schools (Zweifel 2). Their publications mostly use a Logos appeal which appeals to Uzoegwu 3 reasoning or logic. It seems unethical and unfair to deprive public schools of the necessary attention they need for success and most liberals are asking for a chance to rebuild and remodel public education. The visual rhetoric analyzed shows an urgent expression of the stakes and also suggest that Mrs. DeVos is unqualified for the position, thus destroying the public school system. The first image by Konopacki is a caricature of the newly elected secretary wielding a gun (see Fig. 1). She is wearing a fancy suit and is seated on a stool in a classroom. She has a coned hat that looks like the notorious hat on her head. The entire scenario resembles the elementary punishment given to children guilty of misbehaving in class. The secretary, who is illustrated with crazy eyes, has destroyed the entire class room with her gun without realizing her mistakes. This illustration is a comical expression of the idea that Mrs. DeVos is unaware of the possible consequences of her prospective programs for public schools. This illustration appeals to credibility otherwise known as an Ethos appeal. It questions her credibility and justifies the concerns of liberals by passing across the idea that Mrs. DeVos has misplaced priorities and is completely oblivious to the pressing issues that challenge public education and institutions. It also makes use of Logos, an appeal to reason, as it questions Mrs. DeVos logical reasoning by portraying the harmful effects of having guns in an institution that caters for minors. Most people argue that Mrs. DeVos proposal for having guns in schools to protect the school grounds from wild bears is unnecessary. There is a mutual agreement that the bears pose a threat to the safety but Liberal Americans insist that there are more logical and less violent ways to deal with the issue. Finally, it uses Pathos which is an appeal to emotions, to pass its point across. This representation of Mrs. DeVos plans for the education system is bound to stir up negative emotions among civilians as the severity of gun violence is an issue that has been repeatedly discussed by mass media. Uzoegwu 4 The second illustration by Tornoe is a prophetic representation of what the DeVos administration will look like (see Fig. 2). The image features a public school built out of bricks being deconstructed by construction workers who are using the bricks from the public school to build up a charter school. Through the destroyed walls of the public school, you can see the sad and confused faces of children and a teacher whom are neglected by the government. There is also a huge billboard right behind the new school being built that reads construction Another great charter This illustration appeals to emotions by showing the sad and hopeless faces of the children and teachers as they watch their schools being taken away from them. There is also a clear sense of urgency being portrayed here as Torne shows construction that has already begun. He draws a greater audience using Kairos, an appeal to timeliness, by showing that there is little time left to make amends as the workings of the new administration have already begun. Finally, Torne appeals to Logos by questioning the logic behind constructing another charter school using the sarcastic statement made on the bill board. There is an emphasized idea that building more charter schools will only avoid, but not solve the current educational problems that haunt the public school system. The conversation among democrats regarding Mrs. administration as expressed by visual rhetoric shows that liberal Americans have a negative opinion of Mrs. DeVos. There is an outstanding belief that she is unqualified and incapable of successfully leading the educational system. Liberal Americans do not trust her judgment on the critical matters and they are completely against her proposed voucher program. They view this voucher program as an urgent threat to the long term stability of education in America. Liberals are more focused with fixing the internal problems in the educational system rather than completely giving up on it. The conversation as expressed with the present illustrations reveal that democrats are displeased with Uzoegwu 5 Mrs. DeVos, her administration and her long term goals for education in the United States of America. Fig. 1 Fig. 2 Uzoegwu 6 Works Cited Block Trumps Cabinet: Stop Betsy  Block Cabinet: Stop Betsy DeVos. N.p., Jan. 2017. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Konopacki. For the Capital Times. 2017. Madison.com. 25 Jan. 2017. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. RepublicanViews.org. Democratic Views on  Republican Views. N.p., 29 Jan. 2015. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Tornoe. Under Construction: Another great charter school. 2015. Oft.org. 04 June 2015. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <http://www.uft.org/editorial-cartoons/under-construction-another-great- charter-school>. Zumwalt, Scott. Republicans vs. Democrats on School  The Hoya. N.p., 22 Nov. 2002. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Zweifel, Dave. Plain Talk: Chasm separates Betsy DeVos and Bert Grover on  Madison.com. N.p., 25 Jan. 2017. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.