Longerbeam 1 Megan Longerbeam Professor Hernandez ENC 1102 30 April 2017 Save the Gorillas Gorillas are facing endangerment due to the high demand of their meat in African countries. Poaching has little to no reinforcement of the law which makes gorillas an easy target for hunters. In African countries, bush meat is worth a lot of money and makes gorillas worthwhile for their weight. Due to habitat loss, disease, and poaching, gorillas are now considered an endangered species according to the International Union for Conservation of Nature Poaching is the biggest threat facing gorillas today as their weight provides a large sum of money for one body. Maria Goodavage, writer for Take Part, states that gorilla meat can cost $6 for a (Goodavage). A 600-pound gorilla could easily become a fortune for these hunters, making gorilla poaching seem very appealing. In a study conducted by the United Nations Environmental (UNEP) Great Apes Survival Partnership (GASP), it was found that about 3,000 monkeys, including gorillas, chimpanzees and bonobos, are illegally killed or captured every year. Between 2005 and 2011, only twenty-seven arrests were made in connection to the great ape trade and a quarter of those people were not prosecuted (Platt). If this rate continues, there will be no way their species can recover. Gorillas have a very low reproductive rate compared to other animals. Their gestation period is like humans at about eight and a half months. Mothers typically do not produce another offspring until four years later, if at all Since gorillas only carry one baby per delivery, recovering from endangered status would be very difficult. To reverse this huge Longerbeam 2 downward spiral, all Americans must be recruited to understand and care for these gorillas. By simply donating to the World Wildlife Fund, Americans can help solve this foreign issue as WWF plans to use that money to help support the conservation efforts of gorillas in Africa, making them more valuable alive than dead. There are many reasons why people should care about gorillas and want to save their species. Chimpanzees are the closest relatives to humans, second being gorillas. The genetic material of humans and gorilla only differs by 1.9% Scientists can learn about human evolution from studying gorillas. Scientists have found that humans share good hearing with gorillas, but that does not lead to developing language which humans have conquered but gorillas have not. Studying the DNA of gorillas has also been able to help us treat diseases. Scientists are currently using gorilla DNA to help find a cure for dementia as they have a gene mutation that does not cause the disease in gorillas While animal testing can be harmful to the gorillas, gorillas are only used when the potential benefits of the research could outweigh the risks to the animal. Most research performed is done in the wild, where the gorillas are simply observed. Not only valuable for research use, gorillas hold an important role in their ecosystem. Gorillas help spread seeds throughout the forests in which they live, replenishing the forests. The gorillas perform a job that is imperative to their habitat which they share with other animals and humans that live around the forest and rely on the regrowth of the forests While life will still go on if gorillas were to go extinct, a chain reaction could occur, leaving a whole ecosystem broken. By breaking one part of the ecosystem, another species may not be able to carry out their duties. All life on earth is connected, so if enough chains are broken, humans will feel the impact of a less diverse world. While these are all concrete reasons to care about the gorillas, there is one that surpasses the rest. Knowing these Longerbeam 3 gorillas are being senselessly tortured and killed should make people want to step in and do something to prevent it from happening again. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals(PETA) believes that animals to live their lives free from suffering and (PETA). Their belief, with the support of 6.5 million people, is that every animal deserves the same amount of respect for life. This means that people should be acting to save gorillas from the humans that think it is acceptable to illegally slaughter animals for money. While this problem seems like it has gone too far to be reversed, there is something every person can do to conserve the gorillas. Donating to the World Wildlife Fund(WWF) will put money towards the conservation efforts of gorillas. Ten dollars is enough money to send one American child on a school trip to a wildlife reserve. This is the smallest amount needed, however this could have the most long-lasting effect. Teaching children about animals and how they deserve to be treated impacts our future. When these children grow up with the opportunity to poach animals, they will hopefully not partake. About sixty dollars pays a salary to an anti-poaching ranger. Upwards of this amount can provide equipment for rangers, the ability to monitor gorilla groups for months, the production of education materials to inform local schools, the training of park guards, and even new sanctuaries for gorillas (WWF). The WWF states exactly how much money is necessary to perform each one of these tasks and reaches out to everyone from individuals to government agencies for donations. Not only do they ask for donations, but they also inform people of how they are able to support the cause without donating. They state that visiting the gorillas can raise money for the conservation efforts. By creating tourism for gorillas, there is more value being put on gorillas alive rather than dead which could ultimately change the fate of some gorillas. WWF also asks that people buy sustainable wood in place of their current choice. Without being labelled as a certified forest Longerbeam 4 product, there is no way of knowing if the timber is coming from illegal sources in Africa. While donating will provide the most direct aid to the gorilla conservation efforts, there are also simple changes everyone can make to help this major issue. Gorilla poaching is a very large problem that may seem insurmountable, however the WWF has made it very clear how every American can join in their conservation efforts. By simply donating a few dollars, a student can be sent to a wildlife reserve to learn about how their actions can affect a whole ecosystem. This complex issue has simple solutions such as donating, visiting the gorillas, or even buying a different type of timber. It is imperative to step in now before gorillas are labelled rather than their current title. Longerbeam 5 Works Cited Goodavage, Maria. Gorilla Poaching: The Sad, Savage  TakePart. 18 Oct. 2012. Web. 06 Apr. 2017. Endangered Species International. Endangered Species International, 2011. Web. 13 Apr. 2017. Gorilla  Gorilla Facts and Information. BioExpedition Publishing, 01 Feb. 2017. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. How Closely Are Gorillas Related to  How Closely Are Gorillas Related to Us? Berggorilla & Regenwald Direkthilfe E.V. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. Platt, John R. Great Apes in Crisis: Thousands Poached and Stolen from the Wild  Scientific American. Scientific American, 06 Aug. 2013. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. Support the African Great Apes  WWF. WWF, 2017. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. Closer to Gorillas than We  Planet Science. NESTA: Making Innovation Flourish, n.d. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. What Ecosystems Depend on  Animals. Mom.me, 09 Nov. 2013. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. Why Animal  PETA. PETA, 2017. Web. 14 Apr. 2017.