Shaw 1 Cassandra Shaw Professor Hernandez ENC 1102 30 April 2017 Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is an anxiety disorder, commonly developed by veterans, that is caused by traumatic events or experiences that have occurred in life. (U.S. Department of Health and Human Services). This anxiety disorder is something that can transpire after someone has experienced a traumatic or horrifying event, something that causes them to feel intensely afraid and helpless. (BrainLine.org). According to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, post-traumatic stress disorder can begin immediately or after a delay of time ranging anywhere between a few weeks to approximately six months. There are many symptoms of PTSD including: irritability, agitation, hostility, self-destructive behaviors, flashbacks, fear, anxiety, guilt, loneliness, loss of sleep, and nightmares. There are many other symptoms and signs that can be displayed by the person suffering from PTSD. Post-traumatic stress disorder is something that takes time for those suffering to heal and recover from. However, there are many strategies and treatments that those who are fighting PTSD can use to speed up and/or help their healing process. Post-traumatic stress disorder can be very serious and can cause people to live in fear and/or depression for years. (BrainLine.org). Organizations such as Train a Dog Save a Warrior and Wounded Warriors, provide options and treatments to veterans who are suffering from PTSD. Becoming knowledgeable about post-traumatic stress Shaw 2 disorder and/or supporting/donating to these companies can offer a lot of assistance for people who are struggling with this disorder. Post-traumatic stress disorder can be extremely serious and life altering. This disorder can cause people to live their lives in a state of constant fear and/or sadness. (BrainLine.org). People who experience events that cause them to feel extreme terror can be: afraid to sleep, be alone, go outside at night, and even things as simple as socializing. (U.S. Department of Health and Human Services). For example, many veterans who suffer from PTSD experience extreme night terrors. They try to sleep and find themselves reliving the horrific events that triggered their PTSD. Imagine being unable to sleep due to fears of nightmares and reliving terrifying events, or being afraid to be alone at night because they are scared they are going to re-experience the initial event that caused their suffering. The symptoms of PTSD can cause people to live in fear and sadness which can potentially lead to worsening symptoms or even depression. (BrainLine.org). Post-traumatic stress disorder can be very severe and it is important that people do what they can to help those suffering so the severity of their disorder does not worsen. Post-traumatic stress disorder is generally very common with veterans, especially those fighting in war. (Wounded Warriors Project). According to the Wounded Warriors organization in five veterans of the Iraq or Iraqi war came home with Their website also states that 540,000 have been diagnosed with Consider all of those who have not been diagnosed. Potentially due to not recognizing the signs/symptoms and/or not knowing that there are resources available to help them with their recovery and bettering their daily lives. Also consider, that these are people who have sacrificed their lives to fight for the United States and PTSD is taking away from their lives and the quality of their life. They have given up so much for this country and all of those who live in it. Now some of them are living with constant fear, Shaw 3 continuous flashbacks/nightmare, plus many other potential symptoms. Wounded Warriors and Train a Dog Save a Warrior (TADSAW) are two different organizations that both have a common goal in wanting to help better the quality of struggling veterans lives and assist in their recovery. Wounded Warriors works to provide resources for these veterans including affordable homes. TADSAW works with and trains medical service dogs to be given to veterans in hopes of improving their lives free of charge. These affordable homes and emotional support animals are just two ways of striving to help veterans in their road to recovery. It is important to be aware and knowledgeable about PTSD and the symptoms. If someone has been through a traumatic or fearful experience it is important to be familiar with the symptoms of PTSD in hopes of recognizing the signs that person could be showing. People becoming aware and informed about PTSD can greatly help those who are suffering daily from this disorder because being able to understand the disorder and symptoms could allow them to recognize someone close to them may being suffering. Making others aware of post-traumatic stress disorder and its symptoms is also a huge part in helping those struggling. Some of the people suffering are those who have sacrificed so much of their lives and more to fight for our country. Donating to organizations like TADSAW and Wounded Warriors is also important and extremely helpful. Supporting these organizations in anyway allows them to offer more resources and help to veterans with post-traumatic stress disorder. However, not all of those suffering from PTSD are warriors, so making others aware and informed is a great way to help in bettering the lives of people who are living daily with this disorder. Post-traumatic stress disorder is serious and can really affect the lives of not only the person suffering but their families as well. After all that these veterans have given up and sacrificed the least that we can do is support them and organizations working toward helping them and aiding in their recovery. Shaw 4 Post-traumatic stress disorder has a lot of severe side-effects and symptoms that can severely alter and mess up lives. a common disorder among veterans but according to BrainLine.org it can be triggered by any event that provokes immense amounts of fear and/or helplessness. Those who suffer from this disorder may not realize that they are struggling with PTSD and sometimes it takes another person to recognize it and offer assistance. With the amount that veterans sacrifice, supporting organizations like Train a Dog Save a Warrior and Wounded Warriors is a great way to show that they are not alone and that things will get better. Post-traumatic stress disorder can be severe and it is important that people are informed and do what they can to help those who are struggling with this disorder. Shaw 5 Work Cited Dockens, Christopher. Wounded Warrior Homes -  Veteran Transitional Housing. N.p., n.d. Web. 2 Apr. 2017.  TADSAW. TADSAW, 2016. Web. 7 Feb. 2017. Post-Traumatic Stress  National Institutes of Health. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, n.d. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Post Traumatic Stress Disorder  Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) - Brain Injury Resource BrainLine.org. WETA, 2014. Web. 8 Feb. 2017.