Student 1 Student Instructor Lewis ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Speeding into a Cleaner Future Picture, for a moment, a family of polar bears traversing floating ice. Now picture that ice slowly getting smaller and smaller, making it more difficult for them to get around and find food. The butterfly effect, as explained by physics professor Don Smith, is the idea that the smallest change somewhere can effect events very far away, can be used to explain this (Guilford). Every time Americans get in their car and drive to work or school, we slowly contribute to the growing climate change crisis. People cannot swear off their cars in order to protect the environment, however. They have lives to live; kids to get to soccer practice, trips to the grocery store to feed their families. There will probably never be a world where the majority of Americans do not use automobiles or public transportation to get around ever again. Typical passenger vehicles in the U.S. release an average a 4.7 metric tons of carbon dioxide each year (Environmental Protection Agency: Guide 1). This level of emissions cannot be sustained without ruining the environment. Greenhouse Gas Emissions (GHGs) like carbon dioxide contribute to the rising of global temperatures. These temperatures do things like melt the polar ice caps, pushing animals like the polar bear closer to extinction every year. The raising ocean temperatures wreak havoc on marine ecosystems such as coral reefs (National Wildlife Federation). These far-reaching global changes can be halted if Americans make the transition to zero emissions electric vehicles such as Teslas. Student 2 It is important to understand the causes of greenhouse gas emissions and what they can cause. Transportation in the United States is responsible for 27% of the GHGs; this is mostly caused by cars and light-duty trucks, including sport utility vehicles, pickup trucks, and (Greenhouse Gas). GHGs help trap heat within our atmosphere, raising global temperatures slowly but steadily. Industry produces another 21% partially due to petroleum, coal, and other GHGs like water vapor (Environmental Protection Agency: Industry). All of these GHGs are created burning fossil fuels like petroleum, and coal. Nuclear power, while not a fossil fuel, still produces enormous GHGs and is not a much cleaner source of energy. When people use the term this is what they are referring to; conventional energy sources that are non-renewable. Alternative energy is created through renewable sources such as solar energy. Solar energy also has the benefit of only creating one by-product: electricity. It is considered to be a zero emissions systems. Other sources create GHGs in addition to their intended use. If this is the case, why we utilizing solar energy more? The issue is complex. Unfortunately, solar energy systems tend to be very expensive. Energy companies lobbied to punish Florida homeowners by increasing property taxes for those with solar systems due to lost profits (Walton 1). While they are a nearly endless source of energy that can often be even more effective than fuel cells, they tend to be expensive. The benefit of the system is that it can also save people money in the long run. But in most cases difficult to get the start-up money for businesses or residences to start a solar panel system. Tesla is a company getting ready to change all of that. Elon Musk of Tesla recently announced the Tesla Energy system that is composed of solar roof collection tiles and Powerwall units. Solar roof tiles look like ordinary roof shingles, but from above you can that they are basically miniature solar panels Student 3 with solar cells inside. The Powerwall unit can be mounted within or outside a home, and is stackable and stylish. The best part is that the system is expected to cause less than a normal roof, with further savings being made with the reduction or elimination of your electric bill. The system can even store worth of energy in the event of power failure. Even better, owners of Tesla cars can charge their zero emissions vehicles using Powerwall units. Tesla vehicles have been criticized for being very expensive and inaccessible to many in the working class. Some of their vehicles are as or more expensive than Mercedes-Benz. But Tesla has an answer to this as well: The Model 3. As reported by Cadie, Releasing in 2018, the Model 3 is the economy zero emissions vehicle of the future (Cadie 1). This is an affordable option, especially when you compare it to other cars of similar prices (Stringham 1). As more and more of these are sold the GHG emissions of the United States will plummet dramatically. Couple this with affordable solar energy systems, and the country could reduce GHGs by up to 56%. This a pipe dream; the country is in a position to halt the damages that have been caused by climate change. But it stop with cars and homes. Tesla has an answer for businesses too. The Tesla Powerpack, much like the Powerwall, is a system designed to power large facilities and businesses with zero emissions creation. If this system was invested in by big industry, not only could GHG emissions be further reduced, but air pollution and other forms could be reduced. Not only can Americans be aware of the issues, but they can also get involved and really make significant changes without financial hurting themselves. All of these products end up saving people thousands of dollars in the long run. If the affordability of the products enough to convince people, maybe the genius behind them can. Elon Musk is the creative mind PayPal, SpaceX, Solar City, Tesla Motors, and Tesla Energy Student 4 (Forbes). The kind of innovation that has gone into all of these companies can be personally invested in by Americans everywhere. Americans can seize and protect the future of our environment. By investing in Tesla, and buying their products, Americans all over can gain access to zero emissions technology and take the climate change crisis by the horns. It is also the responsibility of everyone to vote for and contact your local representatives about climate change reform. As mentioned, solar panel users in Florida had been punished for using solar panels. In the most recent vote, we amended that to end the property tax on solar panel users (Walton 1). Citizens at every socioeconomic level can push this reform even further to create tax incentives for those willing to utilize solar energy. Furthermore, Americans can band together and propose bills to stop the defunding of the EPA by President Trump (Thrush 1). Not only is it possible for Americans to get involved but it is their responsibility to do so. In conclusion, the shield between drastic climate change and the environment is the average American. It is quickly becoming easier than ever to utilize resources such as solar power and electric vehicles. Carbon footprints can be further reduced using Tesla Energy solar systems to power your electric vehicles. If the country began making this transition it could reduce GHG outputs by over 50%. And just with electrical and automotive use. Once industry makes the change, we could almost halt 100% of GHG production. Years ago, consumers complained that electric vehicles and alternative energy solutions were too expensive. This excuse will no longer work; there has never been a better time to switch to alternative energy solutions than today. WC: 1226 Student 5 Works Cited Accelerating Sustainable  Tesla. Accessed 5 Mar. 2017. Ferris, Robert. Tesla will need billions to make US Supercharger network compete with gas stations, says  CNBC. CNBC, 03 Mar. 2017. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Global Warming and Coral  National Wildlife Federation. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Greenhouse Gas Emissions from a Typical Passenger  EPA. Environmental Protection Agency, 21 Nov. 2016. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Hardman, Scott, et al. Changing the Fate of Fuel Cell Vehicles: Can Lessons Be Learnt from Tesla  International Journal of Hydrogen Energy, 29 Nov. 2014. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.ijhydene.2014.11.149. Smith, Don. The Butterfly  Explained Guilford  YouTube. Guilford College, 15 Oct. 2010. Web. 28 Apr. 2017. Sources of Greenhouse Gas  EPA. Environmental Protection Agency, 14 Feb. 2017. Web. 26 Mar. 2017. Stringham, Edward Peter, et al. Overcoming Barriers to Entry in an Established Industry: TESLA  California Management Review, vol. 57, no. 4, Summer2015, pp. 85-103. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1525/cmr.2015.57.4.85. Thompson, Cadie. everything Tesla plans to accomplish by the end of the  Business Insider. Business Insider, 01 Apr. 2017. Web. 01 Apr. 2017. Student 6 Thrush, Glenn, and Coral Davenport. Donald Trump Budget Slashes Funds for E.P.A. and State  The New York Times. The New York Times, 15 Mar. 2017. Web. 01 Apr. 2017. Walton, Robert. Florida votes to strike property taxes on solar  Utility Dive. N.p., 31 Aug. 2016. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.