Blum 1 Taylor-Paige Blum Andrew de Carion ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Stand Up for Face-to-Face Education In just seven years, the percentage of public schools with access to the internet has risen 64% from 1994 to 2001. In society it is evident that technology is major part of our daily routine and is slowly making its way into everything we do, including education. The government finds technology so important that they constructed a graduation requirement for all high school students as of 2011 called the Digital Learning Now Act. According the Florida Sate Senate, the act school districts to establish virtual instruction requires online learning course for high school graduation, Florda In doing this, the state is forcing students out of the classroom and away from teacher and student interaction, which are vital factors to a education. Lisa Emerson and Bruce MacKay of English and Media Studies at Massey University state that there has not yet been a consensus on the change of mode on student learning in changing society and there is no complete evidence proving online or face-to-face learning is better than the other, rather there are conflicting studies making that argument irrelevant (Emerson 728). The Florida Senate should repeal the Digital Learning Now Act to ensure all students have the option of whether or not they wish to participate in online education without being forced out of the classroom and losing the advantages of face-to-face education. Blum 2 Although technology is constantly growing in society, still not everyone has access to the internet or a personal computer from home. Andrew Kemp of Georgia Regents University states that online education is a great idea for the middle class and upper middle class. For those that cannot utilize the resources, it creates a (Kemp). Assuming that every student is of the same socioeconomic status is a form of discrimination in the classroom that hinders a education. Many would counter this statement by saying there are ample after school programs, libraries, Starbucks, etc that offer these kind of resources, however it is also unreasonable to assume their parents can get them to any of these places after a long day or work and other important obligations. This restriction makes the learning process stressful and difficult for those who are not in the same socioeconomic situation as the rest of their class. Kemp also states that technology should be used as a personal tool, not as a means to educate; it should be an extension to a person, not a replacement (Kemp). The board of education thinks they are helping students get more comfortable with technology, but rather they are creating additional problems and hindering their education. Another way in which this bill is hindering learning experience is by extracting them from the personal teacher-to-student and student-to-student interactions. There are many factors that go into an effective classroom, one of which being how a teacher communicates with their students. By taking the human aspect out of a lesson, you are losing all impromptu conversations, real life lessons, on-the-spot discussions, laughter, conversations, and the informal before-class banter (Wegman 2). Many argue that online education allows ample ways of communication through mass emails or discussion board, but nothing compares to the natural conversation that occurs beyond the forced discussion. In other words, online education is great for content transmission, but a face-to-face class allows for Blum 3 intimate discussion to occur (Kemp). This communication between teacher and student is vital to the understanding of the course. For example, with online learning there may not always be a time when an instructor is there to be the discussion leader leaving it up to the students to either reply on each other for clarification or figure it out on their own (Galyon 62). Lastly, student participation has a significant effect on their exam performance, as well as assisting others helps deepen their own understanding of the material (Galyon 63). Again we see the overall learning being compromised through a computer screen where face-to-face education could resolve these problems. Aside from lacking resources and the personal connection within the classroom there are many other factors of online learning that can hinder a learning. First of all, the idea of online learning is still relatively new therefore there are still many problems with it that have not been discussed or resolved. Emerson adds from her research that online learning is and that there are few voices expressing (Emerson 278). Until further research is conducted to make a clear conclusion about the effectiveness about online learning and until proper feedback is given, there is no reason to say this type of learning the future for education. Additionally, because it is a new program, teachers and students still do not know how to use online learning properly to get the most out of the experience. Kemp reports is the lack of reflection and consideration by teachers as to why they are using it that is hindering the true purpose of (Kemp). Why are we using online education in the first place? Do the advantages significantly outweigh those on face-to-face education? It is important to know these factors in order to decide which type of education is best for our future. What can we do to ensure our children are receiving the best education possible for them? The first step to keep education in the classroom is to make your voice heard. Vocalize Blum 4 your opinion locally to your teachers or school board. Once they hear how it is personally affecting their own students, it will make the issue more urgent to them to make a difference. Secondly, go larger and reach out to the Florida Department of Education. They make the calls on all graduation requirements therefore hearing about this issue may bring it to their attention that changes have to be made. Lastly, find or create a petition. It is always a good idea to have your thoughts in writing bound by a signature. By taking these actions and standing up for ones education we can ensure our futures will not be run by a computer screen. In conclusion, there are ample reasons as to why education should stay in the classroom opposed to moving towards a digital world. There is no clear evidence that online education is better or more effective than traditional face-to-face education. Additionally, there are so many advantages of interacting with other students and teachers that hold import social and life lessons that cannot be replaced by a computer. Although technology is a an important tool in society, it should only be used as a tool, not a replacement. Blum 5 Bibliography Emerson, Lisa and Bruce MacKay. A Comparison between Paper-Based and Online Learning in Higher  British Journal of Educational Technology, vol. 42, no. 5, Sept. 2011, pp. 727-735. Galyon, Charles, et al. Comparison of Group Cohesion, Class Participation, and Exam Performance in Live and Online  Social Psychology of Education, vol. 19, no. 1, Mar. 2016, pp. 61-76. Kemp, Andrew T., et al. Technology and Teaching: A Conversation among Faculty Regarding the Pros and Cons of  Qualitative Report, vol. 19, 01 Jan. 2014. The Florida  House Bill 7197 (2011) - The Florida Senate. N.p., n.d. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. Wegmann, Susan and Joyce Mccauley. Going Fully Online: Reflections on Creating an Engaging Environment for Online  International Journal for the Scholarship of Teaching & Learning, vol. 3, no. 1, Jan. 2009, pp. 1-7.