1 Emily Hickmon Allison Missler ENC1102 12 April 2017 A Call to Action for Kratom Unfortunately, many people know someone who has been affected by drug abuse in one form or another. But, what if there was a healthier alternative for such a toxic and dangerous addiction? Kratom, or is an herbal supplement that has been used in multiple rehabilitation facilities for people overcoming drug addiction issues. Kratom has also been used for people dealing with chronic pain and many terminal illnesses. The arguments for and against the legality of Kratom are both strikingly similar given that they are both natural supplements that could benefit users more than addictive prescription pills. Right now, there is a push for legislation to ban the use of Kratom in multiple states, including Florida. This makes it important for people to get out and help resist such laws now. This can be done in many ways, including things such as petitions, or steps as simple as just raising public awareness. If one cares about the future of Kratom legality, it would behoove them to get out, and act now. At the University of South Florida, Kratom is embedded into many lives. While it is not uncommon for college students to abuse illegal substances, at this University, many students are turning to Kratom for benefits such as reducing pain and anxieties (Jerue, 8). To promote the use of Kratom rather than illegal substances, the University of South Florida will be hosting an event in the Marshall Student Center, room 3200. The event will be held on popular holiday, April 20th, which is usually observed as a day to illegally use marijuana. 2 Instead, students are encouraged to come out to the Kratom event from 2pm to 5pm and experience how this herbal substance can benefit them rather than abusing drugs. Beginning at 2pm, there will be a Kratom bar that students can choose the strain and flavor of Kratom they would like to enjoy throughout the duration of the event. Kratom has different strains, such as red and yellow Kratom which both have differing beneficial effects. From 3pm to 4pm, there will be testimonies from fellow University of South Florida students where they can see the ways that Kratom has affected so many of the people around them. Lastly, there will be a question and answer session where students can ask any questions they have had about the supplement and uses. While closing remarks are made, a petition will be passed out the room. Once the event is completed, the petition will be sent to state legislators in hopes that the push to ban Kratom will be resisted in Florida. In the Tampa Bay area, one can currently purchase Kratom from local smoke shops, and it is also available at some nearby ethnobotanical tea bars. At the smoke and tobacco shops, Kratom is sold in the form of powder. The powder form of Kratom is commonly used the same way that espresso is, but gives consumers much different effects. While at ethnobotanical tea bars, consumers have many different options to enjoy Kratom, such as milkshakes and brewed tea. Regardless of the way one consumes Kratom, they are able to see positive side effects. There are many things this supplement could offer users, such as help overcoming opioid withdrawal symptoms, and putting the user in a more relaxed state of Euphoria. Kratom is especially helpful to people with constant anxiety or pain. Despite many protests with thousands of attendees, the DEA is pushing for Kratom to become illegal in the state of Florida. This ban could leave 3 thousands in pain and addicted to drugs. The time to act is now, so that Kratom can remain readily available to those who require it to maintain a healthy lifestyle. One of the leading reasons Kratom needs to remain legal in the state of Florida is the skyrocketing rates of prescription painkiller overdose deaths. the year prior to death, 87.4 % were prescribed prescription pain medication. Reported potential misuse prescription pain medication in the year prior to their death was high (e.g., taken more often than prescribed [52.9 obtained from more than one doctor during the previous year [31.6 and used for reasons other than treating pain [29.8 %, almost half of which get (Johnson). This statistic proves that overdose deaths are not always caused by people who take medications that are not prescribed to them. Nearly all of the cases found of painkiller overdoses are caused due to the misuse of medication that is prescribed to them. Many factors could cause people to misuse such medications, such as to get a or cope with a multitude of mental illnesses. Regardless, these tragic deaths act as a great incentive for lawmakers to vote against, and citizens to begin petitioning to put an end to Kratom restricting legislation. Overall, Kratom is a life changing supplement that does not deserve such restrictive legislation. Such laws must be fought and can start with something as small as a petition or the rise of awareness. As Kratom awareness events pop up across college campuses, lawmakers are continuing to ignore the thousands of people showing up to protests. Therefore, it is crucial for the public to act now and become involved in the Kratom community. Many efforts are currently being made by the American Kratom Association, an organization that shows the public all of the benefits one can experience by using Kratom. Hopefully, these efforts will not go unseen by legislatures. 4 Works Cited Jerue, Dale. Kratom: A Collective  N.p., May 2016. Web. 14 April. 2017. Johnson, Erin M., William A. Lanier, Ray M. Merrill, Jacob Crook, Christina A. Porucznik, Robert T. Rolfs, and Brian Sauer. Unintentional Prescription Opioid-Related Overdose Deaths: Description of Decedents by Next of Kin or Best Contact, Utah,  of General Internal 28.4 (2012): 522-29. Web.