Student 1 Student Instructor Lewis ENC 1102 30 April 2017 One Step Away from Homeless Imagine you are a nontraditional college student with significant student loan debt. You have an unfortunate circumstance and suddenly must drop out of college. On top of your student loan debt that requires payment within a few months being out of school, you have two young children and rent is due. Imagine you are carrying everything you own in a few black trash bags and have your two children in tow, wondering where you and your children will sleep tonight (TEDxTalks). This is just one of many stories of how an American becomes homeless. Life is unpredictable and sometimes this is the unfortunate outcome. Homelessness affects 549, 928 people on any given night NCEH). Homelessness does not discriminate. It effects men, women, and children of all ages, races, cultures, and ethnicities. With the growing gap of wealth and poverty and the affordable housing crisis, many people are left homeless (Rayburn and Guittar 159-164). While many programs and organizations around the country have been set into place to aid the homeless, it is only mitigating the problem instead of providing a valid solution. The question has to be asked, what can this generation do differently to help? College students everywhere have to ability to reach out to their community and get personally involved with becoming part of real change for the homeless. College students are the innovators and visionaries of the future. There is so much momentum behind this generation of imaginative minds. College is the time where young adults are no longer defined by the last 18 years of life, but by self-discovery, exciting experiences, and new ideas. Now more than ever, the Student 2 intolerance for the poor and homeless is acceptable. This intolerance results in a universal stigma for these marginalized individuals (Rayburn and Guittar 159-160). College students can contribute to social justice for the homeless by changing this stigma. A new outlook for homelessness can be transformed by implementation of dialogue and changing the stigma of homelessness. While the United States is amongst the wealthiest countries in the world, we have an estimated 3.5 million people who are homeless in the country. This has been an ongoing social concern for the last two decades (Rayburn and Guittar 159). The definition of homeless differs depending on the institution. The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services defines homelessness as homeless person is an individual without permanent housing who may live on the streets; stay in a shelter, mission, single room occupancy facilities, abandoned building or vehicle; or in any other unstable or non-permanent NHHC). Housing and safety is a human right. Without it how can anyone successfully function and contribute to society? 2014, 7 million people in poor households were doubled up with family and friends, the most common prior living situation before becoming NCEH). The last time the country was this down was during the Great Recession in the early 2000s and 2010s NCEH). As of 2016, the poverty rate in the United States was as high as 14.5%, which is equivalent to 45.3 million Americans living in poverty Fact Kairos). With the staggering number of Americans living in poverty and the affordable housing crisis, the prevalence of homelessness starts to make a bit more sense. Think of a time when you had an interaction with someone who is homeless. Did you make eye contact? Did you look away? The fact is, people regarded as homeless are simply invisible and disconnected from society. Invisible People is an organization dedicated to making Student 3 the invisible, visible again Invisible People). Mark Horvath, founder of Invisible People and once homeless himself, interviews homeless individuals and allows them to be heard and share their story. Once the interview is finished, viewers are left challenging the way they interpret homelessness. The universal stigma that surrounds the homeless population are summed up to poor life choices and addiction. These intimate interviews prove otherwise. To be a part of the solution, it is critical to study homelessness, empathize with individual experiences, and withhold personal biases and judgements. Invisible People demonstrates this well and encourages others to form their individual opinion on the matter. Encouragement should be made to understand homelessness from the perspective of the homeless. (Rayburn and Guittar 160). Brinegar from Urban Geography, found that research suggests that negative perceptions of homelessness complicates development of effective programs (Brinegar 500). The stigma that surrounds the homeless is a major barrier in our society. This stigma alone creates a disconnection that prevents connections to resources, education, and opportunity. As stated in Tedx Talk by Deborah Hughes, need to stop shaming and (TEDxTalk). By cherishing all members of the community, all can contribute to a better society. Nevertheless, homelessness is an epidemic in our country, in every city, and every community. The prevalence and numbers are continuing to grow in every community within the United States. As reported by Housing and Urban 2015 Annual Homeless Assessment Report, 36,907 people of the ages of 18 to 24 were homeless on a single night NCEH). As stated by Chernega from the Journal of Poverty, is an ethical belief that housing is a human right and that there is nothing that a person can do that relinquishes his or her right to deserve safe, stable (Chernega and George 227). The National Healthcare Council for the Homeless states that research has determined stable housing Student 4 is contingent to a successful recovery for chronically homeless individuals. Permanent housing paired with supportive services is the key to a foundation of success in housing the homeless NHHC). There are several programs, organizations, and churches who seek to provide temporary shelter and services, but the problem is they are reaching maximum capacity and some determined unsafe. Some municipalities are reluctant to provide additional shelters in fear that it will attract more homeless people and generate a homeless population (Brinegar 498). With the demographics and numbers of homelessness constantly changing, new challenges arise. In order to effectively solve homelessness, college students need to change the universal stigma of the poor and homeless (Rayburn and Guittar 160). This is a concept that does not involve money, but rather time. Time needs to be offered to the homeless community and supporting organizations. Time needs to be spent assessing how poverty and the affordable housing crisis are contributing to the epidemic of homelessness. The homeless have become invisible people, often forgotten and disconnected from society. As future leaders of this world, it is up to college students to engage, advocate, and help provide better solutions for this suffering population. Students interested in social work, public health, or medicine are encouraged to get involved with programs similar to the Street Medicine Institute. These students, teachers, and medical teams go out and provide medical care directly to those living and sleeping on the streets. Street Medicine embodies compassion and healthcare to those who need it most. In addition to providing walking medical care to homeless communities, Street Medicine incorporates educational opportunities The Voting YES on Measure H is another opportunity for college students to engage in the fight against homelessness. Measure H is a comprehensive plan to provide services and resources Student 5 such as medical treatment, job training, and counseling to get the homeless off the street (Vote Yes Measure H). College students actively supporting local organizations by means of volunteering in soup kitchens, tutoring, and mentoring programs sends a strong community message. Clothing, food, and household goods can be donated to local organizations to aid the homeless. Newly-engaged stakeholders can start by becoming more open to the topic of homelessness, to not dismiss these people based upon stigma that surrounds the homeless. With this disconnection, the increasing homeless population and affordable housing crisis, communities are set up for failure. In conclusion, not one person wants to be homeless. Not one person wants to stay overnight in a shelter where they are at risk of rape or communicable diseases. Regardless of the pathway to homelessness, every human deserves to have a home and to feel safe. Of the several hundred interviews with victims of homelessness conducted by Invisible People, not one person wished to be homeless. Instead the homeless had dreams of family and a home Invisible People). Changing and challenging values and beliefs our society sets must start while the mind and body is young and eager. College students everywhere are capable to help fight the epidemic of homelessness and the intolerance of the poor. It is time to make invisible people, visible again. (WC: 1400) Student 6 Works Cited  Invisible People. Accessed 30 Apr. 2017. About The Institute Street Medicine  Street Medicine Institute. Accessed 30 Apr. 2017. Brinegar, Sarah J. Response To Homelessness In Tempe, Arizona: Public Opinion And Government  Urban Geography 21.6 (2000): 497-513. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. Chernega, Jennifer, and Christine C. George. Works in Progress: Searching for Solutions to the Difficult Problems of  Journal of Poverty 18.3 (2014): 227-30. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. Frequently Asked  National Health Care for the Homeless Council. N.p., 07 May 2013. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. Poverty Fact Kairos Center Publications and Research. Kairos. Accessed 30 Apr. 2017. Rayburn, Rachel L., and Nicholas A. Guittar. Is Where You Are Supposed to How Homeless Individuals Cope with  Sociological Spectrum 33.2 (2013): 159-74. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. Snapshot of  National Alliance to End Homelessness. Accessed 30 Apr. 2017. TEDxTalks. Solving homelessness: Stop shaming and Deborah Hughes.  YouTube. YouTube, 22 June 2015. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. Vote YES on Measure H to help end homelessness in L.A.  Yes on Measure H. Accessed 30 Apr. 2017.