Osenton 1 Lauren Osenton B. Hernandez ENC1102.088 16 April 2017 Why We Should Switch to Renewable Energy Climate change is happening fast, and the best way to combat it is to invest in renewable energy. The use of nonrenewable energy is bad for the environment and accelerates global warming even more. Nonrenewable energy releases mass amounts of Carbon Dioxide and other greenhouse gases into the atmosphere and it gets trapped, which causes the Earth to heat up. Acccording to NASA, 2016 has been the hottest recorded year so far. According to Michael E. Mann, a climate scientist at Pennsylvania State University, could argue that about 75% of the warmth was due to human Renewable energy, such as wind, solar, and hydropower, is clean and will never be depleted as we have these resources in abundance. The climate used to naturally fluctuate due to orbital patterns. According to Bill Nye, the science guy, the reason for the rising temperatures in more recent years is due to human activity and not the orbital patterns. There has been an increased consumption of the natural resources in the last 60 years because humans have found ways to utilize them for their own benefit (Nye). The increased consumption of natural resources has caused an increase in the release of greenhouse gases (Nye). Greenhouse gases trap radiated from the which causes the Earth to warm up and as it warms up, we begin to really feel the effects (Nye). There has been such an increased demand for fossil fuels in the past 60 years, therefore causing an increase in the release of greenhouse gases. Fossil fuels include oil, coal and natural gas. Fossil fuels may produce an abundance of energy and humans are accustomed to them but Osenton 2 the amount of pollution and greenhouse gases that are released make them awful for the environment. A better option for energy consumption is renewable energy. Renewable energy, unlike fossil fuels, will never be depleted and is much cleaner for the environment. Solar, wind, geothermal, and hydroelectric are all examples of renewable energy. Solar energy is harvesting energy from the sun and transforming it into electricity. What better place to invest in solar energy than Florida, the sunshine state? Wind energy is when wind turbines convert the kinetic energy into wind power which can be turned into electricity. Geothermal energy is taking the heat energy from the earth, which drives a generator to create electricity. Hydropower is when flowing water creates energy that is transformed into electricity. According to The Union of Concerned Scientists, renewable energy creates little to no greenhouse gas emissions, and the supply of renewable energy would allow us to replace carbon-intensive energy Renewable energy is also beneficial because it is a an inexhaustible energy (UOCS). Sunshine, wind, heat from the Earth, and fast- moving water are all in abundance on Earth. Wind and solar power are also very reliable and less likely to stop producing electricity due to weather. Even though nonrenewable energy can support large communities, fossil fuels on large amounts of water for cooling, and limited water availability during a severe drought or heat wave puts electricity generation at (UOCS). Global warming is something everyone should be aware of and understand. Climate change is scary because if nothing is done to slow it down, the future is going to be very bleak. The future generations will suffer from increased natural disasters, such as floods, tornadoes, hurricanes, and droughts (Nye). Renewable energy will also improve the health because the quality of the environment will be better. Renewable energy sources create any Osenton 3 pollution, so the air will be clean and free of smog that causes lung problems (UOCS). Investing in renewable energy would also help the economy by creating jobs and making energy prices more stable. Since the renewable energy industry is more labor intensive, jobs are created for each unit of electricity generated from renewable sources than from fossil (UOCS). In 2011 alone, more than 75,000 jobs were created out of the wind power industry (UOCS). The cost of renewable energy has been dropping in recent years and once the facilities are built they can operate at a very low cost. The rising temperatures will destabilize the water cycle and access to clean water will become very limited as the Earth keeps heating up. Marine life will also suffer from climate change. Ocean acidification is rise of acidity in the chemistry as a direct effect from carbon dioxide in the atmosphere reacting to salt (Nye). According to Bill Nye, the late 18 th century, ocean acidification has increased by 30 causing the calcifying of different species such as oysters, clams and corals. Although the effects of climate change are irreversible and worldwide, there are still small actions humans can take to help. Reuse, reduce, and recycle is something everyone can do. Taking public transportation, walking or carpooling to different destinations is also helpful because it reduces the amount of pollution coming from vehicles. UberPOOL is an app that allows one to split the cost of the car ride with others that are going in the same direction. Making sure to turn off electronics while you using them saves energy as well. One could even change their diet to help battle climate change. Animals are fed mass amounts of grain and water, only to be killed, which makes all of that grain and water seem like a waste. According to People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, or PETA, it takes 11 times as much fossil fuel to produce a calorie of animal protein as it does to produce a calorie of grain and carbon dioxide is released in the process. easy to gradually shift into the vegan lifestyle. Osenton 4 Resorting to a more plant based diet can be done effortlessly by trying a minimum of three vegan alternatives, like opting for almond milk instead of milk produced by cows. There are plenty of apps to help with the transition to the vegan lifestyle such as, and It may not seem like climate change is directly affecting humans right now, but it is, and fast. To fight climate change, the world should become more reliant on renewable energy than on fossil fuels. Big actions the only ones that matter, sometimes humans can only do so much to help but every movement starts somewhere, and if everyone started to be more energy efficient and energy conscious, global warming could quickly come to a halt. Osenton 5 Works Cited Benefits of Renewable Energy  Union of Concerned Scientists, http://www.ucsusa.org/clean-energy/renewable-energy/public-benefits-of- renewable-power#.WPP2bGnyvIU . Warming Issues and Greenpeace USA, http://www.greenpeace.org/usa/global warming/issues/. Accessed 20 February 2017. Seifter, Andrew. STUDY: How Broadcast Networks Covered Climate Change In  Media Matters for America, https://mediamatters.org/research/2016/03/07/study-how-broadcast- networks-covered-climate-ch/208881. Wakely, Siobhan. 10 reasons why we should all care about climate  World Wildlife Fund, http://blogs.wwf.org.uk/blog/climate-energy/10-reasons-why-we-should-all-care- about-climate-change/.