Aldandan 1 Ahmed Aldandan Professor: Hernandez, Bianca ENC1102 April 30/2017 The Unattainable Beauty The media is considered a source of influence from a sociological perspective according to the sociologist Jon Witt (143). The influence that the media is causing can be harmful to those trying to mimic it (Witt 143). Even though the media can influence men to buy certain products, or to follow certain diets to meet the expectation of being masculine, women are more vulnerable to what is known as the beauty myth, because women have been more related to beauty meanings and expectations in general. Nonetheless, men can be affected by beauty expectations and perceptions (Witt 273). Naomi Wolf researched the beauty standards of the media and how women can try to be as models or women in magazines in general; her research focused on women, and most of the work of the beauty standards in general is on women also. According Naomi Wolf, women go through surgery, and spend too much money to try to be as beautiful as women shown in the media (Witt 247). In addition, it is more likely for women to go through harmful diets and consume drugs in order to lose weight if compared to men (Rudd). Many organizations seek to change the current situation of the influence on women beauty. Educating people about the media negative influence, and showing how it can be harmful to women is necessary to understand in order to reduce the stigmas of beauty that can affect men and women negatively. Then engage the audience into adopting the topic through showing the benefits of changing the current beauty perception, as that can help reduce the overall stress to Aldandan 2 beauty and reduce amount of effort that may be considered lost on surgery for example. Finally, the National Organization for Women(NOW) and Dove do provide people with ways to help reduce the beauty stigmas and influence. Supporting NOW through joining campaigns, and donations can provide the audience with a way to help change the current situation with the media, since NOW aims at changing the harmful representation about beauty. While Dove do also hold campaigns that encourage women to be more flexible with pursing beauty. Whether beauty is a something that a person can possess or not is a hard question to understand or to answer, because the meaning of beauty does differ from different philosophical perspectives, as Vacker and Kent mentioned the outset, it is important to remember that the various issues surrounding beauty have been topics of inquiry for philosophers and scholars since the time of ancient (473). That statement can give a notion of how complicated approaching the issues related to beauty can be (Vacker 472). NOW website suggest that the media do provoke women to follow narrow standards of beauty; super slim models is an example of a standard that is set (National Organization for Women). In addition, the representations of the media are sometimes linked to dangerous images, have many options available to them when it comes to campaign tone, design, and creativity. Why do so many choose to use negative, dangerous (National Organization of Women). Moreover, according to Naomi Wolf, films and magazines are setting beauty standards that cannot be meet, even if a person does go through surgery and spend a huge sum of money, it still may not be possible to be close to women on commercials, because women on commercials are in some cases are even modified using computer programs (Witt 274). However, it is worth to mention that pursing beauty can have negative mental and physical effects. The body image is how someone sees himself, it is how a person thinks he looks not how he actually is. According to Nancy Rudd Aldandan 3 image plays a key role in many disorders that affect individual health and well-being, particularly among adolescent and young adult (Rudd 153). research on collage women suggest that women do try to imitate the beauty image of women in the media. Women might go through some eating disorders and consume drugs to try to be meet that body image (Rudd 155-156). Overall, beauty perceptions do create a social issue that can physically and mentally pressure people. Changing beauty perception is difficult to achieve, as that require a change in the media, the market, and in people. Beauty narrow standards can make women stressed as indicated by women supporting Dove; mainly because the expectations of beauty do cover a small range. However, if the beauty perception were not this narrow, if the media and do target a wider range of women, then women in return might be able to pursue new beauty standards, and even would be receiving less stress about not meeting the few expectations in regard to beauty. The issue with following the beauty standards of women on magazines or the TV is not just that it may not be possible to meet, but also that it makes women focus less on other important issues of their lives such as gender equality as Wolf suggest (Witt 274). If women were able to reduce the stigma of not being beautiful; that is mentioned by the sociologist Jon Witt, then it might be possible that they will be able to elevate the progress on other feminist issues. The progress on helping them close the wage equality gap might come as a reward. In addition, the issues of global sexism might be helped reduced; that is identified by the NOW. The efforts spent on women reproductive rights will also increase. Even though beauty myths do exist for both men and women, the focus of researchers and sociologist have been more on women due to the historical relation of beauty with women. Thus, helping change the beauty standards or reduce their narrowness can help feminism even improve in a variety of ways. In addition, men can also Aldandan 4 benefit from the change of beauty perception as they may be more cautious with following media standards and perceptions. NOW and Dove do aim at trying to change social structure by redefining and changing beauty perceptions, but that is still hard to achieve. Supporting them can help change the public opinion about beauty and about how the media choose to represent beauty in advertisement. The strength of seeking a social change is in numbers. That is why it is best to join bigger organizations trying to reduce beauty stigmas or perceptions in order to have an impact. According to Jurgen Williams and Marc Jegers, the achievements of any movement that is aiming at a social change are largely depended by on the organization current achievements (68). Joining a big organization such as NOW, will increase their potential of changing the beauty perception. NOW do mainly try to aware people of beauty perceptions and negative effects. Being knowledgeable about this topic, and having consent to its negative impacts can actually help. In addition, NOW campaigns do actually aware people of organizations that might misuse advertisements. Moreover, dove campaigns do help women in particular in dealing with beauty negative representations. They do not aim at trying to aware people of the negative impacts, but more at encouraging women to identify beauty as they want in order to make people women less stressed about beauty. Nonetheless, joining bigger organizations campaigns is an option, and taking part in changing beauty standards can help reduce beauty stigmas. Educating people about the beauty myth and its negative influences is essential to reduce their negative effects. The beauty myth does have negative social effects on men, but there is more focus on beauty. The medias representation does emphasis to follow certain standards, these standards can harm those following them; following harmful health disorders is an example of women beauty standards social issues. If people do change beauty standards, and Aldandan 5 if that result in making advertisers and the media focuses on different beauty norms, then that may help reduce the stigmas related to it. Moreover, reducing the focus on following beauty myths can be more beneficial for men and women, as it will allow women to focus more on feminist issues, and allow men to understand the relation between beauty perceptions and the media more. Increasing people awareness is something that NOW is trying to do. However, participating to change something like the beauty standards need more numbers and the trust of huge organizations. Thus, supporting organizations that already are knowledgeable about the issue might be the best way to try to help in the issue. Aldandan 6 Works Cited Web. 29, January. 2017 Organization for Web. 23, February. 2017 Rudd, Nancy A., and Sharron J. Lennon. Body Image And Appearance-Management Behaviors In College  Clothing & Textiles Research Journal 18.3 (2000): 152. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Vacker, Barry, and Wayne R. Key. Beauty And The Beholder: The Pursuit Of Beauty Through  Psychology & Marketing 10.6 (1993): 471. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Willems, Jurgen1, jurgen.willems@vub.ac.be, and Marc1, marc.jegers@vub.ca.be Jegers. Social Movement Structures In Relation To Goals And Forms Of Action: An Exploratory  Canadian Journal Of Nonprofit & Social Economy Research / Revue Canadienne De Recherche Sur Les OSBL Et Sociale 3.2 (2012): 67- 81. Social Sciences Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 7 Feb. 2017. Witt, Jon. SOC 2016. 4th ed. New York: McGraw,2016. Print.