Toland 1 Sierra Toland Professor Seth Spencer ENC 1102 30 April 2017 Help End Homelessness Now! In nearly every city in America there is some level of homelessness that is occurring. Some cities just have a bigger problem with the issue than others. In Hillsborough County, the homeless epidemic is in the works to being resolved one step at a time. The welfare system here has improved over the years so fewer people are homeless today than in the past decade. Homelessness is affecting many children, families, and veterans in the Tampa Bay area, as well as throughout the United States. To combat the issue there are many organizations and services that help out the homeless population. One of the organizations located in Tampa that is most popular is the Metropolitan Ministries, which helps with things such as giving food, clothes, providing daycare, and environmental cleanup. Although this is one of the most common organizations, it certainly is not the only one there are a lot of others that provide citizens with the opportunity to volunteer to help the homeless community. Homelessness is a very big problem throughout the United States, not only in Tampa. According to an article titled Homelessness the United States has the largest number of women and children among industrialized nations who are homeless Homelessness 1). They also state that on any given day there are more than 200,000 children who have no place to live, and throughout the course of a year approximately 1.6 will experience homelessness. Most of the families who are homeless are single parent led, with 84% Toland 2 being single mother headed. One in every four homeless woman is in that situation because of violence committed against her in a relationship, causing them to feel anger, fear, self-doubt, and hopelessness about fixing the situation Homelessness 4). Homelessness is not something that is only in certain places, it is all over and can affect everyone. Throughout the years the homelessness population in Tampa Bay has gone done because of the many welfare departments and services that are offered to help stop this epidemic. In 2005, there were 11,023 men, women, and children homeless in Hillsborough county About 1) . Out of that population 31% were employed full time. According to the Department of Children and Families (DCF), in 2016 there were roughly 1,817 people who are sleeping on the streets, that is a little more than one hundred people down from 2015 (Council on Homelessness 28). This number is getting lower because of organizations such as Tampa Hillsborough Homeless Initiative and Metropolitan Ministries who make it their mission to get these people into shelters or permanent homes. Here in the Tampa Bay area, one in every five homeless citizens is a child. These children are forced to endure situations that no children should have to deal with, such as, sleeping on the street and starving because they do not have a home or food. This is why the community needs to come together to cure the homeless epidemic. In most cities across the United States there are sleeping bans or bans for feeding the homeless in certain situations. Tampa is one of those cities. Earlier this year, seven people in a group called Not were arrested for feeding the homeless without a permit at Gaslight Park (Varn 2). These people were asked to leave but thought that they should not have to leave because they were doing no wrong by feeding homeless. A law that began in 2013 in Tampa, stated that it was completely illegal to sleep anywhere in public. And if anyone would be caught they would be arrested. The Toland 3 sleeping ban prohibits an officer from making an arrest only if there are no available beds in the shelter located in downtown Tampa. It is important that the community comes together to get these people off the streets, but it needs to be done properly and legally, and this is why there are so many organizations to join to help out. One way a person could join the fight against homelessness in the Tampa Bay area is to volunteer at Hillsborough Homeless On their official website their purpose statement is, lead the Continuum of Care (CoC) in collaboration with agencies in order to develop and provide innovative solutions to reduce and end homelessness in Tampa- Hillsborough Mission of 1). They do this by collaborating with different agencies that help with homelessness. Homeless service programs, government officials, advocates, business and community leaders, and of course people who are homeless are all people that they engage with to find ways to create effective prevention and intervention services for those who are currently homeless as well as those who are at risk of becoming homeless. They help to find programs and services that will be best suited for the homeless and at risk population around the Tampa Bay. Funding for the homeless is another problem they work to alleviate, they do this by looking at the state and federal levels for funding. This program does not offer many opportunities to volunteer because of all of the regulations they have in place for funding, but even if you do not volunteer for this organization, they are always accepting donations. Also, one of the most popular organization in the Tampa Bay area that has an ever- growing need for volunteers is the Metropolitan Ministries. They were voted the best place to volunteer by Creative Loafing Tampa readers. The Metropolitan Ministries offer volunteer opportunities for those who want to serve food, help clients shop in the Metro Market for food Toland 4 and clothing, help at the daycare, and many others. To sign up for volunteering, all one has to do is go to their website www.metromin.org and create an account and sign up for orientation for first time volunteers and once you have gone to the orientation, you can just begin signing up for which option of the many different opportunities work best for you. Metropolitan Ministries offers volunteer opportunities everyday throughout the week. Homelessness effects all citizens in a city because of the funding and bans that are allocated to limiting where people without homes are able to sleep in the city when they have no home. Many children, families, and veterans are faced with the problem of not having a home to live in or food to eat. This is why there are so many organizations not only here in the Tampa Bay area but throughout the United States that provide volunteer opportunities to help out this portion of the population who are struggling. It is time that everyone come together to help these people help themselves so they can get into permanent homes and get off the street, and this can be done by volunteering and donating to the many different organizations that are set up to help these people. Toland 5 Work Cited Family Homelessness  Family Homelessness Facts. GreenDoors, 2015. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. Homelessness, Council On. 2016 ANNUAL REPORT Council on Homelessness (n.d.): n. pag. Council on Homelessness. Council on Homelessness Department of Children and Families. Web. 13 Apr. 2017. Responding To The Needs Of The Community. FACTS ABOUT HOMELESSNESS (n.d.): n. pag. Facts About Homelessness. Homeless Coalition Hillsborough County. Web. 13 Apr. 2017. The Mission of  THHI. THHI, n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Varn, Kathryn. Seven Arrested While Serving Food to Homeless in Tampa without a  Tampa Bay Times. Tampa Bay Times, 8 Jan. 2017. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Volunteer Job  Metropolitan Ministries. Metropolitan Ministries, n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.