Jain 1 Shaurya Jain Dr. Oana Cimpean ENC 1102 051 16 th April 2017 Felony Disenfranchisement: One Wrong Step, Judged Forever Abraham Lincoln dreamed of America where everyone can be treated equally. After more than 150 years, America has not been successful in establishing a free and fair place for all. More than 6.1 million Americans cannot vote because of their past convictions (The Sentencing Project). Voting is one of the best way to practice equality and participate in a free and fair country but the data indicates that America has failed in doing so. The most effective way to restore voting rights of ex-felons is by educating them and encouraging them to take a stand against the government so that they can participate in the decision making of the country. Felon disenfranchisement refers to the loss of voting rights by a citizen because of his/her past conviction. (Civil Rebirth). Felon disenfranchisement is adopted from ancient Greek and Roman civilizations and Medieval Europe. According to the article, Civil Rebirth: Making the Case for Automatic Ex-Felon Voter in Temple Law Review, early justifications for felony disenfranchisement were based on the philosophical contract theory. According to the theory, citizens enter a social contract where they give up their personal liberty in exchange for protection from the government. If a voter does not have the best interest then the voter should not participate in the decision making. According to Temple Law Review, practice of disenfranchisement ex-felons is deeply rooted in the American political system and The Fourteenth Amendment allows the Supreme Court to permit state felon disenfranchisement laws. Jain 2 Therefore, numerous people lost their case in the court. Since the 1800s, the Supreme Court has faced numerous challenges to restore voting rights but plaintiffs have failed every time. Felon disenfranchisement exists in most states in different forms. Some states do not let ex-felons to vote until a waiting period has elapsed which may even last after probation or parole, whereas some states automatically restore their rights after completion of their sentence, probation or parole (Civil Rebirth). Initially, felons only lost their voting rights for committing extreme crimes then it expanded over time to minor offences. There are two ways to restore voting rights. The first way is through clemency power or automatic restoration after completion of a sentence. The clemency systems are According to the National Conference of State Legislature, there is inconsistent communication among agencies. The communication method among courts, correction and election officials are not timely and inconsistent (National Conference of State Legislatures). The best way to examine the shortcomings of the clemency project is by looking at the case of James Ghent. He, completed his sentence for burglary in the early 1990s in Miami. In 1995, he completed his parole and overcame his drug addiction. He also went to school for radiography. In 2000, he started his process to regain his voting rights. He believed that voting always be a (Civil Rebirth). He was also motivated to get his voting right back to get his professional radiography license which requires restoration of civil rights. Ghent appeared 4 times a year in Tallahassee for his hearings. The Clemency Board consisted of governor and his cabinets and they denied appeal. The Board granted less than .01% of applications for restoration of civil rights from 2011 to 2012. Over time, states have made some amendments in the voting policies which has made the process more complicated. While Maine and Vermont are the only two states with no voting disenfranchisement laws, Florida, Iowa, and Kentucky only restore Jain 3 voting rights after receiving an executive pardon through the clemency board which itself is a lengthy process with low success rates for the applicant. Fourteen states and the District of Columbia allow people to vote while on parole or probation but not while incarcerated. Four states allow to vote on probation but not during incarceration or parole and eight states restrict voting rights based on the type of crime or amount of time that has passed since the conviction. (Civil Rebirth). There has been some success in the past few years. In 2013, the Delaware legislature passed a constitutional amendment that removed the five years waiting period after completion of a sentence. The California Secretary of State said that they would litigation over policies that prevented low-level offenders from in 2015 (Silicon Valley Newsroom). In the same year, Wyoming allowed first time nonviolent offenders to vote. These cases suggest that under great pressure, time and scrutiny of public, law enforcement agencies tend to listen to citizens. In states like California, people have actively participated by protesting. Though there has been tremendous progress towards loosening restrictions on post-sentence voting but there are some organizations that believe in imposing restrictions to make the process more complex. Heritage Foundation is one of them that suggested for lists and application process for violent (Civil Rebirth). Many ex-felons are unable to restore their voting rights because of confusing and arbitrary restoration process (Civil Rebirth). It is mainly because of applicant fees and complicated and poorly publicized processes. If automatic restoration of voting rights is practiced then it will be beneficial both for the state and the ex-felons. Automatic restoration reduces confusion and is more efficient for the state. Non-automatic voting restoration methods threaten the of the American democratic processes by excluding large swaths of the (Civil Rebirth). Jain 4 In light of such a close election, it is important that every single vote is taken under consideration. 6 million more votes could have changed the outcome of the election. Voting is also one of the best way to exercise democracy in any country. Taking part in the decision making is the essence of democracy. Current disenfranchisement law allows the government to take any voting right even for a minor crime. As humans, we need to understand that sometimes our thought process can get clouded and we make bad decisions. It does not mean that the same person has to live with those consequences even after the completion of his/her sentence. Just like James Ghent, there are around 6 million Americans who deserves a second chance irrespective of their past actions. Now the biggest question would be, can be There are many Non-profit organizations like The Sentencing Project who work for the ex-felons around the states. Anyone can contact them and they will connect them with their state and local allies in criminal justice research and advocacy. Another way to help is by donating to organizations like The Sentencing Project. Filing cases and fighting for the ex-felons is a long process and often drains the resources of these organizations. Your donation can help them to fight for the cause with full power. If people believe that the felony disenfranchisement is unfair, then they can sign a petition to tell their leaders to take necessary steps to fight it. History suggest that the government always listens to the people when they emphasize the importance of their cause and how much it means to them. If people stand together and spread awareness about this unfair law then the government will most likely make amendments so that the ex-felons can vote too. Jain 5 Works Cited Jr., Mark E. Neely. The Abraham Lincoln Encyclopedia. illustrated. Da Capo Press, 1984. National Conference of State Legislatures. n.d. 16 04 2017. <http://www.ncsl.org/research/elections-and-campaigns/felon-voting-rights.aspx>. Silicon Valley Newsroom. sanjose inside. 12 08 2015. Metrosiliconvalley. 16 04 2017. <http://www.sanjoseinside.com/2015/08/12/voting-rights-restored-for-60000-low-level- offenders/>. Jain 6 The Sentencing Project. n.d. 16 04 2017. <http://www.sentencingproject.org/issues/felony- disenfranchisement/>. CIVIL REBIRTH: MAKING THE CASE FOR AUTOMATIC EX-FELON VOTER  Temple Law Review89.02 (2017): 451-85. USF Online Library. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.