McKeighan 1 Kevin McKeighan ENC1102 Madeline Gottlieb 30 April 2017 Immigration Reform in the USA This past year in politics has been unusual in the sense that the America has never quite dealt with anything like it before. Donald Trump ran a campaign that provoked the uneasy side of the American people that want to see major change in the way this country is run. What is it that people think of when they think of the United States of America? Some may picture a network of metropolitan areas that fund this country, while others may imagine a vast collection of farms and open prairies. The fact of the matter is that no matter how an individual views this country, President Trump is threatening to change some of the fundamental aspects that make this country what it is. Some of these severe claims include banning all Muslims and deporting all illegal aliens from America. These are threats that struck many people the wrong way, seem racist and would be almost impossible to complete, given the amount of people that fit these profiles. This country was built by immigrants, right down to the foundation, so is it morally acceptable to portray the message that outsiders are no longer welcomed? Imagine the impact on this foreign relations and certain economies that flourish given the immense immigrant populations (Martin 2017). In addition, certain industries would diminish under the proposed reforms such as the agriculture economy as well as the industrial economy (Zahniser 2012). McKeighan 2 Millions of people would be affected if President Trump goes through with his immigration reforms and with that comes the dismantling of families, the destruction of essential economies and a decrease in foreign affairs that would subsequently defect this nation (Idaho Business Review). Illegal immigrants make up forty-four percent of all the Hispanic Americans currently residing in this country (Martin 2017). To some, this statistic may seem extreme, but it is a reality that Hispanic born people dominate the workforce in manual labor. The field of agriculture, for example, is almost completely comprised of immigrant workers and has the highest percent of Hispanic employees. From these immigrants, approximately half are staying in this country illegally, without proper documentation (Martin 2017). In this situation, the USA is dependent on the agriculture business in many ways which indirectly means that this country is dependent on the illegal aliens that do the hard-working jobs. deportation expectations can not be of the best interest of the United States because it could result in the crash of one of the biggest economies in the world. With practically an entire workforce consisting of these immigrant people, it comes without saying that there are millions upon millions of friends and families that would be effected if President Trump decided to act on his propositions. As President of the United States of America, Donald Trump has the power to decide the number of refugees this nation will admit in each calendar year. Barrack Obama had set that number at eighty-five thousand for the year 2016, so Trump has the authority to increase, decrease or eradicate that number all together (Martin 2017). A probable solution would be to grant citizenship to the productive, hardworking illegal residents, in order to support the much-needed workforce, and to deport the menacing illegal immigrants who get into trouble and contribute to society. This topic can be seen from different point of views and perspectives but McKeighan 3 the reforms that President Trump has put forth may in the end come back to affect every person in this country. One may have never thought about the number of illegal aliens in this country but should be concerned about this topic for a number of reasons. One of those reasons strikes the emotional appeal that any compassionate human being has somewhere inside their mind. Many of the people who fall under the category of came here a long time ago and have begun to raise a family on US soil. The problem with this is that anyone who is born in this country is automatically granted citizenship. So, if an individual comes to this country, has a child and then is told they will be deported, they would be faced with the decision to leave their kid or bring them back to where they came from. The separation of parents from their children is all too real in this kind of scenario and it breaks the hearts of many people on a daily basis. If this situation presents itself and the parents of these children choose to abandon their child in hopes of them growing up in a better world, depending on the age, they will be put into foster care or permanently adopted. With this comes emotional distress and heartbreaks by the thousands, but there is also another problem to be addressed with the mass scale deportation that has been proposed by the President. Arguably the biggest, most paramount issue would be the economic downfall and possible recession that could result from the loss of millions of workers. One of the United biggest trade partners is Mexico and President Trump vowed to re- instate whatever relationships are needed in order to keep this partnership (Martin 2017). It just so happens that Mexico is also the biggest source of immigrants that come to the United States of America (Martin 2017). With all these immigrants potentially being sent back to their homeland, the workforce would collapse because American workers do not want to do labor intensive jobs anymore. Once this happens, the employers who have lost their employees could be forced to McKeighan 4 raise the wages in order to attract more workers. Any number of unfavorable outcomes could come from this, such as, inflation, work deterrence etc. Mass deportation of illegal immigrants will absolutely affect the lives of all Americans and even people all over the world, so the people must do something before it is too late. Historically speaking, the most effective way to get involved and bring about change is to protest. Peaceful protests have been productive for hundreds of years for countless different reasons and organizations. The time is now to get involved and raise awareness for these people in this situation who are fearing for their lives as well as their families. Hardworking, productive down to earth people do not deserve to be evicted from this country because of a few missing papers but rather it is those who abuse their legal loopholes and create problems that should be incarcerated or deported. One individual can be the difference in this issue. Anyone can be the change as long as they learn more about the topic, spread awareness and finally protest peacefully. After some time of protesting, people will start to take notice and ask questions. There are dozens of rights organizations and groups that are already tackling this issue now. Do not wait any longer to get involved, if someone is passionate or interested in this issue then the time to start is now. With enough people and enough time, change can and will be accomplished all people have to do is be relentless. The problem of immigration reforms when it comes to President Trump and the United States of America is one of the headlines on the frontlines of the battlefield after the new change in Presidency. No matter what President Trump decides to do there will be people who will be affected and it is your job as the people of the USA to stand up for what you believe in and protect your rights as well as the rights of you fellow citizens. To recap, extreme deportation is a detrimental idea, doing nothing is not an option either and the only realistic action is to limit the McKeighan 5 amount of people who are exiled from this country, in hopes of conserving the agriculture economy and the livelihood of countless families. McKeighan 6 Works Cited EWIC Statement Regarding Guest Worker  EWIC - Essential Worker Immigration Coalition. N.p., 25 Mar. 2015. Web. 9 Feb. 2017. Freiman, Christopher. Liberalism Or Immigration Restrictions, But Not  Journal Of Ethics & Social Philosophy 10.2 (2016): 1-22. Humanities Source. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. Hirota, Hidetaka. The Moment Of Transition: State Officials, The Federal Government, And The Formation Of American Immigration  Journal Of American History 99.4 (2013): 1092-1108. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. Jorgensen, Jay T. The Practical Power Of State And Local Governments To Enforce Federal Immigration  Brigham Young University Law Review 1997.4 (1997): 899. Business Source Premier. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. Standing -- Federal Courts -- D.C. Circuit Demonstrates Redundancy Between The Competitor Standing Test And The Zone Of Interests  Harvard Law Review 128.6 (2015): 1850- 1859. Academic Search Premier. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. Zahniser, Steven, et al. Immigration Policy And Its Possible Effects On U.S. Agriculture And The Market For Hired Farm Labor: A Simulation  American Journal Of Agricultural Economics 94.2 (2012): 477-482. Business Source Premier. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. Unknown Clampdown Could Have Big Impact on Idaho Idaho Business Review, 2017 Philip, Martin. Trump and U.S. Immigration  California Agriculture, Vol 71, Iss 01, Pp 15-17 2017. McKeighan 7