Student 1 Student Instructor Lewis ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Engaging in the Renewable Energy Market What should one look forward to when thinking of the future? One should think of the future of energy, renewable energy. Renewable energy is any kind of energy that can be collected from natural resources that are constantly replenished and will not run out (Learning About Renewable Energy). Renewable energy is a pertinent concept to understand as it is a social and economic concern in the energy market. The American Council of Renewable Energy (ACORE) is an organization that is set on getting the United States of America dependent on renewable energy as soon as possible. They are a non-profit organization dedicated to advancing the renewable energy sector through market development, policy changes, and financial As renewable energy gets cheaper and becomes more efficient because of leaps in technology, such as the Hybrid Optimization Model for Multiple Energy Resources (HOMER) program for designing renewable energy grids (Sen. et all), ACORE can gain more support from energy providers, businesses, and government officials to assist them in pushing for renewable energy dependence. This is the reason why ACORE needs support. Everyone needs energy, and being able to get energy that is safe for the consumer as well as the environment would be the best possible option. The most effective way an individual can support ACORE, and the renewable energy market in general, is to check what power companies are using renewable energy run power plants and to get energy from them. By Student 2 supporting ACORE, one also supports the use of renewable energy and can help ACORE gain more leverage in their main areas of influence. ACORE has three main areas of influence: the political sector, the market sector and the economic sector. Through these areas ACORE is able to bring change into the energy market from many different angles, providing the greatest chance of meaningful change. In the political sector, ACORE hosts the National Renewable Energy Policy annually in Washington D.C. At this forum, policies on and scaling renewable energy project and products for global The focus on markets is seen in efforts to develop the WIREC conference, where 8,600 officials and business executives gather from around the world to discuss how to further the renewable energy markets. ACORE has a foothold in the financial sector by having conferences in Wall Street. However, since 2001 they have expanded from just the east coast to having multiple conferences on both sides of the USA. This has given them the ability to extend their reach to many more prospective investors. With this influence, ACORE can make the biggest impact in the renewable energy market. main mission is to push the United States of America towards full dependence on renewable energy and, the transition to a renewable energy (about ACORE). The energy economy is how a energy is supplied and used. They back this up by stating renewable energy is the future, and how the technologies that renewable energy is built on are cheaper than ever today (about ACORE). These claims can be proved by seeing as other countries that are not as wealthy starting to implement renewable energy. India is using the HOMER software to plan out power grids and using solar panels to power them (Sen et. All). The main problem that renewable energy suffered from in the past is that there was no way to Student 3 store the excess energy (Weitemeyer). This was seen in Germany in May of 2016. The power suppliers had to pay the industrial consumers to use the energy because the power grid was overloaded (White). Research has been done and lithium ion batteries have been found as a reliable way to store the excess energy from solar panels and wind turbines (Diouf). Not only have lithium ion batteries been discovered as a way to store the extra energy, the batteries themselves have gotten less expensive to make. The CTO of Stem, a company that produces software that helps track and automate energy use, says that the prices of lithium ion batteries have fallen 70 percent in 2016 as reported by Lacey. Some solutions to renewable energy have been offered in the past but did not take off due to the price of lithium ion batteries. One example is electric cars. Before the decrease in price of lithium ion batteries, the cars cost far too much and the reasonably priced ones were not very good. Until cars started selling well in 2012 there were not many electric vehicles. This shows another way that renewable energy is getting less expensive to produce each year. On the other hand, each year more and more non-renewable resources are being used. Soon, as these resources are not able to be manufactured naturally in a reasonable time span, they will run low and the prices will go up, as well as the competition for these resources. Not only are these resources non-renewable, they are also harmful to the environment. Burning large amounts of coal creates significant quantities of coal ash which, if mishandled or spilled, can cause massive damage to the surrounding ecosystem (Weisinger). A non-engage stakeholder may not think that they have a need to worry about where their energy comes from, or that they will never not have energy. This is why many people do not think about energy policies or hope that their congressman chooses the best energy policy. The environment is one of the most crucial parts of the earth to protect as it is what keeps us alive. In China and other Student 4 overpopulated countries, as a result of many factories and power plants burning tons of coal and natural gas, many people are forced to wear a surgical mask to help keep the smog out of their lungs This is not what ACORE wants for America and what everyone should not want as well. Any non-engaged stakeholders should care about this issue regarding energy because if there is ever an energy shortage, everyone is going to have the same result. If the public does not rally to support renewable energy then no change can be made. The main way any stakeholders who want to support ACORE and help push for renewable energy policies is to purchase their energy from any power companies in their area that supports the use of renewable energy or is partnered with ACORE. This is best way to show support as an individual. Others ways individuals can get involved is by support the congressmen that stand for renewable energy policies in your state. If many people are showing that they want renewable energy, the government and other power companies are more likely to support and invest in renewable solutions. If, however, the stakeholder is a business, they can show support by attending conferences and forums and give their insight to help bring about change. To conclude, renewable energy is the future, as humanity is draining the non-renewable resources quite quickly. ACORE has the tools and resources to make a difference in the areas that they have influence in. With more people and businesses backing them, they can be the organization that makes the most headway in getting the United States renewable energy dependent. Do not forget that reliance on renewable energy can only be achieved through many overwhelming support. Renewable energy is no longer just an idea; today it can be reality. (WC 1237) Student 5 Works Cited ACORE, ACORE, 2017, www.acore.org/about. Accessed 24 Feb. 2017. Diouf, Boucar, and Ramchandra Pode. of Lithium-Ion Batteries in Renewable Renewable Energy, vol. 76, 2015, pp. doi:10.1016/j.renene.2014.11.058. Griggs, Mary Beth. Is the Smog in China so Popular Science, 6 Jan. 2017, www.popsci.com/why-is-smog-in-china-so-bad. Accessed 30 Apr. 2017. Lacey, Stephen. CTO: Lithium-Ion Battery Prices Fell 70% in the Last 18 Green Tech Media, Green Tech Media, 28 June 2016, www.greentechmedia.com/articles/read/stem-cto-weve-seen-battery-prices-fall-70-in-the- last-18-months. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. About Renewable Learning About Renewable Energy NREL, US Department of Energy, www.nrel.gov/workingwithus/learning.html. Accessed 30 Apr. 2017. Lund, Henrik. Energy Strategies for Sustainable Energy, vol. 32, no. 6, 2007, pp. doi:10.1016/j.energy.2006.10.017. Sen, Rohit, and Subhes C. Bhattacharyya. Electricity Generation with Renewable Energy Technologies In India: An Application of Renewable Energy, vol. 62, 2014, pp. doi:10.1016/j.renene.2013.07.028. Student 6 Weisinger, Keith. Summary: Duke Energy Agrees to $3 Million Cleanup for Coal Ash Release in the Dan EPA, Environmental Protection Agency, 25 Apr. 2016, www.epa.gov/enforcement/case-summary-duke-energy-agrees-3-million-cleanup-coal- ash-release-dan-river. Accessed 24 Feb. 2017. Weitemeyer, Stefan, et al. of Renewable Energy Sources in Future Power Systems: The Role of Renewable Energy, vol. 75, 2015, pp. doi:10.1016/j.renene.2014.09.028. White, Daniel. Renewable Energy Hit A High Sunday, Paying Time, Time, 11 May 2016, time.com/4325882/german-renewable-energy-high/. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. Roussel, Jodie. American Council On Renewable Energy (ACORE): Building Domestic and International Partnerships for the Success of Renewable OSTA - Office of Science & Technology Austria Washington DC, OSTA, 2014, ostaustria.org/component/k2/item/671-the-american-council-on-renewable-energy-acore- building-domestic-and-international-partnerships-for-the-success-of-renewable-energy. Accessed 24 Feb. 2017.