Ferreira 1 Joey Ferreira Professor Madeline Gottlieb ENC: 1102 English Composition II 9 April 2017 Capital Punishment: Call to Action Capital punishment is a method of criminal punishment that is reserved for the most heinous criminals in the United States of America. Those who commit capital crimes are eligible to be put to death by the state. As an actual matter of life and death, this method of punishment must be re-analyzed, and there needs to be a universal understanding that this is not an effective form of punishment. Taking the life from a human is an extreme and profound issue within the criminal punishment system of the United States. The life of a human is a sacred and powerful thing, and to take away human life is an even more momentous power. This power should not be in the hands of any governing body. Not only is the act of putting a criminal to death immoral, but the methods used to carry out the executions are inhumane. Methods of execution include electrocution, lethal injection, hanging and even firing squad of Not only do these methods seem outdated, but they are also very harsh sounding. It is understood that the death penalty is reserved for only the most heinous criminals who have committed terrible crimes, but the for an expression should not be applied in this situation. These criminals must be punished, but the government must be rational here and punish the criminal in a more fair and humane way that proves to be effective. There must be a common understanding that the taking of human life is wrong regardless to any possible motive. When a person commits Ferreira 2 a capital crime, there must be a system in place where that person is removed from society and there needs to be an effort to discover the root cause of the crime. There is an established organization that is currently fighting against capital punishment called the NCADP. The NCADP or National Coalition to Abolish the Death penalty has over 90 million followers and is determined to remove the death penalty from all justice systems the Death This organization is concerned about sponsored the Death and is passionate about replacing the death penalty with a system that targets the root causes of crime. The capital punishment is a slight against human life and it is also an ineffective system that fails to prevent crime. If anything, the current system put in place solves nothing due to it simply excusing the criminals from the world, rather than truly holding them accountable for their actions and decisions. By putting criminals on death row, there is a lost chance that something positive could be extracted from them. To expand on this idea, a system that is aimed towards learning why the criminals became criminals in the first place would prove to be a much more reasonable and effective punishment system. This knowledge could in fact help prevent future crime and in time make the country a safer place. The death penalty has been a part of the United States since the beginning of its justice system and currently there are 32 states that still practice it (32 States with Death Penalty). In these states, many methods of executions are carried out; these include electrocution, hanging, lethal injection and even shooting squad. The NCADP is devoted to end all forms of the death penalty, and they are right to do so. The price of the life is not the only thing that is spent during these death row cases. There is over 1.26 million dollars spent on each death row case, and all of that money is Ferreira 3 coming from taxpayers (Costs of Death Penalty). This massive price pays for the multiple appeals that the case goes through and finally the cost of the actual execution itself. A common misunderstanding is that it costs more to put someone through life in prison when in fact it is a much cheaper expense, when in fact, a life sentence costs around $700,000 which is a significant difference from the 1.26 million. It is not fair that this large expense is paid by the people of the United States, who have no choice when it comes to death row cases. It is also disturbing that the taxpayers are evidently paying for someone to be killed. After all the appeal cases and the defendant is now capitally convicted, they are then executed. The preferred method of execution in the United States is a process known as lethal injection. In this process, the subject is strapped down to a medical table with his arms extended outward. A multitude of needles are then put into the subject and the lethal chemicals are prepared. The first chemical is meant to relax the patient and calm them down. The second chemical is then administered into the subject which causes total muscular paralysis. Finally, the third chemical is injected into the person and their heart goes into cardiac arrest. This process is thought of to be the most humane method, but there is no humane way to kill a person. The chemicals used for this process are in limited supply because the companies that used to supply them refuse to produce them any longer due to its purpose in the United States (The Council of State Governments). Due to the scarcity of the lethal chemicals, prisons have tried to ration their supply. This limited supply of the drug caused prisons to ration out their supply which then caused improper dosages in some executions, which lead to the ones being executed to experience an overwhelmingly painful and terrifying death. The horrors of capital punishment have been revealed. State sponsored killings are barbaric and outdated. It is understood that the death penalty is reserved for the worst of Ferreira 4 criminals, but killing them is not the answer and it does not solve the issue of crime in the United States. The executing of criminals simply excuses them from the real world and fails to hold them accountable for their actions. Rather than completely removing the criminal from the world, a system should be put in place that effectively holds the criminal accountable for what they have done. This may involve the criminal interacting with the family in which they invoked harm upon. This confrontation would cause the criminal to see the full scope of the pain they caused, which can cause them to show that they are sorry and that they have the ability to change their ways. Overall, this system would encourage change and progression, rather than anger and repeat cases. Now is the time to act upon this issue within this country. There is a way in which the death penalty can be stopped, and it is through unity. Standing together and joining causes and organizations such as the National Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty could ensure change in the justice system of the United States. By acting on this issue, human lives will be saved and the future of the United States justice system will be improved. Instead of executing capital criminals (sometimes painfully), there could be a positive outcome to their convictions. A new system could replace capital punishment that works to fully understand the criminals and why they committed the horrible crimes they did. This knowledge could help shape our society in a way that prevents these types of things from happening again, and it is possible that this new system could help the convicted redeem themselves and truly express that they are sorry for what they have done. The death penalty must be removed from the criminal justice system. This inhumane form of punishment is too high of an expense in which the taxpayers pay and it is wrong for the people to pay for death. It will be through the voice of the people that change occurs and this iniquitous punishment is stopped. Ferreira 5 Capital punishment has gone on long enough. The methods of executions are fear inducing and in some cases, faulty. It will be up to the upcoming generation who will be inheriting this country from the generation above them to shape America into a safer and more efficient society. This new wave of leaders must realize there are better and more important things this country can do with the 1.26 million dollars it takes to put someone to death. Ferreira 6 Works Cited the Death Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty. n.d. Web. 16 Mar. 2017. Costs of the Death  Costs of the Death Penalty Death Penalty Information Center. N.p., n.d. Web. 06 Apr. 2017. Methods of  Methods of Execution. N.p., n.d. Web. 06 Apr. 2017. The Council of State Governments. N.p., n.d. Web. 06 Apr. 2017. States with the Death Penalty and 18 States with Death Penalty N.p.,n.d Web. 06 Apr. 2017