Mohammad Fattah Mr. Seth Spencer ENC 1102-019 30 April 2017 Problematic Pollution and Simple Solutions Water constitutes a vast percentage of the composition of both the planet and the human body and its pollution has devastating effects not only on the environment but also on humanity. Water pollution is an ever-expanding issue rooted in the industrialized and technologically developed era that humanity has created. If the issue of water pollution is not addressed soon it would have catastrophic impacts on survival as well as the survival of various marine ecosystems both locally and internationally. Water pollution is a serious issue that requires a joint effort in order to reduce and improve. It is imperative to get involved in a local Coastal Cleanup day to help reduce water pollution for the benefit of nature and for humanity. Before an issue can be resolved and anyone can act towards a resolution, the issue must first be defined and brought to light. Alan Heath defines water pollution as the addition by humans of something to the water that alters its chemical composition, temperature, or microbial composition to such an extent that harm occurs to resident organisms or to  (1). Although this is the most basic definition provided by Heath he continues to further define it by separating the various types of pollutants that influence the oceans. The pollutants include: putrescible organic materials, excessive nutrition, suspended solids, toxic chemicals and thermal pollution (Heath 1-5). He further differentiates toxic chemicals into eleven sub-categories ranging from metals to pesticides and other substances. Water pollution acts negatively on the Fattah 2 environment and all living organisms that interact with the environment for their survival. Water pollution occurs on a daily basis and it is imperative to the understanding of water pollution as an issue to know how it occurs. Water pollution can occur in a multitude of different ways and it is important to understand how it happens in order to be able to take action to stop it from getting worse than it has already become. One of the ways in which water pollution occurs is in the form of dumping of waste into the oceans because of a lack of space to dispose of it on land. This results from the sheer volume of waste to the relative volume of space available in landfills. According to Duke University, the United States of America produces around Two-hundred twenty million tons of waste each year of which around fifty-five percent is thrown into landfills Much do we Waste Paragraph 2). Some of this excess waste ends up dumped into the oceans due to a lack of space on land leading to the contamination of the ocean and an increase in water pollution as a result. Another way in which water pollution occurs is as in the form of people throwing waste into the ocean. Due to the careless behavior of some humans and their failure to properly dispose of their excess trash and waste, water pollution occurs as a result of their inappropriate disposal of garbage. Now than an understanding of what water pollution is has been established, it is imperative that an understanding for why water pollution is an important issue must be presented. The first concern raised by water pollution is the question of water impact on the environment. The pollution and contamination of water in the oceans results in a deterioration of aquatic ecosystems and habitats. This deterioration further results in the displacement and sometimes extinction of various marine species. Environment has a balance which is preserved through the existence of these species and ecosystems which has been and is Fattah 3 being destroyed by water pollution. Just as this destruction impacts the lives of marine species internationally, it also impacts the lives of humans on a daily basis. In terms of an impact on humanity, water pollution can result in a loss of jobs for fisherman. With a loss of fish in the oceans it is evident that many fishing jobs would fail and be unsuitable for sustaining a family. Furthermore, the pollution of the oceans would risk the contamination of drinking and cooking water used by humans on a daily basis. This contamination can result in severe physical health problems and complications and could even result in death depending on the level of contamination. Because various harsh and poisonous substances are dumped into the ocean daily it is very possible that human pollution of the oceans harms not only the aquatic environment, but also human survival as well. Now that an understanding of what water pollution is has been reached, and an understanding of why contesting water pollution is important has been established, it is imperative that methods through which water pollution can be reduced are presented. The primary method through which this can occur is through participation in a local Coastal Cleanup Day event (Ocean Conservancy, Our Solutions, Trash Free Seas, The Cleanup). In a cleanup, a person volunteers to go to a local coast or coastal area to help remove trash from the ocean and coast and to dispose of it properly with the help of the Ocean Conservancy group. Coastal Cleanup Day provides a way for every individual to volunteer their time into helping to clean the oceans and reduce water pollution to continue the continued survival of both water ecosystems and the everyday lives to which humans have become adapted to. Another means by which water pollution can be reduced is through the use of a few tips from the YouTube video, 5 Ways To Avoid Water  (AllAboutWaterFilters). In the vide, five tips are provided on how to reduce and prevent water pollution. The first of these tips Fattah 4 is to avoid washing garbage down the sink drain or flushing garbage down the toilet. In acting on this tip, a person stops connecting their garbage to the water system and from getting into large bodies of water and contaminating them. Another tip given is to avoid washing a car at home. In doing this a person reduces the chemicals that they allow to seep into groundwater and contaminating it in an area where it already suffers from significant pollution. One final tip is to properly recycle batteries and paint as the failure to properly recycle these harsh substances results in the leakage of dangerous chemicals into various forms of water including ground water and oceans. Water pollution is an issue that threatens continued human life styles as we know it as well as the continued existence of marine ecosystems. It is imperative that all humanity get involved in reducing the threat of this issue through cooperation and individual action. This is possible through participation in a local Coastal Cleanup Day event as well as through the use of the various tips provided previously. If water pollution remains unchecked and unrestricted it will result in the devastation of the marine ecosystem as well as the continuation of everyday lives. Fattah 5 Works Cited 5 Ways To Avoid Water  Youtube, Uploaded by AllAboutWaterFilters, 6 Jan 2017, www.youtube.com/watch?v=GfsfKv-4Up4. Center for Sustainability &  How much do we waste daily? Center for Sustainability & Commerce at the Nicholas Institute for Environmental Policy Solutions. Duke University, n.d. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. Duke University. Duke University. N. d. center.sustainability.duke.edu/resources/green-facts- consumers/how-much-do-we-waste-daily. Accessed 14 Apr. 2017. Heath, Alan G. Water pollution and fish physiology. CRC press, 1995. Ocean Conservancy. Ocean Conservancy. 2017. www.oceanconservancy.org. Accessed 7 Apr 2017