Adrian Andujar Instructor Karen Hanson ENC Composition 2 15 April 2017 Project 3 Final Draft: In the modern age of entertainment, blood and gore riddle the video game industry. An example of this would be the Call of Duty series which is essentially a plethora of missions involving shooting weapons of mass destruction that reward the player if executed correctly. Another is Grand Theft Auto which is simply a world of any crime imaginable. Parents scattered around the world have become weary of this and as video games continue to develop into disturbing projects, opposition towards their children participating in them develops as well. Children, as citizens, should have certain liberties that are unable to be taken from them, especially ones as harmless as this one. If one has a child, allow that child to experience all that the world has to offer, at least in moderation. Violence in video games does not equate to real world violence among children, and we all need to start recognizing that. The well-respected, right-leaning, late Supreme Court Justice, Antonin Scalia, recognized that banning violent video games to minors would be unconstitutional (Fuchs). Parents have the obligation of protecting their kids but the state get to determine what ideas children get exposed to. Every time there is a mass shooting perpetrated by teenagers the controversy resurfaces, but the truth is a relationship between violent video games and social violence simply has not been established; on the contrary, sales of this type of game have increased at the same time that violent crime by adolescents have decreased. Take Japan for example, their per capita video game sales are more than nine times the United States sales, yet in 2005 the number of murders committed by teenagers in Japan was only at an astounding 11% of what it was in the United States. Over 71% of American teens play video games. Between 1982 and 2015 there have been 71 mass shootings and only seven of them were perpetrated by minors. A study conducted by US department of education and the Secret Service analyzed 37 cases of school violence between 1974 and 2000. Out of all the attackers, only 12% were regular violent video game players, most of them were interested in violent movies and books (Violent). The numbers associated with video game violence have never added up to real world violence. The journal of adolescent health published a study that established that lots of kids, mainly male, feel that playing violent video games helps them relax, get their anger out, and distract them from their own issues (Merrill). Other research has shown that they can even be helpful in the treatment of ADD by increasing the attention span of kids with that condition. They also improve motor skills, thus making you understand the importance of reading instructions and promote strategy and problem solving skills. Blaming video games for acts of social violence can even be dangerous, because in doing so we risk masking the real causes such as the lack of gun control common sense laws, mental health issues and instability in the family life. Violent video games are often scapegoated and their benefits are often blurred by the media. If you are not a teenager or the parent of one, you may think this issue does not concern you, but think again. If we as citizens allow the courts to create new categories of speech that are not protected under the first amendment, we are opening the door for the government to create all sort of restrictions on what movies kids can rent and even what subjects they can blog about. Freedom of speech is one of those things that we as Americans take for granted, but we should look around and see how many countries in the world enjoy this privilege that has become so normal for us and defend it even when it seems trivial because it is one of our most important constitutional rights. Every time a new form of art or media rises in popularity, there is a tendency to enter in moral panic mode describing them as more dangerous and threatening to society. This includes television shows, movies and even comic books back in the day. In every instance though, the courts have firmly held the First Amendment principle. Games are not any different from other forms of speech and because of that, should enjoy the same protection. It is not as children are not exposed to any kind of violence, even bed time stories for toddlers are full of it, from the queen trying to poison snow white to the witch from Hansel and Gretel baking their captors in the oven. By the time they are seven, children know the difference between reality and fantasy. It is important for kids to be exposed to fantasy, in fact, it helps them to develop creative thinking and it is an important part of their development. We cannot allow the government to dominate us by allowing courts to create new categories of speech that are not protected by our alienated rights. Video games, including the violent ones, promote free expression. No government official should be able to determine which game does or does not enable free speech. Minors also have rights under the first amendment, and the only people able to limit them should be their parents (Ojalvo). Freedom of expression encompasses every form of art and entertainment and we should protect our right to keep the government out of our bookstores, televisions and computers. If action is not taken, even issues seeming as trivial as video game violence could develop into other basic rights being Andujar 4 compromised which could end up hectic. At any given opportunity, protesting your rights as a civilian is critical and it is even more important to help give a voice to those who cannot vocalize their opinions such as children and the younger generation. As the media continues to evolve, so will the people that embody it, therefore, we should learn to accept forms of entertainment as they are and only allow the positive aspects of it to affect future generations so they can develop the good skills that violent video games are associated with. Works Cited Page: Downes, Larry. June 27, 2011 4:20 PM PDT. Video games given full First Amendment  CNET. N.p., 27 June 2011. Web. 19 Apr. 2017. Fuchs, Erin. Justice Scalia Made a Smart Argument For Right To Play Violent Video  Business Insider. Business Insider, 13 Jan. 2013. Web. 19 Apr. 2017. Merrill, Paul. Why violent video games are good for  Kidspot. Kidspot Australia, 26 Nov. 2015. Web. 19 Apr. 2017. Ojalvo, Holly Epstein. The Constitution and You: Video Games and the First  The New York Times. The New York Times, 13 Sept. 2011. Web. 19 Apr. 2017. Violent Video Games -  Do violent video games contribute to youth violence? N.p., n.d. Web. 19 Apr. 2017.