Polston 1 Will Polston Andrew DeCarion ENC 1102 14 April 2017 Say No to Anabolic Steroids If one knew that taking a substance would cause irreversible damage to their body, one would think that they would not take it. Unfortunately, that is not always the case with the use of anabolic steroids. According to Merriam-Webster, anabolic steroids are of a group of usually synthetic hormones that are derivatives of testosterone and are sometimes abused by athletes to increase their size and Athletes who consume anabolic steroids look to give themselves the upper hand against their opponents, resulting in a faulty production of offense, unfair advantages and more money in their contracts at the end of the season. Though it may appear that taking anabolic steroids could only benefit the user, there is some potential negative effects that could appear in a consumer. Along with the damage anabolic steroids can inflict, they are also on the Major-League Baseball Substance Abuse Policy, meaning they are banned from player usage while in the league. With the copious amounts of harmful side effects as well as already being banned from baseball, anabolic steroids need to be completely removed from the sport and penalties must enhanced for the safety of the players. At first, many players take anabolic steroids with the intent to make themselves bigger and better than they are. These enhancements help a player work out, increase the build of muscle and improve a performance as well. At a glance, anabolic steroids could seem like a live saver; After investigation, they are exposed for being the dangerous supplement they are. According to Pereira dos Santos, the use of anabolic steroids is the catalyst of many problems Polston 2 such as increased inflammation throughout the body, hypertensive (high) blood pressure, deterioration of the cardiovascular system and early rates of mortality (death) (Pereira dos Santos, 1132). Other case studies reported cases of erectile dysfunction (ED) and decreased fertility rates (Kovac 872) while others reported extreme mood disorders including aggression and depression as well as gynecomastia (swollen male breast tissues due to hormonal imbalance) associated with anabolic steroids (Zahnow 81). With the copious amounts of alternatives to anabolic steroids, they should be taken off the market. Pharmacists, trainers and doctors should not be allowed to sell supplements to clients that are carcinogens and are linked to a high mortality rate (Tentori 365). Many common medicines in the pharmaceutical market have multiple side effects, but none as severe and as frequently occurring as steroids. Also, many medications do not have much better ways to get rid of sickness, thus the reason they were created. When it comes to steroids, an athlete could use protein powder or natural supplements to increase their muscle mass if they do feel the need to take a supplement. Otherwise, athletes could just do intense strength training as well as watch their diet as they exercise. Many natural alternatives are available to gain muscle mass in a safer way. Regarding performance, a player could just use extensive practice. Though one may take performance enhances to build muscle, a chances of hitting a baseball at 90+ miles per hour fastball have not improved any. By practicing off a tee or taking live batting practice, a swing will become purer and will likely increase the chances of him getting on base. There is no time like the present to find an alternative method. In addition to the health risks that come about while taking anabolic steroids, they are also illegal to use in Major League Baseball, as well as all other sports. On page seven of the Major- League Baseball Joint Drug Prevention and Treatment Program, the article states, Players Polston 3 shall be prohibited from using, possessing, selling, facilitating the sale of, distributing, or facilitating the distribution of any Drug of Abuse, Performance Enhancing Substance, Stimulant and/or Drug Prevention, 7). Anabolic steroids are included in this list of banned substances from the Major-League Baseball Organization. These substances are banned due to the unfair advantage that these supplements could possibly give a player as well as the health risks provided from the previous paragraph. In an attempt to make sure that the players of the sport are not taking any performance enhancers, or any other stated substance, players of Major-League baseball are subject to random drug tests based off of a urine sample at any time. Heavy repercussions come bearing down on an athlete caught while under the influence of performance enhancers. Just like baseball, there is a three-strike policy. Violation number one results in an eighty-game suspension from the league. If a player is to be caught a second time, the player will be suspended for 162 games (the length of a full regular season in Major-League Baseball) as well as put on a 183-day payment suspension. If bad comes to worse and the player is caught a third time, the player will have their contract terminated with their team and no longer be allowed in the MLB. A player may be reinstated after a third violation, but they must wait two years before their appeals process, but this is not much of a glimmering ray of hope, for no player or commissioner has ever been reinstated back into the league after three substance abuse violations. There is no need to break the law if it can only harm oneself In the end lies the age-old question, One may think that if they are not taking steroids that this does not affect them. Though one may not be taking them, someone the person knows could be a potential victim of the ruthless reign of anabolic steroids. For example, if one knows a player of any sport or a power lifter, they could have serious exposure to anabolic steroids and other performance enhancers. Would anyone really want their friend to be taking a Polston 4 substance that slowly yet surely ate away at their health. If a friend is taking anabolic steroids, they could attempt to convince you in to taking them as well. Second, if you are a big baseball fan and one of your favorite players is taking these enhancers, they could be suspended from the game for a lifetime. For the baseball fans reading this paper, consider baseball without Mike Trout. Finally, and most importantly, think of the kids. Though not everyone has kids, mostly everyone knows someone with a child. Imagine a child taking an anabolic steroid while playing little league ball and the damage that it could do to the body, especially if you know the effects of steroids. This child could experience a multitude of the side effects previously listed, and would not even see it coming. The more informed one is, the more likely they could stop a potential user in the future. To recapitulate, anabolic steroids are a dangerous substance that should be banned completely from the market. With all the alternatives available to produce the same result more naturally, why even consider using this carcinogenic body destroyer? Numerous potential consequences await compared to the few potential beams of positivity originating from anabolic steroid use. Whether you use the more natural methods of intense workouts and herbal supplements or just spread the word about the harmful effects, you can improve health, the healthy way. (Words: 1207) Polston 5 Works Cited Kovac, J. R., et al. Men Regret Anabolic Steroid Use Due to a Lack of Comprehension Regarding the Consequences on Future  Andrologia, vol. 47, no. 8, Oct. 2015, pp. 872-878. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1111/and.12340. Pereira dos Santos, Marcos Antonio, et al. Adverse Cardiovascular Effects from the Use of Anabolic-Androgenic Steroids as Ergogenic  Substance Use & Misuse, vol. 49, no. 9, 15 July 2014, pp. 1132-1137. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=sph& AN=96774322&site=eds-live. Tentori, Lucio and Grazia Graziani. Review: Doping with Growth Hormone/IGF-1, Anabolic Steroids or Erythropoietin: Is There a Cancer  Pharmacological Research, vol. 55, 01 Jan. 2007, pp. 359-369. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.phrs.2007.01.020. The Major-League Baseball Joint Drug Prevention and Treatment  Docstoc Documents, Templates, Forms, Ebooks, Papers & Presentations. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Zahnow, Renee1, et al. Adverse Effects, Health Service Engagement, and Service Satisfaction among Anabolic Androgenic Steroid  Contemporary Drug Problems, vol. 44, no. 1, Mar. 2017, pp. 69-83. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1177/0091450917694268.