Pollard 1 Christian Pollard Jarad Fennell ENC 1102 15 April 2017 Medicinal Marijuana Over time the debate for medical marijuana to be legalized has been a huge topic at hand. People see the legalization of marijuana to be a negative thing but what people often see is the positive impacts or contributions it can bring to a fast-growing society. In the medical field today, prescription drugs run the show. Whether it is pain killers or just drugs to reduce swelling, prescription drugs are taken for everything. The downfall for these medications are that they fix one thing but the side-effects can be fatal in some doses. What people see is that there are other ways around these side-effects. Medical marijuana has been proven to help with some cancers by inhibiting the growth of tumors but the list end there. Marijuana has also been proven to stop or help with some of the major diseases such as; Tumors, Epilepsy, and Glaucoma just to name a few. There is an oil found in marijuana called CBD and THC that helps with all diseases and could be better for the individual then the prescription painkillers they may receive. Now I am not saying that all diseases are cured by marijuana but most could be treated or even prevented with medical marijuana. Medicinal marijuana has the capability to completely change and reface the medical industry. Pollard 2 The issue at hand here is the fact that not all states are in support of medical marijuana and the industry. This is a big issue because people often do the research before making decisions. Medicinal marijuana can change the medical field completely and can make it easier for some patients to either deal with diseases or help subdue some of the symptoms at hand. Medical marijuana needs to be something that must be researched more in depth before a decision is finally reached. Society today needs to see medical marijuana through the eyes of someone who has been diagnosed with a tragic disease that could be cured a lot easier with the help of marijuana. Not only is marijuana supported by the people who have used it, will use it, or have seen someone use it but doctors all over the nation are in support of it as well. The problem at hand is the fact that people seeing this solution in the eyes of someone who may need it to survive or even function in society normally. Imagine someone who just got diagnosed with an illness that curable but could be managed with the use of controlled medical marijuana. Illnesses all over the world could be managed in a safe, harmless manner. Patients with certain forms of cancer have shown that the oil in marijuana, CBD, has prevented growth of tumors in all sorts of cancers. it has been shown that THC and CBD cannabinoids have the ability to kill cancer cells directly without going through immune (Hill, 2017) What his quote is saying is that the THC and CBD in medicinal marijuana has the ability to kill cancer cells often without repercussions. This is huge for the medical industry because it could often help an individual without the use of chemotherapy, which often kills good and bad cells in the bod. Radiation is an awful thing, a thing nobody should go through. With radiation, it kills the health cells and the bad cells often making the person undergoing the Pollard 3 treatment extremely weak, tired, and often just sick. Marijuana helps those symptoms and has been show to help prevent growth of the tumor. It essentially kills two birds with one stone by helping in both ways. Marijuana could be a game changer when it comes to cancer and other terminal illnesses. I urge the audience to take actions and research medical marijuana and then make their decisions based off cold hard facts. Reading information online just enough, but going to trained professionals on the subject can really open your mind to the subject. Medical marijuana is something that could revolutionize the way we know healthcare today. I urge everyone to go out and inform themselves to make a non- biased decision about medical marijuana and the positive influences it could have on the sick or terminal patients in the healthcare system today. Not only would informing yourself be a good idea but also acting to demonstrate your beliefs. Without people who demonstrate their beliefs nothing would ever get a voice in society. Having a voice is the one-way things get done and how things happen not only just now but all throughout history. So pushing and fighting for what you believe in, in a peaceful manner, is what I urge the reader to do. To sum everything up, medical marijuana is the future of our healthcare system. The active ingredients that are inside marijuana help all sort of non-curable diseases and can make the life for one of those people significantly better. For example, Epilepsy is a disease that originates in the brain that causes uncontrollable seizures. With the help of medical marijuana, many patients have stopped having seizures after using marijuana. With this being said, I urge everyone to research this subject and take into consideration all factors before doing anything. Researching this topic can and will open Pollard 4 your eyes to this subject and show everyone that marijuana is the new medication that has the possibility of changing lives. Pollard 5 Works Cited Hill, Dennis. Cannabis Oil Works to Kill Www.CureYourOwnCancer.org. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Medical Florida Medical Marijuana. Florida Department of Health, 2013. Web. 27 Feb. 2017.