Arnold 1 Amanda Arnold Karen Hanson, PhD ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Labor Unions When working for a company as a member of a union, it is important to feel comfortable, as if you are treated fairly, and that the company you are working every day for is doing everything correctly and appropriately. Unfortunately not everyone can feel these ways towards their union leaders. Sometimes unions are not always completely fair and do not always uphold certain standards that they should be held to. Labor unions are supposed to bring higher pay, employee benefits, and should act as a voice for the workers; however, there also may be many hidden problems within unions that may not always exposed. Some members believe that are more powerful than employers and leaders are more interested in what benefits themselves than in what benefits union (Kochan). According to the Center for Union Facts, there were 78,903 Labor Practices filed against unions in the last 10 Employees should be treated fairly and receive the benefits the work for and deserve. You should educate yourself about the issues within labor unions and help in any way possible, for example by petitions and protests. An explanation of how unions work is that, work like a democracy. They hold elections for officers who make decisions on behalf of members, giving workers more power on the is a There are many problems that lie behind the known benefits but there are also many profits that come along with labor unions. Unions are supposed to support Arnold 2 workers and are beneficial to the union workers. The unions should be a voice for the members of the labor unions and if they are not be treated fairly then they ultimately have no voice. Leaders of the labor unions know they are in control and therefor thrive on controlling the members of these unions even if it is not necessarily what is right. The union leaders are fighting their members when mistreating them. According to James B Jacobs an example of this mistreatment from the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) is that, SEC brings hundreds of civil enforcement actions against individuals and companies for violations of securities laws, such as insider trading, accounting fraud, and providing false or misleading information to the SEC (US SEC When this happens the workers may protest or go on strike and the nothing gets done. Some members believe that are more powerful than employers and leaders are more interested in what benefits themselves than in what benefits union (Kochan). Some of this issues members want to see changed are misuse of union dues, corruption, and violence. According to the Center for Union Facts, there were 78,903 Labor Practices filed against unions in the last 10 There are many problems that lie behind the known benefits but there are also many profits that come along with labor unions. The problem with labor unions is that they do not always give the workers what they are supposed to receive. One side of the issue is explained as, penny-ante theft to multi-million dollar embezzlement schemes, labor leaders continue to violate the trust of the members they claim to and Union leaders can commit fraud in many different ways. Some ways include officials permitting employers to avoid making required contributions to employee benefit funds, or trustees using the benefit funds to enrich themselves, friends, and or officers reimbursing themselves for nonunion-related (Jacobs). The unions should be the voice for the members of the Arnold 3 labor unions and if they are not be treated fairly then they ultimately have no voice. Many times the average man or woman does not have the ability to voice their opinions to the more superior positions or even the government. One example of corrupt leaders is, leaders use money on their own political (Big Unions Are Fighting). Even if you are not a member of a union there are still many ways to help the members receive the benefits they should and maybe get treated a little ore fairly. The first action you should take is to educate yourself about the topic of labor unions. There are unions for just about any occupation you can think of and many of your favorite companies have workers in unions. One physical way to help is by signing a petition against a certain leader. There are thousands of different online petitions you can and should sign to help union workers with the many issues they face. You can search for petitions and support all kinds of workers from teachers to firefighters, it is that easy. A helpful website with many options for petitions is change.org, on this website there are many petitions to choose from. Another way to help is by going on strike with union leaders. Many union members go on strike and protest the union leaders. If you have the opportunity you could join them in their strike for fair treatment. When the union members go on strike they stop working and the company gets no work done. Going on strike also puts a bad name out in the public for the company because the union members associated with the company are protesting against them for something the company is doing wrong. While you probably do not usually think about unions or union members, or have ever thought about this topic, you should now realize this is actually an important issue. Although there will never be a perfect world where everyone is treated fairly, that is what the union members strive to see in the future. This starts with the union leaders treating the members in Arnold 4 the union fairly. They need to receive the benefits they are promised and be treated appropriately. In the future the members would like to see the workers with more rights and the way they are treated to be improved. If you educate yourself about the issues within labor unions and help in any way possible, like by petitions and protests, these future goals may be reached sooner than later. Arnold 5 Works Cited The Center for Union The Center for Union Facts. 24 Jan. 2017. https://www.unionfacts.com/article/about-us/ Big Unions Are Fighting. The Center for Union Facts. N.p., n.d. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. and The Center for Union Facts. 24 Jan. 2017. https://www.unionfacts.com/article/about-us/ Jacobs, James B. Is Labor Union Corruption  Social Research, vol. 80, no. 4, Winter2013, pp. 1057-1086. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx ?direct=true&db=buh&AN=94074732&site=eds-live. Kochan, Thomas A. How American Workers View Labor  Monthly Labor Review, vol. 102, no. 4, Apr. 1979, p. 23. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx?direct= true&db=bah&AN=5991555&site=eds-live. is a Union Plus. 24 Jan. 2017. https://www.unionplus.org/page/what-union