Whigham 1 Alexandria Whigham Bianca Hernandez Composition II 16 April 2017 Salvation not Suicide Physician-assisted suicide has been the spark of many controversial debates within the last  An assisted dying law would not result in more people dying, but in fewer people  (Join the Campaign). The debate lies between the bioethical issue presented and a right to choose what to do with their own body. As Americans, one of the ground principles is freedom. What if someone told he/she that they are not allowed to pierce or permanently mark their body because it offends some people or that they must accept all medical care because the physician has to uphold his/her oath? Individuals being denied the right to choose when they die go through similar circumstances. As of now, only 4 states, including New Mexico have made physician-assisted suicide constitutional. Ultimately, like the other various freedoms Americans have, the right to ends life in appropriate situations should be granted. In the words of the American Medical code of ethics,  It is fundamentally incompatible with the role as a  (Legalize Assisted Suicide). In reality, physician-assisted suicide is simply giving the terminally ill individual the right to end their suffering when healing is not an option. To clarify, the majority of organizations that support physician-assisted suicide focus only on mentally competent adults that have six months or less to live. Within the scope of these boundaries, anti-physician assisted suicide organizations have created false circumstances in Whigham 2 which physician assisted suicide is used, such as to eliminate vulnerable elderly, minority, or lives are seen as a burden on  (Legalize Assisted Suicide). According to Medscape,  The most commonly cited reasons for seeking physician- assisted death were a desire to maintain control over the circumstances of death and to die at  Those who opt for the physician-assisted suicide option have ultimately been told the worst news of their life; they will not live to see their daughter/son walk down the aisle or be able to witness their grandchildren grow up, etc. Everything they have anticipated and hoped for has been washed away by a single diagnosis. In dealing with this tragic news, they now anticipate and look forward to their last days spent in the hospital or in a state of inefficacy. In a situation in which all control seems to be lost, physician-assisted death enables those individuals to gain back some of their control. No longer will they have to wait until death is knocking at their door. Instead, they will be inviting death in on their own terms. Although this may sound morbid, it gives these individuals power in a powerless situation. Physician-assisted suicide allows Individuals to retain dignity and bodily integrity in the face of insurmountable pain and  (Legalize Assisted Suicide). As Physician-Assisted suicide continues to be looked at as inhumane and unethical, many terminally ill individuals are traveling abroad to end their life. According to the campaign for Dignity in Dying, in countries like the United Kingdom,  Every eight days a Briton travels to Dignitas, Switzerland for help to  The absence of an assisted dying law forces dying people to take drastic measures to control their death. Although this does not seem like a significant issue, it puts the dying individual in much more stressful circumstances for themselves and their families. Some of the challenges faced by traveling abroad include, a cost of more than 10,000 pounds, a difficult journey, and another form of powerlessness. In addition to the cost, the ill Whigham 3 individual faces the possibility of great pain and distress from traveling the thousands of miles. Aside from these challenges, one of the greatest include the prosecution and up to fourteen years in prison for the loved ones who are present during the process once they return back to the (Join the Campaign). Stories like that of Brittany Maynard reflect why physician-assisted suicide should be seen as a means of peaceful death rather than an inhumane and unethical death. Maynard was a 29-year old who was diagnosed with a brain tumor. She was told she had six months to live and after a few months, she publicly told the world that she was planning on ending her own life. Maynard became a huge activist for the Right-To-Die law and even moved from California to Oregon to gain access to the Death-With-Dignity law. In one of her final blog posts she wrote,  I did this because I want to see a world where everyone has access to death with dignity, as I have had. My journey is easier because of this  (Beaver). Brittany story and courage exemplified why Physician- assisted suicide should be looked at as a way to keep dignity despite unfortunate circumstances. Advances in medical technology have improved saving lives dramatically. Respirators are used to support an failing lungs, and medicines have been created that can prolong life. All of these advances are great for someone whose prognosis and chance at living a normal life is promised. However, what happens when these same medical advances used to prolong life are now prolonging pain? In many cases, terminally ill patients in states where physician-assisted suicide is not legal face the reality of this prolonged suffering. Day by day they are kept on respirators and given medicine to minimize the pain when there could be a simple solution. These machines that are used to keep the mentally competent adult with six months or less to live alive have quite a hefty price tag on them. Although loved ones of families Whigham 4 of dying individuals do not take into account hospital bills, the ill patient is aware of the monetary burden placed on their family after they are gone. cost of maintaining [a dying . . . has been estimated as ranging from about two thousand to ten thousand dollars a (The Right to Assisted Suicide). These terminally ill patients who have accepted their imminent death do not have the option to save their family from the financial debt because they, themselves, have the option to end their own life. If physician-assisted suicide is legalized not only can they ease their suffering, but the financial burden on their family as well. Upon receiving evidence that supports why an assisted law needs to be implemented in several states and countries, the question posed is what can individuals do to assist in a change coming to fruition? The first step in anything is making your voice heard. The statement that competent, terminally ill patients have a right to commit suicide was endorsed by 73 percent of the respondents. Sixty-six percent said that physician-assisted suicide would be ethical in some cases, and 60 percent said it should be legal in some assisted Start by not only educating others on the positive effects that legalizing physician-assisted suicide, but also signing petitions such as those provided by Campaigns like Dignity in Dying and Death with Dignity. By signing these petitions, one becomes more than just an individual with an opinion, but an individual with an opinion and an active voice. These outlets also provide extensive information on the practice as well as testimonies from those who also wish to see a change in the physician-assisted suicide laws. As discussed, legalization of physician-assisted suicide laws are needed now because individuals are not only traveling out of the country to commit suicide, but they are self-medicating and killing themselves without the observance and expertise of a physician. Human beings deserve the right to choose when they die upon receiving a tragic diagnosis. Whigham 5 Despite the arguments against physician-assisted suicide being an unethical practice, there are many more pros associated with the legalization of physician-assisted suicide than there is cons. When considering the effects of physician-assisted suicide, consider how prolonging the life of a terminally individual will affect that final days. These mentally competent individuals on borrowed time simply want to have control over how they die and when they die, considering the inevitable. By enabling them to make that decision, they fall victim to not only continuous suffering, but a lack of dignity in how they leave this world. Like Brittany Maynard, these dying individuals want to make their journey just a little more bearable. The government, nor religious institutions should Impose their conceptions of morality on individuals who are not causing harm to  (Legalize Assisted Suicide). Whigham 6 Works Cited Bever, Lindsey. Brittany Maynard, as Promised, Ends Her Life at  The Washington Post. WP Company, 02 Nov. 2014. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Frellick, Marcia. The Debate of Physician-Assisted Suicide: The Pros and MedScape.org. N.p., 3 Oct. 2016. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Join the  Dignity in Dying. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Legalize Assisted  The Right to Assisted Suicide. Intelligence Debates, n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Legalizing Assisted Suicide - Views of Physicians in Oregon  New England Journal of Medicine. N.p., n.d. Web. 24 Apr. 2017. The Right to Assisted Suicide. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.