Aye Aye Sint ENC-1102 Oana Cimpean 4/30/2017 Project 3: Uses of Solar Energy Solar energy is a renewable energy that converts thermal energy to electrical energy. Solar energy system is the new source of energy that is commonly used in developed countries. Not only in developed countries, the solar technology started to gain popularity in developing countries as well. Use of natural resources such as gasoline and coal are harmful for the environment therefore developed countries are trying to put their effort on solar energy for industrial usage. The uses of solar for domestic and industrial purposes is likely to increase the future due to the benefits and multipurpose usage. Therefore, to increase the growth of solar the solar organization needs to educate, engage and empower especially the business owners to reduce the negative environmental impacts. There are two ways that solar energy generates electricity from the sun: photovoltaic (PV) and solar-thermal technologies. The solar cells are made of silicon that causes electrons to be set into motion which initiates a flow of electricity which is known as The photovoltaic (PV) cells convert sunlight to direct current (DC) electricity. Then the inverter converts DC into AC electricity. The panel converted into power for the uses appliances and machines. The process repeat. The advanced solar system employ trackers which increase the amount of electricity. For solar-thermal technologies uses heat to create steam to drive an electric generator. (Union of Concerned Scientists). According to the article written by Kandpal, it states that training and education about the renewable energy, solar energy is one of the prime importance because most of the people are lack of knowledge and information about solar energy. That is one of the reason that lead for poor dissemination of renewable energy technologies. Therefore, educating about solar energy is one of the most important factors to success in implementing the solar technology development. The specific objective of the solar energy education programed is giving information about the causes of global warming and greenhouse gases, and what are consequences of these affects. Moreover, the program is also intent to help business owners who show their interest in solar energy and renewable energies by providing information about the benefits and advantages of using solar energy through conferences which can inform the basic concepts, detailed models, performance analysis and evaluation about building solar panel at their business. (Kandpal, 2014). Also, SEIA organization launches national education campaign and training about solar panels that offers lectures and practical training to students, young people and business owners who are interested in producing electricity from solar energy and renewable energies. The SEIA organization states that building solar energy around US is possible and really profitable to business because producing electricity from solar energy is affordable to all the business owners as well as it helps them to reduce their electricity bills. Not only on the hot climate but also solar power system can also be built in the cold climates by using and indirect system and system. Properly designed and installed solar power system can provide approximately 40% to 80% of the needs. Also, the uses of solar at the buildings can saved about 54.64% of the electricity cost over span of twenty-five with minimum initial investment. (Kale, Joshi, and Menon, 2016). In addition, it can also reduce LCC of existing building effectively. (Kale, Joshi, and Menon, 2016). In addition, the climate central organization states that using solar helps to reduce the human impacts on climate change by displacing noxious emissions from the uses of natural resources such as coal, oil and natural gas. Using renewable energy also helps to reduce harmful emissions of sulphur dioxide, carbon dioxide and nitrous oxide. Moreover, using solar can reduce 10% electric-power carbon footprint. So, everyone especially business owners should use solar energy in their business as it is environmental friendly and give advantages in their business. In order to reduce the negative impact on environment business owners should built more solar panels. Not only business owner, everyone should involve in building solar panels as well. People who owns farms and lands should use build solar at their places as much as possible. For people, who have farms or lands can use public transport, or using hybrid cars instead of fuel cars. Also, the government should involve in solar energy projects. According to the report made by the Solar Energy Industries Association (SEIA), the uses of solar energy started to develop as it gives advantages to the business owner. Some of the big companies like Walmart, Costco, Apple and etc. are using solar energy and these companies continue to deploy more solar panel in their business, reflecting that their earlier investments are good. So, business owner should continue to install solar and business owners who did not have install yet also should get a good image that the company is environmental friendly. Works Cited Kandpal, Tara C. and Lars Broman. Education: A Global Status Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews, 2014, p.300. EBSCOhost, doi: 10.1016/j.rser.2014.02.039. Magill, B. Health a Key Benefit of Renewables, Study Climate Change Organization. (2015). Nilma N., Kale, Joshi Deepa and Menon Radhika. Cycle Cost Analysis of Commercial Buildings. (2015). Energy Efficient Perspectives in Science, Vol 18, Iss C, Pg 452-454 (2016). Directory of Open Access Journals. Web. 16 April 2017. Solar Energy Industries Association (SEIA). Union of Concerned Scientists