Dor Lotringer Lotringer 1 Karen Hanson, PhD Composition 2 16 April 2017 Testing for drugs in the workplace As a cashier in Matt was not able to articulate the orders that were given to him correctly. During work hours, Matt has been slothful, sluggish, and oblivious around customers and staff. Unfortunate for him, boss noticed his peculiar behavior, and decided to approach him to see what the issue is. As the two began talking, boss began to notice that Matt came to work high on marijuana. boss decided to send him home, which was the acceptable response to the situation. In this scenario, deficiency of responsibility to come to work high caused him to lose his trust and a day of work, but not to lose his job. On the same day, Dave, an is being drug tested monthly and has never used drugs in his life. If Dave was caught high during work hours or found using drugs, he would be fired on the spot. This scenario puts things in perspective because Matt, who works at was not fired for smoking pot, while Dave, the accountant, would be fired if his drug test would come out as positive. which are used often nowadays, can have a negative correlation to the workplace and to the employees on the job. In fact, 65% of all accidents on the jobs are drug and alcohol related More people begin to notice this issue, and plan to address it by placing mandatory drug tests to detect the problem before it These scenarios show that the effect of drug testing vary with each job, but I believe it is still very important to drug test every employee at their respected job, just due to the fact that drug testing in the Lotringer 2 workplace could decrease the likelihood of injuries and mishaps on employees during work, increase revenue to the company, and create a safer environment for all. Drug tests are used by many companies all around the world. When an employee is hired by a company with a drug testing program, it is usually correlated to a urine drug test. drug testing (UDT) is widely used for testing for opioids and illicit drugs. There are two types of UDT: a screening test and a confirmatory test. The screening test uses an immunoassay to look for the parent drug and/or metabolite. Most UDTs screen for marijuana, cocaine, opiates, PCP, amphetamines, while some also test for benzodiazepines and Testing With the use of this test, employers are able to control and maintain a high quality environment at the workplace. addition to promoting a safer, more productive workplace, [Drug can help decrease employee turnover and absenteeism, reduce employer risk, and lower compensation incidence rates, according to Drug Testing Efficacy 2011, [which a recent poll conducted by The Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) and the Drug and Alcohol Testing Industry Drug and Alcohol Testing Industry Association (DATIA) was founded in 1995 and has grown to represent over 1500 member companies, and expanded its scope. DATIA now represents the entire spectrum of drug and alcohol service providers including collection sites, laboratories, consortiums/TPAs, MROs, and testing equipment Datia specializes in being cooperate with other entities, organizations, and service providers involved with or affected by drug and alcohol testing on common interests and concerns, including but not limited to, substance abuse professionals, substance abuse program Lotringer 3 administrators, employee assistance professionals, Medical Review Officers, testing laboratories and employer trade With Datia, companies are able to incorporate drug testing strategies into their cooperation without the need to experiment ways and without the need to waste money on mistakes, DATIA has all the resources needed for a company to properly drug test every employee without utilizing too much from the budget. The main argument against drug testing is the claim that drug testing is an invasion of privacy. This claim is understandable but incorrect due to the fact that there is a set legislation all across the U.S that protects companies who choose to drug test their employees. true to say that as long as all policies are laid out before the drug tests and the consequences of a positive drug test is positioned and given to all employees, there will be no employee that can legally sue their employers for invasion of privacy or discrimination against them due to the clear rules that was posed and shown to them before their drug test was taken and before they decided to take it and fail it with or without warning beforehand Some impacts that engage employees to take their drug tests include the causes of drug abuse at work like Tardiness/sleeping on the job, After-effects of substance use (hangover, withdrawal) affecting job performance, Poor decision making, Loss of efficiency, Theft, Lower morale of coworkers and so much more! There is no reason to why an employee will not engage and perform their tests after these causes are presented. Empowering companies to drug test their employees can go a long way. By pushing the movement of drug testing, people are able to feel safer coming to work, people are safer because they cannot use drugs, and people are sharper because they put their focus on their Lotringer 4 jobs rather than be high on drugs. To learn more about this issue and on how you can make a difference at your workplace, visit to review and retain internal or external legal counsel specializing in drug testing and to review drug and alcohol testing laws in the states. Donations are also accepted, which will the growth and advancement of DATIA members by expanding opportunities for professional development through To conclude, drug testing is vital for a functional and safe workplace. It is crucial to understand that with a safer, more enjoyable environment, change must occur. If an employee being drug tested, the risk of a hazard multiplies, and stopping a problem before it occurs can save lives. As companies attempt to make the change, important to remember the positive impact that drug tests provide, and how it could change the way you work and live. For more information about drug testing, or for more information on how you can help or donate, visit to follow up on guidelines and laws provided by the state, as well as professional help to how companies can maximize opportunities by drug testing their employees.. The use of drug testing has a positive impact, and the decisions made that can turn horrific future events into a safe and sustainable workplace for all. Lotringer 5 Works Cited Current, William F. Drug Testing: How Both Employers and Employees  N.p., 12 Dec. 2002. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. Cholakis, Peter N., and Roger Bruce. Drug testing in the  Professional Safety 52.7 (2007): 31. DiThomas, Melissa. Drug Testing Promotes Workplace  Occupational Health and Safety. 01 Oct. 2012. Web. 29 Apr. 2017 International Labour Organization. Clean: Drug and Alcohol Testing in the , 01 Sept. 2006. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. Macdonald, Scott, and Paul Roman, eds. Drug testing in the workplace. Vol. 11. Springer Science & Media, 2012. Pre Employment Drug Testing Why Drug Test in the  Medical Disposables. YouTube, 21 Apr. 2014. Web. 09 Apr. 2017.