Santos ! 1 Jordan Santos Mr. Spencer ENC 1102 30 April 2017 Effects of Anesthesia on Human Body Medicine is a big part of all societies and will only continue tho show its importance throughout times. People rely on medicine to take care of their common cold or any other common infectious virus we all get very once in awhile. Although they take care of common bumps in the road of life but they also take care of our bigger concerns like cancer and malaria. Medicine has saved many lives in our time with our advances for people that have been so lucky in earlier times. Thats why medicine is so important it gives us longer lives to fulfill our goals and dreams like seeing our future kids grow up and have kids of their own. Medicine provides most of us with that time and makes it comfortable along with it. With that being said there is one key component medicine has given us that is very important in major surgeries and postoperative that makes most practices humane and bearable is anesthesia. It is a important piece to medicine but this piece is causing serious side effects in the human body. Anesthesia is propelling medicine but is causing harm in many people and AnesthesiaAwareness group is trying to bring light to this problem and is asking for your help to fund and continue research. To continue, the focus of this topic is how anesthesia is affecting the human body as well as cognitive brain function. These effects are becoming quite serious including reoccurrence of cancer and postoperative dysfunction in the elderly population as well as young children (Ologunde and Ma 152). Case number have been increasing with annual yearly reports including Santos ! 2 the number of side effects being linked with anesthesia. From the information done by researchers the problem anesthesia is causing is increasing and shows only numbers increasing every year if some sort of solution found (Lee et. al 54). That is why the topic is becoming some of what of an importance in the medical field because of the role anesthesia has on medicine and what it does to the help the people. Anesthesia makes procedures bearable and humane. A person could only imagine what would be felt during a procedure without the use of anesthesia. Also possible psychological effects it may have on someone if a procedure was not used with anesthesia during and after a possible knee replacement. Anesthesia allows these procedures to go smoothly and allow it to be possible to find exactly what is wrong with people so doctors can solve the problem and save lives (Sellbrant et. al 43). That is why research is being done to find a possible solution and is being constantly funded. One possible solution is already in animal trial and is currently under research. The solution is called GTS-21 which has already proven to show no side effects in current animal trials (Kong et. al 257). There are several alternatives and initiatives heading toward the direction of finding a solution. Furthermore, this issue is important because it effects everyone immediately. This could save friends, family, and even children unnecessary pain from postoperative side effects. Something that is helping our families and friends get better hurt them later on after surgery. Anesthesia is causing side effects several months after surgery and torturing patients with a set of new problems(Ishizawa). Society have to worry about this problem since this research will make people avoid surgery all together. That will lead to more problems and increase deaths in the community that is why everyone should be concerned about this topic due to the fact previously stated it affects all of us first hand. No person should have to worry about anything Santos ! 3 after surgery due to anesthesia and get surprised after a successful surgery. That is why it is important for everyone to get involved and help raise awareness to this topic. If everyone pitches in we can raise funding for research to speed up the process of finding a solution. Nobody should have to take the risk of getting side effects from anesthesia after a major surgery. That is why it your duty to help keep this topic relevant and not forgotten this could one day help your or anyone close to you safe. Lastly, the people being raised to awareness of this topic and also the people who are raising awareness should be empowered to make the difference for the help some people need. Due to the fact the case numbers of side effects are raising everyday meeting, protests, and visits to hospitals and other establishments are available to the people. The AneasthesiaAwareness group is constantly scheduling functions, protest, and meetings all around the major cities in the United States for people who want to become active in this group and topic. People can find all the information online just by searching the groups name and a website will guide you to anything you are interested in getting involved with. It is important to the group to have as many people involved as possible so the government and hospitals will take action due to the people concern. In conclusion, anesthesia has brought the reality of medical advancements and procedures to help many people all across the world. The world will not be what it is today without it but a change needs to be made due to the recent fluctuation of case numbers with side effects due to the fact of anesthesia. People must be aware of this problem since anesthesia is a necessity and is commonly used in all procedures and surgeries on the medical field. Action must be taken by joining groups who are involved in this topic who are working to help researchers find a solution or possible protocols concerning the use of anesthesia. This is topic is important to all of us and Santos ! 4 as a society as a whole because we deserve to have the luxury of medicine in our lives. Look for a way so you get involved because with odds increasing this could affect you personally. Works Cited Fei-Juan Kong, MD, Lei-Lei Ma, MD, Hong-Hai Zhang, PhD, and Jia-Qiang Zhou, 7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor agonist GTS-21 mitigates isoflurane-induced cognitive impairment in aged of Surgical web. Rele Ologunde, Daqing inhalational anesthetics cause cognitive Anaesthesiologica web. UnCheol Lee a, George A. Mashour b, Seunghwan Kim c,*, Gyu-Jeong Noh d, Byung-Moon Choi induction reduces the capacity for neural information integration: Implications for the mechanism of consciousness and general and cognition journal web. Sellbrant , M. Brattwall , P. , M. Warren-Stomberg , S. Forsberg , J.G. Jakobsson. and analgesics; neurocognitive effects, organ protection and cancer reoccurrence an Journal of 41-46 web. Ishizawa, of anesthetic actions and the of (2007),Vol.21, issue 2, p:187-199 web. Santos ! 5