Fernandez 1 Ashley Fernandez Professor Fenell ENC 1102 13 April 2017 Go Pro-Vaccination Death and disease, the two scariest things to people. Without vaccinations, those two things can be a common occurrence. Vaccinations are known to prevent harmful diseases that could potentially end a life. It is most important to start vaccinations at a very young age so the body can become immune to certain diseases. The best choice as a parent, is to vaccinate their children. Although there are many misconceptions about the side effects of vaccinations, all have been researched and proven to be wrong. Vaccinating children at a young age has many benefits so all parents should make the healthy choice for their children, it could be as easy as going to a local clinic. Vaccinations are used to protect the community as a whole from harmful disease. Many are confused about how they actually work and if there really is any harmful side effects. Vaccinations work with the natural way of defense to form an immunity to certain diseases (CDC). Once germs enter the body, the body uses its immune system to fight off the infectious germs. The body is left with cells that are able to recognize and kill the germs before it does harm to the body. help develop immunity by imitating an infection, but this  infection does not cause illness. It does, however, cause the immune system to develop the same response as it does to a real infection so the body can recognize and fight the vaccine-preventable disease in the future. Sometimes, after getting a vaccine, the imitation Fernandez 2 infection can cause minor symptoms, such as fever. Such minor symptoms are normal and should be expected as the body builds (CDC). It is most important to start a child on vaccines at a very young age. Although it may be painful as a parent to see newborn baby getting poked with needles, it will make the child healthier and may also save its life. Just like any medicine, vaccinations have some minor side effects. The side effects of vaccinations are very minor and treatable but the disease the vaccine would prevent has major side effects that may not be able to be treated. The side effects after a vaccination may only last a few days after it is administered. If a child has an allergic reaction, there are doctors and nurses who will know exactly how to treat it. The effects of the vaccination do not compare to the disease it is trying to prevent. Choosing to vaccinate early can prevent serious illnesses. Diseases that were once common in the United States including polio, measles, diphtheria, whooping cough, German measles, mumps, tetanus, rotavirus and type b (Hib) are now rare and preventable with the use of vaccinations (CDC). Over the years, vaccines have saved millions of lives. Getting a child vaccinated is not only helping he/she become more healthy but also creating a healthier environment at schools and daycare centers. children vaccinated, they can spread disease to other children who are too young to be vaccinated or to people with weakened immune systems, such as transplant recipients and people with cancer. This could result in long-term complications and even death for these vulnerable (Vaccine Information). A common misconception about vaccination includes people believing that since these diseases are no longer found in the United States that they do not need to vaccinate their child. This belief has been proven wrong by the fact that travelers can mistakenly bring the disease with them back into the United States. If the Fernandez 3 community is not protected, this could cause an epidemic and infect many people. Although the chances of this happening is small one should still be vaccinated for two reasons. The first, is to promise oneself and their children a healthy lifestyle, and second is to protect those around the community. is a small number of people who cannot be vaccinated, and a small percentage of people respond to vaccines. These people are susceptible to disease, and their only hope of protection is that people around them are immune and cannot pass disease on to them. A successful vaccination program, like a successful society, depends on the cooperation of every individual to ensure the good of (WHO). Making the choice to get vaccinated is easier than most people think. The process is quite simple. First, one must prepare the child and prepare to keep documentation of all vaccines required. Second, one must find a clinic or make an appointment with their pediatrician. If one does not have a primary source of care, there are many federally funded centers that can help. These federally funded centers allow one to pay what they are able to, based on their income. To find a center one may simply look online or ask a local hospital. Finally, when getting vaccinations one must be prepared with questions for the doctor and how to follow the vaccination guide and continue to protect their child from harmful diseases. Vaccinations are used to make a better, happier, and healthier community. They are used to work with the natural ways the body heals itself. Although there are many misunderstandings about how they work and what side effects they can cause, it has been proven that vaccinations are generally safe to use. Not only are they safe to use but they are recommended in order to keep the community as a whole healthy. Receiving vaccinations can be as easy as making an Fernandez 4 appointment with a local clinic. Making the decision to vaccinate a child at a young age can possibly save its life as well as giving the child a better and healthier life. Fernandez 5 Works Cited Importance of  Basics - Importance of N.p., n.d. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. Six Common Misconceptions about  World Health Organization, n.d. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. Getting  U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, 11 Oct. 2006. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. Why  for Disease Control and Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 10 Mar. 2017. Web. 17 Apr. 2017.