Khlebnikov 1 Oleg Khlebnikov Madeline Gottlieb ENC 1102 09 April 2017 Eating Disorders Eating disorders are anomalous mind-sets towards food, which include overeating or deliberate and extreme reduction of food partitions for individual reasons. These aspects influence mental, social, and physical perspectives. These unhealthy decisions and behaviors may have extreme outcomes. As indicated by late reviews directed in regards to this topic, teenagers form the largest portion of individuals with eating disorders (Smith and Segal 2). While some of these young people may embrace these strange dietary patterns because of discomfort about their body shape or weight, others use food to comfort themselves in terms of harsh conditions in their social or scholarly lives. Different components can bring about this well-being complication. This is on the grounds that specific viewpoints are persuasive in choice to ingest certain food. Such influential elements include: peer pressure, family standards, social practices, accessibility of various foodstuffs, and desires (Smith and Segal 3). However, media is the most important factor that offers a lot of a great deal of beauty and thinness on TV and magazines that are seen by many individuals every day. It is a common desire to look like a model or an actress; but, as a general rule, it simply will not occur for the majority. Abuse, regardless of whether it be physical, emotional, or sexual, can likewise add to the development of an eating disorder (Brown 1). Such mistreatment to victims can leave them with an absence of trust and low self-regard. A negative relationship a person has with others is additionally a Khlebnikov 2 contributing variable to disordered eating habits. The world is competitive to the point that any mention from parents, family, co-workers, or any noteworthy others about a weight or appearance can prompt to the onset of an eating disorder. Millions of people suffer from different types of eating disorders in the US Our ). Following the dream of a perfect body, weight, and shapes, those plagued with eating disorders can ultimately damage their own well-being. It is not right to let people starve themselves to death for a little satisfaction on the outside, because the look of a person on the inside is the thing that truly matters. Many people put their appearance on the first place, which sometimes leads to an eating disorders and, as a result, serious health problems. According to the founder and president of Disorder Hope & Addiction Lynn Grefe, disturbances may include inadequate or excessive food intake which can ultimately damage an well-being. Anorexia can have damaging health effects, such as brain damage, multi-organ failure, bone loss, heart difficulties, and infertility. The risk of death is highest in individuals with this (Ekern). The degree and seriousness of eating disorders are frequently misjudged, because they are serious illnesses, and not a life decision. Even more, anorexia has the most astounding death rate of any emotional instability. In a national review, four out of ten individuals revealed that they either endured or have known somebody who has experienced an eating disorder Our ). There is a noteworthy absence of subsidizing to battle eating disorders and their devastating outcomes. Subsequently, an excessive number of people and families are left feeling helpless, hopeless and frightened, since there is an absence of support and financing to battle dietary problems and their results. To battle the issue and to help the victims, organizations such as NEDA have been made. NEDA, National Eating Disorder Association, is a non-benefit Khlebnikov 3 association in the United States that defends and helps individuals influenced by eating disorders. The organization supports everybody influenced by the issue, and strives to give assistance to individuals in need. First, they help with a diagnosis, which is only the first step towards recovery from an eating disorder. From that point onward, they provide a combination of psychological and nutritional guiding, along with medical and psychiatric monitoring. They believe that treatment must address the eating disorder symptoms and medical outcomes, as well as psychological, biological, interpersonal, and cultural forces that contribute to or maintain the eating disorder NEDA sees a world without eating disorders. By doing research and campaigns, they prevent eating disorders, enhance access to quality treatment, and ensure that people are aware of and comprehend the issues, for example, anorexia or bulimia (Bell). NEDA also creates projects and instruments to help everybody who look for help. One of these projects is the NEDA Network. It is a coordinated effort amongst NEDA and other similarly invested associations committed to the cause. Together, they provide a unified voice of strength, advocacy and support in the battle against eating disorders. Associations that join the NEDA Network keep up their own names and identities, however they become a part of the NEDA family that treat very broad group of eating disorder victims. Eating disorders were once thought to affect only a narrow portion of the population in the teens and early twenties, however now they affect people of every age, race, gender and socio-economic status At the point when a person encounters an eating disorder their lives are turned upside down and the physical and mental effect is wrecking. This staggering effect does not stop at the individual who is affected. Close family and friends frequently end up sharing the rollercoaster ride of feelings that go with an eating disorders. Often Khlebnikov 4 the whole family cooperates to provide the necessary care and support to help a friend or family member through their eating disorder. This can happen to anyone, the United States, 20 million women and 10 million men suffer from a clinically significant eating disorder at some time in their Everything can trigger an eating disorder, for example: moving to a different city or country, a death in the family, getting a new job or parents getting separated can be contributions to an eating disorder. These moves can be considered contributing components because they cause stress and depression. Eating disorders have long and short impacts. Cases of short impacts are, dehydration, electrolyte imbalances, dry hair and skin, bruising or swelling and hyperactivity. These are just a couple of many impacts of this life threatening disorder. Long term effects incorporate hypotension or hypertension, diabetes, kidney or liver infection and failure, slowed heart rate, paralysis, and eventually death (Simon). It is very important to know for a young generation, because typically everything develops in adolescence. Along these lines, if young people aware about the warning signs and hazard variables they may realize that they or somebody they know has a dietary problem. These diseases are destructive and can cause the victims to fight for their lives even after they do not practice the eating disorder anymore. Eating disorders are life threatens yet have a number or cautioning signs. Many individuals do not know that February 23 - March 1 is an annual event, called National Eating Disorder Awareness Week. This week is essential because it prevents eating disorders and self-perception issues while reducing the shame encompassing eating disorders and enhancing access to treatment. Talking about event, Beating Eating Disorder website, that took participation in says, is possible, and a chance of making a full Khlebnikov 5 and sustained recovery is greater if they can quickly get into treatment that will address the thoughts and feelings that cause the eating Disorder Awareness People usually do not see eating disorder as a serious issue, and it feels like a major reason is because they are misjudged, but in reality it is a steadily developing epidemic. Many do not know about what number of around them could experience the ill effects of this infection, and according to Bob Bordonaro, is a terrifying disease, but only 10 cases have been reported in the U.S. Two people have died. In contrast, as many as 24 million Americans have eating Disorders, A Silent Every member of the family may be suffering from an eating disorder. It is a secret that is protected, and hidden with fears of judgment and disgrace. According to Jenni Schaefer, is painstaking to reach out and ask for help, admit your struggles, and find faith in yourself. However, in doing all these things, you will be empowering yourself to find true freedom and a life always Believing in yourself and letting The time has come to break down the walls. The time has come to fight for those suffering from an eating disorder, and additionally teach the individuals who do not know how serious of an issue this might be. Eating disorders can be hard to understand, however they influence a large number of individuals, therefore dialogues must begun. Media stereotypes and the messages we send to the young population must be sent. This epidemic will just keep on getting more awful, unless people become more aware on this issue and increase their awareness. According to Anne Becker, M.D. and Ph.D. in health area, have repeatedly shown that early intervention leads to better treatment Young kids are not invulnerable to this ailment. There are patients who have stated that their eating disorders began as young as the age of 5 (Jadallah). Kids with anorexia Khlebnikov 6 frequently do not feel well, they experience the ill effects of migraines, dizziness, and concentration difficulties, likewise they may end up withdrawn and moody (Lyness). For kids with bulimia, the most serious problem is that their purging means a loss of potassium, an important nutrient (Lyness). Potassium is found in foods such as bananas, tomatoes, beans, and melons. Too little potassium can lead to dangerous heart problems (Lyness). People with bulimia also may damage their stomachs and kidneys and have constant stomach pain (Lyness). How could these kids figure out how to hate their bodies? How would they figure out how to damage themselves in such a harmful way? Information about this issue must spread; people can not remain silent any more. The time has come to talk up, to learn, develop, and confront this issue. For somebody experiencing an eating disorder, it might feel like being shutted down. By speaking about eating disorders and lessening the disgrace related with them, people can fight with an issue and make a difference. Because only together, with the family, friends, specialists and dietitians, as a team, individuals can help a person accomplish the goals of achieving a healthy weight, following a nutritious diet, and feeling good about himself or herself again. Individuals require acknowledgment, love, and trust, as well as victims of an eating disorders require support. By making them talk and feel safe, people can help those in need. World could be a better place if one day people will live in a general public where our shape and weight are not what characterize us. Khlebnikov 7 Works Cited Brown, Howard A. Eating Disorders Anorexia Bulimia Compulsive  N.p., 22 July 2006. Web. 9 Apr. 2017.  Eating Disorders N.p., n.d. Web. 9 Apr. 2017. Ekern, Jacquelyn. Eating Disorders: Causes, Symptoms, Signs & Treatment  Disorder N.p., 19 Apr. 2014. Web. 9 Apr. 2017. Jadallah, Priscilla. A Call To ACTION: National Eating Disorder  To Becoming N.p., 14 Feb. 2014. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Kids and Eating  Ed. Lyness. The Nemours Foundation, July 2015. Web. 25 Apr. 2017. Our  Eating Disorders N.p., n.d. Web. 9 Apr. 2017. Simon, Harvey. Bulimia In-Depth  New York N.p., 8 Mar. 2013. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Smith, Melinda, and Jeanne Segal. Eating Disorder Treatment and  N.p., 5 Feb. 2015. Web. 09 Apr. 2017.  Eating Disorders N.p., n.d. Web. 9 Apr. 2017.