Thomas1 Curtis Thomas Professor ENC 1102 4/16/2017 Animal Cloning Scientist today want to make the world a better place by incorporating science with changing the world but at what cost? Scientist big idea is to change the world with the recreation process. Next to animals are the most amazing things on planet earth even though being caged up in zoos and hunted into extension. Animal cloning and testing is happening a lot today scientist are trying to find ways to save animals the animals and take them out of extension of The A lot of people know these tests and trying to find ways for the cloning process to work is harming to the animals. To shed light on this issue about the animal cloning process and taking endangered animals out of their habits. Friends of The Earth and The Black Jaguar White Tiger organization has been recognizing this issue and have been protesting and even taking animals and putting them in an animal sanctuary so that they go into extension over science. The Friends of The Earth association tackled this issue by protesting and Thomas2 holding rallies like the Are People giving people the knowledge of what these scientists are doing. According to Andrew Blackman one of the spokesman for Friends of The Earth, scientist have hunted animals to help them with their experiments (6), and even taken endangered animals out of their habits to help with their testing There are more than 41,415 species on the IUCN Red List and 16,306 of them are endangered species on the verge of extension this is up from the number last year which was 16,118 and that was animals alone not plants. Doing testing on these animals trying to perfect the cloning process stresses the animals out, their hearts take it and the end results are death but that stop them they take the bodies of the dead animals and still run test on the animals (Carter). These actions are happening a lot but in secret. The media is not touching on the topic of the animal abductions and killings. However,The endangerment act protects animals keeps people from hurting or killing endangered animals. But this stop scientist from abducting them in secret and taking them to do testing. Scientist hire people to take certain animals out of captivity making it appears they want to help but realistically the animals are taken back so that they can be tested on for cloning. As scientist feel they are getting closer and closer to perfecting the cloning method, more and more animals are being hunted and taken for testing many animals like the tiger and the rhino are Thomas3 going into extension Christine). Many zoo and amusement parks that hold wild life have secretly teamed up with scientist so after the animals die because of the mistreat they send the dead body of the animals to the lab so that they can run test. Many scientist use this as an excuse to work on the animals just because dead. Many people focus on the fact that scientist are working toward the cloning process to see if it could be beneficial to humans. When running test on living animals it is very harmful on these animals because of the different difficulties like the heart, lungs and immune system. According to Gina Kolkata of the New York Times in 1997 they successful cloned a sheep named Dolly but they discuss the outcome the original sheep died because the test was too stressful and the clone lived only for four weeks(Kolkata). Why would we want to experiment and try to clone humans when this experiment is hurting animals? Cloning affects animal welfare and promotes intensive farming practices and the commodification of animals. Many feel that cloning is or is Problems can occur with cloning far more often than with any other method of reproduction Large Offspring Syndrome, a typically fatal condition associated with a host of abnormalities, occurs in over 50% of animal clones, but in fewer than 6% of conventionally bred animals. Hydrops, another typically fatal condition in which the animal swells with fluid, Thomas4 occurs in 28% of animal clones, but very rarely otherwise. Cloned animals suffer from respiratory distress; hypoglycemia; weakened immune systems; developmental problems; deformities including squashed faces, contracted tendons, and limbs that bend the wrong way; malformed livers, kidneys, or hearts; and a variety of ailments that claim the lives of approximately one-third of neonates. Despite years of research, over 95% of cloning attempts fail, even with extensive veterinary intervention. Finally, Scientist are trying to go the extra mile to clone extinct animals. Reviving the mammoth could help slow climate change by shifting the landscape back toward the grasslands. twice as much carbon at risk in the tundra than in all the forests of the world put (Clark). And this could be a good thing but what about the saber tooth tiger these pre-historic animals that their trying to clone could kill off some of the species we have now. Also, the world has changed bringing back these animals could be detrimental because of the climate and the world is being destroyed so there a lot of areas were these animals can live. While many people might think that the cloning process is a sure way to stop extinction we should protest to stop animal cloning. Because of so many failed attempts to clone hard to hear about cloning because so many people are against it. The best solution to this solution is for us to act and protest the vial Thomas5 nature of cloning. The Friends of The Earth association holds rallies to try to shed light on this issue so that scientist can stop these experiments. As citizens, we need to stop hurting the animals and help them to stop becoming endangered and to help them get out of extinction, and by doing this you can make an impact to our planet and make an impact on saving the animals. We need to go to the people in congress to get bills passed for animal cloning so that we can stop the mistreatment of animal kind. Kjd jfksjfa kjlsadjflsdj kfjsdjfksdj kjsladsjk kjalsdfjsdj ksjaljdjsdkj sdjajdskjs kjds djvvs sdkj skkj klfkj vkjkfak kjsakj kafjj akfjkjksdj kjksjj kjdfkjsv dkjsfjaksdj dskjakfjasdk fjkfajj kajkjd fkjfkjadk dkfjakfjk adkfjafkjk dkjfkdfj kjkkdfj dskakfjdfkj sakjdkfj dkfjadfkj akfjkfjkdj aakjkfjkdja kjakjgjksa kkjdskfjds akdsfjsdkjs kdjaskfjsdfj kjdkfjskjkj kjkdjkgjkfdj ksjkjkfjk jdksgjkgjkfdj kjkjfdkj dskjdkjfgkfdg dsjgkgjsfd skjfkgjkfgj slkfgjkfgj ksjgkjgsfg skjfkgjkfjs jkgjkfskf skjkfgjkfgj skkfgjkfgjk skjgkfjkfjs skjkjfkj snsjkjfkjdkj kfkdsjkfjgdfjs skjfkkfj skjkkdk kskjfkkfd kjskjgkfk ksgjlkfkfj kjsgkfjgkj skjkfgjkdfgj fkjdkgjdkfj dskjfkgj ksjkjfkj sgjfkgjsk skgjlgjdk kjdjfkdsj kjkdjsfkj kjdksjsk sdkjfksjd sdkfjsdkfjdsk kkdsfk dskfkdfk skfsfjksdj skjdksjk kjfksfjk ksjdjfksdjfk kjsdkjfskdj ksjfkdjk kskfdjkdsj kskfjskdfjskd kjjd Thomas6 Work Cited Bullard, Christine. Cloning =  Compassion in World Farming. N.p., 9 Mar. 2015. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. <https://www.ciwf.org.uk/our-campaigns/cloning/>. Medicine, Center For Veterinary. Animal  U S Food and Drug Administration Home Page. Center for Veterinary Medicine, 08 Jan. 2014. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. <https://www.fda.gov/AnimalVeterinary/SafetyHealth/AnimalCloning/default.htm>. Zimmer, Carl, John Williams, The New York Times, Joanna Klein, Owen Guo, Michael Roston, Nathaniel Rich, Retro Report, Nicholas Wade, Andrew Pollack, and Gina Kolata.  The New York Times. The New York Times, 21 Mar. 2017. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. <https://www.nytimes.com/topic/subject/cloning>. Association, Source: Press. Video: Anti-cloning Campaigners Protest in Cameron  The Guardian. Guardian News and Media, 06 Aug. 2010. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. <https://www.theguardian.com/uk/video/2010/aug/06/animal-research-animal-welfare>. Thomas7 Blackman, Andrew. Fast Facts About Animal Cloning : End Animal Cloning. N.p., 6 Aug. 2013. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. <http://friendsoftheearth.org/factsaboutanimalcloning.shtml>.