Calderon 1 Sergio Calderon Ms. Madeline Gottlieb ENC 1102 8 April 2017 The Declawing of Cats The Paw Project is an organization Founded by Dr. Jennifer Conrad that advocates legislation for banning cat declawing in the United States. The Paw Project take donations on their website, and they also have videos of what exactly declawing is and how the procedure is conducted. They even have their own documentary, whose filmmaker is Dr. Jennifer Conrad herself, and it talks about the negative impacts of cat declawing. This organization believes that declawing is morally wrong to do to a cat, and that it is inhumane. Declawing is essentially when the claws are surgically removed so that they will not become a problem to the cat owner. There are some reasons why individuals permanently remove the claws, and one reason is that the cat can damage the furniture by scratching it until it is ruined. This is further explained by Laura E. Lockhart who has done research on this topic, and she states: most common indication for performing onychectomy (declawing) is unwanted scratching behavior causing personal injury or property (Lockhart). These are the main reasons why cat owners declaw their cats, so that the furniture can be protected and for their own protection against scratching, however just because cats do not necessarily have a voice in the matter, that does not mean that the cat approves of it. Declawing a wild or a domestic cat is in fact morally wrong, inhumane, and a form of animal cruelty. Calderon 2 There was an academic journal written by Nadine Dolby of Purdue University who has done countless research on animals in education. In this journal, there was a quote from Friends Animal that states: is the amputation of each toe at the first joint. In humans, it would be equivalent to cutting off the tip of every finger at the first knuckle very painful, indeed. If performed on a human, this operation would be considered a (Dolby 8). This explains one of the reasons why this operation is inhumane, because declawing is not just a manicure, it is an amputation of the first joint bones in each finger of the paw, and on humans it would be similar to cutting of the tips off of each finger in the hand, and it would be just as painful. There are certain ranges of pain that a cat can feel after being declawed as explained by Deborah V. Wilson who states: of pain scores range from a score equal to the highest possible score (Carroll et al. 1998) to an average of <14% of the maximum possible score (Mison et al. 2002). A consensus opinion on the optimal analgesic strategy with which to manage pain in cats undergoing onychectomy is essential information for the clinicians caring for (Wilson 6). That is exactly what is going on when felines are getting their claws removed, but people still do it. Imagine another human being having their first knuckle bones in each finger removed permanently. Imagine how difficult life would be if part of a anatomy (first knuckle bone), which is essential for basic tasks, was altered without their discretion. Cat owners declaw their cats for several reasons one for example is explained by Nadine Dolby who says: the veterinary profession developed new preventative medicines that could be used to control fleas and mites, cats (and dogs) moved indoors, living with their human families. natural need and instinct to scratch drew them (and their claws) to furniture and couches, which became a nuisance for (Dolby 8). Cats do have a tendency to scratch things and end up ruining furniture, which is understandable why this would be a nuisance for people, but it is not right to have the cat go Calderon 3 through this horrible procedure because some furniture was ruined. The procedure of declawing or Onychectomy, is explained by Sylvie Cloutier who studied at the College of Veterinary Medicine at Washington State University. She also works at the Center for the Study of Animal Well-being, and she states: Onychectomy consists of removal of the third digital phalanx from the digits using a scalpel, a guillotine-type nail clipper (Fossum, 2002) or carbon dioxide laser (Mison et al., 2002 ; Young, 2002). Digital flexor tenectomy involves severing the deep digital flexor tendon, which is needed to flex the phalanx. Claws remain retracted after the deep digital flexor tendons have been severed (Fossum, 2002), thereby preventing cats from using them. (cloutier 327) This shows that declawing is not as simple as a cat getting a manicure, it is a surgical procedure that in essence causes a mutilation in the paws. Cats who have been declawed not only experience the pain in which they recently had their claws removed, but they have the potential to experience pain long term as well. Dr. Conrad explains that one of these long terms effects is abnormal posture, and she elaborates on this by explaining: pad is often displaced backwards, toward the rear of the foot, allowing the weight of the body to push the end of the second toe bone (second phalanx, or p2), through the thinned tissue on the underside of the foot. These complications may occur in combination, invariably resulting in great pain for the animal to stand or (Conrad). Do to these effects, declawed cats are put through unnecessary pain and suffering, which makes the act of declawing a form of animal cruelty. She talks more about these long term effects by saying: compensate for the pain in their tender paws, cats will attempt to shift their weight farther back on their feet, Calderon 4 in effect walking on their wrists The stresses caused by the abnormal posture and movement, may produce arthritis in the legs, which, in turn, may cripple the cat further and cause it more the Paw It does not make sense to put a cat through great pain long term just because some furniture was ruined. The result of the mutilation in the paws creates a traumatic experience for the cat and chronic pain. There need to be something done about this predicament because felines both wild and domestic, are being declawed every day, and many of them are suffering because of it. A claws are an important part of their anatomy and if you take them out, it will hurt the cat both short term and long term. One can go visit the Paw Project website and on their home page, there is a link that allows people to donate to the Paw Project and their endeavors to prevent declawing. Even a penny from each person can make a huge difference and greatly support this organization and its goals to stop declawing. Donate now! And support the Paw Project so that they will be more capable of helping felines both wild and domestic that have suffered from declawing, and preventing other cats from being declawed. All it takes is donations and some self-awareness. A better alternative if the owner is so concerned about the furniture and their own protection, is to trim the claws at least once every few months so that the cat does not cause damage due to scratching. With this option, the cat will not experience the negative impacts of declawing, and it would save the owner money by not having to remove the claws permanently by paying for the surgical procedure to be done. If cat owners have problems with their feline friend when it comes to scratching, the better and more humane solution would be to take the time and trim the claws every ones in a while. It is not worth the money or worth the cat experiencing the negative impact of declawing. Just because cats are not able to speak up, that does not mean that they do not have a voice in the matter. Calderon 5 Works Cited Conrad, Jennifer. ABOUT THE PAW  About The Paw Project. GoDaddy.com, LLC, 24 Feb. 2003. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Cloutier, Sylvie, et al. Behavioural Signs of Postoperative Pain in Cats Following Onychectomy or Tenectomy  Applied Animal Behaviour Science, vol. 92, 01 Jan. 2005, pp. 325-335. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.applanim.2004.11.009. Dolby, Nadine1. The Paw  Critical Education 6.23 (2015): 1-14. Education Source. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. Lockhart, Laura E, et al. Research Paper: Prevalence of Onychectomy in Cats Presented for Veterinary Care near Raleigh, NC and Educational Attitudes toward the  Veterinary Anaesthesia and Analgesia, vol. 41, 01 Jan. 2014, pp. 48-53. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1111/vaa.12077. Wilson, Deborah V. and Peter J. Pascoe. Pain and Analgesia Following Onychectomy in Cats: A Systematic  Veterinary Anaesthesia & Analgesia, vol. 43, no. 1, Jan. 2016, p.5. Calderon 6