Alhail 1 Abdulla Alhail Mariama Changamire ENC 1102.105S17 20/04/2017 Marijuana Legalization Marijuana is the third most famous drug around the world, especially in America which has been used by nearly 100 million people (Adler and Colbert, 2013). Despite the harsh law in America, there are 25 million people who are still using marijuana in the past 2 decades and almost 14 million people are using it regularly (Hari, 2017). The theme of this thesis is to promote the use of marijuana and eliminate the negative narrative among people. Cooper et al. (2016) states that most of the people think that marijuana is a harmful for human health as other drugs like alcohol and cigarettes. There is evidence from the theoretical that marijuana is not good for human health and also turned a person into a delirious rage when person can lose the power of connected thought (Anderson et al., 2012). On other hand there is a scientific evidence which states that the use of cannabis is much safer than alcohol and cigarettes which kills almost 40,000 people every year only in the US, whereas the cannabis recorded no deaths (Hari, 2017). Several countries around the world has already banned marijuana and classify it as an illegal drug. The use of cannabis consumption is only allowed to use by the adults and it is an irresponsible act if the cannabis is provided to the child. There are several benefits recorded with the use of cannabis. The majority of people around the world possessed the narrative image of cannabis as harmful and dangerous to the health; however, people effects from the cannabis are not even visible as compare to other unhealthy activities and use of drug such as alcohol, cigarettes and others. Therefore, people perception about the use of marijuana is changing drastically in last few years. In America, there are a large number of states who allowed legal use of medical marijuana laws. Despite these evidence and the famous drug elements at financial sector, the world has not yet acknowledged the legitimacy of marijuana (Rodgers, 2010). Moreover, Cooper et al. (2016) describes the legal use of marijuana around different states in the America which are not increased the level of drug users. Therefore, marijuana should be legalized in the United States as it will bring positive impact to the economy as well as health. People need to be more educated about the use of legal marijuana which is not harmful as compare to other harmful products people are using regularly. People should also participate with the marijuana discussion and this will certainly help the people to acquire more knowledge about marijuana use. The news has been dominant for a long-time period that marijuana is a drug which has harmful effect on human health. This has led to many people trouble in accepting the fact that the plant also demonstrated a significant level of medical effects as well (Adler and Colbert, 2013). Alhail 2 Recently, a medical opinion has emerged which found shifted their policy toward the use of marijuana and this also seen in a mostly conservative state where the law passed permitted the patients to use strain of cannabis (Hari, 2017). These states are among other 23 states with already broader medical marijuana laws. Furthermore, in American history there is a good track record for the prohibition in use of cannabis, but same time the use of alcohol substance never stop which means the law is relatively selective (Cooper et al., 2016) Further, NORML Report (2016) states that the use of alcohol is more responsible for the violent gangs and other crimes including rapes and murders. Therefore, a criminalizing alcohol is more harm than good and at the same time marijuana is less addictive than tobacco and alcohol. In this regards scientist also agreed that a moderate use of marijuana does not pose any risk for otherwise healthy adults (Poindexter, 2014). According to NORMAL (2016) marijuana is less harmful to human health as compare to the other drugs such as tobacco. Further, each year there are reports of 50,000 people die from alcohol related poising or overdose. Similarly, NORML estimated more than 400,000 deaths each years recorded related to tobacco smoking. This means as compare to these deaths and health problems marijuana is nontoxic and also cannot cause any death by overdose. Therefore, NORMAL always support the legal use of marijuana which will not only help to control illegal market but also produce economical channel to the USA. For this purpose, a campaign is launched by NORMAL and other nonprofit organizations to allow marijuana legalize in the America and around the world. There are countries around the world which legalized a handful use of marijuana such as Netherlands and Switzerland and also in the United States there are few states such as Washington, Colorado, Oregon and Alaska where the use of marijuana is legalized (NORMAL, 2016). Furthermore, there are significant benefits of using marijuana for adults includes personal use, medical use, and industrial use (Hari, 2017). In medical use of marijuana or cannabis is a long history. There are tens of thousands of patients who are already benefited from the therapeutic use of marijuana and modern research also suggests that cannabis are valuable in the retreatment of wide range of clinical applications including pain relief, nausea, spasticity, movement disorders and others (NORMAL, 2016). The personal use also very important aspect because with the prohibition means adults will reach illegal market which could be more insure and harmful for health. Therefore, legal use of marijuana always helpful for person, state and economy as well. The federal government has still lists the use of marijuana as Schedule I drug and also acknowledged that there is no legitimate use in medical which means state clearly disagrees (Hari, 2017). The evidence from the study on marijuana from evidence shows that it is less seems that any reason allow government to impose prohibition on the marijuana. Therefore, the people need to take action against these prohibition in the use of marijuana because it will not only save several lives who convert to more harmful drug such as tobacco smoking and alcohol. The people need to raise their voices against these laws and legislations. NORMAL (2016) suggests different action that can be taken to help legalize marijuana in the United States such as openly start debate with the local congressional representation who can speak behalf of you in the Parliament and raise voice for the legalization of marijuana. The communicate can start participating active roles in the marijuana community which can not only increase the awareness of the common person about the positive outcome from the legalization of marijuana but also Alhail 3 help to increase the number of adult people within community to support the legalization of marijuana in the America (Adler and Colbert, 2013). There are issues regarding marijuana to legalize such as political, religious, and other cultural. These are such issues which need to be addressed promptly and the best way is to engage with the community which support the legalization of the marijuana for the benefit of human. This report presents the key aspects of the marijuana and provide evidence in support of the legal use of marijuana in the America. People have different opinion about marijuana based on their knowledge and awareness. The evidence from the different authentic sources acknowledged that the use of marijuana is not harmful as compare to the use of tobacco and alcohol which responsible for hundreds of thousands of deaths of people per year in the United States. Therefore, people need to raise their level of awareness and voices against the prohibition of marijuana in the America and allow the country to take benefit from the legalizing marijuana. This will help to increase the economic benefits, people will start using legally and discourage illegal markets sales, and also reduce the negative impact of tobacco, alcohol and other drugs which are harmful for human body. Thus, people will use marijuana legally and there will be less attraction toward other harmful drugs. Works Cited Anderson, D. M., Benjamin, H. and Daniel, R. I. (2012). Medical Marijuana Laws and Teen Marijuana Use. Institute for the Study of Labor Adler, J.N. and Colbert, J.A. (2013). Medicinal Use of Marijuana Polling Results. New Alhail 4 England Journal of Medicine, vol. 368(22), pp. 22-86. Cooper, W., Johnston, E., and Segal, K. (2016). The Economic Impacts of Marjiuana Sales in the State of California. ICF International. Hari, J. (2017). Why is Marijuana Banned? The real reasons are worse than you think. Available at: http://www.huffingtonpost.com/the-influence/real-reasons-marijuana-is- (Accessed: 08 April 2017). NORMAL (2016). About Marijuana. Available at: http://norml.org/marijuana (Accessed: 10 April 2017). et al. (2011). Marijuana Use by Young People: The Impact of State Medical Marijuana Laws. Marijuana Policy Project Poindexter, O. (2014). 6 powerful reasons to legalize marijuana, from the New York Times. Available at: http://www.alternet.org/drugs/6-powerful-reasons-new-york-times- says-end-marijuana-prohibition (Accessed: 12 April 2017). Rodgers, J. (2010). Marijuana shops not magnets for crime, police say. Colorado Springs Gazette