Patel 1 Nishi Patel Ms. Elizabeth Ricketts ENC 1101-010 30 April 2017 Project 3 Final: The Implementation of School Uniforms and its Effect on Students Across the United States During King Henry 38 year reign, he implemented school uniforms, which was never before seen elsewhere. King Henry VIII mandated that students in school were required to wear uniforms so that they may be denoted of their class and social status. Since then, a movement began, Catholic schools had also adopted uniforms, and today many schools across the world have as well. Today, a uniform is defined as set outfit proposed by an institution that is to be worn by those affiliated within the (Wilde). There are four controversial debates that uniforms have been known to impact, 1 st amendment rights, family life, academics, and behavior. Although previously performed studies does not show a full 100% that school uniforms are good or bad, studies and research exactly state that school uniforms are or are not beneficial since every child has a different effect from them. However, school uniforms are mostly beneficial and should be mandatory across the nation due to its raising of academic performance by promoting an increase in student attendance, allowing for more time in academics, and reducing bullying. We attend school for solely one reason, to become educated; and by implementing mandated school uniforms; we are only bettering our academic performance. Children spend way too much time planning and choosing their outfits than they should. Instead, all that time spent choosing an outfit could be saved aside for some more academic-related activities, and sometimes their chosen outfits as appropriate as expected for school (Brookshire 53). To Patel 2 enhance the outfit appropriateness for school, many schools across the nation adopted a dress code, which is a set of guidelines detailing what can and cannot be worn (Wilde). How short a shorts are, how much cleavage a girl may be showing, or even how offensive shirt graphics are all define as sources of distractions from high academic performance for students (Brookshire 49). With students having uniforms, they have to waste that extra time planning and choosing an outfit, and their outfit its guaranteed to be appropriate for school. Not only that, but students are only going to excel in school if students attend their classes, therefore to have a high academic performance, attendance is crucial. Gentile and Imberman actually state in their research study results that schools who implemented uniforms actually has an increase in attendance, especially in secondary schools and within the female population due to various factors (Gentile and Imberman 2). In addition, Virgnia Draa, a researcher at Youngstate University conducted a study in which she reviewed 64 public schools for attendance, graduation rates, and suspension rates (Wilde). She reviewed these schools once without uniforms, and then the same schools again, expect this time with mandated uniforms. In fact, to her amusement, Draa concluded to results that she has not expected, across all those schools after uniforms were mandated, there was a tremendous improvement with attendance, graduation rates, and suspension rates (Wilde). With high attendance and graduation rates, one can strongly assume that the students have a high academic performance level. However, Draa was unable to label and determine a concrete relationship between school uniforms and academic performance due to some confounding variable that may have been present (Wilde). Regardless, research did still provide some evidence and support for a correlation relationship between school uniforms and academic performance. the focus is taken off of school uniforms, the students Patel 3 are less distracted by what other students are wearing. This helps decrease behavior problems related to dress and puts the attention on learning (Brookshire 49). One of the most noted benefits from the implementation of uniforms is its aid in reducing bullying. Many students worry about keeping up with certain fashion trends or brand names because they are scared that if they do not dress then they will be outcasts and targets of bullying (Wilde). Children are sent to school to learn and receive the education they deserve, not to be a fashion model or show-off their clothes, so why should their focus be sidetracked over such an unnecessary thing? From the way that we dress, an outsider can easily tell what our social status, economic status, affiliations, likes and dislikes may be (Wilde). As those may be just small things, they actually can provide big opportunities for others to bully about. And with bullying being around in the school environment, no student feels like attending school because they want to face the negativity so many students then have a decrease in attendance causing their academic performance to decrease as well. Therefore according to Wilde, through the use of uniforms, that invisible social and economic barrier is diminished, and students are unable to judge other students on their likes and dislikes (Wilde). When all students are required to dress under the same uniform, then there is no room for other students to make degrading comments about the way their fellow peers dress (Wilde). Ultimately, there are claims made that state uniforms have no affect or have any positive effect on academic performance as much as we thought. Brunsma and Rockquemore claim that school uniforms are not factors that denote the success or failure of students within school. data on effects on academic achievement simply gives no (Brunsma and Rockquemore 60). Within their study, Brunsma and Rockquemore had two groups of alike 10 th graders, and they were evaluated on their behavior, attendance, substance abuse, and Patel 4 standardized test scores. Brunsma and Rockqumore had hypothesized that both attendance and standardized test scores would be higher within the students who wore uniforms; however their hypothesis was unsupported (Brunsma and Rockquemore 57-58). They even stated within their results that if students having high attendance rates then how they would excel in academics if they attend class. Besides that, but the students who wore uniforms within the study actually had a 3% drop in their standardized test score results which was not expected (Brunsma and Rockquemore 58). In the longitudinal studies that Yueng examined and studied, the research has shown that there is no or very little evidence that uniforms even affect academics as each child reacts and behaves differently (Yueng 849). As a matter of fact, Yueng recognized that schools without uniforms did better academic wise than those with uniforms. Furthermore, there are still claims made that state uniforms really reduce bullying, but that it may also only promote bullying. The first claim according to Mitchell and Knetchle is that school uniforms reduce bullying rather they violate a 1 st amendment rights (Mitchell and Knetchle 487). With uniforms, students are unable to express themselves freely through their clothing as they place on (Mitchell and Knetchle 488). While many researchers argue that uniforms do not raise academic performance, many researchers and studies have stated otherwise. As Brookshire had shown, with uniforms there is plenty of more time for students to focus more on academics allowing them to do better. Virginia Draa a renowned researcher shows through her studies that attendance, graduation rates, and suspension rates have a significant increase showing that uniforms are helpful in promoting high academic performance. And not only that, but Wilde shows that bullying is significantly reduced through the implementation of uniforms. Although, there is much more support and claims stating the opposite, uniforms affect many other variables Patel 5 positively, those of which are known as the foundation of academic performance and success. The implementation of uniforms within schools across the nation is only in the favor but also an enhancement for the students in many aspects, and should be supported. Word Count (1273 words) Patel 6 Works Cited Brookshire, Attillah N. Impact of School Uniforms on School Walden Dissertations and Doctoral Studies, Apr. 2016, pp.1-68. Scholar Works, Accessed 17 Feb.2017. Brunsma, David L., and Kerry A. Rockquemore. of Student Uniforms on Attendance, Behavior Problems, Substance Abuse, and Academic The Journal of Educational Research, vol.92, no.1, 2010, pp.53-62. Gentile, Elisabetta, and Scott A. Imberman. for Success? The Effect of School Uniforms on Student Achievement and Journal of Urban Economics, vol.71, no.1, 2012, pp.1-17. Mitchell, Harold W., and John C. Knechtle. in Public Schools and the First Amendment: A Constitutional The Journal of Negro Education, vol.72, no.4, 2003, pp.487-494. Wilde, Marian. Uniforms Make Schools Greatschools.org, GreatSchools, 19 May 2016, www.greatschools.org/gk/articles/school-uniforms/. Accessed 17 Feb. 2017. Yueng, Ryan. School Uniforms a Good Results from the ECLS-K and Educational Policy, vol.23, no.6, Nov.2009, pp.847-874.