Student 1 Student Instructor Lewis ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Using the Sun to Sustain the Future For the first time in human history, our species has the opportunity to decide if we want to remain relatively ignorant to a world changing problem that affects everyone, or to choose a brighter path that could mean a greater future for all life on earth. There is one issue that universally affects all life on earth right now and that is climate change. Through the pumping of toxic carbon gasses into the air, carbon-emitting factories have unknowingly set a timer on the sustainability of earth reserves of clean air. Despite the impressive size of this atmosphere, there is a limit to how much said atmosphere can hold before things become critical. With the sea level rising, the seasons acting more chaotic, and the air pollution seen in countries like China and India becoming an increasing problem, the effects from burning these fossil fuels are nothing to be ignored (Sindu, Sonal, Nehra, and Luthra 72). The solutions to these problems lay with the alternative energies such as wind, water, nuclear, and solar. The furthest developed and easiest to implement of the four alternative energies listed above is solar, and yet it still has to overcome tremendous obstacles. Though many companies have tried to limit or prevent the introduction of Solar technology into the market, it remains a cheaper, cleaner, and more sustainable energy that must succeed and grow if earth is to remain a habitable place for everyone. In its early days, the fight for the expansion of solar energy was intrinsically tied with awareness campaigns for climate change. Since the industrial era began in the late the Student 2 fossil fuel industry has had a rapid expansion into all energy markets, and now have almost complete control of the output of power around the world (Hassler, Krusell, and Olovsson 100). Until recently, Solar technology was incredibly inefficient and had no real-world practicality. The equipment failure rate was disproportionately high compared to other technology, and the electronic waste from broken solar cells rendered the environmentally friendly argument irrelevant (Caliskan and Hakan 69). This was combined with the inefficiency of the technology itself. Harnessing solar energy is a much more difficult job that it may seem on the surface. Considering that only a fraction of the energy that touches a solar cell can be captured, attaining the highest efficiency on the capturing of the suns energy was the first step (Psych, Mette, and Glunz 91). By 2005 the technology had developed far enough to land in the eye, and in the early the US government got involved by beginning to fund solar initiatives. The private sector began picking up traction in the early with companies like and creating large PR moves to gain massive name recognition (Dowling, Zheng, and Zavala 72). The largest and most successful of all these solar power companies remains to be Solar City with its ambitions shareholder Elon Musk using his other companies to pave a bright future for the solar industry. Despite a potentially bright future on the horizon for solar technology, there are opposing firms who are making big plays to prevent a change from carbon-based fuels. There is an unofficial oligopoly in the United Stated today, which it is made up of energy companies. Most power companies use defined regions to give the illusion that there is competition in the energy market place, while most people in the United Stated have only one choice of power company. Hassler, Krusell, and Oloysson argue that local city councils must legislate barriers of entry which are reasonable for all companies, thus allowing the free market to regulate the economics Student 3 of the situation properly. The current barrier of entry has made the introduction of Solar Power in the energy market considerably higher as seen by the NV Energy vs Solar City conflict in Nevada several years ago. The primary counter argument from these power companies for not wanting solar energy in their market has to do with supplying sufficient level of electricity to the power grid. If people began to use solar panels to provide a sizable percentage of their household energy demands, then a standard power company would be unable to accurately predict how much energy a region will draw, and thus will have to over produce to cover all scenarios. On a macro scale, the model becomes increasingly wasteful as more and more resources are wasted on a prediction rather than practical research. Though resource waste at power plants is high, there is more relief on the grid than harm from using solar panels (Abdi, Hamdi, Beigyand, and Scala 71). This argument, however, has just recently been shown to not be as accurate as previously thought. The argument for solar energy begins to make sense on a consumer and personal level. Without any background information, and without believing in solar energy as a solution to climate change, solar panels still retain their appeal. This is due to the economic benefits of owning the technology such as tax incentives, reduced utility bill, and independence from a power company (Reboredo, Quintela, and Otero 73). Though the personal benefits are great those educated on this specific environmental issue may find even greater benefits to buying solar panels. Understanding the difference between a renewable and nonrenewable resource when discussing this topic is critical. The coal and oil reserves on earth will run out eventually, and with that comes a need for a more sustainable power source. Solar energy is not limited by anything but exposure to solar rays, which mean that, in the long run, Solar power will still be useable once carbon based power becomes unusable (Koepf, Alxneit, Wieckert, and Meier 188). Student 4 Finally, the environmental efficiency of Solar technology should be enticing enough to convince even a climate change denier of its benefits. Pollution is a topic that needs no debate. Everyone agrees that these is an issue with dirty air that is unbreathable and must be filtered, and waterways holding fluid that is killing wild life. The environmental efficiency of solar technology fixes that issue by taking strain from a power company, thus causing them to reduce their emissions (Wang, Zhaohua, Li, and Zhimin 76). Overall, the benefits or having a cleaner environment are undeniable to anybody, leaving no room for argument. Although carbon emissions effect everybody in the world, keep in mind that only first- world countries have a population capable of implementing this technology. This is why Americans must take the initial first step in reducing individual carbon output, which can efficiently be done with the use of solar technology. A common argument against purchasing solar panels is the high cost of the technology, however most companies have a loan program where the panel ends up being paid off with the money saved from the utility bill (Reboredo, Quintela, and Otero 73). After the loan is paid off, then it is purely financially profitable. Despite the nature lure of economic benefits of solar, its popularity has not increased enough to make a meaningful change. The problem with using solar energy as main solution to climate change is that spreading information through word of mouth is not enough. People will have to spend money to enact change or make a statement that is noticeable enough to gain the attention of the corporate executives of the energy companies which are resisting the technology (Dowling, Alexander, Zheng, and Zavala 72). By purchasing a solar panel or investing in a solar company, people can show that is what consumers desire. Once multibillion dollar corporations begin investing in solar technology, that is when success will be imminent. Posting articles on Student 5 social media that promote solar technology help, but getting financially involved will always be the best way to promote the cause. From fiscal benefits to environmental benefits, solar technology is a worthwhile solution to many problems facing individuals, and the world. With rampant progress being made in breaking the energy lock that power companies have, it seems more likely every year that solar power will become a feasible reality. Every additional person who make the commitment to purchasing a solar panel helps not only themselves, but their communities as well by doing their part in cleaning up the environment. Solar power is a great first step, but when it comes to climate change as a whole, it is not enough. Everything from buying electric cars to recycling can add up, and make for a better future. (Word Count: 1400) Student 6 Work Cited Abdi, Hamdi, Soheil Derafshi Beigvand, and Massimo La Scala. A review of optimal power flow studies applied to smart grids and  Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews 71 (2017): 742-6 Caliskan, Hakan. exergy, environmental, enviroeconomic, exergoenvironmental (EXEN) and exergoenviroeconomic (EXENEC) analyses of solar Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews 69 (2017): 488-92 Dowling, Alexander W., Tian Zheng, and Victor M. Zavala. Economic assessment of concentrated solar power technologies: A  Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews 72 (2017): 1019-032. Hassler, John, Per Krusell, and Conny Olovsson. Oil Monopoly and the  American Economic Review 100.2 (2010): 460-64. Koepf, E., I. Alxneit, C. Wieckert, and A. Meier. A review of high temperature solar driven reactor technology: 25years of experience in research and development at the Paul Scherrer  Applied Energy188 (2017): 620-51. Pysch, D., A. Mette, and S.w. Glunz. A review and comparison of different methods to Student 7 determine the series resistance of solar  Solar Energy Materials and Solar Cells 91.18 (2007): 1698-706. Reboredo, Juan C., Miguel Quintela, and Luis A. Otero. Do investors pay a premium for going green? Evidence from alternative energy mutual  Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews 73 (2017): 512-20. Sindhu, Sonal, Vijay Nehra, and Sunil Luthra. Solar energy deployment for sustainable future of India: Hybrid SWOC-AHP  Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews 72 (2017): 1138-151. Wang, Zhaohua, Yi Li, Ke Wang, and Zhimin Huang. Environment-adjusted operational performance evaluation of solar photovoltaic power plants: A three stage efficiency  Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews 76 (2017): 1153-162.