Gonnella 1 Anthony Gonnella Professor Gottlieb ENC 1102 9 April 2017 Opposition for Steroids in Major League Baseball Historically, steroids have had no place in baseball, and that should be the case for the present and the future; they are a banned drug in Major League Baseball and are used to gain a competitive advantage over opponents. The Players Association in Major League baseball are the biggest advocates for keeping steroids banned in the game of baseball; they work tirelessly on teaching upcoming players how to be successful without the need of steroids. The reason this group is so relevant in this argument is because they work hand in hand, and see each of these players everyday. There is no group closer with the players in Major League Baseball than them, that is why they have the ability to have such a large impact on the game and the perspective of players. With that being said, even with their constant efforts these drugs are still taken by many players through pill form, or by way of injection into the bloodstream; although these drugs can have positive benefits performance wise, the negatives far out way the potential performance gains. Health problems are only the start of many issues that arise from taking steroids, other issues include, setting a bad example for youth, compromising the integrity of the game by cheating, and performing an illegal act that can result in suspension, or indefinite expulsion from Major League Baseball. (McEvoy 20). All of these issues are why we need to keep steroids out of the game; the last thing baseball needs is the youth baseball community affected by steroids, but that is very possible if this problem is not addressed by the public. That is the reason why not only are the serious health consequences resulting from steroids, there are also serious Gonnella 2 problems with the image of the MLB being players who routinely use steroids. This is a terrible example for youth and just further reasoning why steroids should continue to be outlawed in the sport. Health issues are the first of many problems steroid users go through throughout the time they are taking the drug; there are some external signs that are easy to see, but most are internal and can put the players life at risk. While there are health benefits, such as: rapid muscle growth, and increased endurance, the risks far out weigh these benefits (Peterson 1). For example, there are external and internal health issues; the external signs of steroid usage include: a swollen head, in which the players head size will significantly increase, this can be as drastic as a player going from a small to a large hat, shrinkage of genitalia, and mood swings, especially an increase in aggression. These external problems can increase the risk of a stroke through the enlarging of the players head, as well as, due to the constant state of stress and aggression the player is put in (Green 399). Another effect steroid use has on the body is increasing the risk of infertility due to the players shrunken genitalia, this can be life-changing for these players because they may never be able to have children of their own. Furthermore, these serious health issues extend internally as well; the users of steroids are putting themselves at risk of heart attacks and seizures every day they insert the needle in their vein. These players are injecting and swallowing a substance foreign to their bodies, and physically their body does not know how to handle it. When they intake these drugs into their body their whole internal system speeds up to produce enough energy to be able to increase muscle mass at an alarming rate, this in turn makes the heart work up to five times harder than normal to pump blood all throughout the body. This can result Gonnella 3 in heart attacks due to the over working of the heart, as well as, muscle spasms and seizures from muscular and cardiovascular overload. It is very easy to see that the risks far out weigh the benefits of taking using steroids, and thus should continue to be banned to ensure that they stay out of these players systems, the Players Association is aware of all of these problems and addresses them with the entire league. In addition to the health risks that go along with the use of steroids there are also other problems, such as: the example these players are showing for youth and how they are compromising the integrity of the game. For example, it would difficult for a young mind to be impacted positively if he saw his favorite player convicted of using steroids. That little leaguer would then rationalize in his mind that it is okay to use steroids and maybe if he uses them when he gets older he will turn into the caliber of baseball player that his favorite player is. This is just one of the ways Major Leaguers can impact the youth, and another reason why steroid use should continue to be illegal. The Players Association schedules many events throughout the year in which little leaguers get the opportunity to meet some of their favorite players, these events can change kids lives and give them memorable experiences that can impact their dreams that maybe they one day too could play in the major leagues. On the contrary, all this hard work that involves impacting these kids in a positive way could all go to waste if their entire perspective changes when they see players convicted of using steroids and they think its okay to take these drugs (Del Cid 169). Furthermore, this is not the only problem with players using steroids, it also compromises the integrity that the game has had for decades about competition and fairness. McEvoy, a well respected baseball writer states, But the truth Gonnella 4 of the matter is that baseball has a long history of cheating that now, perhaps, will find more public (McEvoy 20). This quote exemplifies that using steroids is considered cheating because it helps players gain a competitive advantage over their opponents that they would not previously have otherwise. The Players Association tries to demonstrate to these players that shortcuts are not the answer, and that handwork and practice is a suitable alternative. Even though this message is drilled in players heads some still choose the path that is considered cheating, and in doing so offer themselves up for the ensuing punishment. Consequences vary from small suspensions, to indefinite expulsion from the league based on the severity of the action, such as, if it is the players first offense they may be given a sixty game suspension, while on the contrary, if it the players third offense they may just be released from their team and never allowed to play baseball in the MLB again. The Players Association works very hard on, the importance of positively impacting the youth and keeping the integrity of the (Adelsburg 695). This is the number one goal of the association, making sure the game is treated with respect as it has been for over a hundred years. Keeping steroids banned from the MLB is important to the players, fans, and The Players Association in Major League Baseball. The most impactful thing an outsider looking in on the issue can do is spread the word, inform their peers and children they know about the harmful health effects that it can leave on an athletes body, also how taking these drugs is illegal in professional sports and is considered cheating. It is important for people to make sure to talk to the parents of young little leaguers to instill this perspective that steroids should never be used under any circumstances in baseball. Also, If this message is spread at an early age to the kids it Gonnella 5 will make the Players job significantly easier in the long run as players coming up through the minor leagues will already have been taught about the importance of keeping their bodies healthy and maintaining the integrity the game has always had. This will only happen if it is emphasized that the message is spread to players at an early age so that they can carry these values throughout their careers. All of these health risks, legal issues, and cheating problems can be solved by simply keeping steroids illegal in the MLB. They have always been illegal and should stay that way, the game should be played in purest form without the help of an outside drug factor. Cheating allowed in anything and it should definitely not be allowed in a game so beloved by the masses, through the spread of communication amongst people the league will be able to ensue that everyone is properly informed about why steroids should not ever be allowed in baseball. Gonnella 6 Works Cited Adelsberg, David. Did the MLBPA Strike out - an Analysis of Union Liability in Major League Anonymous 2003 Steroid Testing  Cardozo Arts & Entertainment Law Journal, no. 3, 2010, p. 695. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http:// search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx? direct=true&db=edshol&AN=hein.journals.caelj28.27&site=eds-live. Del Cid, Hector. Winning at All Costs: Can Major League New Drug Policy Deter Kids from Steroids and Maintain the Integrity of the Game  Sports Lawyers Journal, 2007, p. 169. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http:// search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx? direct=true&db=edshol&AN=hein.journals.sportlj14.10&site=eds-live. Green, Andrew L.T. Spreading the Blame: Examining the Relationship between DSHEA and the Baseball Steroid Scandal  Boston University Law Review, no. 1, 2010, p. 399. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx? direct=true&db=edshol&AN=hein.journals.bulr90.11&site=eds-live. McEvoY, Dermot. The Wrongs of Spring: the Steroid Season Again, but Glorious past Remains a Gold  Publishers Weekly, no. 10, 2009, p. 20. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx? direct=true&db=edsglr&AN=edsgcl.200341318&site=eds-live. Peterson, Alexander M et al. Career Statistics in Professional Baseball:Accounting for the Steroids Era and ArXiv, 28 Feb. 2010, arxiv.org/abs/1003.0134.