Bricker 1 Madeline Bricker Professor Karen Hanson Composition II 30 April 2017 Illegal Immigrants and Citizenship There are approximately 11.3 million immigrants who are in America illegally according to studies from organizations such as the Pew Research Center and Migration Policy Institute (Krogstad et al.; Zong and Batalova). These people are in a number of different situations, whether it is illegally entering America or overstaying their permitted visit in the country. There are a number of different things that can happen to immigrants who have entered America illegally. They can be deported, remain undiscovered and in hiding, they can have legalization or even be granted citizenship. The situation may seem simple if you have a pre-existing opinion. But there are difficult situations that present themselves to officials. Many families have divided legal status and oftentimes immigrants have their children in America. This divide in legal status can tear or keep families apart, especially with the growing amount of refugees in the world today. In order to look out for these people and the country, it is important to take action to this current issue. Immigrants should be given legal status and then be given the opportunity to earn American citizenship. This will help bring immigrants, society and the country together in a fair and helpful way. The term amnesty, according to ProCon.org, also referred to as a path to citizenship, is defined as undocumented immigrants to become citizens via a process that may include additional requirements to the naturalization process for documented Bricker 2 By earning citizenship, immigrants earn rights to many benefits, however, there are steps in between. An immigrant can live in America legally without being a citizen. By going through an immigrant is allowed to live in America legally, the downside is that they are missing out on the same rights that citizens have. According to Peter H. Schuck, the opportunities that come with obtaining citizenship include: Three are political in nature: the right to vote, the right to serve on federal and many state juries, and the right to run for certain high elective offices and to be appointed to some high appointive offices. Each of these restrictions seems to be premised on one or more of the following assumptions: that political socialization is too fragmentary and embryonic to be trusted in matters of public choice, that confining political participation of this kind to citizens carries an important symbolic message about the value and significance of full membership; and that exclusion of aliens from such participation encourages them to naturalize as soon as possible. (Schuck 187) For some immigrants their goal is to simply have legal status in the United States. To be able to work legally is the main appeal to many immigrants. Many times when immigrants earn legal status, they can have higher incomes. According to William A. V. Clark, studies he has examined have shown that earnings and occupational status improved between their first jobs and the jobs they held just prior to application for (124) This change has clearly indicated an upward trend in occupational status. For others, however, it is important to them to have citizenship. This Bricker 3 process is lengthy and challenging, but it should be available to everyone who is willing to complete the requirements asked of them. Today, according to International Rescue Committee, people have been forced to flee their homes by conflict and crisis than at any time since World War This situation is happening now, and is real. Many Americans have the luxury to ignore what is going on around them, but it is their responsibility to help these people by welcoming them into the United States of America. This country was built on the idea that people could start over and have a good life through honest and hard work. Why should that privilege be denied now of all times? People need a safe haven, a sanctuary. Immigrants are increasing and will continue to do so because of the current issue at hand. It is important that Americans do their part, whether it is reaching out to local government, writing letters to federations, donating organizations that support this cause. Current citizens can protest, if they feel strongly about the situation, but it is crucial that people do not sit, read, watch, shake their heads and do nothing. Do more than donate or join an email group for supporting organizations. Do something, because if it were the other way around, Americans would want the same for them. These people should be granted legal status and be given the opportunity to earn American citizenship. This applies to all illegal immigrants, it will give them the opportunity to live a life well deserved if they put in hard, honest work and take the fair steps required of them. Bricker 4 Works Cited Rescue Committee. Web. Accessed 30 Apr. 2017. the Government Allow Immigrants Who are Here Illegally to Become US ProCon.org. 30 immigration.procon.org. Accessed 30 Apr. 2017. Clark, William A. V. and the American Dream: Remaking the Middle The Guilford Press, 2003. Krogstad, J. M., Passel, J. S., & Cohn, D., Facts About Illegal Immigration in the Research Center. 27 Apr. 2017, www.pewresearch.org. Accessed 30 Apr. 2017. Schuck, Peter H. Strangers, and In-Betweens: Essays on Immigration and Westview Press, 1998. Zong, Jie & Batalova, Jeanne, Requested Statistics on Immigrants and Immigration in the United Policy Institute, 8 Mar. 2017. www.migrationpolicy.org. Accessed 30 Apr. 2017.