Hill 1 Hunter Hill Karen Hanson ENC 1102 April 30, 2017 Nuclear Threat Scrolling through the news citizens realize the subtle, yet clear and urgent threat that nuclear weapons pose. In fact, the United Nations have recorded twenty two thousand weapons still in existence, each with the capability of killing thousands (Nuclear Weapons). Recently, President Donald Trump dropped the largest non-nuclear bomb. Many news sources focused on this idea of the bomb being the largest weapon ever deployed(Starr). This very concept of comparing to the destructiveness of a nuclear bomb shows the fear many individuals have for the bombs. Being a college student you may be curious as to how any of this may concern you. In reality these weapons pose a threat to every individual on the planet including average USF students who feel as if this affect them. Without accurate knowledge of nuclear weapons and their dangers, many individuals remain oblivious to the danger these weapons represent. Nuclear weapons have an overall negative impact on the world and should be disarmed. To disarm them citizens should donate to anti nuclear weapon organizations, sign petitions, and get in contact with government officials that represent them to persuade them into overturning laws. The first and only time nuclear weapons have ever been used are on Hiroshima and Nagasaki in World War Two. Since then, nuclear weapons have remained in creation but have not been used. (Younger). Weapons have gotten progressively more powerful and were used as a means of threatening other nations, and deterring war. This deterrent may seem Hill 2 positive but the success was small and conflicts during the cold war still ensued. Of the current twenty two thousand nuclear weapons in existence each has the power to kill thousands if not millions when used in certain areas(Nuclear Weapons). The weapons continue to exist today and even through several laws forcing their disarmament the weapons still can be used at any time. Laws in place today do not prevent the use of these weapons as most of the agreements to not use them are that simple agreements made through the UN. None of these laws can be enforced by the UN as most of the militaristic enforcers of the UN are the nuclear weapon wielding countries. The entire security council, including America, Russia, China, England and France, rules against the disarmament of these weapons preventing any action from being taken. These weapons are dangerous and not going away any time soon, and each one is another weapon that can be used to kill. Currently nuclear weapons exist but are deterred from use by the idea of MAD, or mutually assured destruction. This, thought process was used during the cold war and made the U.S and U.S.S.R realize if one used weapons the other would as well. This idea of the whole world being destroyed would hopefully keep sides from using the weapons, however as countries become more polarized and enter conflicts the threat of these weapons being used becomes extremely possible(Sagan). Countries, like North Korea and Iran, threaten use of these weapons leading many countries to be on edge prepared to use their weapons on anyone they fear may use them. This creates fear in government officials and makes them more trigger happy using the weapons as a means of protection (Baradei). These weapons if used will most likely be used on a global scale. All of the countries with nuclear weapons have treaties and working relationships with other nuclear countries. If one country decides to use these weapons it is likely that one of their allies will as well and then others will in retaliation. The weapons sit in place ready to Hill 3 destroy on a global scale. The other danger of these weapons is the lack of control the public has. The weapons are controlled by the elite of society, the top government officials. These few powerful men of each country hold the fate of every individual in their hands(Schlosser). These men will also be the first in bunkers when the weapons are launched, and care little for what may happen to the common citizen. This lack of control should drive every citizen to want to do something. To step up and ask for control over the weapons that could quite literally destroy the world. The future of this world is the people that live in it, and with support one day everyone can live in a world where the threat of nuclear weapons no longer looms over all. Nuclear weapons have huge implications on this world and the consequences of their use could be world changing. Because of this it becomes evident that something should be done in order to combat the possible use of nuclear weapons. The primary goal would be the disarmament of nuclear weapons to allow every citizen to live free of the danger of possible death at any moment. The first thing that can be done to combat nuclear weapons is sign petitions for the organization giving them a voice and showing that there are individuals in support of disarming the weapons. Another thing they could do is directly support anti nuclear organizations whose only agenda is nuclear disarmament. This support could vary from volunteering for the organization, to making donations to give them the financial power to teach others about the cause, and force the government to listen. The last thing that could be done is getting in contact with local, and national representing government officials and let them know how important this subject is. Ways to get in contact could include calling the office, writing mail, and filling out formal request to speak online. Through these methods of reaching out and assisting the anti nuclear cause you can speak out and show that these weapons exist in a Hill 4 world where the people want them. The unfair amount of power of the top one percent of government can be ended it begins with you. Nuclear weapons are a relatively new creation when compared to the billions of years the earth has been around. These weapons with the power to destroy the entire world multiple times over must be stopped. Every individual on this earth has the ability to fight these weapons that affect every life whether directly or indirectly. Through several different means you and every other person can support the cause for disarming nuclear weapons. Through your support one day we may live in a world where the threat of nuclear weapons no longer looms over us. Hill 5 Works Cited Baradei, Mohamed El. The age of deception: nuclear diplomacy in treacherous times. New York:Metropolitan /Henry Holt and Co., 2011. Print. Nuclear Weapons  United Nations. United Nations, n.d. Web. 12 Apr. 2017. <https://www.un.org/disarmament/wmd/nuclear/>. Sagan, Scott Douglas., and Kenneth N. Waltz. The spread of nuclear weapons: an enduring debate. New York: W.W. Norton & Co., 2013. Print. Schlosser, Eric. Command and control: nuclear weapons, the Damascus Accident, and the illusion of safety. New York: The Penguin Press, 2013. Print. Starr, Barbara, and Ryan Browne. US drops largest non-nuclear bomb in  CNN. Cable News Network, 14 Apr. 2017. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. <http://www.cnn.com/2017/04/13/politics/afghanistan-isis-moab-bomb/>. Younger, Stephen M. The bomb: a new history. New York: Harpers, 2009. Print.