Student Professor Gaspar ENC 1102 16 April 2017 A Shelter Away from Home Being homeless is usually associated with alcohol use, drug use, and laziness. That is not the case, homelessness can be caused for any different reasons such as: of affordable housing, poverty due to lack of employment opportunities and decline in available public assistance, lack of affordable health care, domestic violence, mental illness and (THHI).Although many people believe that addiction to certain substances such as alcohol is the main cause of homelessness, a study found that of involvement in crime and addiction problems with gambling and alcohol were not independently associated with (Shelton et al). In fact, addiction to alcohol and drug is not uncommon in the united, according to the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism, to the 2015 NSDUH, 15.1 million adults ages 18 and older 3 (6.2 percent of this age group 4 ) had [Alcohol Use This means that alcoholism can cause a lot of problems, homelessness included but it is not the main reason that some people are homeless. What most people know about homelessness is that there are different types of homelessness. Homelessness can be divided into three categories; chronic, transitional, and episodic. Chronic homelessness are those: are likely to be entrenched in the shelter system and for whom shelters are more like long-term housing rather than an emergency arrangement. These individuals are likely to be older, and consist of the often suffering from disabilities and substance abuse (NCH). These are the type of people that are homeless because they are unemployed and need long-term housing. While chronic homeless people are long-term, transitional homeless people are those that are looking for short-term housing and can be looking for transition to a more stable type of housing. Episodic homelessness is associated with those that often come in and out of homeless shelters because they have many problems. When considering homelessness, there are many issues to consider and any stereotypes that need to be eliminated. Organizations such as the National Coalition for the Homeless, were created to not only help homeless people but to also address these stereotypes. The purpose of this organization is prevent and end homelessness while ensuring the immediate needs of those experiencing homelessness are met and their civil rights (NCH). They do this through many different programs such as Faces of Homelessness Bureau, Hunger and Homelessness Awareness Week, Outreach Runs, and many more. The programs are centered around all types of homeless people from youth to veterans, they have programs that address education issues, and policy issues for the homeless. With the help of volunteers, staff, senators, and others this organization is able to accomplish its goal in helping those who are homeless. The National Coalition for the Homeless set priorities regarding this issue and priorities are set using feedback from people experiencing homelessness, national and local advocacy organizations, domestic federal agencies and this helps them work out the issues that need to be addressed right away. They provide the public with publications of their reports and all that done. For example, one publication that can be viewed is for the Count: Overcoming the Census Neglect of the written by Brendan Kearns which details some of the issues addressed with the Census Bureau and how overcome those issues that are addressed in the publication. The NCH is an organization that is not only dedicated to helping homeless people but also dedicated to addressing and fixing policies that restrain the homeless community from bettering. Homelessness is an issue that can happen to anyone at any moment in time. Imagine one day losing a job and through a series of events such as unable to gain another job, struggling to pay bills, struggling to take care of a family, a person now finds themselves on the streets. Imagine sleeping on the cold floor every night, fighting off not only discrimination but thieves that steal the little possessions held dear to the heart, fighting a hopelessness that consumes, and keeping together a family that is fighting both diseases and abuse. These circumstances can happen to anyone and something similar happened to teenager Bee Orsini in Australia. With a mom struggling with mental health issues and a series of people who took advantage of both her and her mother, Orsini found herself living on the streets. In order to gain food, her mom had to pawn materials to gain money; seeing this Bee decided to drop out of school and help her mom by getting a job. Finding herself in a terrible situation, she left her home situation. Through it all, Bee never saw herself as homeless because she fit that stereotype, and through it all no one helped her (The unexpected Faces of Homelessness). Bee is not the only person affected by homelessness, many more people are on the streets fighting for their lives and not getting help because when someone does something nice for them like buying them new shoes, they are automatically thought as being fake and trying to swindle others. easy to dismiss issues such as this because they are deemed unlikely to happen but that is not true. Homelessness can affect anyone, anywhere, and at any point in time. A simple economic downfall can send thousands of wealthy influential people to live on the streets. It can lead a family from having food, a roof, and electricity to fighting off diseases, dying of starvation and many other problems. Many have thought the way to resolving this issue would be by criminalizing homeless people and making them pay a fine or throwing them in jail just for being homeless. For example, in cities throughout Connecticut prohibit a person without a bed from sleeping on a park bench, ban someone without a place to be during the day from standing in a public plaza, and restrict the ability of a person without access to food to ask for money to buy something to (Lowenstein, 2016). This can be a problem because with these laws in place, the homeless have nowhere to go and they are forced to break these laws. Failing to confront Homelessness or even confronting it through criminalization can lead to not only homeless people filling up jail houses but there will also be more homeless people lining the streets. With nothing to eat and no one to help, homeless people will resolve to the only methods of gaining attention that they know, crimes and even suicide. Many people assume that donating money to a cause will instantly make the cause go away or be solved. That is not the case, although money is a very powerful tool and can vastly help causes such as homelessness, there are other ways to help. Small actions such as joining an organization, donating clothes, donating time, and attention to homeless people and organization created to help them can make a big change. Not only that but spreading the word is an important part of helping issues such as homelessness. Just talking about it and correcting other people can lead to a removal of stereotypes. The National Coalition for the homeless is an organization that helps keep homeless off the streets and help fight for their rights. With the help of non-stakeholders, volunteers, senators, teachers and staff, the organization can grow and help men, women, children off the street and keep them safe. Research shows that many things cause homelessness not just laziness, and addiction. Simply correcting someone about this stereotype can help but most of all donating time to organizations and helping those seen on the street can make a big difference. Changing the world takes work and commitment, to change the world we must first start by changing life. (WC: 1317) References National Coalition for the Homeless. About NCH. Web. 4 April 2017. Shelton, Katherine, Pamela Taylor, Adrian Bonner, and Marianne Van Den Bree. Risk Factors for Homelessness: Evidence From a Population-Based  Psychiatric Services 60.4 (2009): 465-72. Web Of Science. Web. The Unexpected Face Of Homelessness. Dir. TEDGLOBAL. Perf. Bee Orsini. TEDGlobal, 3 December, 2013. Web. 1 Apr. 2017. < https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w18ZuellVts>. Tampa Hillsborough Homelessness Initiative. Tampa Hillsborough Homelessness Initiative, 2017, http://thhi.org/. Accessed 7 Apr. 2017. Alcohol Facts &  National Institutes of Health. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Feb. 2017. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. <https://www.niaaa.nih.gov/alcohol- health/overview-alcohol-consumption/alcohol-facts-and-statistics>. Lowenstein, Allard K. into Breaking the  The Criminalization of Homelessness in  Yale Law School. 17 Nov. 2016. Web. 14 Apr. 2017.