Casaes 1 Leonardo Casaes Madeline Gottlieb ENC 1102 April 30, 2017 Save the World; Stop Smoking Individuals have the capability to prevent around one in five deaths in the U.S from happening if they help to stop smoking (CDC). According to the Center for Disease Control and Prevention or CDC, smoking alone accounts for six million deaths annually across the globe. Six million is the number of people that live Los Angles and Chicago (Commerce), six million people make up the population of South Florida (Rabin), six million people make up the country of Libya (Worldometers). If smoking controlled then someone will continue to die from it every 6 seconds (CDC) and loved ones will continue to perish. Individuals can prevent this slaughter by never smoking themselves or by supporting groups like The Action on Smoking and Health, who work to regulate the tobacco industry. Regulating the tobacco industry can save countless lives and people who help can be a hero to the six million who still have a chance. ASH is a strong force in the tobacco regulation industry and works to stop the millions of preventable smoking deaths. This is a non-profit organization, dedicated to anti-tobacco causes that has been fighting the tobacco industry since 1967. This organization hopes, end the worldwide disease, damage and death caused by through, the public, tracking the tobacco industry, and working for sensible public policies at the local, national and global (ASH). Allying with 350 organizations in over 100 countries, ASH is a global brand filled with caring people from many different background aspiring to make a change and Casaes 2 save a life. To help expand their work globally, the organization has been working with the Framework Convention Alliance, (FCA) a coalition with over 500 organizations in over 100 countries (ASH). The foundation helped, resources, leadership and direction to the Framework Convention (ASH) by giving them their first executive Director between 2003 and 2015 (ASH). ASH and FCA were key players in enforcing the WHO Framework Convention on Tobacco Control (FCTC) the first international public health treaty (ASH). It is through its large support that ASH has been to successfully prohibit cigarette commercials on TV and radio and severely restrict it in other media banning smoking in enclosed public places and workplaces, protecting children from secondhand smoke, and restricting the sale of tobacco products through vending machines. ASH has been recognized with the WHO (World health organization) tobacco No Day Award and by the American Lung Association because of their efforts. The organization will continue to work tirelessly to protect the future generations from a growing powerful tobacco industry and give a voice to millions of families and loved ones affected by tobacco related deaths. Smoking has the potential to kill up to a billion people by the end of the 21 st century-- around 1/6 of the world population-- and its casualties will only rise (Tobaccoatlas). Imagine wiping out the country of Libya or losing the population of South Florida every year, and that is the amount of tobacco related deaths in the U.S. alone. As the leading cause of preventable death, smoking only harm the user, as second hand smoking also kills around 2.5 million people per year (CDC). Innocent people who choose not to smoke are being effected for something they had no part in, creating such a negative, and sometimes permanent, punishment for just being in the presence of a smoker. Smoking can also come as a severe monetary cost for the smoker, with an average of $1,500 dollars spent on cigarettes alone (Rutherford). Health and Casaes 3 life insurance rates for smokers can also rise in price because of their higher risk of health problems (Rutherford). It also lowers the resale value of a car and home because of its lasting musty scent. Smoking only take a toll on the victims and families of smoking, but it makes a large impact on the economy. The CDC, estimates the economic toll of smoking, more than $300 billion a year, including: Nearly $170 billion in direct medical care for adults and more than $156 billion in lost productivity due to premature death and exposure to secondhand So, the money that could be spent on basic living necessities like food, water and living expenses is alternatively used to alleviate harm from tobacco. Taxes even be used properly as States able to fully invest in expenditures like education programs. States in the U.S has spent, 491 million dollars on prevention and cessation (CDC) which is still lower than the recommended spending amount and will only do so much to curtail the destruction caused. Regulation could lead to more cost-effective federal spending and an overall better life to the general public, if the money is spent improving living conditions. The money that could be spent on cancer research or funding infrastructure, is instead paying for the damages caused by the tobacco industry. Tobacco threatens the health of every society it touches, whether indirectly through secondhand smoking or directly through illness caused by smoking. Tobacco related death touches millions of lives all over the world, and as long as the outrage from industries that profit off deaths remain, people should be working avidly to regulate the tobacco industry. People must come together to support organizations like ASH and educate others on the dangers of smoking. While tobacco related deaths remain the leading cause of preventable death in the world, individuals must push for government regulation by supporting organizations that are pro-tobacco regulations and encouraging others to stop smoking. Individuals must work Casaes 4 together to give a voice to the unheard non-smokers and fight the large influential tobacco industry. The steps ASH took, on implementing the first international public health treaty, should lay a path we must follow. A path that will lead society to a better future for this generation and the ones that follow. A future where the world no longer has to worry about tobacco addiction claiming millions of lives around the world and second hand smoking taking innocent lives. Individuals must continue to lay the foundation of hope, to rise above the tobacco oppressive claws, while they the money, we have the passion to make a change, to fight the good (ASH). time to cooperate with one another to end the massacre plagued countless of innocent lives, and regulate the industry profiting on the lives of honest, decent people. People can end the suffering by donating to ASH though their website at ASH.org and informing any loved ones on the consequential risks of smoking. If people help make a difference in the community by educating others and preventing smoking, then their voices for regulation will be heard. No person should lose someone to a preventable death, especially one as tragic as smoking. People let the tobacco industry affect the lives of them or their loved ones. With someone dying from smoking every six seconds (CDC), the regulation of tobacco has an almost immediate impact on countless lives. Therefore, ASH must gain support and the public must be educated on smoking risks. Not only will this saves lives but improves the lives of others around the globe. Casaes 5 Works Cited:  ASH. N.p., n.d. Web. 08 Apr. 2017. Countries in the World by Population  Population by Country (2017) - Worldometers. n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Documenting Numbers of Victims of the Holocaust and Nazi  United States Holocaust Memorial Museum. United States Holocaust Memorial Museum, n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Fast  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 29 Mar. 2017. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Rabincrabin@miamiherald.com, Charles. South Florida Population Hits 6 Million for First  Miamiherald. N.p., n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Casaes 6 Rutherford, Jack. 5 Reasons to Ban Smoking in Public  Richmond Register. N.p., 23 Oct. 2009. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Death  The Tobacco Atlas. N.p., n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. U.S. Census Bureau Releases Population Estimates for Cities and Counties. Department of Commerce. N.p., 24 Mar. 2016. Web. 30 Apr. 2017.