Kohari 1 Alisha Kohari Jared Fennell ENC1102 13 th April 2017 Anorexia Nervosa Anorexia Nervosa (AN) is a complex eating disorder with roots stemming from a combination of the forces of nature and nurture. Gaining a deeper understanding of the pathogenesis of AN is essential in order to facilitate its treatment. Genetic factors, neurobiology in anorexics, the role of media & culture, and restlessness in familial relationships. Although there are cultural influences associated with the development of AN studies analyzed fall more towards with the nature side and how there a specific cause of AN, but rather a mesh of different factors and personal variations. At the core of the disorder lies an severe need to restrict what one eats. In societies today we can clearly see the tendency through which individuals judge self worth in terms of their physique, and weight overlaps with the need for self-control. Anorexia Nervosa (AN) goes unnoticed by many medical health care practitioners. The patient is usually a young woman who is hesitantly brought to the clinic by her parents; usually extremely thin and suffers from menstrual irregularities but regardless defends that she is at the peak of being overweight. Individuals suffering from this disorder will usually go to extreme lengths to justify their disorder as merely being an outcome of their commitment to maintaining weight. Hence, it is crucial for psychologists to investigate into the causes of this disorder to understand the coaction of the activity of the brain, social and behavioral factors as well as the elements of genetics. (Chasnovitz, 2013) Kohari 2 According to the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, (4th ed, text revised Washington, DC, American Psychiatric Association, 2000), Anorexia Nervosa is subdivided into two branches; Binge-eating/purging type and Restricting type. The primary symptoms of this illness include; a fear of gaining weight, unwillingness to maintain a normal body weight, an obsession with a ideal body image, and amenorrhea. a deception that eating disorders are entirely about looking good and having a perfect body. In fact, eating disorders are severe psychological disorders that require professional intervention. People suffering from eating disorders may illustrate their lives as being picture perfect; when, truly, they are the ones who hide all the torment and misery. Assuredly, not everyone who aims to lose weight develops an eating disorder. There are various critical factors that contribute to the development of Anorexia nervosa. Genetic factors, such as personality traits, play a major role in shaping anorexia nervosa and eating disorders in general. As explained in the article and the by Rachel Cantrell, anorexics tend to display attention seeking behaviors, anxiety, obsessiveness, and wanting to be thin from a very young age and it continues to persist even after recovery (2013). Anorexia has also been seen as a result of environmental and social factors. The image of women portrayed in media is getting thinner by the day, which is extremely different to the body structure of the average woman. It is an assumption that women who eat less food and have slender body types are more feminine. This presumption has played a vital role in initiating the development of correlated mental illnesses, due to resentment and comparison of oneself with that of the depicted by the media. Family issues have also been seen as a major trigger in the occurrence of eating disorders. The influence of assertive family can become a cause of anorexia as the juvenile tries to seek Kohari 3 attention, care and love. Hence, healthy relationships between family members is crucial. Buck Runyan, program director at Remuda Adolescent Facility, says: a shared emotional characteristic between girls who develop eating disorders. They are oversensitive and receptive to emotional content at home. In case of any emotive turbulence in the family, these individuals are inclined to personalize them. These feelings of guilt and pain are then eschewed by the victim and stored in two places, the stomach and head (Eberly & Harken, 2000). Media today has become so unrealistic, setting standards at almost impossible body goals with prevalent images of models with rock hard abs and the perfectly shaped buns. In reality, it is highly likely that a viewer could be suffering from pre existing sentimental subjection and these advertisements could be major triggers to them. Although, many companies have started to introduce plus size models, it is still in considerable moderation. The media needs to set more realistic standards being body-friendly to all shapes and sizes. In short, there are not just one, but a variety of factors concluding to Anorexia nervosa. Studies show that some of these root from genetic factors, although, social factors have seen to outweigh them. Hence, bringing about a change in society and ideal body images could play a vital role in eliminating this possibly life threatening eating disorder. Kohari 4 References American Psychiatric Association, & American Psychiatric Association (2000). Eating disorder diagnostic criteria. In Diagnostic and statistical manual of mental disorders: DSM-IV- TR (4th ed.). Borson, S., & Katon, W. (1981). Chronic anorexia nervosa: Medical mimic. The Western Jorunal of Medicine, 135, 258-259. Cantrell, R. (2011, December 20). Anorexia and the Brain : Rachel Cantrell, MFT. Retrieved October 1, 2013 Derenne, J. L., & Beresin, E. V. (2006). Body image, media, and eating disorders. Academic Psychiatry, 30(3), 259. Eberly, M., & Harken, B. (2000). Eating disorders. Focus on the Family. Kaye, W. H., Bailer, U. F., Klabunde, M., & Brown, H. (2010). Is anorexia nervosa an eating disorder? How neurobiology can help us understand the puzzling symptoms of anorexia nervosa, 2.