Student 1 Student ENC 1102 Professor Lewis 30 April 2017 Help the Homeless Now Criminalization of the homeless is a crisis the U.S. is currently facing, and the role of housing is an important factor in the situation. Homelessness is a situation within itself that comes with a variety of problems, and the governmentally imposed criminalizing laws only make life even harder for the homeless people. The lack of concern for the homeless population is appalling and must be changed. A call for more attention toward the citizens through the halt of criminalizing laws and the creation of housing must be enacted in order for positive social change to occur. A call to action for housing must be started in communities in order to bring more social justice and equality into the country where everyone is supposed to be equal. It is the U.S. job to make sure that social equality is created, regardless of the living and monetary situations, because everyone deserves the basic human rights of food, water, and shelter. Every citizen should use their voice to convince the government that criminalization is an unnecessary punishment and that there ways to actually help the homeless, such as creating housing. Those living on the streets often experience punishment simply for existing. Criminalization can be defined as quick-fix solutions to remove homeless from such as placing laws upon those sleeping in public areas or asking for money (Brown). The homeless are constantly treated as criminals for doing normal human tasks, such as sleeping, Student 2 lying, or sitting, simply because they are doing so in public, as they have no other option. Many homeless have to deal with the fate of being cited or even arrested for normal human behaviors. One such person that experienced the detrimental criminalization is referred to as Mr. Smith, who was cited for and jailed for 100 days. Not only did he have to reside in prison, but he thereafter lost all of his belongings necessary to survive Safe 19). Being constantly treated as a criminal can get to the minds of individuals. One homeless man interviewed stated when living on the streets told you are a criminal, and you take that to (Ruiz-Grossman). Being constantly treated as a criminal by the government can severely impact the mental health of a person. They have the ability to believe that what they are doing is wrong, although it may be a basic human need. Another homeless person, Becky Blanton, was a homeless woman who became homeless after the death of her father. In her Ted Talks video she lectures about not only the criminalizing attitudes she had to face, but also the biological components of homelessness such as extreme heat and cold (Blanton). Blanton was not entirely homeless, as she lived in a van, but even then she had to face the extremes, so those with no temporary living structure at all are left to face the harsh world even more so. The homeless community experiences so many hardships, and the government simply ignores the problems. On top of the ethics and rights that are being infringed upon when the homeless are criminalized, a financial aspect is also present. It is estimated that $8,000-$10,000 per person per year will be saved if the homeless are housed and criminalizing laws are abolished (Reslock 38). Instead of using taxpayer money for imprisoning homeless and therefore paying for their living situation in the jail/prison, food, electricity, and payment for the jail workers, the government Student 3 could instead simply leave them be, or even help them to find housing. At a rate of over 633,782 people experiencing homelessness within the U.S. in 2012, an additional $8,000 would bring in and save a tremendous amount of money for the country (Sheffield 9). Criminalizing the homeless is extremely expensive, so stopping the process of criminalization would save a lot. The rates of homelessness are only increasing, so the money saved will therefore increase as well. Between 2014 and 2015, the rates of homelessness increased by over 26 percent (Covert 1). Not only is criminalizing the homeless detrimental to the people, but also the economy, so therefore homeless housed equals money saved. Ultimately as humans, everyone is deserving of equal rights, whether they are living on the streets or in homes, therefore criminalization is an issue that should be cared about by everyone, regardless of their own housing circumstance. Since criminalization targets the homeless population, housing must enacted for the people to live in in order to avoid the harsh laws. It is the housing situation that will ultimately end criminalization, since those housed and not on the streets are less likely to be targeted. Previously, a short term source of housing called tent cities were created for homeless to live in, but unfortunately are not a long term and reliable solution, since they often lack electricity, running water, and sewage (Loftus-Farren 1038). A new alternative must be created and called upon by citizens to push the government to create stable homes for the homeless community. A cycle of criminalization is occurring, as illustrated by Yale Law School where a homeless person can either find a shelter or will be forced to live on the streets and is found to be and therefore issued a ticket. The person lacks the money to pay the ticket so must appear in court, but with no legal address, they never find out their court date and are then issued a warrant for arrest for failing to appear in court. The Student 4 homeless person is once again found and the police then arrest them for the warrant. They are sent to jail, released, and the cycle begins again (Lowenstein 2). The cycle of criminalization impacts many people daily by limiting their basic biological rights, and must be stopped, or else it will just continue cycling with no end. Daily action must be taken upon U.S. citizens to stop the criminalization of the homeless. Since local, state, and national governments are the ones imposing the criminalizing laws upon the homeless, letters must be written to show public concern. Many lawmakers take public opinion seriously when creating new and continuing existing laws, so seeing letters of public concern will cause them to retract their currently enacted laws, or prevent new ones from occurring. As argued by the eighth amendment can be used to challenge criminalizing behaviors that are enacted by the government, since criminalization can be defined as and unusual 235). Citizens can express their opinion on criminalization and the eighth amendment to lawmakers in order to sway their stance on the issue. A call for the stop to criminalization as well as creation of new housing structures is necessary for the crime of criminalization to cease. A professional way to end the criminalization of the homeless is to deploy homeless outreach street teams made of people involved in healthcare, common people, and trained police officers Safe Through the use of this model, trust will be built with the homeless and other members of the community, and barriers to homeless services will be decreased. A persistent problem among the homeless communities is a lack of information and resources to help them, so the teams will be created to help this problem. These teams will help the homeless to find housing, jobs, and medical care within their communities. The training with such teams by local homeless people and homeless rights activists would include listening Student 5 to the concerns and problems that the homeless face every day, and working on solutions to solve the problems. Face-to-face interaction with the homeless population is a necessity in order to accomplish the establishment of laws to better the lives of the homeless population. Homelessness is an issue for all, not just those who are homeless. Every citizen should be involved with the issue of homelessness, because it impacts everyone both socially and financially. As for the social aspect, social inequality is emphasized when such discriminatory laws are placed on a group of people. Financially, the government is spending and losing money through the criminalizing laws that they could use to instead better the community. Not only is the punishment of homeless an infringement upon human rights, but it also is going against the eighth amendment. In order for the crime of criminalization to stop occurring, the people must call for action from local, state, and government officials. Letters must be written to lawmakers to express concern with the treatment of fellow citizens, and housing must be created for the homeless to get off of the streets and into a better environment. U.S. citizens have a responsibility to awaken government officials to the hardships they are placing upon the homeless population and to express the concern of the citizens. (WC: 1,467) Student 6 Works Cited Allard K. Lowenstein International Human Rights Clinic:Yale Law School, Nov. 2016. Web. Accessed 31 Mar. 2017. Blanton, Becky. Year I Was 2009. Web. Accessed 14 April 2017. =en Brown, Kristin. 1999. Issue 106. Web. Accessed 31 March 2017. Covert, Bryce. ThinkProgress, 24 Feb. 2016. Web. Accessed 02 Apr. 2017. https://thinkprogress.org/states-that-criminalize-homelessness-end-up-paying-the-price-3 Loftus-Farren, Zoe. Tent Cities: An Interim Solution to Homelessness and Affordable Housing Shortages in the United California law vol. 99, 2011., pp. 1037. Accessed 24 Feb. 2017. No Safe Place: The Criminalization of Homelessness in U.S.  The National Law Center on Homelessness and Poverty, n.d. Web. Accessed 31 March. 2017. Student 7 Elizabeth M. M. The Cruel and Unusual Criminalization of Homelessness: Factoring Individual Accountability into the Proportionality Texas Journal on Civil Liberties & Civil vol. 12, no. 1, 2006., pp. 233-275. Accessed 24 Feb. 2017. Ruiz-Grossman. More Proof That Criminalizing Homeless Does Not Huffington 25 Feb. 2016. Web. Accessed 31 Mar. 2017. 60ea8a7a. Sheffield, Jonathan. Homeless Bill of Rights: Step by Step from State to Interest Law Reporter, 19, no. 45, 2013., pp. 8-17. Accessed 5 Mar. 2017.