Student 1 Student Instructor Lewis ENC 1102 30 April 2017 One Nation Under Equality When you imagine a serviceperson fighting for your country, are they muscular, strong and aggressive? Many would say yes, because of the masculinity associated with these adjectives. Though to be a fighter, there is equal effectiveness in someone who is brave, courageous and determined. For many decades, female service members have not had the same opportunities as men based on science, physiology and military expertise that resisted against women fighting in combat zones. All that changed on December 4 th 2015, when prior Secretary of Defense Ash Carter stated long as they qualify (women) and meet the standards, women will now be able to contribute to our mission in ways they could not (Carter Opens all to Women). This statement opened all combat positions to women of the military (Pellerin). For many this may have indicated fairness but for others it meant a less effective military. Without further action, women in combat positions may continue to feel unsupported and unappreciative. The citizens of The United States of America can act to help confront the problem of gender inequality within the military by supporting the women who satisfy all gender-neutral physical standards and provide the nation with a selected crisis-response force that is always ready to protect and defend. America has fought for many years to promote a country filled with equality, which is reflected by a progressing gender-neutral military, but the journey to allow women in combat positions has not been easy. Women first began to serve in the military during the Revolutionary Student 2 War. To do so, this was only possible if they disguised themselves to serve alongside men (Danyluk). By World War I, women were authorized to work with the Army but only under contract or as volunteers. When roles began to open for women, they still were without benefit official status, which means they were required to obtain their own food and living quarters and received no legal protection or medical care, regardless if injured on the job (Bellafaire). Then in January of 2015, all military jobs previously designated only for men, were finally open to women (Pellerin). Prior to lifting the ban on women restricted from all combat positions, many felt uncomfortable with the idea of women as fighters. Not only did this steer away from tradition, but there were concerns that women would intrude on group bonding and cohesion. According to Retired United States Marine Corps Colonel William T. Hewes, women are of bonding with men in a manner that contributes to unit (Chapman 972). This opinion does not take into regard the many mix-gender bonding that frequently takes place among police or fire departments. On the contrary, a U.S. Army commander of a combat support company in Iraq, Captain Cynthia Mosley, mentions the action starts, every soldier does what been trained to cares whether male or female. you do the (Febbraro). Bonding and cohesion or the joining of a unit has nothing to do with it consisting of men or women. Instead for a unit to be successful, the focus needs to be on group solidarity, leadership and circumstance. Others argue that war is the exclusive territory of men and that this reflects the nature of warfare itself. A retired military officer claims, physical, emotional, and social qualifications of those best suited to the waging of war are unarguably the forte of the male of the (Chapman 972). Today females can physically perform at higher levels. Training Student 3 will only considerably improve the physical performance of a woman, even to the point where it matches or exceeds that of a man. It is apparent that men have an average greater upper body strength than women, although women can use their bodies in ways that are close to impossible to be achieved by men. Success and survival confined in the ability to carry out rapid sequences of small motions. This is an ability that women tend to transcend in, opposed to masculine like upper-body strength. Additionally, technology specifically involving weaponry has shifted toward miniaturization. This means that smaller bodies have become better adapted. Regarding the emotional and social aspect of the above claim, evidence suggests greater gender similarities than differences. A behavioral neuroscientist at Tel Aviv University in Israel, Daphna Joel, explains that there is no one type of male brain or female brain. Daphna Joel states, is no one person that has all the male characteristics and another person that has all the female characteristics. Or if they exist they are really, really rare to (The Brains of Men and Women). This invalidates the idea that men and women are not similar emotionally and socially. As follows, although men are usually more aggressive than women, they too can be just as aggressive as men. In her TedTalk video, Gayle Tzemach Lemmon, begins her story discussing how Special Operations leaders declared the need for more women in the war for more knowledge and understanding. In conservative societies like Afghanistan, as a man communicating with women without causing grave offense was uncommon. For this is another reason, the military needs women out there. In 2011, the call went out soldiers: Become a part of history. Join Special Operations on the battlefield in (Lemmon). Women could compete for a spot on these teams (Army Rangers and Navy Seals) to be put on Special Operations front lines. Among these brave women was Kate, who played football in high school because boys told her Student 4 that girls could not play. She decided to continue for all the other girls who would want to play. For women like Kate, biology shaped part of her destiny. To them it seemed as if everything noble was out of their reach. Finally, they had the opportunity to serve with the best on a mission, not despite the fact that they were female, but because of it. Day and night, they went out to prove themselves, for one another but more importantly for all the females who would follow in their footsteps. Likewise, for the men who served by their sides. Men who wanted to see them succeed. Notwithstanding that there are still many Americans who are uncomfortable with the lifted ban which discriminated females in combat positions, men and women can continue to take positive action in supporting a stronger military. Men and women, service members and civilians alike can take a step towards social change to combat this fallacy by joining Academy Women, a global leadership and professional development organization that empowers aspiring, current and past women military leaders and their families through mentoring, training, and growth opportunities to impact positive change locally, nationally and globally (Home). Furthermore, men and women can work together to initiate online discussion forums that promote the power of a gender mixed military. Discussions that express the importance of service women receiving the possibilities, benefits, protections and respect they deserve. These steps will ensure that all service men and women have access to the information and support they need to reach not only their personal but professional goals. It is possible to gain total equality within the military if women continue to reach mental and physical requirements put in place for both genders. Women must continue advocating for social change by testing the limits that have been created by the American culture. Failing to provide further action will leave the women of the military with a lack of support and Student 5 appreciativeness from the nation they are defending. Today circumstances have shifted towards a more gender neutral society, but women and men still have not yet reached equality. Citizens of America can support the women and the egalitarianism of the military, first by becoming a part of Academy Women. Second, by contributing towards conversation that promotes a positive change on the view and the true ability of women that risk their lives to defend their country. Together the organization and the rest of America can help women get on an equal foothold with men. The support will not just help the women in the military prosper but will encourage the success of the United State of America. (WC:1,364) Student 6 Works Cited Academy Women. Academy Women, 2017, academywomen.org. Accessed 2 Apr. 2017 Chapman, Roger. Culture Wars in America: An Encyclopedia of Issues, Viewpoints, and Voices. 2nd ed. Vol. 1-3. Armonk, N.Y: M.E. Sharpe, 2014. Print. Danyluk, Kaia. Service with the Revolutionary Colonial Williamsburg, 16 Aug. 2010, www.history.org. Accessed 30 Apr. 2017. Febbraro, Angela. the Or, Women and Combat Can Marine Corps Gazette, 3 Mar. 2003, www.mca-marines.org. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017 Hennigan, W.J. Opening all Combat Roles in Military to LA Times, 3 Dec. 2015, www.latimes.com. Accessed 2 Apr. 2017 Pellerin, Cheryl. Opens All Military Occupations, Positions to U.S. Department of Defense, 3 Dec. 2015, www.defense.gov. Accessed 14 Apr. 2017. Ted Talks. Tzemack Lemmon: Meet the women fighting on the front lines of an America Online Video Clip. Ted Women. Ted Talks, 15 May 2015. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. Wheeling, Kate. Brains of Men and Women Really That Different, Study Science Mag, 30 Nov. 2015, www.sciencemag.org. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017 Danyluk, Kaia. Service with the Revolutionary Colonial Williamsburg, 16 Aug. 2010, www.history.org. Accessed 30 Apr. 2017.