Chris Barr Professor Ricketts ENC 1101 9 April 2017 Imagine you are a full time student and work a full time job and at this full time job you are very hardworking and very dedicated and help your company make a lot of money, Out of all that money you get zero of it but your bosses and people in other high position are soaking up all the money. Playing a sport in college is a full time. The typical days of a student athlete starts with waking up early fives days a week to train and this is immediately follow by hours of classes then right after classes the homework, tutoring and some kind of social life. Not even considering game weeks, when you have workload and have to travel and play late into the night. Although student athletes have a demanding schedule, they have the same requirements of regular students. Student athletes should get paid to encourage good academic habits and to compensate them for their time. The time and effort a student athlete put into there sport should get awarded with some type of reimbursement. work more than most students. The NCAA has a regulation that is intended to limit training for players to 20 hours per week. According to an NCAA survey conducted in 2011, Division I football players averaged 43 hours a week. Baseball came in second with 42.1 hours and basketball came in third with 39.2. These are in-season numbers. This means that on top of class work and homework, athletes are working a full-time (John and Thomas) Student athletes training plays a huge role in the time and effort, the training last for hour and consist of running miles, lifting heavy weights, memorizing plays and even eating healthy to keep the body in great shape to perform well. There is also a lot of sacrifices involved with being a student athletes. These include being away from your family over months, missing holidays with the people that they love, and there is a high risk of being injured. In addition, the academic performance is affected. There is a lack of time for doing work and studying. There are additional requirement for student athletes. Student athletes must have 15 credit hours and GPA must be over 2.0. Student athletes are required to attend every class session, if not there is consequence such with meeting with coaches and extra training early in the morning. That also applies to accountability, if one of the teammates misses some type of mandatory requirement the whole accountability group is punished. Student athletes are also required to go into the community and give back. They go to churches and renovate them, build playgrounds for elementary schools and serve food to the homeless. While many researcher believe student athletes should get paid for their time and effort put into the sport, but there are many scholars that disagree with student athletes being paid. In the Tampa tribune there is an article that argues that student athletes already get A student-athlete is just that - a student, then an athlete. They should not need any payment other than a degree from their institution, which is the gateway to a lifetime of earnings. Collegiate athletics have always been about providing opportunities, and it has made a college education available and affordable to thousands of young men and women from all backgrounds This quote means student athletes should not be paid because their tuition is fully covered by the institution. The article also explains getting a degree will allow student athletes to make money for the rest of their life. These articles are wrong because student athlete should get paid. They should get paid because student athletes do not have extra time to get a job to support extra needs such as gas, toiletries, and social outings. Another reason they should get paid because the university receives money from the performance. Overall every researcher has their own thoughts about student athletes being paid but most researchers suggested student athletes should be paid. For the most part researcher says that student athlete should be paid because the amount of money athletes brings to the institutions also student athletes are scholarship does not cover a athlete personal needs. On the other many researchers say that student athlete should not be paid because athletes are fortunate enough to have a full ride scholarship that covers majority of what they need. Researcher Vince carter stated however it is not a place for athletes to get paid to play sports, why the professional level exists. Remember student comes first in student-athlete. Work cited Vince , Carter Student-Athletes Already Getting  Tampa Tribune [Tampa, 12 May 2007: 10. Business Insights: Essentials. Web. 10 Apr. 201 8501/b45ce3fe34d307dd81176e1cc5338d85?u=tamp44898 Accessed 19 February McArdle, John J., Thomas S. Paskus, and Steven M. Boker. A Multilevel Multivariate Analysis Of Academic Performances In College Based On NCAA Student-  Multivariate Behavioral Research, vol. 48, no. 1, 2013, http://www.tandfonline.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/doi/full/10.1080/00273171.2012.71 5836?scroll=top&needAccess=true. Accessed 19 February 2017. Miller, Kathleen E., and Joseph H. Hoffman.  Mental Well-Being and Sport Related Identities in College Students: Sociology of Sport Journal, vol. 26, no. 2, 2009. http://www.tandfonline.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/doi/full/10.1080/00273171.2012.71 5836?scroll=top&needAccess=true. 19 February 2017.