Ideal Body Image vs. Healthy Body Image The images that society and the media puts in the heads of men and woman, starting at a very young age, corrupts our views of ourselves and the ways we are to look. The mindset that has been handed down for generations has twisted our views on ourselves and others in a very negative and hurtful way. To reverse this issue we have to be educated in what exactly is going on, engaged in the active change and empowered by each other and ourselves to make a difference. Body image is an issue that is struggled with every single day by people all over. The reasoning behind this struggle is solely based off of society that we are being raised in and the media that surrounds us. From young ages, we are taught to not love the bodies we live in, mostly for commercial reasons and the standards we are expected to live up to. The reason that this is such a big problem is because it truly affects the way people think and live. Many self- confidence issues and mental illnesses arise due to the standards we are taught we have to live up to to mean anything, or on the other side, the standards can easily get to the heads of those who meet them. Basically, we live in a society where beauty is almost everything, which should not be the case whatsoever. NEDA reminds us that mass media is significantly influential in what and how people learn about body ideals and the value of being attractive. They also give us insight on some things that we might not consciously realize on our own; media aimed at elementary school age children, such as animated cartoons and videos, emphasize the importance of being attractive. Sexually objectified images of girls and women in advertisements are most likely to appear in What this organization is trying to make us aware of is that the things that we are fed through media are the same things that cause negative thoughts about ourselves, eating disorders and even harming ourselves. This may not seem like a big deal on a small scale, but the affects it has on our youth, and our adults, men and women, can be tremendous and severely damage the point of views we have on body images. Fat shaming, as defined by Oxford Dictionaries, action or practice of humiliating someone judged to be fat or overweight by making mocking or critical comments about their Fat shaming in itself is a corrupt action that happens secondly around the world, but the fact that is a concept that exist and is used negatively is the main source of the body shaming problem. This is only a brief introduction to the problems that fall due to the medias images of what we should look like. As spoken of before, the National Eating Disorders Association explains what body image is, the negative and positive. The symptoms of a negative body image is distorted perceptions of your shape and body parts, being convinced that everyone else is attractive and that your shape and size is a personal failure and disappointment, feeling ashamed, self-conscious, and anxious, and uncomfortable and awkward in your own body. This is an effect of what the media portrays that we should look like. Mass media exemplifies Secret models as the ideal size and shape for woman, these models are extremely beautiful women, but they are not the only type of beautiful that a woman can be. But, women are constantly compared to these figures, which is a partial cause to the negative body image that many people struggle with. On the better side of body image is a healthy and positive body image, which includes having a clear and true perception of ourselves and our body, celebrating natural body shapes and understanding that physical appearance does not equal character or value, feeling proud and accepting of your unique body and not spending an excessive amount of time, worrying about food, weight, or calories, and feeling confident and comfortable in your own body. This is the ideal body image that should be held by every person, and could be without the body shaming of society and the mass media. The issues with struggling with body image has been around for a long time and is not on the track of dissipating any time soon. If you yourself have not struggled with feeling not beautiful, disappointing, ugly, someone close to you is or has struggled. If you use any social media, watch television, engage in the news, or interact with people who are exposed to these media outlets, you are at risk of experiencing the effects of body shaming and negative body images. Christopher Cooper, author of Shaming: Social Effect on the explains how and why the media has such an impact on the minds of viewers. With one example that he puts into perspective for us he uses Kylie Jenner to show the harm social media can cause: instance, a teenage girl following Kylie Jenner may desire to have that particular body shape or believe that body shape or lips are ideal. Overtime this could gradually affects that mind and self-esteem to a deductive reasoning; body is perfect, my body is not like her which means I am not This is the thinking that leads to what has been called body Cooper also uses the well-known saying of This is a saying that many grow up with, meaning the costs and pains of being beautiful is worth the satisfaction of being attractive. But, when looked at on a deeper level, this saying is a saying that destroys. It seems so common and innocent, but with mindsets like that mental illnesses and eating disorders are presenting themselves. This may be easy to think about when it is out of context, but when mental illness affects 1 in 5 adults per year and in the United States alone, eating disorders affect 20 million women and 10 million men at some points in their lives. This is an epidemic that we ourselves would not want to experience, and we would most definitely not want our friends, family, loved experiencing. This is something that we can make a difference for, we can save our current or future children from growing up in a society that body shames or creates body ideals or expectations. With knowing and being able to relate or empathize for the issues of body image in society, we have the power to change the path it is headed down. In day and age, it is very common and expected for one to accept the ideals that are handed down and taught to us. What needs to be taught, to not only adults, but also to the youth, starting at a young age, is that beauty is not defined by appearance, worth is not defined by appearance, every body is perfect the way it is, and that healthy looks different on every person. The most influential form of empowerment is education. Healthy body image and self-empowerment should be taught parents, schools, and even just In the article a Better Body by Gina Demillo Wagner, there is a quote by the variously titled Adam Farrah speaking of how our brains have the ability to revise responses to stimuli and reframe our attitudes overtime, you have the power to override what you see in media and create your own image of Having self-confidence is a lifestyle that everyone deserves to live. Confidence does not necessarily mean feeling good about yourself all the time, but being able to see yourself in a healthy and true way and not belittling yourself. If we convert to this mindset, not only will it better our lives, but it will better the society that we live in. When one feels good about their body and the way they feel in their own skin, they most likely have a better attitude towards other people and life in general. To achieve the confidence and comfortability in own body, we must end the body ideals and expectations, and the body shaming that our society drenches us in. The society that we live in and the media we are surrounded by every day affects us in ways that we would never expect or desire. From a young age, men and minds are corrupted by the way mass media directs our views of ourselves and the way we strive to look and be like. Our views on how our bodies are meant to look is twisted and incorrect and have given others and ourselves the power to hurt us. To gain control over the way we think about body image and our ideal weights is to be educated on what exactly is being wrongly put into our heads, engaged in the active change and empowered by each other and ourselves to make a difference. Works Cited Body Shaming: Social Effect on the Mind (with Images)  Storify. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Derenne, Jennifer L., and Eugene V. Beresin. Body Image, Media, and Eating  SpringerLink. Springer-Verlag, 10 Jan. 2014. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Get The Facts On Eating  National Eating Disorders Association. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Media, Body Image, and Eating  National Eating Disorders Association. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Media, Body Image, and Eating  National Eating Disorders Association. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Wagner, Gina DeMillo, Elizabeth Millard, Maggie Fazeli Fard, Courtney Helgoe, MD Sara Gottfried, Experience Life Staff, Alyssa Ford, Pilar Gerasimo, and Elizabeth Larsen. Build a Better Body  Experience Life. N.p., 01 Apr. 2012. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. What Is Body  National Eating Disorders Association. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.