Andre Boothe English Comp I 30 April 2017 Ms. Elizabeth Ricketts Stop and frisk perfect on paper, flawed in reality. Stop and frisk is a major police policy with history tracing back to original case in the This method allows police to stop and search any person they have reasonable  of carrying a weapon or dangerous items. In the original case of this policy the police stop, questioned and checked two men waiting by a jewelry store for an extended period of time. The police were able to find weapons on both suspects and successfully arrested them. Due to the fact this policy is based on mostly suspicion and not evidence, it has lead to multiple arguments over constitutionality. These arguments escalated to the Terry V Ohio case in 1968 to determine if the policy was constitutional. The result deemed the original use unconstitutional and instead set a guideline on how it would be constitutional when a officer conduct a brief, investigatory stop when the officer has a reasonable, articulable suspicion that criminal activity is (Belin 1502).Thanks to these results the stop and frisk method the would be a heavily used practice by the NYPD from the to today. However this policy is not foolproof and issues with the method has caused new arguments to rise over this topic. Although stop and frisk did lower the crime rate in the use of the method has lead to diminishing returns, legal issues, and conflicts between citizens and police. As a result this policy needs to be revised to create a more optimal crime prevention method. Supporters often argue that the policy will make is that it lowers the crime rate, which is partially accurate. During the New York had record high crime and homicide rates before stop and frisked was implemented more frequently. Once the policy was used more along with broken windows policing(stricter and harsher policing on minor and major crimes),law researcher Jeffery Belin statistics showed that New crime rates dropped to record lows. However this was a different story once we got to post 2000 New York. This is since during this period in studies only six percent of citizens subjected to stop and frisk were found with weapons or dangerous items. This issue was made worse by the fact from 2000-2011 the rate how often stop and frisk was used went up each year, despite the rate of successful stop and frisk not increasing. Overall the method was perfect for the but needs changes to be effective in a post New York City. Furthermore on the topic of stop and success other issues arose with the diminishing returns. For instance the stagnant success rate being ignored as the rate of stop and frisk increased from 2000-2011 and until 2013 when they were momentarily forced to stop due to the supreme court ruling in the Floyd vs New York case. This case was a result of multiple lawsuits by citizens unhappy with how the method has been handled. After the case researcher Jeffrey Fagan came out and Anyone who says we know this is bringing the crime rate down is really making it (Matthews 4) when asked about the effectiveness of stop and frisk. Two other researchers Dennis Smith and Robert Purtell input on stop and frisk this post case was that the method  statistically significant and negative effects of the lagged stop rates on rates of robbery, burglary, motor vehicle theft, and homicide and no significant effects on rates of assault, rape, or grand (Matthews 4).To put simply stop and frisk is really effective at stop minor crime but not major crime which is a issue that needs to be look at if the policy ever gets revised. Another problem with stop and frisk is the history of legal issues that arose with using the policy. Even though Terry V Ohio made the practice legal possible signs of abusing the policy has lead to problems. For instance in the s another questionable use of stop and frisk lead to another supreme court case in People V Debour in 1976. During this incident a late night patrol officer stop and questioned a citizen because he was reported to be moving  ,and then proceeded to frisk him since the suspect had a bulge in their pocket. The officer found a weapon on the suspect and got a successful arrest but was met with backlash instead of praise. This case was similar to the Terry case since both stop and frisks were started on gut  and not reasons to justify having probable suspicion. As a result the court ruled the use of stop and frisk unconstitutional and instead added more clauses to the supreme court approved method of stop and frisk. They added tiers or levels of proper police interaction with suspected citizens. Level one involves police now being required to have credible evidence or suspicion to question a citizen and that questioning a citizen does not provide enough reason to legally frisk them. Level two involves police still needs reasonable suspicion or evidence to stop and frisk a person but is not allowed to force the citizen to be frisked. Lastly the level three policy states to do a forced stop and frisk the police has to have solid reasonable suspicion that the suspect has or is about to commit a dangerous crime or is armed with a weapon. Furthermore in studies done by researcher David Harris showed that many New York citizens were subjected to stop and frisk multiple times despite having no criminal record or reason for probable .Furthermore the studies showed that among all stop and frisked citizens fifty one percent of them were African American and thirty three percent of them were Latino American rising complaints over racial profiling. Those complaints escalated to the Floyd V New York case in 2013 to decide if the policy was being abused by the police. The main arguments the Police used to defend the use was that the increased use was keeping the streets safe and making the communities better with less weapons available. District Judge Shira A Scheindlin disagreed with both points since the statistics showed that few stop and frisk actually lead to arrests or weapons being found. The court deemed the current use of stop and frisk unconstitutional due to violating the 4 th amendment which is against unlawful searches and seizures. It was also deemed unconstitutional due to the heavy patterns of potential racial profiling done with the method. The other deciding factor on the case was that the method was simply being used way too often with any rhyme or reason as many of the police reports were not showing solid reasons to forcibly use stop and frisk. As a result the NYPD were forced to reduce the frequency of the use and retrain their members on the method. All in all the policy needs more revision since a police policy should be used to protect citizens, not harass and discriminate against them. The other vital issue with stop and frisk is that causing more conflict between the citizens and the police. Because of the overuse of the policy combined with the possible racial profiling involved with the policy and citizens felt alienated and did not trust the police. Because of this many protests violent and non-violent occurred over the policy ironically leading to more violence when stop and frisk was meant to reduce violence. Furthermore the protests of abuse and racial profiling even have their branch of history after the Amadou Diallo incident in 1999. Here Amadou Diallo a West African immigrant was gunned down forty one times during a stop and frisk, despite having no weapons and complying with the search by emptying his pockets showing only his wallet was on him the police mistaken for a weapon. As a result a layer of distrust and hate began between New York Citizens and the police. Due to many citizens citing they were stop and frisked multiple times a major complaint was that policy was just a way to harass and scare citizens. It escalated to a point where reports on many level one stop and frisks questioning lead to little information due to the reduced trust of the police. Overall this policy is too easy to abuse and needs to be fixed so no more unarmed citizens die due to a flawed method. Overall Stop and frisk on paper is great for preventing crime but too easy to abuse since many officers outright ignore the guidelines for the policy. It leads to conflicts, shrinking returns and legal incidents frequently over history and comes off as outdated instead of effective in modern New York. Stop and frisk should be revised it by giving one fixed and clear guidelines on what reasonable  since that varies way too much from officer to officer and by making it easy to abuse and cause issues while still being on paper but not constitutional in reality. Works Cited Belin, The Inverse Relationship Between Constitutionality and Effectiveness of New York Stop and . Boston University Law Review, Vol 94, pg 1495- 1520,2014,Accessed 30 April 2017. Social Science Research Network. Gelman Andrew, Fagan Jeffrey, Kiss An Analysis of the Police Stop and  Policy in Context of Racial Journal of American Statistical  ,Vol 102,September 2007,pg 813-823. Accessed 30 April 2017. American Statistical association. Goldstein, Judge Rejects New Stop and Frisk .The New York ,12 August 2013, http://www.nytimes.com/2013/08/13/nyregion/stop-and-frisk-practice- violated-rights-judge-rules.html.Acessed 30 April 2017 Harris, David. Across the Hudson: Taking The Stop and Frisk Debate Beyond New York  .N.Y.U Journal of Legislation and Public Policy,2014. Accessed 30 April 2017. Social Science Research Network. Kamins, Does Permit a Fifth Level Of Police-Citizen The New York Law ,1 June 2015, http://www.newyorklawjournal.com/id=1202727846545/Does-DeBour-Permit-a-Fifth- Level-of-PoliceCitizen-Encounter?slreturn=20170330211949.Acessed 30 April 2017 Matthews, what you need to know about stop and frisk and why the courts shut it down. The Washington Post, 30August 2013, https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/wonk/wp/2013/08/13/heres-what-you-need-- Accessed 30 April 2017. Rivera, Ray, Baker AL, Roberts, A Few Blocks, 4 Years, 52,000 Police .The New York Times,July 10 2010, http://liblog.law.stanford.edu/wp- content/uploads/2012/10/Over-4-Years-Nearly-52000-Police-Stops-in-a-Few-Brooklyn- Blocks-NYTimes.pdf.Acessed 30 April 2017