H o w a r d 1 Savanna Howard Madeline Gottlieb ENC 1102 30 April 2017 Put an End to Animal Cruelty Animal cruelty, which can also be referred to as animal abuse or animal neglect, is the human infliction of suffering or harm upon any animal, for purposes other than self-defense or survival. It may also occur when a person does not care for an animal responsibly. An animal is abused about, 10 seconds in this (Rosenthal). The shocking number of animal cruelty cases reported every day is just the beginning; most cases are never even reported. The Humane Society of the United States is a main stakeholder in the fight against all forms of animal cruelty. These methods of cruelty include but are not limited to: puppy mills, animal fighting, factory farming, seal slaughter, horse cruelty, and captive hunts. These mistreatments of animals are punishable by law but many animals need help to catch and report perpetrators. Animal abuse will not go away by itself and every little bit can help save a life. Thankfully, the Humane Society of the United States is the largest and most effective animal protection organization. Based in Washington, D.C., as an American nonprofit organization, by journalist Fred Myers and Helen Jones, Larry Andrews, and Marcia Glaser in (HSUS). They decided to create a new kind of animal organization, based in the capital, to confront national cruelties beyond the reach of local societies and state federations. The HSUS pursues its global work, an affiliate, Humane Society International, which lists staff members in approximately 17 (HSUS). This allows for expanded resources and greater help forces. The HSUS and their affiliates provide, H o w a r d 2 care and services to more than 100,000 animals each year; and we professionalize the field through education and training for local (HSUS). Many representatives expressed their beliefs that animals were, Entitled to humane treatment and to equal and fair (HSUS). This belief still holds true for many people and organizations. A motto was written for the Humane Society of the United States and describes the true purpose of the organization, and what it can bring for animals of all kinds. The Humane Society celebrates animals while confronting cruelty for all animals, not just dogs and cats. They take on some of the biggest transformational fights and stop large-scale cruelties, such as animal fighting, puppy mills and so many more. They strive to pass anti-cruelty laws in every nation, extreme confinement of farm animals in cages, stop cosmetic testing on animals, halt cruelty to wildlife, and transform the landscape for pets in (HSUS). The HSUS does not run local shelters or oversee local animal care and control agencies it instead, best practices and supports such entities throughout the country with a range of (HSUS). The most important goal is to prevent animals from getting into situations of distress in the first place. Therefore, these animals need help to get out of abusive homes and into a safe place like The Humane Society of the United States. Animal cruelty is both the unintentional and intentional infliction of suffering or harm upon any animal, regardless of whether the act is against the law. Conviction statistics lead some professionals to think that, convicted for animal cruelty are more likely to be violent to leading experts to believe that decreasing animal abuse will, in turn, decrease domestic violence (DoSomething). There are many reasons for individuals getting angered and becoming violent. Some potential threats will start on a smaller and easier target to try and release some anger. If the behavior continues they may target the next easiest being, which may be a child. In fact about, of domestic H o w a r d 3 violence victims report that their abuser also targeted their (HSUS). There are however so many forms of animal abuse that not all can be predicted, linked, or caught. Neglect and abandonment are the most common of these forms of companion animal abuse in the United States. Sometimes these acts of abuse are simply that people do not understand that what one is doing is causing the animal pain. Other times, people that have been abused will be cruel to animals because some individuals think that is the only way to treat others. This could also be true in victims of current or past abuse and that is the only form of expression one sees. The worst cruelty situations, however, are when people hurt animals knowing that it hurts the animal, and do it to cause the animal pain. It is hard to say why someone would do this but often one sees the animals as objects instead of creatures with feelings. These innocent animals can also be harmed for our enjoyment without us even knowing. Today we see animal cruelty on a larger scale and a larger map. Animal cruelty has long been an issue with the uprising of filmmaking, with even some big-budget Hollywood films receiving criticism for, sometimes of animals during (DoSomething). Many movies use animals as performers but take harmful actions to force the animals to do a given task. Also the use of animals in the circus has been a controversial topic since animal welfare groups had documented instances of animal cruelty during the training and performing of animals. Using animals as entertainment means, animals from their natural habitat, keeping them confined in cages, and engaging them in unnatural behavior, all for human (Do something). Even some of the oldest tricks in the book are very dangerous to an wellbeing. While humans can pick what one wants to do for life but, animals do not have that luxury. An animal should not ever be put in a position of possible injury by a human. These are all acts of violence towards living beings and should not be tolerated. H o w a r d 4 Overall, the Humane Society of the United States cares for, than 23,000 companion animals in need and helps thousands more through for people and pets every year (HSUS). The programs are divided up into various states and funded by the humane society. This allows for a maximum number of people and animals to be help around each location. Even with these efforts, to 5 million animals die in shelters every (Animal Humane Society). Many animals arrive to severe to treat or just do not get adopted into a loving home. Space, staff, and nourishment are always tight with the number of animals the humane society sees each day. The Humane Society is an independent nonprofit organization, not a branch of any national animal welfare organization or part of any government agency. The humane societies, is funded solely by private donations, adoption and program fees, merchandise sales, and special (HSUS). Every donation, helping hand, kind word and smile can make a big difference in the care of an animal. All beings, young and old can help animals in these situations whenever possible because they cannot help themselves. If one should ever find themselves in a situation where abuse may be present, there are a few steps to follow. First, never try to stop a person hurting an animal alone or try to help an animal who is hurt. Even though both situations can be upsetting, one can be put into a more dangerous situation. Second, find help from someone nearby or trusted; calmly describe what happened and find help. If there is definite animal abuse call 911 because it is an emergency. If there is an animal not being cared for properly one should call animal control as soon as possible. If there is an animal being hurt, remember that voice can help speak for an animal (Animal Cruelty). This problem will not go away on its own. Animals, especially dogs have been often termed best this may not always be true. If animals are abused, some have a hard time trusting and caring for another human being. If the rate of animal abuse increases in the future this could H o w a r d 5 result in more animals without homes. This lack of adoption could also lead to overpopulated shelters and more lives ending before intended (HSUS). These lasting effects could carry on for generations. Help make the world a more humane place for animals today. In the end, there is an alarming rate of animal cruelty all around the world. This cruelty can include everything from leaving a dog outside for too long and not feeding an animal properly to physically harming the animal inside and out. The Humane Society of the United States is making it one of their main goals to battle these hardships and save lives. These animals are living every day in pain and fear. All the people of this nation can do something to help keep these animals out of way. It is necessary that these wrongs are righted today. H o w a r d 6 Works Cited Facts About Animals in Dosomething, n.d. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. <https://www.dosomething.org/us/facts/11-facts-about-animals-entertainment>. About Animal Humane  Animal Humane Society. N.p., n.d. Web. 9 Apr. 2017. <https://www.animalhumanesociety.org/about/about-animal-humane-society>. About  The Humane Society. N.p., n.d. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. Animal  PAWS <3 kids. Capitol Media, 2017. Web. 7 Apr. 2017. <https://www.paws.org/kids/learn/animal-cruelty/>. Rosenthal, Cathy M. An animal is abused every 10 seconds in this  ANIMALS MATTER. N.p., 24 Apr. 2009. Web. 5 Apr. 2017. <http://blog.mysanantonio.com/animals/2009/04/an-animal-is- abused-every-10-seconds-in-this-country/>.