Whitney 1 Carly Whitney English 1101 Mr. Jackson April 11, 2017 Whether you are on the way to work, walking in the park, or going out to dinner, you will probably encounter at least five people that are smoking cigarettes. Fifteen years ago, people would only be smoking different kinds of conventional cigarettes, but since new technology came out, e-cigarettes are all people can talk about in the smoking world. Many researchers and society have placed labels and have done studies to see which one is better overall and the conclusion is that e-cigarettes are better than conventional cigarettes. E-cigarettes are better than conventional cigarettes because e-cigarettes are healthier, easier/better to use, and the FDA is regulating them more than conventional cigarettes. The most important part of a product for companies and for the buyer is how the product preforms and works. The point of cigarettes is for the user to get nicotine and other chemicals into their body (Trtchounian, Williams, and Talbot 55). Researchers Trtchounian, Williams, and Talbot have been collaborating on studies involving cigarettes and how they work. They conducted a study to compare how conventional and e-cigarettes work in terms of the level of vacuum needed and the amount of emissions they each produce. The article And Electronic Cigarettes (E-cigarettes) Have Different Smoking the researchers tested all kind of conventional cigarettes as well as different wattages on e-cigarettes (55). The conclusions to the study is that e-cigarettes require a higher vacuum compared to conventional cigarettes and they are not consistent in nicotine levels. This means that your lungs need to work harder to smoke e-cigarettes, but the user is not receiving a steady input of nicotine. The steady input of nicotine means that every time someone smokes an e-cigarette, there are receiving a different level of nicotine. Even though e-cigarettes are harder on the lungs, e-cigarettes are still better in terms of usage because they produce less aerosols which is better for the environment and the user (Trtchounian, Williams, and Talbot 55). Whitney 2 E-cigarettes are easier to use and easier on the lungs because there are few chemicals and nicotine levels are not consistent. This means that e-cigarette users get a lower/different level of nicotine which contains less harmful chemicals for the body, but the lungs still work harder (Gucht, Van, and Baeyens 1). Another group of researchers collaborated on an article asking doctors on their professional opinion on cigarettes. Gucht, Van, and Baeyens concluded in the article professionals in Flanders perceive the potential health risks of vaping as lower than those of smoking but do not recommend using e- Cigarettes to their smoking that even though e-cigarettes are better for the environment and human body, people who smoke conventional cigarettes should not switch to e-cigarettes (1). 0% of doctors asked recommended that people who smoke conventional cigarettes should either smoke less or quit all together rather than switching to e-cigarettes. The damage that conventional cigarettes already caused are permanent on the body and most damages be reversed. This shows how harmful conventional cigarettes are to a user. Since e-cigarettes contain less chemicals and carcinogens, it is healthier and easier on the lungs to smoke them compared to conventional cigarettes so doctors and researchers recommend e-cigarettes (Gucht, Van, and Baeyens 1). E-cigarettes are also better than conventional cigarettes because of the health differences. Researchers Alawsi, Nour, and Prabh wrote the article versus that showed the health difference between e-cigarettes and conventional cigarettes. E-cigarettes are healthier for the body because they contain less carcinogens, which are linked to cancer. They also have little to no secondhand smoke, but on the downside, they admit more emissions than conventional cigarettes (Alawsi, Nour, and Prabh 30). Conventional cigarettes are terrible for the body because they contain chemicals and carcinogens that are linked to cancer. Although e-cigarettes are better than conventional cigarettes, they are still harmful to the body. Both conventional cigarettes and e-cigarettes contain nicotine which can be addicting and is known as a gateway drug (Alawsi, Nour, and Prabh 30). Nicotine itself contributed to some of the health side effects when smoking. Whitney 3 Nicotine is also very harmful to the mouth as shown in a study by Sherry, Norine, and Wheatley. These researchers have an extensive background with both smoking and oral health. In the article Cigarettes, Vaping, and Chairside , the researchers concluded that both types of smoking are harmful for the mouth just in different ways. E-cigarettes harm the mouth in a chemical way and conventional cigarettes harm the mouth in a physical and chemical way. E-cigarettes are known to create mouth ulcers and mutations in the epithelial cells DNA which is better than how conventional cigarettes harm the mouth (Sherry, Norine, and Wheatley 47). Conventional cigarettes cause teeth to become yellow and brown until they rot and fall out a long with ulcers and other mouth mutations, making it harder to fix compared to e-cigarettes (Sherry, Norine, and Wheatley 52).Nicotine plays a huge role when it comes to oral health because it can destroy and alter the way the mouth looks and works. Every product on the market has certain regulations that must be followed before being placed on the shelf. This is related to the difference in e-cigarettes and conventional cigarettes because where, when, and how people smoke them play a large part in how e-cigarettes are better than conventional cigarettes. Elaine Keller use to be a smoker herself until she quit and published an article called is safer than She stated in the article that the FDA, or food and drug administration, failed to add all the ingredients that are in e-cigarettes. Even though e-cigarettes contain less carcinogens that are barely detectable compared to conventional cigarettes, making them a better product than conventional cigarettes, she still believes that the FDA needs to regulate them and include all the ingredients, like conventional cigarettes. This means that the companies need to include every ingredient on the packaging so the users know what they are buying (Keller 1). Debbie Elliot also wrote an article called The New Frontier In War On where she claims all cigarettes need to be regulated. Elliot says, smokers serve as guinea because there is no or testing of the (1). Unlike e-cigarettes, almost all types of conventional cigarettes are FDA regulated because they have been around for longer and we know the full long term effect of them and we can them conclude that they are not better than e-cigarettes (Elliot 1). Whitney 4 In conclusion, e-cigarettes are better than conventional cigarettes because they are healthier, they are easier/better to use for the user and the environment, and they are becoming FDA regulated. Since e- cigarettes are healthier than conventional cigarettes, the FDA does not have to regulate them strictly like conventional cigarettes, but since they are new and upcoming, the FDA is starting to regulate them. E- cigarettes are also easier to use because there are less chemicals going into the lungs and the body. In the long run, the debate on which one is better has been around for the past decade and with my research I have concluded that e-cigarettes are better overall than conventional cigarettes. Whitney 5 Works Cited Alawsi, F., R. Nour, and S. Prabh. Vaping versus  Dental Abstracts, vol. 61, no. 1, January 2016, pp. 30. Web. 25 Jan. 2016. doi:10.1016/j.denabs.2015.10.020 Elliott, Debbie. E-Cigarettes: The New Frontier In War On  All Things Considered, 2009. n. pag. Web. 22 Feb. 2017. Gucht, Dinska Van, and Frank Baeyens. professionals in Flanders perceive the potential health risks of vaping as lower than those of smoking but do not recommend using e-Cigarettes to their smoking Harm Reduction Journal, vol. 13, no. 1, 2016, doi:10.1186/s12954-016-0111- 4. Keller, Elaine. is safer than  USA Today, vol. 10, 2009. n. pag. Web. Sherry, Jennifer S., Norine M. Blackstad, and Kasey S. Wheatley. E Cigarettes, Vaping, and Chairside  Allied Health USA, vol. 37, no. 1, January 2017, pp. 45-54. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Trtchounian, Anna, Monique Williams, and Prue Talbot. Conventional And Electronic Cigarettes (E- Cigarettes) Have Different Smoking  Nicotine & Tobacco Research, vol. 12, no. 9, 2010, pp. 905. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 3 Feb. 2017.