May1 Jacob May Ms. Ricketts Comp. 1 04/09/2017 Final Draft The Russian Problem When viewing the current out-look of current events, like the recent events in Syria or the developments occurring within the European Union, it can be viewed as seeing global powers becoming more and more involved within these important and forever changing events. Why? With the end of the Cold just a mere 30 years ago, a new generation is being raised without the threat of extermination on the level that was present during the Cold War. Yet nuclear weapons, global powers involvement in regions other than their own, and economic issues have still been a hot button issue among current news and politicians. These same issues were present in the Cold War, so if the Cold War ended, why are there still current problems involving these issues? When observing many of these issues, one common factor remains the same through all scenarios, involvement and more than that. By understanding the root causes of Russian actions through looking at their history and comparing current events to those before, should help us solve many conflicts. Current knowledge of many current events can be hard to organize as the data continuously is flowing in, and information is constantly changing by the minute. When looking back on the events leading up too many of the current situations, much of the information May2 becomes very linear however. When observing the current crisis on Korean peninsula, of which has existed since the end of World War Two, we see that their Nuclear arms advancement has always been a pivotal talking point for politicians around the world. Recently North advancement has prompted a US reaction in an increase of security around the Korean peninsula. involvement with this was the main reason for the issue even existing! Russia sent scientists to help develop the power grid in North Korea, through nuclear power as it was the most efficient at the time; this actions allowed for the Kim Dynasty to weaponize the uranium and create the nuclear arms that we fear to this day. Today however, looking back in the Russia (then USSR or the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics) was the acting force with establishing the now current state of North Korea. involvement with advancing the North military capabilities allowed for North Korea to have a base to start funding towards the research and development of arms and later nuclear arms. This type of actions shows that the history of Russia shows them trying only to pursue their own objectives and not with the intention of bettering the world. Looking into human history, there are a few main reasons for conflict. Space, people need or want space to grow for generations, this was one of goals that he outlined in Mien Kompf. Resources, when you have the space now you need the resources to grow and fill in that space. And finally, connection with other peoples for trading of good you have. Russia possessed space, resources, but lacked the connection to trade goods through a warm water port which allows for year-round trade. When looking at the Syria conflict it can be viewed as Russia is supporting the Assad regime, of which varies depending on what perspective you view the issue from. Russia still does not have a warm water port, and most conflicts with Russian aggression is a result of them pursuing warm water ports. Russia supporting Assad, may May3 allow for Russia to possess a new warm water port outside the black sea, so it be blocked from a third-party like Turkey does currently. This chance of a year-round warm water port is plenty to guarantee Russian support, as this warm water port will do wonders for their economy, as well as their naval range and growth, allowing it to be able to compete with the U.S. Russia is doing best for Russia, much like the United States does right for the United States. During the reign of the Soviet Union, their national motivation was to expand their influence to help with the load that a communist system brought upon the people. Their actions with the North Korean government was to expand their influence within the Asian region and to hopeful spread to the of America, Japan. They had motivation to expand during the Cold War, now however not so much. A warm water port would greatly impact their economy and navy, but it will not affect the working class throughout Russia. The port would only benefit the elites of Russia, until further expanse of goods and industries are made then the working class will start to benefit. A warm water port could also destroy the Russian made industries as new foreign goods will flood into the country, just like when the USSR fell, and kill the native competitors. The main motivators for any viable country, is to have space for their people, to have resources for their people, and to have connection to the outside world for their people. Many countries positions on the globe allow for these to form naturally, many still are fighting among neighbors for one or these reasons, and some are mixed between the three. Russia fits with fighting with their neighbors for a viable connection for trade to the outside world. During the Cold War, the USSR was able to use the regions that they controlled to benefit themselves, so when the USSR broke up and Russia was alone they struggled to gain global trade power. Russia is spending time with Syria with the hopes of gaining more trade opportunites in the form of May4 a port, and that may be one of the many reasons why Russia is on the TV more and more. Becoming more of a threat to the U.S. as their global influence gains, the U.S. will falter. May5 Work Cited Beissinger, Mark R. Empire as Slavic Review. vol. 65 no. 2, 2006, 294-303. JSTOR. 19 Feb. 2017 Khodnev, Alexander S. legacies of Woodrow Wilson and the League of Nations in World Affairs. Vol. 158 Issue 1(1995) 8-18. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 Pontikes, Elizabeth. Red: A Study of Stigma by Association to Blacklisted Artists during the in Hollywood, 1945 to American Sociological Review. vol. 75, no. 3, 2010, 456-478 JSTOR. 19 Feb. 2017 Shnirelman, Victor. by History or by Historians? The Peoples of Russia in School History History and Memory: Studies in Representation of the Past. vol. 21 no. 2, 2009, 40-110. JSTOR. 29 Jan. 2017