Tulloch 1 Katie Tulloch Professor Gottlieb ENC 1102 29 March 2017 Animal Testing: Time to Make a Difference An wants and needs are the first thing taken into consideration for companies that provide products used on a daily basis for a population. The objective is to get the process done as quick and as inexpensive as possible. Regardless of the nature of the product, either household or cosmetic needs, the product must be tested for the safety before released to the public. This step is required by the FDA, however, not specifically require the use of animals in testing cosmetics for Testing - Animal Testing & Often times, the route chosen by the company to test the product involves the usage of animals due to the abundance available at the hands of companies that chose this method. According to Cruelty Free International.org, least 115,000,000 animals may be used in experiments worldwide each and Figures on Animal With that in consideration, it is important that as a whole individuals attempt to limit the use of products used that were once tested on animals. This small step will indirectly help the animals and hopefully direct companies to choose an alternative route. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, or PETA, is an organization that helps promote a voice for animals who are wrongfully taken advantage of. Their attempts simply are to represent the voice of the animals that is absent when animals are exploited. Altogether, it is up to humans to educate themselves and purchase non-animal tested products in order to prove to companies that alternative methods are just as successful. Tulloch 2 Altogether, for the Ethical Treatment of is an organization that is there to protect rights. More often than not, animals walk around with a target on their back, which is the sole reason PETA stands where they are today. Animals are abused in many different areas including, but not limited to: the food industry, clothing industry, entertainment, and laboratories. According to website, focuses its attention on the four areas in which the largest numbers of animals suffer the most intensely for the longest periods of (PETA 1). In other words, PETA attempts to protect the rights of animals that are simply ignored by many companies including those who choose to test on animals. In order to put best efforts towards protecting rights, works through public education, cruelty investigations, research, animal rescue, celebrity involvement, and protest (PETA 1). With each effort in educating the public, there is a hope that it will impact citizens to make a difference in favor of the animals. To show commitment to their mission statement, PETA has completed and achieved more than one hundred milestones where animals were saved from instances in which they were taken advantage of. Each milestone brought awareness to other organizations on this ongoing issue and PETA will continue to do so to get more people in favor for protecting rights. Some points that are often overlooked regarding animal testing, as a whole, involve the reasons why it is important to stray away from animal tested products and involvement with animal testing. A common misconception of animal testing is the cost. According to Understanding Animal research.org, common misconception about animal research is that: animal testing is cheap and an easy and Often times animal testing is perceived to be one of the cheaper options, since it is a commonly used method of testing. This Tulloch 3 can be said due to the fact that, many major name brand companies such as: Clorox, Tide, ChapStick, Revlon, Dove, and Windex all choose animals as their test subjects. However, to clarify this fallacy, United States of America spends sixteen billion dollars annually for animal testing at tax (Terrance 1). Not only is this operation expensive, it involves the money that United States citizens pay to the government, meaning that citizens could possibly be unaware that this is how a portion of tax money is being spent. This money that is portioned for animal research not only covers animal testing as a whole, but also gives grants to universities to perform experiments on animals. According to Cruelty Free International.org, State University was given 1.9 million dollars for cruel heart attack experiments on and University was given 16 million dollars for drug addiction experiments on (Terrance 2). This money that is allocated to animal research both allows pointless and cruel experiments to take place without a say from the people of this country, since it is up to the government on how to spend tax dollars. In addition to the expensive nature, people are under the impression that animals are protected by the Animal Welfare Act. The Animal Welfare act is, federal law and its associated regulations set the standards for humane care and treatment for certain animals that are exhibited to the public, bred for commercial sale, used in medical research, or transported Testing- Animal Testing & This act was initially set to protect the rights of animals in ways they have been mistreated in the past. For that reason alone, companies endorse animal testing and see stories of cruelty to be out of date with the new acts such as the AWA in full swing. However, according to Dave Anderson, Animal Welfare Act is cold comfort; of the 26 million animals used for testing in the US every year, only 5% are covered by the terms of the Tulloch 4 Animal Welfare Act. Animals that are not covered include birds, fish and (Anderson 1). Not only was the truth avoided, but the animals that are not covered under the Animal Welfare Act are the main test subjects for product testing. In full support of that statement, the Humane Society stated, is important to note the most common laboratory and mice bred for research, make up percent of all animals and Answers About Biomedical 2). Although the Animal Welfare Act is helpful in some cases, when it comes to animal testing for cosmetics and household products, it barely gives the majority of animal subjects a fighting chance. The greater number of testing subjects happen to be excluded from this act and invalidates the companies cover by stating that the AWA is a safeguard. Lastly, a major drawback of using animals for a greater part of testing product safety is the inaccuracy that animals bring to the table. It is known to man that animals simply do not represent humans as a whole. The New England Anti-Vivisection Society organization supports this claim by stating, differences in anatomy, organ structure and function, toxin metabolism, chemical and drug absorbtion, and mechanisms of DNA repair can give us inadequate or erroneous information when we attempt to apply animal data to in Science / With this in mind, it can be said animals clearly have a shorter lifespan than humans do. Researchers and those in favor of animal testing claim that due to this short lifespan, they are unable to see the effects of products over a lifetime. This can become an issue for humans that use these products, as they could potentially cause problems that is unknown to companies and to science. Testing the safety of products and passing the regulations should ensure to humans that these products are entirely safe for human use. Tulloch 5 Considering the reasons provided, it is important that humans help animals to help themselves in the long run. To make a difference, the solution is quite simple, and will indirectly save animals along with possibly initiating a change in the judgement. Simply put, humans should consider buying products that abstain from using animals to test the safety of their products. Many companies are successful in making products that refrain from using animals all together, some of which include: Bath and Body works, 365 Everyday Value, Aveda, Wet Wild, Trader Joes, and LUSH. By purchasing these brands, as opposed to others that test on animals, that will show support for animals. Supporting rights is the first step in making a difference in favor of these species. Purchasing non-animal tested products will prove to companies that others are just as successful by seeking alternative routes. These alternative routes include, but are not limited to: skin, in vitro testing methods, and stem cell/ genetic testing in These methods will be more accurate for human safety, as they will mimic the human body more, in comparison to bodies that are known to be different. A final way to empower a change is having a voice and spreading the word. A method that can improve this is to tell people what they can do to make improvements for animals. Help to educate individuals of where animal testing stands today and the imperfections that follow. Human safety should be the main concern for these companies that produce products used on a daily basis. However, inaccuracy, cost, and laws are not reason enough for them to change their methods. Humans have to give companies a reason to adjust. All in all, it is inevitable that products have to be tested in order to ensure that it is safe for humans. However, more often than not, companies test their products on animals. It has been proven that using animals as testing subjects is nowhere near being inexpensive, in fact, it is Tulloch 6 United States tax money that is being spent, and this testing method is not accurate nor, in reality, safe. Reducing the number of animal tested products being purchased will support animals and hopefully make companies reconsider their testing methods as a whole. Tulloch 7 Works Cited Alternatives to Animal  PETA. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, n.d. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Anderson, Dave. Top 10 Reasons Animal Testing Should Be  Top 10 Lists ListLand.com. N.p., 27 Jan. 2016. Web. 09 Apr. 2017 Animal Welfare  USDA APHIS Animal Welfare Act. USDA, n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition. Testing - Animal Testing & U S Food and Drug Administration Home Page, Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition, Accessed 9 Apr. 2017. Facts and Figures on Animal  Cruelty Free International. Cruelty Free International, n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017.  Myths and Facts Understanding Animal Research. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. Questions and Answers About Biomedical  The Humane Society of the United States. N.p., n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Society, New England Anti-Vivisection. Animals in Science /  In Testing. N.p., n.d.Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Terrance, Louis. PETITION: Reduction of Animal Testing to Reduce Government Waste at  Change.org. N.p., n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017.