Student 1 Student Dr. Richard Gaspar ENC 1102 15 April 2017 The truth behind Genetically Modified Crops Technology is becoming everyday more advanced and human beings are able to do incredible things due to much research, effort and willingness to survive. There were many great discoveries in the past years and in order to become better, men have gone out of their ways to provide safety, security and physiological needs. Although most inventions have helped ease life to what we see today, there are also many others that came with consequences that may not be worth the Genetically Modified Crops is a great example of an invention that was designed with a good purpose but later on presented more negative aspects than benefits to the population. The idea was to produce foods that would be bigger, better and cheaper. These crops were supposed to help in the case of a situation in which we would need to survive plague, frost and other environmental disasters. Although we are not in need of such crops because there is no environmental issue currently occurring, these crops are still being sold everywhere and have been causing illness throughout the world. Genetically Modified Organisms comes with serious issues concerning the health, environment and economy. It is important to bring awareness to the topic and fight for the safety of the people. As human beings we tend to look out for answers and easy pathways that will somehow make our lives easier. Genetically modifying an organism in order to produce crops that can survive frost, pests and plague sounded like a great idea until the negative side effects became an issue. We have advanced in technology throughout the years and discovered many ways to save Student 2 lives and cure diseases, but yet the media does not tell us everything that is discovered and it does not educate our population on aspects such as GMO and how it affects our health. The truth is that there are many health issues that comes with the consumption of genetically modified crops, according to the World Health Organization, chronic diseases such as, infertility, immune problems, accelerated aging, faulty insulin regulation, and changed in the gastrointestinal system are highly related with GMO. (World Health Organization, Foods derived from modern technology). These products can be found at your local supermarket, in the restaurants you visit, in pharmacies and many others because most of them do not have labels. While there are many people protesting and fighting for the labeling of such products in order to avoid having it in their diets the issue has not yet come to be alerted to many individuals. According to CNBC news, voters in Colorado and Oregon have rejected the ballot measures that would implement labeling in such states. (Koba, label efforts fail but will FDA scientists have warned of the unpredictable and hard to detect side effects although the government has ignored the warnings. The Institute for Responsible Technology is an organization with the goal of educating the population on GMO, its risks, how to avoid and fight this problem. In the website there is a story of Jazmin, a puppy that was suffering from a serious chronic disease that was untreatable according to her doctors. After seeking out many specialists and trying out different treatments, owner received the advice to switch her diet to GMO free foods. The results turned out to be unbelievable and Jazmin was healthy and happy again. (Jennings, Although it may seem hard to believe that the government would ignore health risks related warnings, there are a couple different reasons such as incentives from the government, big Student 3 companies that are taking control over agriculture and many others that would influence their decision. Initially, incentives are money that flows from the government into different departments for public benefit. According to Dr. Shiva, internationally recognized activist, there are $400 billion dollars being invested on chemical agriculture of which meat and dairy receive an estimate of 74% of such subsidies. With that being said vegetables receive a very little amount, resulting in high-priced healthy foods such as, salads and vegetables. This results in making fast food restaurants the go for those that cannot afford to buy organic. This is one of the reasons cheeseburgers are so much cheaper in the United Stated and organic foods are not affordable for everyone. (Shiva, Economic Argument Against According to the Institute of Responsible Technology, after studying GMO and researching whether or not it was safe to be consumed memos reveal that their position was staged by political appointees who were under orders from the White House to promote Health Based on these instances, it is safe to assume that the idea of making people alert of all the facts and statistics behind is yet to be considered by the government. There is a lot of capital involved in chemical agriculture and it would be a tragedy to lose all the money invested in those firms once the population becomes alert of the problem and starts to take an action on resolving it. There are theories in which the government has silenced scientists in order to keep their content protected and secure. An example of this is seen in a film by Bertram Verhaag and Denkmal Films in which Verhaag talks about two scientists Pusztai and Ignacio Chapela that were punished by having their credibility and reputation destroyed after researching genetic engineering in the GMO subject. According to Verhaag there are many other scientists that get paid by industries to be silenced and not bring out their studies. (Verhaag, Under Attack) Student 4 Additionally, technologies involving farming also affect the economy in a negative level. According to Karr the mid-1900s, only a tiny number of people worked on farms in the United States, and today, across the whole world, less than half the people work on farms growing food or cotton for As a consequence of all the machines working in the farms there were many people unemployed looking for other jobs to support their families. With the decrease in jobs available the economy there is an increase in the health inequality. Lastly, genetically modified crops are also damaging our agriculture with soil erosions and pesticides. When producing these crops all ground is entirely covered by chemical applications and when there is wind the dust clouds are taken to the nearby neighborhood farms, the watersheds and the communities surrounding it. These dust clouds contain high levels of pesticides that are considered very dangerous to our health. According to Dr. Agnos Rola, professor at the University of Philippines Los Banos, there is indeed a positive correlation between pesticides and chronic diseases when researching farmers that spent years in the agriculture business. (Rola, health risks and farm productivity: a Philippine With that being said, the population that resides around those chemical agriculture industries will experience some sort of illness in their lifetime due to the toxicity of the environment they are living in. Given these points, it is expected for the people to bring their alertness to the subject and to the consequences that Genetically Modified Organisms have on overall well being. Is it extremely necessary to purchase products that will in fact damage our health and environment? What was once thought to be the solution to hunger today is harming many individuals and putting animals at risk. The truth is that are a rick to the economy, agriculture and overall health. It affects every person that consumes it, whether they are aware of it or not. Student 5 This issue will not be extinguished easily and it is our mission to make people alert and take a step to change the future and protect our race. Visiting the market, doing research, contacting friends and family, avoiding GMO labeled products are examples of actions that will make a difference in succeeding in the fight against these chemicals. Student 6 Works Cited A.C., Rola. Pesticides, health risks and farm productivity: a Philippine  AGRIS: International Information System for the Agricultural Science and Technology. N.p., 01 Jan. 1989. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Everything-You-Have-To-Know-about-Dangerous-Genetically-Modified-Foods-September-  Institute for Responsible Technology. N.p., n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. History of  Ancient Farming - History of Farming - Quatr.us. N.p., 01 Sept. 2016. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Story by Sara  Pets and GMOS. N.p., n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Koba, Mark. GMO label efforts fail but will  CNBC. CNBC, 06 Nov. 2014. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Maghari, Behrokh Mohajer, and Ali M. Ardekani. Genetically Modified Foods and Social  Avicenna Journal of Medical Biotechnology. Avicenna Research Institute, 2011. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Scientists Under  Institute for Responsible Technology. N.p., n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. The Economic Argument Against GMOs: a Top Ten  The Inspired Economist. N.p., 26 Mar. 2015. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. World Health Organization. (Internet).(2002). Foods derived from modern technology: 20 questions on genetically modified foods. Web. 15 Apr. 2017.