Nyberg 1 Charles Nyberg Ms. Madeline Gottlieb ENC 1102 29 April 2017 The Need for Vaccinations For over two centuries, vaccinations have protected humans from harmful diseases like polio, the measles, influenza, smallpox, and pneumonia. Every parent and adult are advised in America and other first world vaccinations are readily get themselves and their children vaccinated. Many citizens in the world have no access to health care or the vaccinations to protect themselves against deadly, nevertheless, preventable diseases. One organization works internationally to provide aid to countries that need vital health care for its population. The World Health Organization (WHO), founded in 1948, works intensely in over 200 countries to improve the health of the individual and the larger population as a whole, increasing immunizations and trying to eradicate all diseases possible. One of the main goals of WHO is to increase the overall health and well-being of the person in all ways To achieve this objective of lowering the death rate and increasing life expectancy, they utilize one of the easiest and most effective WHO states that vaccinations are, of the most cost-effective health investments, with proven strategies that make it accessible to even the most hard-to-reach and vulnerable They hope to ensure that all individuals are vaccinated and properly immune to preventable diseases, because the cost and affect on a sick population can be quite overwhelming. However, as the access to information has increased in the well as the ability to raise opinions to the same level of belief as true facts and claims have grown against vaccinations. The main factor effecting the amount of people who receive vaccinations is the statement that vaccinations cause autism or other chronic illnesses. As a result, many parents believe that to protect their children, they Nyberg 2 should not vaccinate them, as seen by groups like Parents Against Mandatory Vaccinations (Whitney). Sadly, an unvaccinated child is more at risk for other life threatening diseases later on in life than a child who receives a limited amount of shots throughout their early childhood years Adults are also more often prone to sickness and time away from work when not vaccinated. Through the message of the World Health Organization, people should care for their whole self with simple vaccinations. When adults are vaccinated they are preventing unnecessary costs and loss of work time. And college students are preventing missing school or falling behind in essential studies. Most Americans and people of the world need to be aware of the benefit from being immunized and how they individually can help others become vaccinated as well. Continuing or starting yearly vaccinations and publicly supporting vaccinations can create a healthier community and an overall better society free from the costs of vaccine preventable diseases. Through information about vaccines, the overall population will be better able to change the false ideas behind vaccinations and increase total vaccinated individuals. The first vaccination was created in 1796 and was used to treat smallpox, a disease that has since, through vaccinations, been eradicated Polio and the measles also were mostly eliminated from the United States, but not everywhere else in the world. Other diseases like pneumonia, whooping cough, and the mumps have decreased significantly in the world because of vaccinations (Sifferlin). Preventable diseases, like these, are best targeted at a young age like infants and children under the age of 18 because their bodies are just developing. In America, children receive over 50 doses of 14 different vaccinations before the age of 6, all protecting them against a plethora of diseases The United States population is mostly vaccinated but seems to be one of the least healthy first world countries. People are not taking care of themselves and not getting a simple flu or other necessary vaccinations each year. Nyberg 3 In 2014, 47% of the population in America received the flu shot. Even worse, only 40% of Americans between the ages of 18 and 50 were vaccinated The flu in America is not deadly because of the many advances in medicine, however the physical and economic cost of being out of work for a person from the flu and other diseases can be quite significant. A 2015 study by the University of North Carolina states that, diseases among adults cost the U.S. economy $8.95 (Benios). The flu alone accounted for over 5 billion dollars lost. One of the main researchers in the study indicated that the great loss of money shows a significant need to boost the perceived value of vaccinations (Benios). Prices for medicine and doctor visits can become costly at a minimum of $200 per insured person compared to a single $35 flu shot that is often covered by health insurance (Levitt). Other than the flu other diseases are also easily prevented with a simple set of yearly immunizations. The Center for Disease Control defines 10 necessary vaccines all adults should receive to insure no occurrence of illness or unnecessary leave of work. Although many people believe they will not get sick, there is always a chance for an outbreak or wide spread of a disease. The flu by itself is a simple and often easily treated virus that each year can reoccur and spread. Pneumonia, affecting the lungs, however, can be hard to treat and is easily transferred from one person to the next. A vaccine for pneumonia once a year would take away the immediate chance to contract the disease and be taken out of work or school for an amount of time. Many parents claim that there are direct connections between vaccinations and autism however, there has never been any causal relationship found. The Institute of Medicine of the National Academies, in the eighth and final Immunization Safety Review, explored all research and studies involving vaccinations and autism and concluded was there is no direct connection or relationship at all (Immunization). Because less and less people vaccinate themselves and/or their children, diseases are rising in Nyberg 4 prevalence again. The measles in the United States has increased significantly at over 54 cases since the start of 2014 through unvaccinated individuals (Sifferlin). The mumps has had outbreaks at Ohio State University, the University of California, and Loyola University, in 2011, all because students traveled internationally and came back; it spread because of so many unvaccinated students (Sifferlin). These diseases, that are easily prevented, are not being contained because of a lack of trust and knowledge about vaccinations. Parents and their children, college students, and adults all have the need to be vaccinated and prevent unnecessary sickness and spread of disease. Many different approaches can increase the overall amount of vaccinations and restore true confidence in the need and benefit for vaccinations. The first way that can increase the health of everyone overall, as the World Health Organization hopes to achieve, is by being more public through social media about receiving vaccinations and being vaccinated. Social media sites like Instagram, Twitter, and Facebook hold a strong influence over the majority of the opinion and decisions. If everyone is showing that they are protecting themselves from harmful diseases with a post or picture, more people are going to realize that vaccinations are good and necessary for them too. The more conversations that end the false ideas about connections between autism and vaccines, the better. The way the false claims became so widely known in the first place, was because of social media and no one presenting the true facts that defame any opinions that state the causal relationship. Another prominent people could perform to positively affect vaccinations by getting ones for themselves every year. Often times, college students and adults under the age of 50 do not get vaccinated or decide to abstain altogether because they may think it is unnecessary or too much of a hassle. However, when someone is unvaccinated, they are more likely to get sick, buy expensive Nyberg 5 medication and visit a doctor, and lastly have to miss work. Finally, people should make sure their friends and people they spend the most time also vaccinated. Having citizens, students, parents, and adults all participating in vaccinations and publicly speaking about their benefit, will help to convince anyone who is skeptical that vaccines are beneficial to all. Vaccinations are vital to a healthy and prosperous community. Whether it is a parent, child, student, or adult, being immunized saves money and time. People when given the proper information are easily able to change the way a society believes. With safe and necessary way to protect all from harmful media and mass communication should support the truth. Everyone needs to protect themselves from preventable diseases and the easiest and quickest way is by becoming immunized and making sure others are immunized as well. Nyberg 6 Works Cited Benios, Thania. Unvaccinated Adults Cost the U.S. More Than $7 Billion a  UNC News. UNC at Chapel Hill, 12 Oct. 2016. Web. Accessed 09 April 2017. Disease  History of Vaccines. The College of Physicians of Philadelphia, 15 Mar. 2017. Web. Accessed 9 April 2017. Immunization Safety Review. [Electronic Vaccines and Autism. Washington, D.C.: National Academies Press, c2004., 2004. EBSCOhost, Accessed 9 April 2017. Levitt, Aaron. The Cost Of Getting The  Investopedia. N.p., 02 Oct. 2012. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. Sifferlin, Alexandra. Vaccine-Preventable Diseases Emerging Thanks to  Time.com. Time, 17 Mar. 2014. Web. Accessed 9 April 2017. Flu Vaccination Coverage, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, CDC, 23 June 2016, Accessed 8 April 2017. National Vaccine Information Center, NVIC, Oct. 2016, Accessed 8 April 2017. World Health Organization. World Health Organization, n.d. Web. 8 April 2017. Whitney, AL. Parents Against Mandatory  Parents Against Mandatory Vaccines. N.p., n.d. Web. Accessed 8 April 2017.