Vieira 1 Alexandra Vieira Professor Gottlieb ENC1102 9 April 2017 Inform and Empower The discussion about domestic violence and sexual assault is considered to be a taboo, even though it is an occurrence that happens quite often in societies all over the world. Both issues are neither new to society, or things to be ashamed of, as far as the victim is concerned. Though victims should not feel ashamed to speak about what they experienced first- hand, society makes it difficult for them to openly come out to others and seek help. Domestic violence is defined as, pattern of behavior used to establish power and control over another person through fear and intimidation, often including the threat or use of Domestic violence is quite common and more dangerous than what people may like to consider. Sexual assault is also defined as, crime motivated by a need to control, humiliate and harm. Perpetrators use sexual assault as a weapon to hurt and dominate others. Sexual assault is forced or coerced sexual contact without consent. Consent is the presence of a clear yes, not the absence of a Like domestic violence, sexual assault can be traumatizing to the victim and can be just as dangerous. The definitions of both issues are made clear and consistent according to the researcher, Basile: a consistent definition helps in determining the magnitude of sexual violence and aids in comparing the problem across allows researchers to measure risk and protective factors for victimization in a uniform (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention). When breaking down the meaning of both definitions, it is possible to assume that both domestic violence and sexual assault are heinous Vieira 2 crimes that are initiated by people who seek dominance and power over others that they feel are either physically or mentally weak or lacking, and exploit them. It is the duty of the citizens in a society to be held accountable and to speak out when such crimes take place. Even for people that feel they are neither a victim nor perpetrator of such unlawful acts, it is still the responsibility of the general public to be informed about both issues and take action in order to lower domestic violence and sexual abuse crime rates. People can aim to empower victims to share their experiences without judgement, establish more services to help assist victims, create a fair justice system that stops discouraging victims that report the incidents, create harsher punishments for perpetrators, and to stop the overall victim blaming. A prominent advocate for stopping both domestic violence and sexual assault from occurring is the campaign. The campaign was launched in 2013, establishing its goal to bring awareness to domestic abuse and sexual assault and is most well- known for its many partnerships with large organizations and celebrity supporters. The initiative of the campaign is to not only bring awareness to both issues, but also to help end acts of sexual and domestic violence. The efforts, as showcased by their campaign, are crucial to educating a non-engaged and uninformed audience about the severity of both issues. Though many advocacy groups, universities, and celebrities support the campaign; the campaigns major leader is the U.S. Department of Justice. The campaign was cofounded by public/private partnership, and is considered a campaign not owned by one sole organization. It is a movement created to help stop the shaming and silencing of victims, destroy barriers set up by stigmas, and taking action to stop domestic violence and sexual assault. Vieira 3 The issue of domestic violence and sexual assault is pertinent, because it is an issue that impacts the lives of people worldwide. Both issues are nondiscriminatory, because there is no modus operandi (M.O.) for perpetrators which is defined as, means of proving defendant had committed in the past other crimes sharing with the present offense features significantly unique to make it likely that the same person v. State of Any person can be targeted by either crime, because it does not affect just one group of people. Victims are not limited to a certain race, gender, sexual orientation, relationship status, ethnicity, age, or religious preference. Due to the ambiguity of such crimes, the issue is of even greater importance, because no one is at fault if they so happen to become a victim because it is hard to prevent such occurrences from taking place. It is important to keep in mind, that many people are affected by this issue other than the victims themselves. Many families, friends, teachers, and coworkers can be involved especially if the person causing the abuse is a parent, family member, teacher/staff, or someone of a higher position in the household, school, or company of employment. The following study was done to reflect how often such an occurrence takes place, partner homicides found that 20% of victims were not the intimate partners themselves, but family members, friends, neighbors, persons who intervened, law enforcement responders, or Public Health Instead of being a bystander it would be wise to be perceptive if there are some noticeable red flags and indicators of someone in an abusive relationship. Such indicators can but are not limited to: verbal abuse, extreme jealousy, extremely controlling behavior, harassment, bad temper, and victim blaming. By taking notice of these signs, help can be administered accordingly. In most cases, if abuse is witnessed, an emergency call should be made such as 911. Vieira 4 According to statistics presented by the National Center for Injury Prevention Center (NCIPC), average, nearly 20 people per minute are physically abused by an intimate partner in the United States. During one year, this equates to more than 10 million women and Intimate Partner and Sexual Violence In many cases, people that are victimized by domestic and sexual violence knew the perpetrator prior to the incident. One of the most common forms of sexual violence is rape. Rape according to the United States Department of Justice is defined as, penetration, no matter how slight, of the vagina or anus with any body part or object, or oral penetration by a sex organ of another person, without the consent of the (U.S. Department of Justice). The definition of rape may sometimes be undermined and in some cases a victim or perpetrator may not consider the specific sexual act that had occurred as rape. Rape victims are often, less willing to open up to the people around them about the events that occurred because of how intimate the act was, whether or not it was unwanted. In many cases rape had occurred between the victim and someone close to them. The statistics that reflect such an assumption is as follows, half of female (46.7%) and male (44.9%) victims of rape in the United States were raped by an for Disease Control and Domestic violence and sexual abuse can occur often and are not always brought to the attention of professionals (doctors, police officers, and so on). The effects of abuse are not only short term but can also affect the victim in the long term. Abuse affects the mental, physical, and emotional health of the victim and can cause financial instability, depression, and feelings of isolation and helplessness. It is important for there to be programs and hotlines that can help victims seek help and gain information on how to get counselling and seek guidance from the law in order to gain justice and help obtain safety from Vieira 5 their past abusers. Since many of these crimes affect the community as a whole, it is important to work or volunteer with local schools/universities, hospitals, religious youth groups, in an effort to help teach more about healthy relationships, encourage physicians to screen women, and children for signs of physical and sexual violence (National Coalition Against Domestic Violence). Speaking up when witnessing any form of domestic violence or sexual abuse is pertinent to try and solve the issue and lower the toll it takes on society and the individuals it involves. By not victim-blaming, society can put a halt to the amount of cases of domestic violence and sexual abuse that are either not reported or end in tragedy. By encouraging victims to speak up by creating a non-judgmental environment, more victims will hopefully be able to leave their abusive relationships and seek professional help to take matters into the hands of the law. Donating money to organizations that seek to provide more services to accommodate victims can help support them enough to not only be informed so that they can press charges and report these crimes but to help lessen the burden that the abuse may have taken on the victim psychologically, physically, and financially. As a well-functioning, just, and empathetic society it is an obligation of its citizens to report and take action to decrease such crimes from occurring. Teaching people at a young age to be responsible for their behavior and speaking out when they see that injustice has occurred is not only something to be proud of but also vital to promote compassion and concern for the rest of the population. mission statement, is to unite victims and to help establish awareness about sexual abuse and domestic violence. The definitions for both terms are necessary to create a clear understanding of both crimes. A society is only as good as its people and it is vital to be active in promoting a responsible and caring community through the encouragement of reporting domestic Vieira 6 violence and sexual abuse to law enforcement and educating the public of its harm and prevention tactics. Vieira 7 Works Cited Basile KC, Smith SG, Breiding MJ, Black MC, Mahendra RR. Sexual Violence Surveillance: Uniform Definitions and Recommended Data Elements, Version 2.0. Atlanta, GA: National Center for Injury Prevention and Control, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention; 2014. Carbon, Susan B. An Updated Definition of  The United States Department of Justice. Office of the Attorney General, 06 Jan. 2012. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Frieden, Thomas R., MD, Linda C. Degutis, DrPH, and Howard R. Spivak, MD. National Intimate Partner and Sexual Violence Survey: 2010 Findings on Victimization by Sexual  PsycEXTRA Dataset (n.d.): n. pag. Cdc.gov. National Center for Injury Prevention. Web. 9 Apr. 2017. Harvey v. State. Court of Appeals of Indiana. 10 Nov. 1999. Scholar.google.ca. N.p., n.d. Web. 9 Apr. 2017. Know the  NOMORE.org Together we can end domestic violence and sexual assault. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Smith, Sharon G., PhD, Katherine A. Fowler, PhD, and Phyllis H. Niolon, PhD. Intimate Partner Homicide and Corollary Victims in 16 States: National Violent Death Reporting System,  American Public Health Association - Intimate Partner Homicide and Corollary Victims in 16 States: National Violent Death Reporting System, N.p., 22 July 2013. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Vieira 8