Student 1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Medication for Alleviation from Depression Depression is an incurable mental illness, a disease that continues to rise in occurrence. Depression can be treated a number of ways such as through therapy and/or medication; however, there is a current issue regarding the use of antidepressants to treat clinical depression. An antidepressant can be defined as drug used to treat psychological Antidepressants are seen as ineffective and dangerous because of the possible side effects they may cause; however, this is not always the case (Rosen). In order to solve this issue, men and women of all ages can get involved by volunteering and donating to organizations that promote the use of antidepressants, and by educating their peers on the option of antidepressants. Without action, many people will continue to suffer from depression, unaware of all effective options of treatment. Depression should be treated by antidepressants because they effectively help people suffering from depression, not all people can be treated only through therapy, and their benefits outweigh their disadvantages. According to the Anxiety and Depression Association of America, is one of the most common mental disorders in the United as about 6.7% of adults had it in 2014 As the occurrence of depression continues to rise, there are different treatments that are available to anyone that is clinically depressed including therapy, and/or medication Due to the fact that the use of antidepressants is controversial and not widely accepted, many people are unaware and uneducated about this type of treatment for depression. Student 2 The controversy behind antidepressants is a public concern because people suffering from depression should be aware and educated about all of their options rather than just be told which ones are used the most effective. The efficiency of each treatment can vary by each individual person and the severity of their depression (Rosen). However, many antidepressants have shown to be significantly effective forms of treatment (Rosen). Those in opposition of antidepressants may try scare people from using antidepressants as they describe antidepressants only in a negative light because of possible side effects or ignore this option all together by failing to inform the public about the treatment. Many stakeholders oppose the use of antidepressants as a treatment for depression propose that therapy and more holistic approaches are more effective as antidepressants present many negative side effects and dependency Your Related stakeholders such as The Refuge hold the idea that depression can be treated effectively through therapy and holistic approaches alone and do not reference antidepressants at all to Stakeholders such as the Massachusetts General Hospital explain that it is important that people know more holistic approaches to treating depression first and foremost as the side effects of antidepressants are serious and dangerous Your In addition, other patrons add to this argument by stating that, when compared, self-help found to be the most acceptable and preferred treatment while were found to be the least acceptable treatments, with antidepressants rated as the most likely to have side (Hanson). Though some antidepressants may have side effects, it is important that people are aware that these side effects may not always occur, they may not be as detrimental as they are made out to be, and that they may still feel better overall even with the side effects versus not taking any medication. Student 3 The idea that antidepressants effectively aid people suffering from depression is often used by those in support of antidepressants. In an article that summarizes the ideas within Ordinarily Well by Peter Kramer, it is stated that all the time, and not for all people, but in lots of ways for lots of regardless of their side effects (Rosen). Another idea used by stakeholders is that not all people can recover from depression only through therapy. In a speech from 2016, Dr. Rebecca Brachman speaks about how are no known for depression a She references the use of antidepressants as depression is a mental illness, a disease and a cannot be treated without medication. Lastly used as an argument for antidepressants, stakeholders often state that the benefits of antidepressants outweigh their disadvantages. In an article written by Dr. Therese Borchard, she talks about how risks of toughing it without meds outweigh the risks of taking when depressed a Borchard herself takes antidepressants as she feels this is what is most effective for herself. The controversy behind the use of antidepressants affects all those diagnosed with depression as they may be persuaded to not use this form of treatment since there are organizations and people that do not support the use of antidepressants. At Duke University, a doctor conducted a study on one of her patients suffering from depression in which she advised her patient to stop taking her antidepressants which she had been taking for seven years (Iarovici). This patient had been clinically diagnosed with depression and put on leave but improved after being placed on antidepressants (Iarovici). By advising her patient to stop taking her medication, Dr. Iarovici is promoting the use of other treatments over the use of antidepressants though she does not know what works best for her patient specifically. Student 4 When this patient stopped taking her antidepressants, she found that was having emotional reactions, including tearfulness, more than she would have been on her medication (Iarovici). The patient felt overall better when taking her medication versus not taking them as seen through the evidence presented by Dr. Iarovici. This story may impact others who may find themselves in the same position as many people such as Dr. Iarovici do not promote the use of antidepressants even though they do show to be an effective form of treatment for depressed individuals. Concerned individuals may get involved in a number of organizations like the National Institute of Mental Health which promotes the research behind the use of medication as a way of treating depression A Individuals have a variety of ways in which they can get involved such as by showing their support by volunteering with or donating to associations that promote the use of antidepressants, or even by showing their support by writing academic articles and doing case studies. By taking action, individuals are contributing to furthering research about different antidepressants and their effects. They are also aiding in the educating of individuals who may not know all of their options or about antidepressants in general. Within their community, concerned individuals may talk to their friends and family members who may be suffering from depression and help educate them on their knowledge of antidepressants and how to access them if they decide to try that form of treatment. Antidepressants are seen as an ineffective form of treatment for depression and is ignored or expressed negatively by most stakeholders. This is not the case as research shows that antidepressants are effective, therapy alone may not be enough for most patients, and that the benefits posed by antidepressants outweigh their disadvantages. With action, many people suffering from depression will no longer needlessly suffer as they will know that they have the Student 5 option to take a treatment that will actually benefit how they feel. If more people are able to treat their depression and feel better, then that could affect the community and the world in a variety of unimaginable ways. (Word Count: 1,237) Student 6 Words Cited  Merriam-Webster. Merriam-Webster, n.d. Web. 07 Apr. 2017. Borchard, Therese. In Defense of  Thereseborchard.com. N.p., 22 Nov. 2012. Web. 01 Apr. 2017. Could a drug prevent depression and  Rebecca Brachman: Could a drug prevent depression and PTSD? TED Talk TED.com. N.p., Sept. 2016. Web. 01 Apr. 2017.  Anxiety and Depression Association of America, ADAA. N.p., n.d. Web. 04 Mar. 2017. <https://www.adaa.org/understanding-anxiety/depression>. Hanson, Katie, et al. Attitudes and Preferences Towards Self-Help Treatments for Depression in Comparison to Psychotherapy and Antidepressant  Behavioural & Cognitive Psychotherapy, vol. 44, no. 2, Mar. 2016, pp. 129-139. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1017/S1352465815000041. Iarovici, Doris. The Antidepressant  The New York Times. The New York Times, 17 Apr. 2014. Web. 01 Apr. 2017. Increase Your Happiness without Antidepressant Medications: Natural Options May Help Ease Depression without Side  Mind, Mood & Memory, no. 1, 2013, p. 3. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ed sgao&AN=edsgcl.316317977&site=eds-live. Join A  National Institutes of Health. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, n.d. Web. 28 Apr. 2017. Rosen, Jonathan. The Assault on  The Atlantic. Atlantic Media Company, 21 June 2016. Web. 01 Apr. 2017. Student 7 Welcome to The  The Refuge. The Refuge, A Healing Place., n.d. Web. 20 Jan. 2017. <http://www.therefuge-ahealingplace.com/>.