Student 1 Student Dr. Jamie Thornton ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Planning for the Future The energy consumed by the world is predominantly produced from fossil fuels and is rarely created from the use of renewable resources. According to Hendrickson, fossil fuels account for of the energy used by the world today (Hendrickson). Fossil fuels are being relied on for most our energy, however it is unwise to rely on a resource that will eventually be exhausted. Fossil fuels consist of oil, coal and natural gases, forms of energy that we get from inside the earth. Renewable energies consist of solar, wind and water, forms of energy gathered from non-ending sources. Fossil fuels take thousands of years to produce inside the earth, while renewable energies are readily available without depletion. With resources, available it should be a prominent goal to lean towards renewable resources. Renewable energies should be integrated into the power grid and fossil fuels removed because renewables are beneficial to the power grid, the world has a larger generating capacity for renewables, and fossil fuels are drying out. Since the start of the Industrial Revolution, fossil fuels have been the largest energy component driving the world economy (The end of Fossil Fuels). As we have transitioned from the initial spark Industrial Revolution to an almost completely industrialized world the Student 2 production of energy has been a primary concern. Originally fossil fuels were the driving force behind energy production (The End of Fossil Fuels). Saudi Aramco is a modern company based out of Saudi Arabia and contributes to one in every eighth barrels of oil that are produced (Saudi Aramco). Aramco has grave interest in fossil fuels as it has turned the company into an enterprise, and impacting any consumer buying energy created from fossil fuels. On the other hand, Solar Energy International (SEI) is a company dedicated to individuals to support a more sustainable (Solar Energy International). Either stakeholder has taken a stance on the issue of energy production and conservation. Just like Aramco and SEI, any person or organization can take a stance on this issue. Many have taken the stance on the issue of whether renewable energy is appropriate to start implementing at greater rates into the power grid. It is evident that implementing renewable energies gives the power grid more opportunity for improvement. According to an article written by Amir Baniassadi, his team and he assessed the rate at which solar energy could integrated into the power grid in California. According to this article, systems offer more susceptibility for improvement by integration of (Baniassadi 298). The addition of solar energy would improve the existing systems present in California. Baniassadi presented a statistical model to prove the integration of renewable practices overall, allows the systems to be enriched. The article presented an argument stating it would be better for energies such as solar to be implemented now (Baniassadi 298). It would be more beneficial to start sooner than later to help the systems and allow more time for improved output. Solar Energy International is empowering individuals by teaching sustainable practices to those that are interested in the idea of renewable alternatives (Solar Energy International). These practices are means of showing individuals how being more sustainable is possible and the Student 3 effects it can have in an individual life, as well as a community. This is the way SEI impacts the market, starting with the consumer to integrate renewables into the power grid. According to the article titled Bioenergy Futures in Sweden, it is prevalent for phasing out fossil fuels to benefit the earth and country it is being apart of (1118). While policies are a political debate for the future, those that are being present in Sweden have benefitted the outcome of the society. By phasing out the use of fossil fuels, Sweden has seen a reduction of CO2 being emitted and left less of a carbon footprint on their end (Bioenergy Futures 1118). SEI takes the approach Sweden has, but impacting the country one intrigued consumer at a time instead of using legislation. A capitalist society is meant to function based on the wants of the consumers, and not every individual has the availability to sell their ideas. Solar Energy International, is trying to sell their ideals to the public to gain more revenue to build more sustainable practices for larger groups. Companies like SEI would like to advance towards more of market, however they do not have the same reach as many other companies do, like Saudi Aramco, because the consumer does not believe that renewables are a matter worth investing in. If consumers do not believe a matter is worth investing in, the economy will not favor that manner. In a Ted Talk by Avery Lovins, she gives a twenty-five-minute lecture on a plan to transition the United States out of the use of fossil fuels and into renewable energies. Stating, of the past four half of the new generating capacity has been (Avery Lovins). The world capacity for generating energy has been in favor of renewables. If the world wants renewables to be the production means of energy then it is ideal to lean towards the world market. Adding renewable to the power grid will open up more generating capacity for the country as the world continues to generate more. Student 4 While adding renewable to the power grid is beneficial for the needs of the consumer, it is also beneficial for the future of the planet. The certain issue of fossil fuels being the primary resource and solar energy being a later resource, and the primary resource will eventually run out. If something is a non-prominent issue that will have an effect soon, it is something that needs to be addressed. In a few decades, most of the fossil fuels that are used to produce most energy, will have run out (The End of Fossil Fuels). Fossil fuels will dry up in a few decades, meaning it is important for individuals to take steps towards the future. Consumers and stakeholders wanting to remove fossil fuels and investing in renewable will show major companies where the correct venture is. Bills in the past have not been passed, for many seek government intervention in the aid of removing fossil fuels and implementing renewable energy. However, the government is not the sole entity for implementing ideals that impact consumers. It is still important for individuals to talk regarding these issues, to start the shifting so the economy can handle the demand of major consumer shifting. A solution is necessary to allow for the availability of information to be easily acceptable. It is not the governments job to know to add reforms to the market to be in favor of renewable energy sources and sustainable practices instead of fossil fuels. The individuals that consume are the ones that change the market, so it is the consumers and manufactures job to switch what the market is needed to produce. The demand for more sustainable items and solar panels will cause companies to be in favor of producing these items. Stakeholders and individuals spreading information and using sustainable practices are necessary to starting process. Simply keeping the information in mind and letting it influence future decisions and purchases, is the easiest solution to implementing more renewable resources. Standing behind stakeholder like Solar Energy International, will allow them to have more of a voice and more impact in future decisions. Student 5 Renewable energies will have a greater impact to society if they are implemented into the power grid sooner rather than later. Their improvement of energy systems coupled with the generating capacity of energy favoring renewables, only adds to the necessity of introducing more renewables to the grid. With an endless source of energy, the removal of a finite source is only apparent. While the integration of renewables may take time, it looks for the future, which is something seeming to be lacked recently. Looking towards the future is an important matter to protect our kids and offer a better society for everyone as our generation starts to age. Student 6 Work Cited Bioenergy Futures in Sweden - System Effects of CO2 Reduction and Fossil Fuel Phase-Out  Global Change Biology Bioenergy, no. 5, 2015, p. 1118. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1111/gcbb.12225. Baniassadi, Amir, et al. Application of R-Curve Analysis in Evaluating the Effect of Integrating Renewable Energies in Cogeneration  Applied Thermal Engineering, vol. 93, 25 Jan. 2016, pp. 297-307. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.applthermaleng.2015.09.101. Hendrickson, Cary. Fossil  Salem Press Encyclopedia, January. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=er s&AN=89475132&site=eds-live. Lovins, Avery. 40-Year Plan for TED Mar. 2012. Lecture. R. Economic, Energy, and Environmental Benefits of Concentrating Solar Power in  2006. EBSCOhost, doi:10.2172/881924. Aramco Where Energy Is Saudi Aramco, Saudi Arabian Oil Company, 2017, www.saudiaramco.com/en/home.html. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017 Training, Solar PV Training, Solar Installer Training, Solar Energy Solar Energy International (SEI), Solar Energy International, 2016, www.solarenergy.org/. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. The End Of Fossil  Leading Green Energy Supplier. Electrocity, n.d. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. Student 7