Korpela 1 Kelly Korpela Professor Gottlieb ENC 1102-015 6 April 2017 Alcohol Safety Drinking and driving is an ongoing issue that has been going on for decades. The number of tragic accidents caused by drinking and driving has escalated in the last few years. A number of deaths that occur per year as a result of driving under the influence will keep rising unless something is done about it. One famous drunk driving case was in Toledo, Ohio in December 2007 when a drunk driver crashed into a minivan killing a mother and her four children. Organizations such as Mothers Against Drunk Driving, also known as MADD, founded in 1980 have brought awareness to the issue of drinking and driving for over thirty years. MADD promotes safety behind the wheel and enlightens teens about the harsh reality of alcohol consumption. mission statement states: end drunk driving, help fight drugged driving, support the victims of these violent crimes, and prevent underage Increasing public awareness about the dangers of drinking and driving and all the consequences that result from it will potentially lower a number of tragic accidents that occur. No matter the age, anyone has the possibility to be involved in an accident and perhaps losing their own life. Teens and young adults are more likely to be involved in a drunk driving accident which is why it is imperative to educate and inform those about the dangers of drunk driving. According to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration: two minutes, a person is injured in a drunk driving Economic and Societal Impact of Motor Vehicle Driving under the influence is one of the leading causes of vehicle traffic- Korpela 2 related deaths. The safety of teens and young adults is the most valuable mission of all. Alcohol has taken and ruined thousands of lives in the last decade. Discussing the dangers of alcohol in high schools and colleges around America will optimistically save lives. A recent survey reported: 2013, 28.7 million people admitted to driving under the influence of alcohol- more than the population of Survey on Drug Use and If 28.7 million people admitted to driving under the influence, one can image all innocent lives that have been affected by the foolish decisions of drunk driving. Likewise, the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration released information that: 2013, a total of 1,149 children 14 and younger were killed in motor vehicle traffic crashes. Of those, 1,149 fatalities, 200 (17%) occurred in alcohol-impaired- driving and another 29 children (15%) were pedestrians or pedal cyclists struck by drivers with BACS of 0.8 or (NHTSA data query, 2013). There is no excuse for the number of innocent lives and families that have been affected due to drunk driving. Fortunately, organizations such as MADD are working with families to bring awareness to the issue of drunk driving and help those who have been affected. It has been announced that, driving costs the United States $132 billion a 5 th Anniversary Report to the Driving under the influence has multiple negative consequences that cost the United States billions of dollars and the pure lives of mothers, fathers, children, grandparents, etc. Many do not take into consideration the cost drunk driving has on America. Even though countless individuals believe they are not affected by drunk driving, think again. Higher taxes and insurance rates are a result from drinking and driving in America. These prices steadily rise per year when more first-time offenders are placed in jails and prisons. In an effort to lower the frequency of drinking and driving, it is time to take the next step and educate those who may not see the seriousness of drunk driving. Korpela 3 Educating the youth and families about the dangers of driving under the influence will hopefully decrease the number of deaths and bring awareness to the issue. Joining organizations such as Mothers Against Drunk Driving (MADD) will teach others about the consequences of driving under the influence and how to stop it. Joining MADD gives society an opportunity to volunteer and advocate for change. By volunteering, one can lend a shoulder and become a trained Victim Advocate or Help Line volunteer and provide emotional support to victims and survivors. Joining MADD and becoming a volunteer, it will be easy to advise others about the issue of driving while intoxicated and advocating for change to strengthen excising laws and pass new ones About Our Secondly, speaking to family members and teens and young adults about the harsh reality that occurs if someone decides they are not too to drive. MADD was created when Candy 13-year-old daughter, Cari, was killed by a drunk driver. Learning that drunk driving was rarely a prosecuted crime, Lightner took action and started an organization that helps those who have been affected in drunk driving incidences. Lightner took the initiative and turned a horrific accident into a learning situation that has taught millions about drunk driving. Likewise, organization played a key role in the 1984 National Minimum Drinking Age Act. Lightner pushed President Ronald Reagan to sign the law reducing the federal highway grants to any state who fails to raise its drinking age to twenty-one nationwide Analysis of the National Minimum Drinking Age Along with thousands of volunteers and advocates, MADD is not only spreading the word to end drunk driving; however, they also are a support system to victims and survivors that may have lost everything because of a drunk driving incident. Since the 1980s, MADD has cut drunk driving deaths by 50% and has saved more than 350 thousand lives Educating others about drinking and driving and forming relationships, teaching others to be proactive, and Korpela 4 make smart decisions to call car companies such an Uber or Taxi Cab to ensure getting home safe. Making a change to lower the number of deaths that occur per year due to alcohol- related traffic accidents can be extremely manageable by enlightening those about the risks, dangers, and consequences of drunk driving. It is estimated that hundreds lose a loved one because of drunk driving. This issue affects individuals nationwide and is an ongoing problem for decades. Throughout the years, many have learned about the issue of driving under the influence and the number of families that are in hurt from a drunk driving incident. In order to save future lives, drunk driving needs to come to an immediate stop. This can only happen if others take the next step and join organizations and teach family members, friends, and children about the consequences of drinking and driving. Having one too many drinks or not taking the car keys away from someone who is under the influence can equal to the death of young children or loved one. Mothers Against Destructive Decisions was the results of a horrendous situation; however, good came out of the situation and MADD has helped millions of families that have gone through the tragedy of losing a loved one. Korpela 5 Works Cited Driving, Mothers Against Drunk. MADD Releases National and State-by-State Ratings as Part of Its Campaign to Eliminate Drunk Driving Fifth Anniversary Report to the  PR Newswire: News Distribution, Targeting and Monitoring. PRNewswire, Web. Legislative Analysis of the National Minimum Drinking Age  National Youth Rights Association. N.p., n.d. Web. 13 Mar. 2017. Madd.  MADD. N.p., n.d. Web. Mothers Against Drunk  MADD. N.p., n.d. Web. National Highway Traffic Safety Administration. Economic and Societal Impact Of Motor Vehicle Crashes, National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, May 2014 NHTSA NVS Vehicle Crash Test Database - Test Detail  NHTSA NVS Vehicle Crash Test Database - Test Detail Information. N.p., n.d. Web. Reached., Destinations. DREAMS REALIZED. (n.d.): n. pag. Web. Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration, Results from the 2013 National Survey on Drug Use and Health: Summary of National Findings. Rockville, MD: Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration, 2014.