Giang 1 Helen Giang Madeline Gottlieb ENC 1102 9 April 2017 Preserve the Lives of Animals Poaching is a heinous act towards many animal species and to most it is defined as, illegal shooting, trapping, or taking of game, fish or other natural resources from private or public (Michigan Department of Natural Resource). Poaching has been a problem for over several hundred years, but it was not until the late middle ages that poaching became a punishable offense, this is because poaching could potentially lead to the extinction of animals Poaching Depending on where the crime was committed, punishment could vary from community service, fines, or even jail time. Even though many know the consequences of poaching, the animal body count continues to rise causing the issue of animal poaching to increase and with every death, animals are coming closer to extinction. As time has gone on, poaching has increased due to rise in demand for rare furs and skins, as well as bones and teeth. With the poaching of animals, many species are at risk of becoming endangered. Thus, because many animals are being poached and becoming endangered, people need to become more informed about how poaching is affecting the lives of animals and they should refrain from purchasing items that are derived from animal parts. By participating in any of these actions, hopefully poaching will be eliminated and animals will not be endangered anymore. In 2014, approximately 100 million animals were poached in the United States alone and about 40 million are killed each year for their fur (How Many Animals are Killed Each Year?). As Giang 2 the number of animal death rise so does the number of organizations that are trying to make a difference in the issue at hand. BUND Friends of the Earth is one of those organizations, they are located primarily in Germany and for several years they have protected the rights of people and animals, as well as the environment. BUND has about 480,000 members and supporters. Together they have created ponds, looked after and took care of protected areas, plant hedges and fight for the preservation of valuable natural areas throughout the country of the Earth Over the course of the years, BUND has made it their priority to help with sustaining transportation, fighting nuclear power and improving nature protection laws. Since BUND does not make any profit, are not bias, and do not discriminate against religions, they are known as a non-partisan and non-religious grass root organization which is also known as a small organization that grew larger and is more well with some local branches dating back to (Friends of the Earth Europe). In order to make sure their cause is informed and shared to the public, BUND has created a large number of advertisements to spread the awareness of what is happening in the environment and around the world because their vision for the future involves sustaining political approach, ensuring the rights of children and people who are living in the global south because of this they have united about thirty national organizations with thousands of local groups. The goal for their advertisements is to, on most urgent environmental and social and promote solutions that will assist in these issues happening (Friends of the Earth Europe). BUND has spent an abundant of money and resources trying to spread their cause and in hopes to make a difference in the world. The increase in poaching has consequently been the cause of death for many animals. Some of these animals are harmless with no sort of way to defend themselves. For example, the Northern Sportive Lemurs and the Leatherback Sea Turtles have faced several concerns. About Giang 3 four percent of the lemurs are threatened by are currently between 20 and 50 of them left in the and all seven species of marine turtles are in danger of becoming Animals Are Nearly Extinct And Still Being For the animals that have some sort of defense, are no match for the weapons and modern technology made by man. The elephant and rhinoceros are two of the most popular animals to poach, these animals are known for their ivory that is located in either their tusks or horn. Elephants that are chosen are either taken down by darts, poison and high-powered rifles; while they are still alive poachers would gouge out the tusks, after the elephant is left to die from blood loss. For elephants that are spared and only have their tusks cut near their skull eventually die from life threatening infections (The Truth About Tusks). The rhinoceros is known for their horn, to which they are hunted down for. After being hunted down and captured, poachers would blindfold them to keep them more calm and unaware of their surroundings, so that they are able to cut deep into their skull for the horn, ultimately causing the rhinoceros to blood out to death. This issue must be attacked open quickly if not, these animals could become extinct. Even though there are an abundant of large well established corporations and government laws supporting the protection of these animals, there are basic options and solutions that individuals can do in order to help support and make a difference to this cause. There are some people out in the community that feel as though they need to have the real product. However, if individuals were to reduce or stop the buying of these products altogether or stop to understand the suffering that these animals had to go through, then poachers may not poach as many animals because they are not as high in demand as they would be. The stopping or boycotting of fur coats and other items from these animals may help to reduce the death rates and poaching of animals in this case. However, these suggestions will not stop the problem entirely. Aside from asking Giang 4 individuals to stop the buying of animal products and using items that are derived for animal that were poached, there are other way to help with this issue. For example, corporations could set up fundraisers and ask individuals or other large corporations to help support the cause by spreading the word or even donating to the cause. The donations would be use is several ways to help protect these animals. For example. adding extra security, making safe locations or havens for animals being poached and this could potentially help the government become more involved in the matter. A plethora of animals have died which has caused a lot of chaos in the environment. One of the many factors that was affected was the ecosystem. The ecosystem is very complex system, there are many factors that can affect the balance of the environment. Such factors include the unnecessary slaughtering of animals through the method of poaching of many species so items such as their fur or tusks. The unlawful act of hunting for game without permission has caused an increase in the number of endangered species. Informing and empowering the public to take a stand against poaching by reducing the spending and purchasing of ivory and other materials can hopefully decrease the demand which in turn will reduce the number of animals poached per year. Giang 5 Works Cited Armstrong, Franette. The Truth About  The Dodo. N.p., 02 Aug. 2014. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. Foeeurope. Bund Umwelt und Naturschutz  Friends of the Earth Europe. N.p., Feb. 2012. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. Friends of the  Friends of the Earth. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. Kerns, Ben. These Animals Are Nearly Extinct - And Still Being  The Dodo. N.p., 03 Jan. 2017. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Lin, Doris. How Many Animals Are Killed Each Year for Human  ThoughtCo. N.p., 2017. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Shadow, Simon. How Poaching  HowStuffWorks. N.p., 09 Dec. 2008. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Watson, Krista. Top poached animals you can help  Global Citizen. Global Poverty Project, 2012. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. You are hereDNR Law Enforcement Report All  DNR - Report All Poaching. State of Michigan , 2017. Web. 09 Apr. 2017.