Wylie 1 Andrew Wylie Prof. Gottlieb Comp II 7 Apr 2017 Complications with Feminism Currently, there is much debate to the central question, both of the genders This question is vitally important because it is a highly-debated topic, and one must be informed of every side in order to have an educated opinion and take action. There are many different answers to this question, but a group called Feminist.org, attempts to answer it with the feminism movement. Feminism is the advocacy of rights on the grounds of political, social, and economic equality to men. Feminist.org supports equality between the sexes, and pushes for things like; equal pay, more representation from women in the workforce, etc. The idea is, essentially, that women are disadvantaged in society, purely for being women. Feminists claim that things like the wage gap, and representation in the work force (or lack thereof), are proof that there is institutional sexism towards women. Both of these claims are very misleading, though. For instance, the reason women are in lower paying jobs is because they are typically the ones staying home and caring for their kids, thus, working more part-time jobs than compared to men. Society as a whole does not view women as any less than men, and the facts reflect that statement. This group is not necessarily helpful towards women, and while the movement claims to be in support of men, several pressing issues that affect them are, for the most part, neglected. Ultimately, the facts supporting these issues determine that feminism is not necessary. Instead, the non-engaged stakeholders, should actively do two things: Firstly, they need to research their own questions about some of the misinformation on feminism. This will give them the information they are looking for first hand, which they will more likely believe. Secondly, they Wylie 2 need to point out this misinformation to as often as possible to supporters of the feminism movement. Overall, the feminism movement is based upon misleading statistics, false statements, and several inconsistencies, that desperately need to be pointed out. Initially, there are several issues that feminists fight for. One of the staple issues that feminists look to bring attention to is the wage gap. As much as feminists would like to convince people otherwise, there is a large amount of debate, and plenty of reasonable doubt, around this so-called To define it simply, the wage gap is the difference in wages between men and women, with women earning a smaller wage than men for doing the same job. According to Feminist.org, a study was conducted just last year by the US Census Bureau, showing women still only make 79 cents for every dollar a man makes Finds US Gender Wage Gap If this were the case, that would mean women lose out on approximately $10,672 every year. However, this does not quite add up, and therefore draws suspicion. First of all, it has been illegal to discriminate wages among gender since 1963, when John F. Kennedy passed the Equal Pay Act. It seems highly unlikely that this pay gap would be as widespread as this study is suggesting, if it is illegal to do so. Secondly, people can easily put this pay gap under scrutiny with one simple question: If women earned less money for doing the exact same job, why companies exclusively hire women as a means of cheap labor? Companies are, without a doubt, all about making more revenue and profit, so this kind of discrimination would work perfectly for them. However, companies do not do this, and it soon becomes clear why. When examined further, the pay gap can be explained quite easily. According to The Huffington Post, and well known economist, Christina Hoff Sommers, it is not really a wage gap at all, but rather, an earnings gap. It is true that men do earn more money overall compared to women, but that is because of several factors. When the number of hours worked, position, part-time work, Wylie 3 overtime, and vacation time, are all taken into account, the wage gap narrows to zero Gap Myth Exposed- By In fact, according to Time, single, childless women earn 8% more than their male counterparts Salaries: At Last, Women on When given this data, it becomes abundantly clear why there is a pay gap in favor of men later on in life; most women start to have kids in their twenties and thirties. This fact, coupled with the career choices women make, can easily explain this wage gap that causes so much anger and debate. Furthermore, another key issue that feminists look to bring attention to is representation in the work force. A common claim by feminists is that women are not represented enough in higher paying jobs due to gender discrimination. At first glance, this may seem to be true, however, when examining the data and statistics, this claim reigns to be false. As seen through a study conducted by Cornel University, women hold a 2:1 advantage in STEM fields over men, yet men still hold a vast majority in those fields Preferred 2:1 Over Men for STEM Faculty Long past the days of traditionally male-dominated households, this statistic shows that women simply are not engrossed in those fields. According to the Department of Labor, people can see that women simply hold different interests as compared to men by Gender Shares of While feminists tend to pay their attention to the jobs they do not hold a majority in, there are several outstanding professions that women do have an advantage in: medical scientists, accountants and auditors, physician assistants, elementary school teaching, and physical therapists, all have a majority of women. Compared to men, the interests between the genders is more blatant. Men are much more strongly attracted to jobs in the engineering and medical industries by Gender Shares of From this information, it is obvious that women do not want such jobs in engineering and the medical field, and it is not because they are being discriminated Wylie 4 against. Something else to pay attention to, according to CNS, is the fact that women are 33% more likely to earn college degrees compared to men Now 33% More Likely Than Men to Earn If the United States was truly a patriarchy (putting the United States on the level of true patriarchal countries, such as Saudi Arabia), women would, in no way, be able to graduate college at a rate equal to or faster than men would, yet the opposite is happening. Also, as seen by CNS, women are less likely to drop out of high school; 8% of women compared to 9% of men Now 33% More Likely Than Men to Earn Women are less likely to drop out of high school, more likely to earn their college degree, and hold a 2:1 advantage in STEM fields as compared to men, and yet feminists claim that the reason women are so in fields of their choosing is because of some patriarchy, rather than personal choice. One could see how ridiculous these statements are, as the facts directly contradict the claims of many self-identifying feminists. Moving forward, there are several contradictions within the feminism movement. One such contradiction is the fact that feminism claims to be in support of everyone, male or female. According to Forbes, long as we stay and assign task and duty, responsibility and opportunity to a particular gender, then we are not actually striving for true Feminism is About Equality of Both However, this is just not the case when looking at the movement as a whole. There are many problems specifically affecting men that are not mentioned much, or are completely ignored by feminists. It is clear that feminism stands only to point out the problems affecting women, or people would hear more about some of the grave issues that men have to face. First off, the male suicide rate. Men are disproportionately the victims of suicide, by a 3:1 margin compared to women. This is in a way because women are diagnosed with more mental disorders each year, so one would think women would Wylie 5 have a higher suicide rate. According to Forbes, this may happen because men are told from an early age things like, cannot show your true and must always be the provider for your family, because, you are a Gender Inequality of Suicide: Why Are Men at Such High However, saying these things are not helpful as some men might not be able to live up to those expectations, and are therefore seen as-- or feel like-- they are less than a man, and it is evident through the disproportionate suicide rate. Also, another issue that feminists seem to completely ignore is the battle of child custody for men and the discriminatory court system in this aspect. According to a source on child custody, 40% of all noncustodial fathers have no access or visitation rights with their children Custody It does not stop there, though, as, per a website on the absence of fathers, poverty is at a staggering 44% for mother-only families. This website enforces that a father is needed in the family unit, now more than ever Consequences of Poverty, though, is not the only negative effect of a fatherless home. Drug and alcohol abuse, as well as criminal activity, also rise exponentially. Keeping a father figure in the family picture helps immensely with child development. This is yet another aspect that feminists seem not to touch on and is why people should not support this movement. Finally, People need to take a stand against the misinformation that feminists, and supporters of the movement, are throwing around in order to further their narrative. Saying things like, are paid less than men for the same only hurts the young girls who hear that statement, and then think they are valued less that men in society, when that is not the case. Or if they hear that, cannot be mechanics due to gender they now think they cannot get the job they want because of discrimination, rather than personal choice. As highlighted previously, feminism is, at its core, quite damaging to, not only women, but men Wylie 6 as well. While feminists claim to be in support of men and their problems, there is no mass attention being drawn to these, the way there is with feminine issues. In addition, it teaches that women are inherently disadvantaged in society, and are seen as less in every aspect of their lives. Of course, this is not true, as the United States is no longer a patriarchal society anymore, where men have physical and emotional power over women. Clearly a change with the way people view feminism needs to occur. Not only do people need to recognize when incorrect statements and statistics are being made on behalf of feminism, but people must start calling these out. The only way feminists will start to research these things and critically think about some of the ideals they are spewing, is if they are told that they are wrong through activism. If they hear from several people that there is a wage gap simply because men and women make different career choices, coupled with the fact that women take more part-time jobs around the time they have kids, they will start to read up on different aspects of feminism. Only then can there be a change among the movement of feminism. However, research must be done in order for this to happen; research not only on feminism, but into other movements as well. Egalitarianism is a similar movement, though it stresses the idea that both genders are equal and deserving of equal rights. Additionally, one may find that a movement is not necessary in order to promote gender equality. As matter of fact, the vast majority of people are in favor of both genders being equal and should not need a movement to define their devotion to it. According to Huffington Post, percent of people believe in equality of the sexes Identify as Feminists, but Most Believe in Equality of the In conclusion, there needs to be a change with feminism to where it promotes the equality of both genders, and does not make one seem any more advantaged than the other. This can only occur through a group effort of constantly calling out the inaccuracies of the feminism Wylie 7 movement, as well as encouraging people to research the ideas of feminism that they might not have thought too much about. Overall, both of the genders have their hardships and advantages, and it is only through change that we can finally see progression. Wylie 8 Works Cited Boscia, Ted. Preferred 2:1 Over Men in STEM Faculty Cornell Chronicle. 13 April 2015. Web. 9 Apr. 2017 Custody Childcustodycoach.com. Web. 9 Apr. 2017 Hoff Sommers, Christina. Gap Myth Exposed- By Huffington Post. Thehuffingtonpost.com. 4 Nov. 2012. Web. 9 Apr. 2017 Luscombe, Belinda. Salaries, At Last Women on Time. Time Inc. 01 Sep. 2010. Web. 9 Apr. 2017 Marcus, Bonnie. Feminism is About Equality of Both Forbes Magazine. Forbes. 31 Mar. 2015. Web. 29 Apr. 2017. Mclanahan, S. & Osbourne, C. Center for National Center for Fathering the Consequences of Fatherlessness. (2007). Web. 9 Apr. 2017 Meyer, Ali. Now 33% More Likely Than Men to Earn College CNS News. 31 Mar. 2014. Web. 9 Apr. 2017 by Gender Shares of Department of Labor. (2011). Web. 9 Apr. 2017 Finds US Gender Wage Gap Feminist Majority Foundation Blog. 7 Oct. 2015. Web. 9 Apr. 2017 Swanson, Emily. Few Identify as Feminist, but Most Believe in Equality of Huffington Post. Thehuffingtonpost.com. 16 Apr. 2013. Web. 29 Apr. 2017. Wylie 9 Walton, Alice. Gender Inequality of Suicide: Why Are Men at Such High Forbes. Forbes Magazine. 25 Sep. 2012. Web. 9 Apr. 2017