Clary 1 Dominique Clary Professor Gottlieb ENC 1102 28 April 2017 The Harm of the Meat Industry Each and every day many Americans face a major death threat; their health. According to the Centers of Disease Control (CDC), in the US the leading cause of death in Americans is caused by heart diseased which has remained the leading killer since the previous year Causes of This is mainly due to the diet of many Americans often consuming too much of foods that do no good for their body. One of these leading contributors to this disease is meat, a common staple food to any meal. It is easy for many to engage in the use of these products because it is often convenient and a staple food. However, many are unaware of the harmful effects that ingesting meat has on the human body, or how the use of products made from animals have a harmful effect on their own lives. Every day Americans partake in eating meat with almost every meal while being unaware of the destructive components that are included in their diet. For many years, the People for Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) has worked diligently to protect animals across the world no matter their situation. Whether it be domestic animals, those in factory farms, animal testing, as well as those used for upholstery/clothing Mission This organization works in various ways to reach the public and educate them on what is going on with these animals every day. This organization uses things such as public education, research, protest campaigns, cruelty investigations, interviews, etcetera to engage their audiences Mission By using these mediums to reach the Clary 2 public PETA is able to connect with those who are unaware of these issues on a more personal level. This will allow for the public to be more inclined to take action on these issues. Not only does PETA educate the public on what goes on with these animals but they also provide helpful information for others to take the pledge to stop eating meat. PETA states in their article: do you The answer: Anything we want! There are vegetarian alternatives to almost any animal food, from soy sausages and to Tofurky jerky and mock There are fantastic alternatives to every dairy product you can PETA provides a substantial resources and alternatives for those seeking to become a vegetarian. This once again will provide those who are unaware of these issues with valuable information that will make them more inclined to join the vegetarian movement. When more people join the movement the result will be a healthier American people, less pollution, less animal cruelty, and less investment in the cruelty. In many homes they may have a pet, possibly a cat, dog, fish, or bird. If someone were to suggest to these people they should kill and eat said pet they would react negatively to the idea. So then one must ask, where does one draw the line between food and companion? Perceptions vary based on the person constructed from a numerous amount of factors such as where they grew up, their family influences, and personal experiences. One person may have a cow as a pet; however the next person may view this cow as being able to be used for their next meal at their cookout. Animals are very intelligent beings, just as humans they are able to experience pain, depression, loneliness, happiness, anger, and so much more. According to National Geographic, is very vivid to animals. In many cases they know who they are. They know who their friends are and who their rivals are. They have ambitions for higher status. They compete. Their lives follow the arc of a career, like ours Animals Clary 3 Think and Feel. How We Everyday these animals are separated from their families brutally handled and killed without a single thought. Many people feel little to no remorse for these animals because they feel little to no connection to them possibly due to their lack to communicate, or simply because they are viewed as simply objects. These animals are able to remember things and show compassion and communicate the same way that humans can. The only difference is that they cannot speak the same language as humans are able to. These are factors that easily go overlooked everyday if people are able to apply the same connection they have with their pets to other animals the lack of understanding for their intelligence and capability will diminish. The human body is a vessel in which one must take pride in and provided it with sustenance. Meat contains a wide array of harmful chemicals, stress hormones, and fecal matter that can easily be ingested. According to the Centers of Disease Control (CDC), 610,000 people die from heart disease each year alone. That equates to someone dying from heart disease 1 in every 4 deaths. It can be assumed by limiting or even eliminating meat in diet these statistics can drastically be lowered Disease The opposing side may argue that protein is needed in order for the human body to function, protein is obtained from meat. However, protein can easily be obtained from non-meat items such as various vegetable, beans, and nuts. Those who eat meat actually end up taking in more protein than what is needed. One Green Planet (OGP) elaborated on this subject by stating: we pointed out earlier here on OGP, that consume animal protein in every meal can end up consuming up to 5 times more animal protein than their daily Much Protein Do You Really It is evident that the common thought of only being able to receive a good amount of protein from meat only is not true. While yes protein is vital to the human diet it is not needed in such Clary 4 large quantities that many may presume that they do. Additionally, OGP clarified that there are multiple ways to receive protein if one chooses to not eat meat. Clearly this debunks any misconceptions about a vegetarian lifestyle, or those advocating for the continuous consumption of meat. As a result it is very clear that protein can be obtained from other sources besides meat, which can then lead to a decline in the funding of this mistreatment and exploitation of animals for their meat. So the question remains, how does one stop or limit their intake of meat and how will it benefit them? The answer is simple; understand that animals are capable of understanding how we feel based off of our energy, they are intelligent beings who deserve as much of a right to live just as you may have a pet cat, dog, fish, or bird. The lives of these animals matter greatly. Just as we stand up for each other we must stand up for these animals as well. We fought for someone to represent us now we must represent these animals. It is up to all of those who wish to participate to be the voice for those who do not have one. One must want to change and make a better decision for your health that could benefit you greatly later on in life. Additionally, one must understand that this matter is not just about the animals or their health but it stretches much further into a much broader spectrum. The production of meat has an enormous effect on the environment. According to PETA: staggering 51 percent or more of global greenhouse-gas emissions are caused by animal agriculture, according to a report published by the Worldwatch Institute. According to the United Nations, a global shift toward a vegan diet is necessary to combat the worst effects of climate and the As stated previously by switching to a vegan or even a vegetarian diet one can take part in reducing the greenhouse emissions and better the environment. Albeit the answer is a simple change there are some who may feel that they may not know how to begin this journey and worry that their favorite foods Clary 5 will no longer be available. In fact, this is not the case at all. There are a multitude of choices available and substitutes. All being very similar to burger, bacon, or pizza. Various stores, books, and websites have a plethora of ideas for those who may feel uncertain. Humans are so similar to animals, they both feel emotions, think, have families, and their daily activities. It is possible for them to coexist amongst humans simply without any harm done. Regardless of diet by simply limiting their amount of meat that they intake they can make a change. This change can help ones diet and progress into a positive change for the environment. All in all a simple change can make an immense difference. Clary 6 Works Cited Leading Causes of  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 17 Mar. 2017. Web. Heart Disease  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 10 Aug. 2015. Web. https://www.cdc.gov/heartdisease/facts.htm. Meat and the  PETA. People for Ethical Treatment of Animals, 2017. Web. www.peta.org/issues/animals-used-for-food/meat-environment/. Yes, Animals Think And Feel. How We  National Geographic. National Geographic Society, 27 Apr. 2017. Web. http://news.nationalgeographic.com/2015/07/150714-animal-dog-thinking-feelings-brain- science/. Oberest, Lindsy. How Much Protein Do You Really  One Green Planet. One Green Planet, 24 Oct. 2013. Web. http://www.onegreenplanet.org/vegan-food/how-much- protein-do-you-really-need/. Mission PETA. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, 2016. Web. 28 Clary 7 Jan. 2017. http://www.peta.org/about-peta/ Vegetarian  PETA. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, 2016. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. http://www.peta.org/living/food/vegetarian-101/