Student 1 Sara Mustafa Dr. Gaspar ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Save Art. Save Childhood The curriculum that children follow during their early years are meticulously planned out to develop skills that are needed during adolescence and adulthood. Children are told to practice coloring inside the lines to develop fine motor skills or to solve puzzles to develop critical thinking. As students get older the focus of their studies lean towards conceptual learning in the various sciences or practicing the steps to solving a math problem. As children grow they become less and less exposed to art and artmaking. Interacting with art can lower stress in students (Lupien) as well as increasing positivity within the students the Arts Analyzing art in a social context also develops critical thinking as well as social skills (Wadham). These benefits that students are experiencing are slowly being cut out. As students get older they have reduced access to art as their studies become more focused on STEM courses, but since the 2008 recession school districts have been losing their funding (Ginn) and as a result of losing funding, the school boards have cut programs, usually art programs. The lowered exposure to art reduces the development of social skills and critical thinking as well as lowers creativity and increases stress in students. One of the first activities that students do when they first start school has to do with art. Preschool students and kindergarteners draw or paint or color with their peers to develop social skills necessary for bonding and making friends, which will help when the students work in groups later in life. These first formal introductions to art are also extremely beneficial in Student 2 developing fine motor skills that are necessary for writing, typing, and even driving. These developments are also critical because they are linked to other developmental levels that students reach as they grow (Rhattigan). For example, if a student does not learn the motor skills to unconsciously be able to hold a pencil and take notes, the student will fall behind in their classes because they will be concentrating on how to write rather than on what they are writing down. As well as improving motor skills, art and art analysis can improve critical thinking skills as well as concentration. Active discussions about art, specifically through a method of facilitation called Visual Thinking Strategies, or VTS, has shown to be beneficial in reducing stress as well as a multitude of other disorders in mental health patients as well as children. This form of art analysis develops critical thinking through each interpretation of the artwork that is before them. This technique is used worldwide with audience members that range from children to adults with veterans, and even these caretakers. When a student is being presented with a piece of artwork, they create an idea of what is happening in the piece before them, then the student then shares it with the rest of the group and the other members are allowed to build upon that idea (Wadham). This practice allows students and patients to hone their critical thinking skills as well as social skills that is absolutely imperative for members of both groups. VTS allows students to develop theories and find clues within pieces of art and through practicing this skill, they can apply critical thinking and problem solving skills to other aspects of their education. The skills that are learned in conjunction to art can also be applied to other aspects of life. Fine motor skills are important for moving in ways that are essential to functioning in society, including typing, writing, and eating. Also the critical thinking skills that are learned are extremely applicable to other areas other than art. Through active discussion, students will learn Student 3 how to analyze and support their claims with evidence (Wadham). They will learn to explain themselves thoroughly and accurately, all the while interacting with their peers to build conclusions about the subject that is presented. This interaction with other peers allows students to build social skills that is deemed necessary in society to function. They learn to explain their viewpoints in a respectful and accurate way, as well as learning to sit and listen when another one of their peers is speaking (Housen). Art has many uses besides boosting creativity in students Since the recession in 2008 arts have been defunded to the point that there are schools that no longer offer art as a resource for students (Dickinson). Over 19 states have lowered the amount of money available for school districts to spend on their schools (Ginn). Art programs are often the first ones to be cut because school boards see theater and painting and ceramics as a not having as much potential to make the district more money. Other programs, such as sports do not typically lose funding because they are seen as an identifier of the community (Dickinson). Communities rally together to support a high school football team, but will not come together to support a student art exhibition or a play put on by students. Because of this, the arts do not bring as much money into the district and is seen as not as successful, which is why art programs are often defunded first (Ginn). Art programs are also seen as not as important as science, technology, engineering, and math classes, or STEM, because when a student focuses on one of those subjects later in life, it usually leads the to take a respected job. Artists are usually not seen as possessing a respected job unless they are extremely successful, which is a contributing factor to why art is one of the first programs to be defunded when the school budget gets tighter. Art however, can help students with their STEM courses. In engineering and science classes, art can help the student visualize the scenario and help them work out the answer. Art and technology go hand in hand Student 4 because there are so many forms of art and sculpture that include technologic aspects, such as wheels turning and electricity. Art and STEM courses are seen as two different fields that are in no way connected, but it is actually the opposite. To be a successful artist, the individual has to have a good understanding of the science behind the piece that they are working on. It is also the same with students. When they work on an art project, they are discovering the science behind it and when they are working on a science project, art can easily be incorporated to help develop a deeper understanding. When art programs are being defunded they reduce exposure to developing essential skills. These skills are precursors to fluid movements when eating or typing or developing confidence in themselves and in the skills that they have established. Exposure to art is also essential in developing social skills. Students interact with each other to analyze art and draw conclusions as well as work together to develop art. This early exposure is essential to showing children the proper and socially accepted ways to interact with others. Americans for the Arts Action Fund is an organization that promotes keeping the arts from being defunded in schools by raising money and campaigning for individuals running for government offices that promote the importance of art exposure. This organization has the backing of dozens of senators and representatives who are always accepting help from members of the public that are equally passionate about this cause. This organization and others that stand with it understand the stakes of children not being exposed to art. They understand that saving art, is also saving childhood and saving their future. (WC: 1271) Student 5 Works Cited Dickinson, Dave. Fine Arts Should Be Spared From School Budget  National Federation of State High School Associations. National Federation of State High School Associations, 13 Oct. 2015. Web. 13 Apr. 2017. Ginn, Jennifer. Why Johnny Ride the Bus Schools Struggle with Cuts as State Revenues Continue to  Education Budget Cuts. Counsel of State Governments, n.d. Web. 13 Apr. 2017. Housen, Abigail, and Philip Yenawine. Guide to museum  New York: Visual Understanding in Education (2001). Lupien, Sonia J., et al. Cortisol levels during human aging predict hippocampal atrophy and memory  Nature neuroscience 1.1 (1998): 69-73. Rhattigan, Michael. The Benefits of Coloring and  Scholastic.com. Scholastic Inc., 15 Jan. 2016. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Wadham, Rachel1. Visual Thinking Strategies: Using Art to Deepen Learning across School  Library Journal, vol. 138, no. 17, 15 Oct. 2013, p. 109. Why the Arts  Why the Arts Matter Americans for the Arts Action Fund. Americans for the Arts, n.d. Web. 04 Mar. 2017.