Higgins 1 Maddie Higgins Professor Gottlieb ENC 1102 4/30/17 Littering in Oceans Littering is a big issue in world, especially because of how it affects the creatures of the ocean. Most people see littering as a trivial issue, but as the years go on, it becomes more and more serious. According to the WWF, marine mammals are killed by plastic rubbish each year around the (Lyon). That shows how big of an affect one single piece of trash can have on the environment. Every day there are marine animals that get caught in a fragment of trash or swallow one and it slowly kills them. Innocent animals should not have to suffer because a person cannot wait until they find a trash can to throw their away their garbage. It has been proven that plastic takes 400 years to disintegrate. Sadly, even after 400 years, plastic can continue to exist as something called which are nearly impossible to see, so it ends up found in the stomachs of many fish Pervading the These tiny pieces of plastic can accumulate in the stomachs causing them to die much earlier than they are supposed to. People do not realize how big of an impact these large amounts of trash can have on these poor animals; it is often deadly. Another big issue is that the trash is not only affecting the marine population, but can also affect a health. Plastics release bad toxins and when the fish ingest them, all the chemicals are absorbed into their bodies. Then, if the fish are caught and served to humans as food, the bad toxins to end up in them as well. Some researchers have found that plastic in humans can affect fertility, brain development, and other chromosomal issues. It has also been proven that, Endocrine Disrupter Chemicals (EDCs) which are added to plastics to make them softer and easier to handle can affect a fat cells, these fat calls contribute to (Lyon). This is another reason the human population Higgins 2 should take ocean pollution more seriously, before it is too late. Therefore, people need to start considering the long-term effects their actions can have on not only the fish, but also themselves. Littering in the oceans is extremely harmful to many parts of the world, so action needs to be taken against it. Greenpeace is an organization that has taken a stake in this issue by advocating against trash being thrown into the oceans, in hopes to protect these animals. This organization believes that a clean ocean and beach will lead to a better way of life, for everyone. Greenpeace made the statement, oceans are the life support system for our planet, providing 97 percent of the livable habitat and a home to more than 700,000 Our People need to start taking better care of the ocean because it has more of an effect on them than they may realize, which becomes evident in the previous quote. This organization does not stand for any litter to be discarded needlessly, especially not onto the beaches or into the oceans. Greenpeace also deals with more than regular trash; such as glass bottles, cigarette butts, uncontained sewage leaks, and pollution from fossil fuels as well. This company firmly believes that the heavy reliance on fossil fuels has an extreme impact on the oceans health and it is endangering a numerous amount of species Our Fossil fuels and oils leak into the ocean and serve as another contaminant. Greenpeace aims to salvage and save what is left of the marine population and continue to improve their way of life. They have noticed how much trouble the oceans are in and want help in trying to fix it. Clean and healthy oceans are extremely important to the human population because it would improve the lifestyle of the fish, along with humans. Most people do not realize how much the ocean effects their lives, other than being a vacation spot and a way to get food. Therefore, Greenpeace mentioned that, the oxygen we breathe is generated by our Higgins 3 which is a lot more than many people consider Our With this being true, if the oceans are being polluted, imagine the kind of oxygen people will be breathing in every day. This is a concerning issue that should make people think about how clean the air is that they are breathing every day. Just as the fish need a clean ocean, people need clean air to breathe. The oceans also provide food to millions of people. Meaning that if the ocean is polluted, the fish could possibly be contaminated as well. Although the fish may be polluted, this does not stop the fisherman from catching them, so the seafood people enjoy could possibly be harmful to their bodies if the fish has unknowingly ingested trash at some point in its life (Andrews). Once the toxins from the plastic are being absorbed into the fish, there is nothing to reverse that process. This means that many types of chemicals can be digested by humans daily when they consume seafood, including BPA which is known to, with human hormonal (Andrews). This chemical comes mainly from fish who have ingested it through trash, but it can also be found in contaminated water of any sort. It is frightening to think about how many marine animals could be diseased in this way. Another idea to consider is that countless numbers of people go on vacation to the beach every summer where there is an ocean to play in, which most take for granted. If this ocean is not taken care of, it will become dirty and no one will want to play in it causing the vacation to not be as enjoyable as desired. Children should never have to play in a dirty ocean with the possibility of trash and other contaminants, so this is another motivator for people to want to clean up the shores and get the oceans back to being healthy. This is where the general public becomes extremely important. All it takes, is one person organizing a cleanup in his or her area to convince more people to join the cause. This is a day where the community could come together on the beach with trash bags in hand, to walk the shores and pick up the excess garbage laying around. It is the human Higgins 4 population that can fix this issue by helping with a cleanup day in the area or even donating to a more widely known cause, such as Greenpeace. There have also been cleanup projects organized such as Against where people went scuba diving to pick up trash that has sunk to the bottom of the ocean or gotten stuck in an habitat. A large number of divers have joined in on this cause in more than 50 countries and participated gathering over the 500,000 pieces of trash Dive Against Project ). Another way to address this issue could be to talk to a local leader and have them address the issue. It could be simply a church leader or a family friend who has a large pull in the community. It is best to find someone that people generally trust and take advice from because if that important person can be convinced that this issue needs attention, then everyone will give it consideration They could educate people in the community about the issue at stake and give them ideas of what to do to improve the situation. The main way to start a solution for the problem would be prevention. One can also spread the word to everyone about the issue and organize a national prevention day or month. Overall, there are many solutions to this problem, people just need to participate in them, especially the simple ones such as; reducing the amount of plastic waste, recycling it when done, and starting to buy things with no plastic around it. Also, things like reusable grocery and shopping bags are a step in the right direction. This is another cause that supports the reuse, and motto because it would really help this issue of litter in the oceans. Promoting recycling is not only good for the environment, but it would help keep trash out of the ocean. Greenpeace is simply one organization trying to make a difference in the world, but as always, it could use more supporters. Joining a cause like this one or starting a different one to help clean up the earth would be extremely helpful. This could bring back clean water for the Higgins 5 animals to live in again, along with pretty beaches for people to enjoy themselves on. Also, it could improve the health of both the marine and human population at the same time. If there is no plastic waste to pollute the fish, there will be no way for the animals to contaminate the humans. There is no need for more pollution in this world, especially not where it can be prevented. Plenty of organizations are available, so there is one for everyone. Human beings depend on the oceans for a multitude of reasons: food, water, and oxygen. It is the responsibility to stop polluting the water with waste and fossil fuels. Littering in the oceans has become an important issue that needs attention because it has gotten so bad. Any efforts count, no matter how small, because it brings the population one step closer to fixing the problem. Higgins 6 Works Cited Andrews, Gianna. Plastics in the Ocean Affecting Human  Case Studies. NAGT, 14 Nov. 2016. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. Dive Against Project  Project AWARE Homepage. Project AWARE, 2016. Web. 02 Apr. 2017. Litter - Pervading the  World Ocean Review. World Ocean Review, n.d. Web. 17 Feb. 2017. Lyon, Angela. 100 Days 100  100 Days 100 Paintings RSS. 100 Days 100 Paintings, 12 Aug. 2010. Web. 01 Apr. 2017. Pollution  Save Our Shores. Save Our Shores, n.d. Web. 01 Apr. 2017. Protecting Our  Greenpeace USA. Greenpeace, n.d. Web. 15 Mar. 2017.