Chao Ma Ma 1 Ms. Madeline Gottlieb ENC 1102 30 April 2017 Child Abuse Parents, children, love: these are necessary components for building a family and should always be pleasant. Child abuse issue can potentially affect their life and leave irreversible damage on their life. However, due to rampant examples of child abuse, the hidden child abuse should be put in the spotlight. By showing child abuse propaganda, the audience can be educated to this issue and engaged in this issue. UNICEF is the stakeholder of this issue. UNICEF is a worldwide children protect organization which has worked with over 190 countries for 70 years (UNICEF). These information of UNICEF also can be used to engage more people for combating child abuse and empower audience to move even further. All of these strategies are used for telling a truth, which is that the weakest children have faced the greatest challenges: child abuse, and it need to be this way. Therefore, UNICEF provides a global assistant for every child in the world. For instance, UNICEF protects every child to has a fair chance to grow up, around the world, millions of children are denied what they need to grow up because of their place of birth; because of their disability; because of their gender and race (UNICEF). The child abuse is not just other word of violence. Neglect is precisely the form of child abuse that most common and most easily overlooked (What is neglect). UNICEF can make sure every child has a fair chance to achieve full potential by shifting the priorities and concentrating effort and investment on children. Although child abuse has been a social issue in the United States for a while, general individuals do not treat it seriously due to lacking education on the issue. So there must be some information that is necessary to educate people. First, the number of these abuse cases is shocking, three million cases of child abuse and neglect involving almost 5.5 million children are reported each (What to Know). The majority of cases reported to Child Ma 2 Services involve neglect, followed by physical and sexual abuse. Because there is a significant lack of education on the child neglect, and because these cases are hard to define, child neglect has become the most common form of child abuse. Child neglect is ongoing failure to meet a basic (What is neglect). Secondly, this issue should be treated seriously because there are multiple ways to hurt children and violence is only one of them. There are four major types of child abuse according to the definition of child abuse, and caregivers can use physical, sexual or psychological mistreatment or (The issue of child abuse) to abuse their child anytime. So every parent and caregiver could potentially be a child abuser to their child when they do not even realize it. Because there are many types of child abuse, people may unintentionally abuse children in many cases and neglect is the most common nonviolent child abuse. Furthermore, there is considerable overlap among children who are abused. Children may suffer a combination of different types of abuse in either inside or outside of the home. There is another truth when people start to wonder who abusers are, however, four out of five abusers are (National Statistics on Child Abuse). Unlike the dangerous strangers outside, children are under most threat in home by their own parents. At the same time, due to lacking enough education about child abuse, neither parents or children can take it seriously. As a result, approximately 5 children die every day because of child abuse (What to Know) and major suspects are their parents and caregivers. This is important because they are the necessary components for building a family. However, when the parents and caregivers abuse the children, the family no longer exist. Once the people have enough education on child abuse, some parents may think that they are not really relevant to this topic, however, the concept of a vicious cycle is necessary to know by all individuals in terms of child abuse. As mentioned before, child abuse leaves an irreversible Ma 3 damage on a life. The symptoms are not only short-term physical damage but also long- term emotional damage. The short term damage includes any injury, pain and the change of behavior that raises concern about possible abuse. fearful behavior, such as nightmares and depression are examples of this. In addition, they may try to escape reality and attempt to run away. For most of these children, their home is no longer a peaceful place to live so they would rather leave it for a brief moment of safety. Meanwhile, the long-term damage that can affect the next generation is more serious. In general, when people manage to get in touch with their own pain, they no longer want to take it out on others. Unfortunately, there are those who do not get in touch with their pain, and so as a result they keep this cycle going. According to research, third of all individuals who were abused or neglected as children will subject their children to (Children Welfare Information Gateway) and the way they were treated will inform how they treat others, therefore, the cycle of child abuse is formed generation after generation. These people are abused during their childhood and have higher potential to later abuse their own children. These newborn children will suffer more serious mistreatment right after they are born, and according to the Minnesota Longitudinal Study of study, type of emotional support that a child receives during the first three and a half years has an effect on education, social life and romantic relationships even 20 or 30 years this study shows how early childhood experience is important to develop the many aspects of an individual. The future is in our hands but this cycle makes the child abuse issue even worse than the first generation it occurred, and therefore it should be stopped. Children cannot break this cycle alone and their helplessness and hopelessness need a professional and organized type of assistance. Taking care of children is equal to taking care of the future. This society needs effort to combat against child abuse before the cycle Ma 4 gets worse. That is why people should join in UNICEF. The UNICEF website states, all have a responsibility to the invisible, from governments enacting and enforcing laws to prohibit violence against children, to private citizens refusing to be silent when they witness or suspect (UNICEF). UNICEF provides many kinds of help which covers education, food, drinking and gender equality. In addition, they have already worked with 190 countries over 70 (UNICEF). Furthermore, they also provide different kinds of opportunities to help these children. For instance, people can look at the section of their website to find a volunteer job around. Somebody may prefer to donate money for projects of UNICEF so they can donate it online anytime. UNICEF also provide some special slots for skilled volunteer. People who have speech skill can even present their thoughts to engage more people. UNICEF, thus this worldwide organization is the one that deserves attention. UNICEF believes that every child has the right to pursue a happier life and so it gives them this chance to attain that better quality of life. The child abuse issue is a complicated issue because it involves many kinds of laws and rights. If the parents do not have enough knowledge to deal with it properly, either the children and/or parent will get hurt. Besides that, the cycle will be formed to make the next generation become even worse child abusers. Everyone should beware of the child abuse issue and engage other about it as much as possible because these children will grow up soon and will be in charge of this society. Ma 5 Works Cited Cycle of  Cycle of Abuse - Child Welfare Information Gateway. N.p., n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. NSPCC.  NSPCC. N.p., n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. National Statistics on Child  National Statistics on Child Abuse National Alliance. N.p., n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. UNICEF. Take  UNICEF. N.p., n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. What is Child  Childhelp. N.p., n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. What to Know about Child  HealthyChildren.org. N.p., n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017.