Krieman 1 Julia Krieman Professor Gottlieb ENC 1102.015 7 April 2017 Catholic Relief Services: Water and Sanitation Water is essential for life; humans especially, rely on water so they can carry out basic bodily functions like breathing. If a human goes without water for more than a few days, their kidneys would fail and they would die. According to Live Science, flows through the blood, carrying oxygen and nutrients to cells and flushing wastes out of our bodies. It cushions . . . joints and soft tissues. Without water as a routine part of intake, cannot digest or absorb In the same article, Binns mentions that the longest someone has gone without water was 10 days (Binns). Water is also important for hygiene as well, such as bathing. Lack of water can cause numerous types of ailments and could ultimately lead to death. In a devastating amount of countries around the world, there is a lack of clean water; causing people to become ill and die. Catholic Relief Services is working to provide people in need with viable sanitation and clean water through the use of donations they receive. CRS asks for donations of money and time so that they can aid people who are the most in need around the world. Because water is essential for humans to live, people who do not have access to clean water, end up ill or deceased. According to Camille Morgan, 2013, an estimated 1.26 million deaths were attributable to diarrheal disease, 94% (1.19 million) of which are attributable to unsafe water, sanitation, and hygiene (WaSH) and thus preventable (Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation, 2015); most of these were (Morgan). This explicates that most of the deaths caused by unsafe water and sanitation systems, could have been avoided. People around Krieman 2 the world who do not have access to clean water and sanitation systems make up this statistic. Without the simple necessity of clean water people in the United States take so easily for granted fall ill and die. Sally Adee discusses the need for water based on bodily functions in her essay a hydration makes it easier for the kidneys to extract waste, reducing wear and tear on (Adee). Clearly, water can prevent serious ailments such as kidney failure and diarrheal disease. Another way water is used to prevent disease, is through its use for basic hygienic needs. If people do not have water, they cannot brush their teeth, bathe, wash their hands, and perform other basic tasks that prevent disease. Chantal Savanovitch and Marie-Pierre Sauvant-Rochat discuss the need of water for fundamental hygiene stating that, is well known that hand washing and other good hygiene practices can prevent infectious diseases such as gastrointestinal illness via hand-to-mouth transmission of pathogenic microorganisms present in (Savanovitch). Water allows people to prevent serious, life threatening diseases by giving people a chance to perform hygienic tasks. People suffering without water, are susceptible and easily contract ailments that could lead to death. Chantal Savanovitch and Marie-Pierre Sauvant- Rochat go on to discuss that clean water alone is not enough, treatment processes are essential because water can be polluted by a variety of naturally occurring and human-created contaminants, making it unsuitable for drinking and other purposes However, access to clean drinking water is not sufficient to eliminate the risk of water-related diseases, which cannot be decreased without compliance with good hygiene practices. In France, as in other industrialized countries, this has been made easier since the widespread development of sanitation facilities and water supplies in the 1990s (Savanovitch). In addition to clean water, sanitation systems are essential in preventing deadly diseases amongst populations. Krieman 3 According to Original Research: The Public Health Effects of Water and Sanitation in Selected West African , are still over 700 million people worldwide who do not have access to improved drinking and 46.8% of the population had access to improved water sources in Sierra Leone in 2000. This has increased to 62.2% by 2014. Niger and Mauritania started at 42.1% and 40.4% in 2000 and only went up to 54% and 51.4% respectively by 2014. The Sahelian regions experienced the slowest performance in terms of access to improved water sources between 2000 and (Alagidede). Even though the issue is known, the population of people affected by a lack of clean water and viable sanitation options is increasing. It is crucial that people have clean water and better sanitation systems so that they can survive. If less than half of the population in some West African Countries is receiving access to clean water, there is more work to be done in providing them with solutions. This is why some organizations are working continuously to help people gain access to these necessities. If people were simply provided with clean water and viable sanitation systems, the death rate due to lack of sanitary water would drop drastically. Organizations around the world are working to find new ways to provide clean water to people who cannot access it based on their geographic area. One organization that is aiding people in this issue is Catholic Relief Services (CRS). Catholic Relief Services is a nonprofit charity that collects donations to bring aid directly to people in need in other countries. According to their website, Relief Services eases suffering and provides assistance to people in need in more than 100 countries, without regard to race, religion or CRS works in faith to help others in need; they describe this on their website further: Catholic Relief Services is a manifestation of love for our brothers and sisters around the globe by the Catholic community of the United States. We protect, defend and Krieman 4 advance human life around the world by directly meeting basic needs and advocating solutions to injustice. CRS has different areas of aid in which they break up tasks in order to help people in the most effective way possible. Catholic Relief efforts work towards helping a broad range of people from broad ranges of places. CRS works in over one hundred countries around the world working to help people who do not have the basic necessities of life water being one of these necessities. Catholic Relief Services is constantly working to help every human in need; regardless of race, ethnicity, and religion. One of eight areas of service is water and sanitation, this area is in high demand around the world because there are hundreds of countries usually third that lack clean water and sustainable sanitation systems. The water and sanitation efforts focus on providing clean water to countries that do not have it and improved sanitation systems: the past five years, CRS clean water projects around the world have provided more than 2 million people with access to clean water and more than a million people with access to improved sanitation. water, sanitation and hygiene services in more than two dozen countries, focusing on services for the poorest and most remote and They are to sustainable solutions with long-term and they to promote social justice, peace and human and Capacity Strengthening). Because of programs, people in the most poor countries in the world are provided the necessities they need to meet the basic need of their citizens. In order to provide people with clean water and better sanitation systems, uses a holistic approach called integral human development to help people reach their full potential. This long-term, dynamic process facilitates collaboration across civil Krieman 5 society and the public and private sectors. It is based on the idea that human development cannot be separated into component parts and that personal well-being can only be achieved in the context of just and peaceful relationships We By using this holistic approach people can maintain the work CRS has done. This means the people who are given better water and sanitation systems get to have those for the rest of their lives. Because of their approach to service, CRS has been very successful in helping people in over 100 countries. CRS is in constant need of donations time and money continue to create a better world for people in every kind of situation. Catholic Relief Services is free from tax in the United States which allows ninety three percent of their donation based income to be used directly through charity in other countries. The remaining seven percent of the income goes to fundraising, awareness, management, and general expenses Because CRS focuses their efforts on multiple areas of service, most of their income goes straight toward them aiding people in need. A portion of this money goes straight to providing clean water and viable sanitation systems. The donations CRS receives are put directly into helping others; making Catholic Relief Services a worthwhile charity. Even the smallest of donations go directly to helping people who are in the most need of aid in the world. Simply allowing someone to have clean water is possible and very simple because of Catholic Relief Services. Because CRS has made it so easy to help people in need in other countries, more people are able to receive the help they deserve. Catholic Relief Services is asking for donations of time and money so they can provide access to clean water and sustainable sanitation to people in need throughout the world. By simply going to the donation portal on the CRS website or by becoming involved in the CRS organization, people could be directly helping others in need of water and sanitation systems. Krieman 6 Donations of time and money are what Catholic Relief Services needs in order to help the most vulnerable and susceptible to ailments. This is an important issue to donate to end because water is a basic necessity of life. Hundreds of people are dying around the world because of they do not have access to clean water. Without this ability to drink and use water, people contract diseases that can be fatal. It is important to help others in this issue so they can have access to water and better sanitation systems like we do in the United States. CRS has made it simple to help others who do not have the same privileges that we do. By donating to CRS, your money will go directly to these people in need. Because CRS is providing such an easy way to help others in need around the globe, they have found the best way to use the generous donations to directly support communities and individuals that need it the most. By providing aid for all areas of life, people and communities have been able to build up and remain strong. People most in need, are provided with clean water and better sanitation systems because of the efforts of CRS. Krieman 7 Works Cited  CRS. United States Conference of Catholic Bishops, n.d. Web. 17 Feb. 2017. Adee, Sally, et al. Fancy a Drink? (Cover  New Scientist, vol. 233, no. 3116, 11 Mar. 2017, pp. 32-39. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx ?direct=true&db=aph&AN=121659701&site=eds-live. Alagidede, P. and A.N. Alagidede. Original Research: The Public Health Effects of Water and Sanitation in Selected West African  Public Health, vol. 130, 01 Jan. 2016, pp. 59-63. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.puhe.2015.07.037. Binns, Corey. How Long Can a Person Survive Without  LiveScience. Purch, 30 Nov. 2012. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. Faith in Action Leads to Results. Dir. Most Reverend Paul S. Coakley. Perf. Monsignor Brian Bransfield, Archbishop Paul S. Coakley, Bishop Gerald F. Kicanas, Cardinal Timothy N. Dolan, Bishop Robert N. Lynch. Faith in Action Leads to Results. Catholic Relief Services, 6 June 2014. Web.  CRS. United States Conference of Catholic Bishops, n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017.  CRS. United States Conference of Catholic Bishops, n.d. Web. 7 Feb. 2017. How We  CRS. United States Conference of Catholic Bishops, 02 Nov. 2015. Web. 09 Mission  CRS. United States Conference of Catholic Bishops, 01 Jan. 2017. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Morgan, Camille, et al. Water, Sanitation, and Hygiene in Schools: Status and Implications of Low Coverage in Ethiopia, Kenya, Mozambique, Rwanda, Uganda, and Krieman 8  International Journal of Hygiene and Environmental Health, 23 Mar. 2017. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.ijheh.2017.03.015. Water and  CRS. United States Conference of Catholic Bishops, n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017.