Montes 1 Robert Montes Professor Gottlieb ENC 1102 9 April 2017 NCAA Should Allow Compensation For many years there has been one issue that always seems to pop up with the NCAA, National College Athletics Association, which is whether or not they should allow student athletes to receive compensation. Student athletes are not allowed to receive any type of compensation in any sort of way; a student athlete that is caught receiving compensation can be suspended and also have previous accolades revoked. For example, Reggie Bush which was a former football player for the University of Southern California had to give back his Heisman trophy, trophy given to the best NCAA football player each year, due to violating NCAA Amateurism rules. The NCAA believes that if student athletes receive compensation it would ruin the idea of amateurism, amateurism requirements according to the NCAA is, general, amateurism requirements do not allow: Contracts with professional teams. Salary for participating in athletics. Prize money above actual and necessary (Amateurism). The NCAA wrongfully denies student athletes all around the country year after year from receiving compensation. CAPA, College Athletes Players Association, has done a lot in the fight to help student athletes but it is up to the uninvolved stakeholders to help the student athletes break out of the chokehold that the NCAA currently has on them and their finances. Many student athletes, former student athletes, and organizations have taken shots at the NCAA trying to get what they believe is right for themselves and other student athletes over the past years and many have failed. This is one of the reasons CAPA has come onto the scene, this Montes 2 organization truly believes in what they stand and believes they have the right approach that can help solve many of the problems that student athletes have to deal with. CAPA is run by former and current student athletes who want NCAA to change many of their rules that affect student athletes in many ways, or at least revise them. The three former student athletes that founded CAPA are Ramogi Huma, Luke Bonner and Kain Colter; all three of these men went through the struggles of dealing with NCAA rules and regulations on a daily basis and that is what has inspired them to make a difference. The mission statement for CAPA is, to collectively bargain for comprehensive (CAPA). CAPA has a wide variety of issues that the organization wants to attack such as helping student athletes with graduation, getting involved with the NCAA to evolve rules and regulation and also helping with getting the NCAA to allow student athletes to receive compensation. CAPA has focused a lot on trying to get the NCAA to allow student athletes to receive compensation, whether that be from their respective schools or from companies who would like to use the student athletes for advertisement. There are many reasons why it is believed that the NCAA should reevaluate and reform many of their rules and regulations, especially those on allowing student athletes to receive compensation. Student athletes go through a very vigorous work schedule that includes multiple hours of practice and school that leaves them with basically no time and energy to have a job. The one thing that many people do not realize is that being a student athlete is basically like having a job; if you do not follow the standards that your program requires you will lose your scholarship. However, there is no reason at all that student athletes should be allowed to receive compensation solely because they are student athletes. There are many fair ways that the NCAA could allow student athletes to receive compensation. Two ideas that have been talked about that could be possible solutions to this issue would be allowing student athletes to be paid for Montes 3 advertisements and also allowing them to be paid for excelling in the classroom. The main way would to let student athletes be allowed to receive compensation for advertisements; this will help student athletes financially and also increase graduation rates. Most student athletes leave to play professionally before they graduate from college because it is what would be best for them financially, but if they were receiving compensation already for being a student athlete it would make sense for them to stay one last year and get a degree that could help them in the future. Every year many football and basketball players go later in the draft, or not in the draft at all, due to character issues and trouble with the law. The same idea will go wit advertisements, student athletes will only be receiving compensation for advertisements if they perform well on the field and are also model citizens, companies are not going to want to be represented by players who are performing poorly on the field or have been in trouble with the are many positives when looking at what student athletes receiving compensation would do. This idea could help in many small ways that people will not realize, one day a star football player could be drunk at a local bar with his car keys in his pocket ready to risk his life driving home; sad thing is that it happens very often with student athletes. Now, same situation but this student athlete has a pending contract for advertisement with Reebok, it makes the decision of whether to drive or not a lot easier. Student athletes, most of the time, will choose the situation that will help them financially and this is why so many of them leave college, before graduating, to go play professionally. This fight for the student athletes to receive some of the things that they believe are rightfully deserved will not be won only with CAPA; student athletes need many people to help them. There are many ways that people in college that are not student athletes could help student athletes get some of the things that they deserve if they truly wanted to help. Some of the ways to Montes 4 that people could help is by signing petitions or also protesting. If the NCAA saw that millions of people were signing petitions to help student athletes, they might reevaluate their beliefs. The NCAA makes most of their money for television contracts, 2011-12, the most recent year for which audited numbers are available. NCAA revenue was $871.6 million, most of which came from the rights agreement with Turner/CBS In other words, the NCAA relies on fans to be able to make their money so if fans are not happy with the NCAA and profits begin to go down, they will do what is necessary to get profits back to where they need to be. This is where protesting comes into play, lets say that for just a couple of games throughout the year, hundreds of thousands of people refuse to watch nationally televised games, the viewings and ratings for Turner/CBS Sports will drop dramatically and it will force the company to reevaluate their contract with the NCAA. This is the last thing that the NCAA would want to happen, it really shows how much power the people have in this situation Protests and petitions are the main way that you could help student athletes get what they rightfully deserve. Student athletes and organizations like CAPA have fought far too long with the NCAA in trying to get student athletes to receive what they deserve, mainly receiving compensation for advertisements and excelling in the classroom. There are many ways that people could help student athletes receive what they deserve. The two main ways that you can help is by signing petitions and participating in protests that could help student athletes receive compensation. Montes 5 Works Cited NCAA.  NCAA. NCAA, n.d. Web. <NCAA.org/amateurism>. NCAA. NCAA. NCAA, n.d. Web. <NCAA.org/about/resources/finances/revenue> Huma, Ramogi. Why doing it  Collegeathletesplayersassociation. N.p., n.d. Web. <collegeathletespa.org>. Bilas, Jay. 7 common sense reasons why college athletes should be  Complex Sports. Ed. Maurice Peebles. N.p., 03 Dec. 2015. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Thelin, John R. Heres why we shouldnt pay college  Time. College Sports, 1 Mar. 2016. Web. Rose, Jalen. Paid College Athletes: A reasonable compromise  The Huffington Post. N.p., 25 May 2011. Web.