Student 1 Student Instructor Gaspar ENC 1102 16 April 2017 South Devastating Culture of Rape Create a mental image of a young girl walking to school through a field of tall grass and suddenly thrown to the ground. During this terrifying moment, she is raped and abused which will greatly traumatize her. To her shock, reporting this incident did nothing in her favor and the rapist still walks loose while she is left helpless in this system of injustice. South history is full of violence and rape, and it still pertains to this day. Known as the rape capital of the world, many South Africans cases describe the horrors of being a victim of rape. It is especially traumatizing when of the 563,841-estimated number of sexual offences that occurred, only 62,649 of them were reported along with 5,484 that resulted in conviction (Rape Crisis). This series of injustice needs to come to an end if the country wants to become a secure place for women and children. In order to stop the never-ending struggle against rape culture in South Africa, there needs to be a legislative change such proper enforcement, education of both women and men in South Africa, and access to abortion and other contraceptives. First and foremost, getting legislation that strengthens and enforces the anti-rape notion is necessary for the criminal justice system to be able to change the current situation. Up until 2007, South Africa had the Criminal Law Act of 1997 still in action which sexual offences referred to forced vaginal other offences were classified under categories like Sexual offences, like rape were thus restricted to Student 2 (Louw). In addition, the vaginal penetration limited the kinds of rape that could potentially happen especially since there is more to methods to rape other than vaginal penetration. This broad law allowed crime to run rampant among the streets to South Africa. In 2007, the new law that replaced the Criminal Law Act of 1997 was The Sexual Offences Act which discussed acts such as sexual assault, sexual exploitation, sexual but the most important factor was consent which was described as rational, informed, uncoerced, and willing (Louw). Though this piece of legislation helps those who have been assaulted, there are still people within the justice system that needs to implement these standards. Often, victims have a hard time reporting and convincing the system that they were indeed sexually assaulted. It is due to the criminal justice system finding little credibility of the claim even with evidence provided because the individual was drunk, hitchhiking, or flirting (Smythe). Without a change in the legal system and mandatory administration of new laws, this endeavor towards equity be achieved and women and their children will continue to be taken advantage of because of their situation. On the other hand, most of the male population would argue against the fact that rape is immoral. This is due to the society they were raised in. Growing up, boys develop a preconceived notion that girls enjoy the act of rape or they dress or act in a way that wants it. They also view that superiority entitles them to vent their frustrations on women and with nearly 46% stating they have raped more than once (Lindow). This mindset can be found in the lowest tier of society, to the upper-class politicians. For example, the current presidential election was won by Jacob Zuma who was involved with a 2006 rape trial. He described the case on his behalf that woman had dressed that it was against Zulu culture for a man to leave a sexually aroused woman (Lindow). Other Student 3 stakeholders counter the South African pleas for conviction with describing that rape is in their culture. In addition, there are beliefs within the South African community that sexual intercourse with a virgin can cure AIDS. (Itano). Though these people state that women are the main culprit for their own rape, it does not explain why women are living in fear while fighting against these pre-conceived notions despite the lack of power given to them in society. Looking towards other countries, South Africa can learn about the examples other countries have set for the empowerment of women such as sexual education and access to contraceptives. It is difficult for a less-developed-country to achieve the standards of a highly- developed countries unless South Africa makes changes in their system. The first step is educating children at a young age for both sexes that rape is not okay. It is essential that this starts a young age because values are developed at that a prime age. TEARS Foundation is a non-profit organization that hopes to reach the younger generation through education of child sexual abuse, sexual assault, domestic violence, and much more. (TEARS Foundation). No women should have to live in fear and danger because of her sexuality. Another stride that needs to be made to improve the situation of South rape culture is having access to contraceptives. In most of South area, contraceptives are too expensive for the poor. Some recent endeavors towards making contraceptives more accessible for the majority and for those who cannot afford it is the Marie Stopes South Africa Centres. Founded in 1993, it is the largest non-profit provider of sexual and reproductive healthcare organization and is committed to providing suitable prices or even for free in some cases. (Marie Stopes). Despite the attempts to resolve this issue of rape culture, South Africa is still rampaged with sexual violence and terror. One story that tells the helplessness women feel in their society of rape culture is the story of Tandazwa Mpofu: Student 4 After her day at work, she goes to drink at a local informal drinking establishment where she meets a woman and they become friends who then introduces Tandazwa to the father. After the man drops off his daughter, he Tandazwa to a quiet road, where he rapes her at knife point and throws her out of the Despite being able to identify him and reporting this incident, she finds out a month later that the entry that was written by the detective that was underlined in red was bought beers for the Nothing was done to pursue this investigation and it eventually was closed as (Smythe) These are the kinds of results that rape victims receive despite their attempts. A vast majority of victims are left with injustice and have to face that they are helpless in obtaining this correction unless the crime system changes. It is difficult to live with such a traumatizing event, gathering up the courage to reveal and report it to the public, only to be rejected and ignored. Though people tend to look away from pleas of help from the other half of the world, I believe the other parts of the world should get involved and take action against South culture of rape. It is uncommon for other countries to become involved in the politics of other countries unless they are directly affected, but I believe there are other ways. For example, donating or supporting organizations like UNICEF and Rape Crisis Cape Town Trust would benefit the situation indirectly. This should strengthen the women in creating a movement to rid the country of this predominating lifestyle that endangers women and children. It should provide them with hope that being backed by organizations and progressive governments a change can happen. This should also influence South current government to make changes to the system if they want to remain partners with the other countries which they depend on trade. If Student 5 the developed countries and sexual health organizations with influence in South Africa work together, a safer environment can enfold from their efforts. In conclusion, South lifestyle of rape culture has been an issue for too long. It is necessary to develop a new criminal justice system that provides help for victims along with legal change in the government, sexual education, and access to contraceptives for the country to be able to get past their history of sexual violence. With the help of people from other countries backing sexual health organizations with centers in South Africa, people who lived in fear before can feel more secure to start a movement in hopes of creating a rape-free environment for the generations to come. (Word Count: 1390) Student 6 Works Cited South African Statistics for  Rape Crisis Cape Town Trust. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. http://rapecrisis.org.za/about-rape/. Louw, Wim. Sexual offences in South Africa  Helen Zuzman Foundation . N.p., 25 Apr. 2013. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. http://hsf.org.za/resource-centre/hsf-briefs/sexual-offences-in-south- africa. Smythe, Dee. Rape in South Africa: why the system is failing  The Conversation. N.p., 18 Feb. 2016. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. http://theconversation.com/rape-in-south-africa-why- the-system-is-failing-women-54924. Lindow, Megan. South Rape Crisis: 1 in 4 Men Say Done  TIME. N.p., 20 June 2009. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. http://content.time.com/time/world/article/0,8599,1906000,00.html Itano, Nicole. South Africa Begins Getting Tough on  WomenENews. N.p., 24 Feb. 2003. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. http://womensenews.org/2003/02/south-africa-begins-getting- tough-rape/. About  Marie Stopes. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. http://www.mariestopes.org.za/about- us/. TEARS Foundation . N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. http://www.tears.co.za/.