Student 1 Student Professor Thornton ENC 1102 29 April 2017 The Fight Against Our Own Minds Although there are many controversies surrounding the topic of depression, the reality is that it is, illness of how you (TED). One of the most common mental illnesses of depression is the constant feeling of hopelessness and no motivation to want to continue to thrive. According to the Anxiety and Depression Association of America (ADAA), depression affects such a huge portion of the population and many treatment options have been developed, some more effective than others (ADAA). Treatments for depression should be readily available to and accepted by the public because of the dangerous effects it can have on the mind, how many people can be affected by it as well as the positive outcomes that treatment and awareness of depression can bring when there are others willing to help. When it comes to defining depression, there is more to the illness than only being mentally based due to ability to make everyday life feel pointless whereas other mental illnesses are defined as disorders. Depression is more common and can affect anyone at any point in life, year, more than 100 million people the world over are diagnosed as suffering from depression, and depressive disorders are ten times as frequent as (Wolman). Depression can completely change how someone acts and how they treat others but the majority of those who have someone of this ailment in their life see it as an illness but as a personal attack. This is not the case considering this illness has proven to be a chemical imbalance as well as a psychological disparity that can affect emotions and thought processes. Student 2 Depression should not be defined as an excuse for negative behaviors and actions but as a silent and deadly influencer of everyday activities. In a TED talk, a man described his experience with depression as felt like too much which he developed in the middle of his life and had no prior background or experience with mental illness (TED). There was no explanation for why it had occurred but it came upon him quickly and he was unable to functions for months on end. There was no need, in his mind, to get up and eat or use the restroom. Depression leads the mind into a dark hole that is in a constant negative state. This mental illness is important to understand since the majority of people who experience it are not open to talk about their feelings (Kitchen). Even the closest family members and companions refuse to admit they have depression since the word can be taken to extremes. A cultural conception around depression has formed to make it seem outwardly dangerous and that people are negatively different but it is more of an obstacle that can be overcome. When depression overcomes someone, they have to be willing to change and admit what they are feeling to surpass this mental illness. To understand depression and how the illness can impact life, there are a lot of ways in which people can act and treat the different situations. Depression is easier to slip into rather than to get rid of so it is important to have the right support and treatment options. This is proven so through a particular study where, were, however, more willing to see mental health professionals if they were first referred by a clergy member or primary care (Kitchen). Understanding the signs of depression and how to cope as soon as possible can help to avoid from it getting any worse; which it can. People are more likely to get help and be open about their feelings with the encouragement of others and the support from someone else that understands it is ok to feel this way. The knowledge on depression, mental Student 3 illness and the many treatments can be beneficial in understanding the best ways to personally diagnose someone, get their minds back on track and find the best treatment option for them. When it comes to the different treatments, there are certain types of treatments that cater to the conflicting needs of each individual. The most common treatment methods can include psychotherapy, family therapy, drug use, and, in more serious cases, electroshock therapy; the way in which treatment is conducted is a more important factor than the treatment (Wolman 493). These treatments are used in the smallest to the most severe cases of depression and have all delivered some form of success for suppressing the illness. The ability to feel important is nonexistent and, without the support of someone else, loneliness can take control and lead the situation to the worst possible outcomes of attempting suicide or even death. For example, this is what occurred for a young man named Evan Scott Perry who was only five when he began to exhibit bipolar-like tendencies and only fifteen when he committed suicide after falling into depression of how the disorder made him act and feel (Boy Interrupted). His family chose to document his story in order for more people to understand the importance of understanding the signs and receiving help as soon as possible before it is too late and someone who has not begun their life is already gone. To be able to contribute to this issue of communication regarding depression and other mental illnesses, society must accept that depression is a feeling everyone can experience, a loved one, getting fired from a job, going through a divorce, and other difficult situations can lead a person to feel sad, lonely, scared, nervous, or anxious. These feelings are normal reactions to (ADAA). This is something that can happen to anyone at any time and can be a team effort when helping someone out of the darkness. The most important way to contribute is to stay alert of others emotions, ask questions and be open to the Student 4 concept of other people experiencing different feelings about life that they cannot control. Treatment is more of a group process rather than an individual one because of the support that is necessary to help get rid of the negativity that depression brings into the mind, for depression works in many ways emotional support, problem solving, examining and changing thinking styles, checking basic needs are met, looking at behavior, teaching social and other skills and so (Tyrell 54). Mental illness is not contagious so it is not obligatory to be hesitant of it just because it holds the label of a mental illness. Everyone has their own internal issues, some worse than others, but the important thing is to understand that everyone is human and has their own thoughts, feelings and emotions. The topic of depression and the treatments remain to be a debated illness in much of the eyes of the population but that does not mean it affecting millions of lives each day. Depression continues to be diagnosed in people of all ages and is a serious life changing illness but people all around the world can help to end the negative connotation surrounding it. Everyone has the ability to understand that it is affecting lives and requires as much support as possible and this is all that one needs to know about the illness in order to contribute to the lack of support and communication surrounding the subject. Depression will continue to develop in all lives, new and old but can be assisted and prevented through the support of everyday individuals. Mental illness will continue to be a serious issue and it depends on the people now and of the future to understand the reality behind it and how to treat those affected by depression. (Word Count: 1,284) Student 5 Works Cited Cassiday, Karen L. Anxiety and Depression Association of America. Anxiety and Depression Association of America, 2010. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Boy Interrupted. Dir. Dana Heinz Perry. Perf. Evan Scott Perry, Dana Heinz Perry, Hart Perry. HBO Films, 2009. Television Documentary. Boy Interrupted. HBO Films. Web. 1 Apr. 2017. Kitchen Andren, Katherine A., et al. Depression Treatment among Rural Older Adults: Preferences and Factors Influencing Future Service  Clinical Gerontologist, vol. 36, no. 3, 01 May 2013, pp. 241-259. EBSCOhost Ted. 4 TED Talks on overcoming  Overcoming depression Playlist TED.com. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Apr. 2017. Tyrrell, Mike, and Rodger Elliot. The Depression Learning Path: Uncommon Knowledge., Clinical-depression.co.uk., 2013. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <http://www.clinical- depression.co.uk/sites/clinical-depression.co.uk/files/Depression-Learning-Path-Free.pdf. Wolman, Benjamin B., and George Stricker. Depressive Disorders Facts Theories and Treatments. International Psychotherapy Institute E-Books, 1990. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.<file:///C:/Users/Owner/Downloads/depressivedisorders.pdf>.