Gregg 1 Samantha Gregg Professor Gottlieb ENC 1102 2 April 2017 Childhood Education in Third-World Countries According to Merriam-Webster Dictionary a first-world country is a highly developed industrialized nations often considered the westernized countries of the While a third-world country, is an underdeveloped nation suffering from extreme poverty. A problem most people of a first-world country are aware of is the lack of education in third-world countries. According to Mark Epstein and Kristi Yuthas, Ghana, for example, only 50 percent of children complete grade 5, and of those, less than half can comprehend a simple Education in the Developing Although many people are aware of the scarcity of education in developing countries, not much is done to fix this problem affecting millions of children. Lack of funding for third-world countries education programs can be proven by an article written by Global Citizen which states, aid delivered for basic education has dropped for three years in a row, resulting in a 16% reduction between 2009 and barriers to education around the With low funding and support, developing education systems will stay corrupt and never develop into a well-running system. But, it is a proven fact that education solves problems such as poverty, illiteracy, and lowering birth rates, as well as allowing developing countries to advance socially, politically, and economically. Education for children in third-world countries should be a cause everyone cares Gregg 2 about because it allows children to choose their life path. The underfunding and neglection of education will lead to young children not being able to escape the cycle of living in a poverty- stricken area and having to work for their family instead of earning a degree and eventually a well-paying, respected job. An organization working towards ending the gap of low education rates in developing countries is called the United Nations International Emergency Fund, also known as UNICEF. education mission statement states, believes that quality education is a right for all children, whether in the developing world or amidst conflict and We Serving children has always been main priority since they were founded in 1946, which is why of every dollar the organization spends, 90 cents goes directly to the children while the other ten cents goes to advertising and other business expenses Asked UNICEF is supported entirely by donations made by governments, non-governmental organizations, foundations, corporations, and individuals, which displays how important it is for monetary contributions to be made to this non-profit organization so that they can keep giving back to and empowering children around the world. Celebrities such as Selena Gomez and Audrey Hepburn were active volunteers for UNICEF because they were inspired by stance on improving every life, no matter what country they were in. Selena Gomez has even been quoted saying, want people to know that together with UNICEF, we have the ability to prevent (Niles). Giving children the quality of education deserved can be seen through programs UNICEF has started such as building child- friendly schools, providing teaching resources such as lesson plans to teachers, and encouraging children in destitute areas to attend school. To provide these resources to third-world countries, Gregg 3 UNICEF raises money through programs such as UNICEF Kid Power, Trick-or-Treat UNICEF, and taking monetary donations year-round online and in person. Because of all the amazing programs UNICEF has in place to help children, it is recognized as one of the best charities in the world which has been confirmed by Charity Navigator, an organization that evaluates charitable organizations. UNICEF works 365 days a year to provide a better life for struggling children around the world. In 2016, UNICEF donated 90% of the money raised to children in need, which shows just how transparent and credible this non-profit organization is Asked Getting involved with UNICEF, a non-profit organization that is recognized worldwide, will help to change millions of lives, and prepare them for life outside of poverty by giving them the skills needed to attain a well-paying career. Countries that have children enrolled in school, even just at the primary level, are more likely to have a lower population growth, lower fertility rates, and reduced poverty Leads to Lower Fertility and Increased This shows just how important getting involved with childhood education in developing countries is because it is helping to eliminate these issues that happen when a country has a low education and literacy rate. As stated by George Washington Carver, is the key to unlock the golden door of Washington Carver The point that George Washington Carver is making by this statement is that education provides so many opportunities for children to explore and grow, they will not be stuck working at their house, farm, or labor-intensive workplace unless they are provided the resource of education and are then able to make that career decision. If there is not a change in education of children in third- world countries it will be impossible for children stuck in the vicious cycle of poverty to escape Gregg 4 because they do not have the educational knowledge needed to seek out improved living arrangements and career opportunities. This can be proven by a study conducted in 2010 that revealed that 61 million primary school-age children were not enrolled in school Facts About Education Around the Therefore, the work being done by UNICEF to improve the educational system seen in third-world countries is crucial to the success of these young children and to make sure they are sent to school to get the education they need. To incite change in the educational system present in third-world countries today, monetary donations and volunteers are essential to help the impoverished children. Monetary donations to organizations like UNICEF will help to build schools, mobilize teachers, and provide school resources in third-world countries, where they are needed the most. If donating is not an option, one could also volunteer to go on a mission trip to a third-world country to build schools, advocate for UNICEF, and become teachers for underprivileged students. Without donations or volunteers, UNICEF would not be able to provide for the more than twelve million children who have received an education because of the resources UNICEF has provided Asked However, there are still millions who are trapped in poverty- ridden areas that are unable to leave the house or a low-paying job to attend school. If just ten dollars a month was donated towards sending children to school, that would total $120 a year that would be used to pay teachers, build schools, or provide classroom resources that children of this area so desperately need. Since every additional year of schooling can increase a future income by an average of 10%, it is crucial to make sure these children are getting a proper education that they can use to improve their futures Facts About Education Around the To get involved with UNICEF, visiting their website will provide ways to make Gregg 5 donations or become a volunteer. Donations and or volunteering with UNICEF would help to end children being stuck in poverty at the house or at a low-paying job and provide every child with an education, a right they have and deserve. Education of children in third-world countries is a pressing topic that many people are aware of and care about, but do not know how to get involved to help make a change for the affected children. With the help of UNICEF, getting involved and improving the lives of children could not be easier. Children in poverty-stricken areas are desperate for help to end the cycle of poverty that they feel they are stuck in. Providing them access to an education will enhance their lives by empowering them with the skills they need to get better jobs, eliminate poverty, and strengthen their country. Gregg 6 Works Cited 10 barriers to education around the  Global Citizen. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Apr. 2017. 11 Facts About Education Around the  DoSomething.org Volunteer for Social Change. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Apr. 2017.  Data Highlights - 13: Education Leads to Lower Fertility and Increased Prosperity EPI. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Apr. 2017. First  Merriam-Webster. Merriam-Webster, n.d. Web. 27 Apr. 2017. George Washington Carver  BrainyQuote. Xplore, n.d. Web. 27 Apr. 2017. Niles, Chris. Selena Gomez calls for life-saving action on behalf of children in the  UNICEF. N.p., 18 Apr. 2012. Web. 20 Apr. 2017. Rating for United States Fund for UNICEF DBA UNICEF  Charity Navigator. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Apr. 2017. Redefining Education in the Developing World  Stanford Social Innovation Review. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Apr. 2017. UNICEF  Home UNICEF. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Apr. 2017.