Student 1 Student Professor Gaspar ENC 1102 16 April 2017 How you can help the sustain the future of our next generation 353,000. The is the number of how many babies are born in a day (UNICEF). With rapid growing population we need to be able to sustain a healthy, and prosperous source of food for the future generations (Krimsky, Sheldon and Gruber). As there are more people introduced into our population there needs to be a reliable and sustainable source of produce. Although there might be divides within our society on whether the use of genetically modified organisms should or should not be used, there is an underlying issue that not everyone can afford to buy and eat all organic produce. Introducing this issue, there has been obvious solutions, with genetically modified organism being one of the most reasonable and also main solution. Ultimately genetically modified organisms were actually introduced before recorded history (Ganzel). It all started about 10,000 years ago when cultivators were selecting specific seeds that showed to be the most productive (Ganzel), with this they started to domesticate the seeds that would yield the best results, and with that genetically modified organisms began. Generally there is a misconception of what genetically modified organisms are, or what they can be. There are millions of people who see this practice as not natural to the consumer, which is true, but it also noted that not everything in our current world is natural, because that is where industrialization has brought our society. Other misconceptions may be that they view these plant geneticists as people Student 2 who want to create deformed, or abnormal organisms but that is not the case (Plenke). A genetically modified organism is defined as an organism that is given traits, otherwise that would not be found in nature (Plenke). The rapid growth of technology has allowed us to create these genetically modified organisms in a way that is healthy, and sustainable for the population. Research on livestock has proven that there are no effects or differences between genetically modified feed, and regular feed (Eenennaam). With the use of genetically modified organisms, plant geneticists and scientists are now able to create a healthy and sustainable growth of different produce, with this they are able to sell these produce at an affordable rate, so that more people are able to feed themselves and their families. Through the ongoing battle of whether the use of genetically modified organisms should be used, or if farmers should stick to regularly grown produce there is a bigger picture to things. Even if you care or have no opinion about this topic, there is a need for you to care. With this intense and rapidly growing population there needs to be a source of food for everyone, if you think that you are involved you are. If you are living, and breathing you need to be able to have some source of food, and since our population is growing so quickly, there needs to be multiple sources of produce to sustain the world. Although there is an argument over the use of genetically modified organisms, and organically grown produce there is a common goal within them. This common goal is to make sure we can nourish and maintain our population, without further destroying the environment (Ronald). There is a sense of urgency especially for future generations because it could also be their only source of produce and food at one point. If you think about your kids, then your kids, and so on you want to think that they will live Student 3 in a world in which there may not be one, because the human population could succumb to the lack or absence of a sustainable food source. Presumably once there is a call to action to care about the future, and how they will survive, there is no real help if you do anything about it. The many possibilities that this world can soon become there needs to be a way in which we can create our own food if we cannot do it the way it used to be down. Getting involved does not mean that you need to all become plant geneticist and create the best the technology there is to create genetically modified organisms, one of the most important factors is that the public is correctly informed about how these can actually benefit the world. With the misconceptions that are out there with the right explanation people will soon see the importance of and how they will help population in coherently sustain the future generations. While informing the public is an important goal, the other goal is that while every one cannot fully understand the science behind the genetically modified organism, there should be full publications of research and how these organisms are made so that there is nothing hidden between the public and the research. In any case there are always different sides for a topic that is relevant in our technically dependent world. Although some people may not believe that are right, and maybe they will never agree to the use of them there needs to be a deeper connection between the present and the future. With the help of educating the people who either know, care or disagree with the creation of we will soon see there is that common goal. The common goal of having mankind prospers for thousands and thousands of more years without the worry of if there is enough food to manage our growing population. So with that will you become an educator that future generations Student 4 will be grateful for, by teaching and informing the public about how actually important the use of are. (WC: 964) Student 5 Work Cited Plenke, Max. Young People Should Support  Mic. Mic Network Inc., 25 Oct. 2015. Web. 26 Feb. 2017 Krimsky, Sheldon and Jeremy Gruber. The GMO Deception : What You Need to Know about the Food, Corporations, and Government Agencies Putting Our Families and Our Environment at Risk. New York, NY : Skyhorse Publishing, 2014. Food Fight: Gmos and the Future of the American  Publishers Weekly, no. 43, 2016, p. 69. Eenennaam, and Weigel Animal enomics: Results from the Vol. 2, p. 120. 3 Dec. 2013. Urban, Shilo. 8 Reasons GMOs Are Bad for  Organic Authority. N.p., 13 Nov. 2015. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Boccia, Flavio and Vijay Ganji. Consumer Perspectives of GMO. Bradford, West Yorkshire : Emerald Group Publishing Limited, 2016., 2016. Lantz, Catherine. Shetterly, Caitlin. Modified: Gmos and the Threat to Our Food, Our Land, Our  Library Journal, 13 Nov., 2016, p. 118. Bodiguel, Luc. GMO, Conventional and Organic Crops: From Coexistence to Local  Agriculture and Agricultural Science Procedia, vol. 8, no. Florence Sustainability of Well-Being International . 2015: Food for Sustainability and not just food, FlorenceSWIF2015, 01 Jan. 2016, pp. 264 How Many Babies Are Born Each  The World Counts. UNICEF, n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Ted Talks Ronald: The case for engineering our food) https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wZ2TF8-PGQ4