Bianco 1 Richelle Bianco Professor Gottlieb ENC 1102 9 April 2017 Prevention Against Domestic Violence Spousal abuse, defined by the National Coalition Against Domestic Violence (NCADV), the willful intimidation, physical assault, battery, sexual assault, and/or other abusive behavior as part of a systematic pattern of power and control perpetrated by one intimate partner against another What Is Domestic NCADV describes spouse abuse as a variation of psychical and emotional corruption done by one who craves dominance. This definition encompasses all types of relationships, regardless of gender, race, and wealth, proving that there is no definitive reason for spouse abuse. Domestic violence, also known as spousal abuse, is a reprehensible act that should never be considerable. Those that engage in the act should be sentenced to a harsher prison sentence while those that are abused should be given free support systems, such as therapy, safe homes, and personal needs. The world should become more educated about the situation and learn how to spot the symptoms of being abused. Although there are many organizations that administer safe places and support to those being abused, domestic violence is a very prominent type of abuse within America-- every 15 seconds, one woman is beaten by her significant other Violence: Fast Facts on Domestic One institution that protects those being abused is Citizens Against Spouse Abuse (CASA). CASA is a non-profit organization that recognizes abuse within relationships. Their overall goal is to: our voices against violence through advocacy, empowerment and Bianco 2 social in order to do that, they provide small living spaces and a 24/7 hotline for those searching to escape their abuser Their hope is to one day completely end domestic violence, and give those whom are abused a chance to regain their lives Without CASA and similar organizations, the number of those being abused would amplify. There would not be any call centers that would itemize on helping to take those out of an abusive companionship and therefore, people would not be able to gain knowledge on how to escape their toxic relationship. Since organizations like CASA prepare beds and food for those that are homeless due to abuse, if they were no longer functional, the homeless people would not have shelter and refuge to turn to. Over 75% of victims that are abused, die while trying to escape the relationship, if these organizations did not exist, many more victims would die from not being able to leave safely Domestic Abuse Shelter - A New ). CASA and other institutions like it are mandatory for the survival of those being abused, since they provide housing, clothing, and mental health counseling Unfortunately, the places that provide safety and housing to those being abused limit the time one can stay at the shelter, making it difficult for those trying to regain their life to do so in such a short time Children Fleeing To help fix the problem before it evens begins, the public must be educated on the ways they can contribute to stop domestic violence. To start off, schools should mandate classes that address relationships along with mandatory sexual education classes. These two subjects go hand in hand; according to a 2015 study by International Perspectives on Sexual and Reproductive Health: of risk factors for sexual violence perpetration, and talking about gender norms and power actually makes sex education more Violence Prevention Messaging and Comprehensive Sex ). Since children are the most vulnerable and easily influenced, they should learn about the dangers Bianco 3 and signs of domestic violence at a young age. In some states and other countries, sex education is taught to children as young as four years old, while they learn about this, they should also become educated about the relationship aspect (Melker). From there, they will learn that domestic violence is not the answer and they will learn strategies on how to exit a toxic relationship if they are caught in one. Following them into middle and high school, the information will become more informative and more heavily asserted. The middle and high schoolers will be encouraged to talk to their guidance counselors about specific behavior or if they suspect abuse in a relationship. Organizations, like CASA, should disperse their information throughout high schools in hope someone will turn to them in a time of need. As teenagers becomes older and venture out into the real world to work, the education process of domestic abuse will follow them. Within the work force, there should be mandatory classes for adults to take before they are allowed to further in their job. While domestic violence awareness will prominently be reinforced throughout school, it will become just as conspicuous within the work force. Many believe that domestic violence is only a household issue, though those being abused at home take their agony to work. Within a recent study, scientists found: percent had difficulty concentrating on work tasks; 96 percent reported that domestic abuse affected their ability to perform their job duties; 87 percent received harassing phone calls at work; 78 percent reported being late to work because of abuse; and 60 percent lost their jobs due to domestic indicating that domestic violence affects the victim even when not at home Workplaces Respond to Domestic & Sexual ). To bring awareness to those being abused within the work environment, every six months one will take a domestic abuse class that teaches facts about being abused, and how to spot the signs of someone Bianco 4 who is being abused. Most importantly, the course will touch upon that abuse is not just subjected towards women. One fatal misconception is that only women are abused. Many of the organizations appeal only to women who are violated, and although the rate of women being abused is much higher than men, 2.6 million males are still victimized by their significant other (Campbell). Most people tend to overlook the fact that males are victims of spousal abuse. Due to the societal views of being a male, they are less likely to report being abused because they are afraid they will be looked upon as less manly (Man). To fix this issue, organizations should promote their services to all people, not just specifically women and children. Dr. Denise Hines, a research assistant of psychology, conducted an examination to analyze the correlation between men who are abused versus women who are abused. Hines found dastardly differences between the two sexes: the abused men who called domestic violence hotlines, 64% were told that they helped and those that offered to help the male counterparts, directed them to a program- indicating that the hotline believed the male had instigated the abuse (Hines). Since organizations are less likely to help a male victim, and research fund about a man being abused is more likely to be refused, domestic violence towards men becomes extremely unnoticed CDC Study: More Men than Women Victims of Partner ). These classes, taught at work and school, will encompass the dangers of not incorporating male domestic violence as and will bring the taboo culture to realism in hopes to spread awareness that men can be abused. Currently, those who commit spousal abuse are not subjected to prison or rehabilitation programs depending on the severity of the damage (LaMance). To make sure the violator does not repeat his/ her patterns, judges should sentence all abusers to at least a year of time in jail or Bianco 5 prison, and once out, they should be rehabilitated. Rehabilitation should be mandatory, since jail time alone is not enough-- 62 percent of offenders that were held within a penitentiary were rearrested for abusing their partner again Can Domestic Violence Abusers Be Rehabilitated? Legal ). Rehabilitation should focus on the reasons why the abuser feels the need to violate others. Most commonly, those that grew up around domestic violence were likely to become abusive to their partners as they grew older, suggesting there are underlying problems the abuser is unable to express NCADV ). This process of therapy should not be shorter than a year. The abuser will be given their own psychologist and group therapy sessions. Once out of rehab, the abuser will be monitored closely by a parole officer to make sure they do not violate their partner, and, if in fact they do, the abuser will be sentenced to a longer, harsher prison sentence of 25 years to life. Although domestic abuse will never completely end, notifying the signs of one being abused and knowing the exits to an abusive relationship will help slowly diminish domestic violence. With the benefit of educational programs that are addressed to all ages of the public and harsher punishment to those who commit the crime, domestic violence awareness will increase, causing a decrease in the amount of crimes that occur each year. Bianco 6 Works Cited About  CASA. N.p., n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Campbell, Denis. More than 40% of Domestic Violence Victims Are Male, Report  The Observer. Guardian News and Media, 04 Sept. 2010. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Can Domestic Violence Abusers Be Rehabilitated? Legal  Domestic Violence Law. N.p., 09 Mar. 2017. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. CDC Study: More Men than Women Victims of Partner  SAVE: Stop Abusive and Violent Environments. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. Domestic Abuse Shelter - A New  Domesic Abuse Shelter. N.p., n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Domestic Violence: Fast Facts on Domestic  Domestic Violence: Fast Facts on Domestic Violence. N.p., n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Hines, Denise. What Happens When Abused Men Call Domestic Violence Hotlines and  NPO. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. LaMance, Ken. Legal Consequences of Domestic  Legal Consequences of Domestic Abuse LegalMatch Law Library. N.p., 19 Oct. 2016. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Man, Emasculated. The  The National Domestic Violence Hotline. N.p., 22 July 2014. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. Bianco 7 Melker, Saskia De. The Case for Starting Sex Education in  PBS. Public Broadcasting Service, n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. NCADV  National Coalition Against Domestic Violence. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. Violence Prevention Messaging and Comprehensive Sex  PreventConnect.org. N.p., 19 May 2015. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. What Is Domestic  What Is Domestic Violence? N.p., n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Women/ Children Fleeing  NPR. NPR, n.d. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. Workplaces Respond to Domestic & Sexual Violence. Workplaces Respond to Domestic & Sexual  The Facts on the Workplace and Domestic Violence Learn A National Resource Center. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Apr. 2017.