Seton Novack Madeline Gottlieb ENC1102 9 April 2017 LABELING Genetically modified organisms are foods that have been derived from genetically altered material that does not occur naturally Genetically They were first introduced to make farming more sustainable. They quickly became popular and needed to be regulated. The reason became so common is because they were able to produce more crops that would last longer, making the price of food go down. These foods do not occur in nature and no long-term studies have been conducted to test the affect have on humans. The FDA deemed safe for the public, but no studies that looked at the long term effects of on humans were conducted. were first introduced to consumers in 1994 Timeline- A History of Genetically Modified Since then, more laws regulating genetically modified organisms have been passed and even though progress has been made, there is still a long way to go with transparency within the food industry and regulation of The current labeling policy for is ineffective at letting consumers know what is actually in the foods they are purchasing. The current bill that was passed in 2016, requires companies to include a bar code that they can scan and have access to the full information of the ingredients in their food (Charles). This law is ineffective because the information is not readily available to the consumer so the consumer is less likely to look it up themselves. This policy gives agricultural companies like, Monsanto an easy way out of properly labeling what is in their products. The bar code is a barrier to access for consumers and realistically people are not going to scan a bar code if they do not know what it is for. This makes it difficult for people to make Novack 2 informed decisions about what they are feeding themselves and their families. This policy is merely an attempt to create transparency with the food industry and the consumers, but is ineffective because the information about is kept hidden until a code is scanned, which is making it difficult to for consumers to access this information. Health risks associated with are severe allergic reactions and organ damage Should You Just Label It is an organization that promotes the proper labeling of products containing genetically modified organisms and demands that consumers have access to information about the foods they are purchasing. Their goal is to raise awareness and encourage people to buy exclusively non-GMO products Label More and more companies have started to support GMO labeling: are over 400 companies that actively support GMO labeling and increased transparency in the food This organization believes that it is the right of every American to be informed of what they are putting into their bodies: our reasons for wanting to know in our food may vary, what unifies us is the belief that our A complete transition of the American agricultural system to all organic farming is unrealistic and unreasonable, but educating the public about the risks of and why GMO labeling is crucial is a step in the right direction. Every person on Earth needs food to survive and one of the biggest factors of health stems from diet. Most people do not realize that their diet plays one of the biggest role in their overall health. So much food today is over processed and the general public is not getting the nutrients they need. Agricultural companies claim that do not affect the nutritional value, but adding unnatural chemicals and pesticides can be harmful to humans. Food is something that all living things need to survive and is the one thing that binds all humans together, so people should care about what they are putting into their bodies. This is an issue that Commented This is a strong thesis, but try to add something about the risks of in it. (Maybe something like educating the public about some of the risks of such as is a step in the right Commented Back this up with a source.  Novack 3 does not discriminate and it is the responsibility of everyone to be informed and make decisions that are best for themselves and their families. This issue does not only effect the people now, but it will affect future generations as well. It will affect not only their environment, but also their overall health. Genetically modified organisms are often used in baby food, and the effect of on babies, which is one of the most vulnerable populations, has not been studied and could potentially have negative long term effects. Some states have already passed mandatory labeling acts: Connecticut and Maine have already passed labeling laws and, in the past two years, more than 70 labeling bills or ballot initiatives were introduced across 30 states. In response to these state efforts, legislation backed by big food and biotechnology corporations- dubbed the Denying Americans the Right to Know (DARK) Act- has been introduced and seeks to halt labeling This is an issue that should be more pressing in lives because of how prevalent it is to everyone. There are so many unknown answers about genetically modified organisms, that the public should not just blindly accept them without questioning or being informed and labeling is the best way to ensure that people make an informed choice for themselves. Agricultural companies like Monsanto should not be in complete control of American agriculture without government regulation to ensure that the health of the public is their first priority, which most times, unfortunately, it is not. Most people see foods that contain as the most convenient and cheapest option at the grocery store, but with proper labels, some people may think twice about their decision to purchase those foods for their families. Commented This is a very good sentence, maybe you could back it up with a source. Also explain what is Monsanto since it is the first time you bring it up. Novack 4 It may seem difficult to take a stand against a large institution, such as the food industry, but the Non-GMO Project states that the best way to have the voice be heard is to with our Voting with our dollars means to buy exclusively organic and non- GMO food products in order to send a message to food companies and the government that should be labeled and the population has a right to know what they are consuming. Most people do not realize the power that they hold when they purchase items. By purchasing an item, it is sending a message to the producer of that item to keep on producing it, even if the purchase was out of convenience. Even though it may seem that one person refusing to purchase something will not make a difference, when a large portion of the population has that mentality, it does not allow change to happen. By buying products that do not have properly labeled, it is allowing for food companies to get away with deceiving the population. If a large number of consumers exclusively buy GMO free products, it will send a message to lawmakers that GMO labeling is an issue that should be addressed and a better policy should be implemented. Change happens with one person and if most of the population makes their voices heard by purchasing GMO free products, agricultural companies will be forced to make a change in either how they farm or how they label. The public has more power over corporations than they think and if enough people decide that they want to see a change in how foods containing genetically modified organisms are regulated and labeled, agricultural companies will hear and be forced to make a change. Commented This was a very good paragraph. It is definitely a strong call to action but I feel like you should include a conclusion to summarize everything that was said. Novack 5 Works Cited Charles, Dan. Congress Just Passed A GMO Labeling Bill. Super Happy About  NPR. NPR, 14 July 2016. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. GMO  Institute for Responsible Technology. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Apr. 2017. GMO Timeline A History of Genetically Modified  GMO Awareness. N.p., 09 Oct. 2014. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. It, Just Label. Right to  Just Label It. N.p., n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017.  Non-GMO Project. N.p., n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Q&A: genetically modified  World Health Organization. World Health Organization, n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017.