Student 1 Student Instructor Richard Gaspar ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Understanding and Defending Antidepressants Some people believe that drugs are not a method of healing diseases, where many are dependent on some sort of drug during the healing process. The word normally has a negative connotation connected to it, where people assume there will not be a positive outcome when combining drugs with a disease. Drugs can be defined as a therapeutic agent used in the prevention, diagnosis, alleviation, treatment, or cure of disease . In the United States alone, about people taking any class of psychiatric drug Depression is an example of a sickness where drugs can be used as a method to ease pain and overall cure the disease. About people use antidepressants to help their sickness. Antidepressants are the psychiatric medications given to patients with depressive disorders to alleviate symptoms by correcting chemical imbalances of neurotransmitters in the brain that cause changes in mood and behavior . There must be a spread of positivity about this issue to inform people about the issue in a non bias and educational way. From 1999 to 2012 the percentage of Americans on antidepressants increased from 6.8% to 13%, according to a report published this week by the Journal of the American Medical Association (JAMA). Therefore, slowly but surely, there is a change happening in our society where people are becoming more informed on antidepressants and using them! This treatment may not be for everyone, but not choosing it due to negative thoughts surrounding it needs to end. Student 2 Antidepressants are known for working to the concentration of certain neurotransmitters within the brain By increasing these concentrations, the mood will significantly improve .There are several types of antidepressants that work manipulate one or more of the neurotransmitters. The types of antidepressants that are available are oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), Noradrenaline and Specific Serotoninergic Antidepressants (NASSAs), Serotonin and Noradrenaline Reuptake Inhibitors (SNRIs), Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors (SSRIs), and Tricyclics (Depression- They work to chemical imbalances of neurotransmitters in the brain in their own, very different ways, which probably cause changes in mood and behavior (Depression- This drug is becoming more reliable due to advances in technology in the medical field. One of the most important facts to take into consideration is the sole fact that trained, educated, reliable doctors are stating that this treatment is the most effective. This treatment has been tested, used, and reviewed by scholarly and reliable doctors and researchers. Doctors, especially those specialized in this area of depression, are even more reliable. Another important point is that some treatments may not work for everyone, but there are so many different antidepressants that can be applied to just about anyone. By providing so many different options, this treatment is available to many types of people to accommodate their needs. This makes this treatment extremely effective because it can reach so many people in comparison to other treatments. Rebecca Brachman, a speaker on TED Talk, is a pioneer in the field of preventative psychopharmacology, developing drugs to enhance stress resilience and prevent mental illness. She shares news of a serendipitous breakthrough treatment that may prevent mental disorders Student 3 like depression and PTSD from ever developing. She explains how a medical treatment can be used to benefit patients in the best way. While this may not be directly affecting everyone, it actually can affect every single person in society indirectly. By providing a cure to this issue, people that one may encounter everyday, know through social media, or just acquaintances in life can be put on the right path to an effective cure to depression. Also, being educated on this issue hurt anyone. In fact, being educated on this will help people help others, which is just what is needed in society. In the past, there have been solutions tested, but they have not been as effective as the medical treatments. These solutions include natural remedies, dieting, therapy, amino acid supplements, and vitamins. Although these ideas may seem harmless but helpful, they are not as entirely as effective as an antidepressant. A change of mindset is needed to remove such negative thoughts about antidepressants. People in society need to get up, get know someone battling depression, and inform them of all the knowledge of antidepressants. There are many ways to do this such as helping a cause through greek life, joining a club on campuses or in school, volunteering at places that help depressed people, or simply talking to someone you are familiar with who has depression. People may begin this call-to-action by getting involved within their community to benefit depressed people, or change their attitudes towards people with depression by being more accepting and willing to help them. Student 4 Works Cited Brachman, Rebecca. Brachman: Could a drug prevent depression and PTSD? TED Talk TEDxNewYork, Sept. 2016. Web. 30 Mar. 2017.  Free Farlex, n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Gillaspy, Rebecca. How Antidepressants Work in the Brain - Video & Lesson  N.p., n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Kam, Katherine. Can Antidepressants Work for  WebMD, n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Kramer, Peter D. In Defense of  New York The New York Times, 09 July 2011. Web. 02 Apr. 2017. Malhi, Gin S., Yulisha Byrow, Darryl Bassett, Philip Boyce, Malcolm Hopwood, William Lyndon, Roger Mulder, Richard Porter, Ajeet Singh, and Greg Murray. Stimulants for depression: On the up and  & New Zealand Journal of 50.3 (2016): 203-07. Web. 26 Feb. 2016. Nordqvist, Christian. What Are Antidepressants? How Do Antidepressants  News MediLexicon International, 15 Dec. 2015. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Read, John, et al. Are Older People Prescribed Antidepressants on the Basis of Fewer Symptoms of Depression, and for Longer Periods of Time? A Survey of 1825 New  Journal on vol. 35, no. 3, 01 Sept. 2016, pp. 193-197. ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/lo Student 5 gin.aspx?direct=true&db=gnh&AN=EP117925291&site=eds-live. Depression- Causes, Diagnosis and Treatment : Antidepressants: Types, Efficiency and Possible Side Effects : Types, Efficiency and Possible Side Effects. Hauppauge, US: Nova, 2010. ProQuest ebrary. Web. 2 April 2017.  Understanding  Web log post. Health Life Media Team, 10 Oct. 2016. Web. 30 Mar. 2017. <http://healthlifemedia.com/healthy/understanding-antidepressants/>. Winter, Caroline. Dr. Feel Good and the Club Drug  no. 4439, 24 Aug. 2015, pp. 54-59. ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true &db=rgm&AN=109010043&site=eds-live.