Meyer 1 Corinn Meyer Professor Madeline Gottlieb ENC 1102-14 9 April 2017 Stem Cell Research: a Modern Miracle in Medicine Every day, scientists across the globe work tirelessly to produce innovative treatments for most debilitating diseases. Various vaccines, tablets, and therapies are produced daily with the hopes of reducing or even eliminating these illnesses. These remedies, however, rarely provide the relief sought by those who suffer from such ailments. They may treat the symptoms, but not the underlying condition; or perhaps one set of the manifestations is replaced by another. Due to such repercussions, scientists must take a new approach to medicinal treatment, one which relies more so compatibility with human physiology as opposed to artificial therapies which combat it. This new approach is stem cell research, a science based on the undifferentiated cells which began human development. However, as many of these cells are extracted from human embryos, there has been much debate as to the morality behind the practice. Such contention, as well as a lack of general information available to the public, has caused the government, which supplies the funding for such scientific projects, to withhold from promoting stem cell research. Although this compliance may have been done with good intentions, it is a disservice to those who endure chronic illnesses and may benefit from stem cell therapies. Therefore, it is pertinent that these funds are replaced, and the general public has the power to do so. By donating to such pro stem cell research organizations as Americans for Cures, the public can compensate for the loss of government financing and ensure that the money is spent directly on the cause. Stem cell research is boon for modern medicine, one which cannot be deterred by cash deficiency. Meyer 2 In order to fully understand the scope of how beneficial stem cell research may be, one must be informed on its mechanics. The stem cell is a cell which lacks any defining genetic material, and has the capacity to differentiate into any tissue within the body as it matures. Thus, the cell is referred to as a  as all cells from its conception. In addition, because of the absence of set genetic material, stem cells may be taken from one body and be placed in another, causing little to no complications (one could liken this to a cornea transplant; as the cornea lack blood vessels which would contain a specific blood type, the cornea can be transplanted to any individual). Although this information would seem apparent, the general public is not readily informed on the basics of stem cell research due to its controversial nature. Instead, many are simply informed as to the opposing opinions which surround the process. That is why it is imperative that organizations who support stem cell research are available to provide such data on the education of stem cell research to the public. One such organization is the Americans for Cures, who, advocate for stem cell research and therapy  (Klein 1) through their presence on various social media sites. This organization implements their social presence in order to provide, actual educational  (Klein 1) for the public, concerning stem cell research that is not solely based on personal opinion. This content is enriched with scientific data, and is even accredited by the Scientific Advisory  (Klein 1), which includes over fifteen established scientists. The entire process ensures that only scientific and unbiased material is presented to the public, keeping them informed without molding their minds to a specific viewpoint. In addition to providing such vital content, the Americans for Cures organization provides a platform for those who have benefited from stem cell treatments to voice their successes. Their diseases range from Sickle Cell Anemia to disease, and all have discovered relief or even remission with these treatments. Not Meyer 3 only does this opportunity allow those whose lives have been uplifted by stem cell research to provide hope for those with debilitating diseases, it also allows the public to imagine the life altering benefits this research can deliver. As previously mentioned, the ultimate goal of stem cell research is to eliminate the persistent illnesses of the modern world. Through their undifferentiated characteristics, these stem cells can develop attributes of any cell within the human body, allowing them to replace missing or damaged tissue ravaged by disease. This unique ability is a boon to modern medicine, as the cells used already originate in the human body; no artificial components are needed to combine with the cells that may cause adverse effects. The possibility of these promising treatments generated by stem cell use is backed by many scholars, who acclaim the stem cell process as refreshing approach to modern medicine. Lovell-Badge, the author of the article titled The Future of Stem Cell  notes the, great  (Lovell-Badge 1) in medicine which can be achieved through stem cell research. These advances can include the relief or even remission of, diabetes, and  (Lovell-Badge 1) , all of which are most crippling and extensive diseases. Likewise, author Siddharthan Chandran of What Are the Prospects of Stem Cell Therapy for , acknowledges the unparalleled benefits of human stem cell based treatments. Focusing mainly on illnesses effecting the human neuron, Chandran argues that stem cell research has the ability to, open new therapeutic  (Chandran 1327) for those whose motor functions have suffered due to neurological deficiencies. Such treatments, which would lack any form of synthetic medication or radiation, modify the  (Chandran 1327) of these injuries, allowing for the opportunity for these nervous cells to repair themselves. This process would thus create an opportunity for the body to repair itself naturally without experiencing any of the complications often imposed Meyer 4 by more invasive procedures such as radiation. In a broader approach, Fiona Watt of The Therapeutic Potential of Stem Cell  describes the long term benefits of stem cell progress. Watt claims that through, strong  (Watt 161) of research conducted, stem cell treatments shall revolutionize  (Watt 161) through its holistic approach. By using cells already found within human tissue, Watt argues that such a natural method of treating illness would replace the current reliance on artificial means, as well as preventing any adverse side effects caused by such means. Stem cell research holds a vast potential for treating those who suffer daily from their sicknesses by challenging ineffective modern treatments. This potential may be squandered however due to unmoving financial halts. The prospective medicinal value of stem cell research is unprecedented; yet, much debate centers around how the research is conducted. As briefly mentioned before, stem cells are mainly extracted from human embryos, which are usually harvested from abortion clinics. This method of collection has caused many groups to regard stem cell research as nothing more than a morally ambiguous cash grab for scientists, essentially earning profit from life. This wide held viewpoint has caused government officials, who are responsible for providing funding to scientific projects, to withhold money from stem cell research. The most prime example of such withdrawal was President veto of a bill that would provide additional grants and stem cell research opportunities on the grounds that embryos, are not spare  (Tanne 216), a belief akin to the controversy previously described. This lack of funding has caused stem cell research to halt, preventing life changing treatments from being produced. Despite this controversy, it is imperative that donations are given to organizations such as Americans for Cures to continue stem cell research, not only to achieve its miraculous medicinal applications but to combat its moral ambiguity. As author Constance Morella argues in her article Stem Cell Research Needs Meyer 5 United  by supporting stem cell research in its entirety, both sides of the debate can prosper. Through the continuation of stem cell progress, stricter policies concerning the, moral, ethical, and social  (Morella 47) that plague morally chaste groups can be set in motion. These policies would both appease those who cannot fathom the current conditions under which stem cells are extracted while also allowing stem cell research to create the treatments desperately desired. However, this compromise cannot be achieved through current financial conditions. Although the government may believe they are satisfying the greater good by withholding funding, no true progress can be made for either side. For this reason, donations from anyone who can spare the change are required to overcome these financial boundaries. Once this is managed, only then can stem cell research provide the innovate treatments necessary. Developing treatments for toughest illnesses essentially is a trial and error process, with the latter occurring with increasing frequency. Artificial means of reducing disease is simply causing greater side effects or creating entirely new symptoms for already exacerbating illnesses. However, there is a natural option to combat these ineffective prescriptions, and that option is stem cell research. By using the own cells, these treatments would not only greatly reduce the probability of harsh side effects, but also repair damaged tissue without synthetic aid. Despite these advantages, there is still great debate over the moral legitimacy of the process, and therefore funding has been halted. This obstacle however may be overcome through donations that support stem cell research for the miracle in modern medicine it is. Meyer 6 Works Cited Chandran, S. Are the Prospects of Stem Cell Therapy for Bmj, vol. 337, no. nov28 2, 2008. JSTOR doi:10.1136/bmj.a1934. Accessed 9 Apr. 2017. Klein, Robert. Americans for Cures, Americans for Cures, americansforcures.org/our-mission/. Accessed 9 April 2017. Lovell-Badge, Robin. Future of Stem Cell Nature, vol. 414, 1 Nov. 2001, p. 1. Google Scholar,www.nature.com/nature/journal/v414/n6859/full/414088a0.html. Accessed 9 April 2017. Morella, C. A. Cell Research Needs United Science, vol. 293, no. 5527, June 2001. JSTOR doi:10.1126/science.293.5527.47b. Accessed 9 Apr. 2017. Tanne, J. H. Vetoes Bill to Expand Stem Cell Bmj, vol. 333, no. 7561, 2006, pp. JSTOR doi:10.1136/bmj.333.7561.216-b. Accessed 30 Apr. 2017. Watt, Fiona M. Therapeutic Potential of Stem Philosophical Transactions: Biological Sciences, vol. 365, no. 1537, Personal Perspectives in the Life Sciences for the Royal 350th Anniversary, 12 Jan. 2010, pp. JSTOR, www.jstor.org/stable/10.2307/40538170?ref=search- gateway:fee4ad363ee752d0a5b894dee62d92ee. Accessed 9 Apr. 2017.