Student 1 Student Thornton ENC 1102 29 April 2017 Housing First: How Homelessness Can End Homelessness is one of the most prominent issues in society today, but also one of the most visible. The largest victims of homelessness are known as chronically homeless, which the federal government defines as (1) an unaccompanied homeless individual with a disabling condition who has been continuously homeless for a year or more, OR (2) an unaccompanied individual with a disabling condition who has had at least four episodes of homelessness in the past three (HUD Exchange n.p). Fortunately, many systems are in place to try and assuage this issue, and recently a strategy known as Housing First has risen to prominence in several cities. Housing first is a strategy that works by providing people experiencing homelessness with permanent housing as quickly as possible and then providing voluntary supportive services as (National Alliance to End Homelessness n.p). It works to end the literal homelessness as soon as possible and then build support from the new residence. Housing first has been proven as an effective solution to chronic homelessness, as the program improves the quality of life for the homeless, provides a permanent residence, and lowers overall costs to taxpayers who would otherwise pay for health care costs, incarcerations costs, and other public expenses (Bertrand 1). Unfortunately, many Americans are still ignorant to this solution, and as a result are unable to take action to further implement housing first and prevent chronic homelessness. The general public needs to be educated on what housing first is, Student 2 what assigns it importance as a solution, how it has been effective in current iterations, and then informed on how they can exercise their influence on state and federal legislators to create positive change by implementing housing first in more cities. The housing first strategy is partially as effective as it is, because a residence is more than just a physical location, but also includes a psychological aspect known as home-making. Home- making is the process of adjustment to a location, not as easy as moving in. Home-making is often barred barriers to the home process, which include social, physical, environmental, financial, and practical (Rivlin 1), and the home-making process is described by a group of homeless New York individuals and families as challenging, and sometimes (Rivlin 1). The difficulty of home-making for newly resettled homeless people is one of the difficulties that is eased by housing first. Housing first prevents constant resettlement of homeless people, and provides physical and psychological stability for those it helps. Housing first also provides significant financial benefit to both state and federal governments. Chronically homeless individuals often require heavy state expenditure, where such as in Portland, where costs for services used by chronically homeless disabled adults averaged $42,075 per (United States Interagency Council on Homelessness 4). A majority of these public costs come as health care costs for chronically homeless, or in some cases, incarceration and other temporary sheltering costs (United States Interagency Council on Homelessness 5). Housing first ultimately provides a higher quality of life for homeless citizens through permanent residence, and reduces government expenditure for the same citizens by providing housing without many of the barrier that exist in other shelter programs (United States Interagency Council on Homelessness 6), but also is undeniably effective. Housing first has been implemented throughout Utah, where it has found much success; success to the point where Student 3 2005, the state has reduced the number of people living on the streets by almost (Utah Homelessness Report 9). A larger implementation of housing first would impact every citizen, not just the homeless. The largest impact of housing first comes as cost savings for state and federal governments, which is directly passed onto every tax payer. In the case of Pennsylvania, housing first provided housing cost taxpayers almost 90 dollars less per night than a jail stay, and almost 450 dollars less per night than keeping a homeless citizen in the hospital (Pathways to Housing n.p). Separate from financial reasons, housing first provides homeless citizens with greatly improved quality of life. Often times, homeless citizens are living in poor conditions, in makeshift shelters, and often with a variety of compounding health issues. This is the experience of Rene Zepeda, a Utah volunteer working to help homeless citizens (Carrier n.p). In a single day, Zepeda met homeless people, all with drug and alcohol problems, many requiring medical help, all needing sleeping bags, warm clothes, food, and (Carrier n.p). anecdote is backed by statistics, where homeless citizens hold an age adjusted mortality rate times higher than general population, and an increased risk for HIV infections, hospitalizations, and arrests or incarcerations (United States Interagency Council on Homelessness 5). Homelessness is an issue that constantly grows in scope, many people afford living costs as prices rise and available housing solutions are limited (Carrier n.p). It is difficult not to empathize with those in need, and a solution for both taxpayers and the homeless has risen to prominence in the form of housing first. Housing first has potential to be an effective solution to homelessness with many benefits, but still is only implemented in a handful of cities. By nature of its requirements, it is almost impossible for housing first to be implemented in an area without support from a state or federal Student 4 government. While government support is often required, this support can be achieved through the actions of citizens contacting their legislators. Community support has come to fruition before, such as in the case of the 100,000 Homes Campaign. The 100,000 Homes Campaign was coordinated by Community Solutions, an organization that helps communities rally support and coordinate for solutions against homelessness (Community Solutions n.p). The campaign works to implement new housing sites for housing first solutions in multiple cities, partnering with a variety of government agencies such as the Department of Housing and Urban Development, the Department of Veterans Affairs and the United States Interagency Council on Homelessness (Bornstein 1). Community support can have a snowballing effect, such as in Jacksonville, Fla, where the number of homeless dropped from 3,025 homeless and 1,104 chronically homeless to 2,049, with 399 respectively after the city began working with the 100,000 Homes Campaign (Bornstein 1). The 100,000 Homes Campaign met its goal of housing 100,000 citizens in July of 2014, where it managed to house 105,580 successfully (100,000 Homes n.p). Every person can make an impact, and every person has a variety of avenues to do so. An individual contacting legislators through email or phone call can be an effective way to show their support, while joining a communal support group such as Community Solutions will help to organize support and utilize the support of many people to effectively impact legislators, local government, and otherwise implement change. By taking action, individuals can work towards providing residence for homeless citizens in their community, improving quality of life for homeless citizens, and freeing up state expenditures that would otherwise go toward inefficient care or shelter costs (Upstream n.p). Student 5 Housing first is a solution to homelessness that both provides better care for homeless citizens, but also saves money for taxpayers in comparison to existing solutions that ultimately still leave victims homeless and cost the state for inefficient and ineffective health costs and stays in jail. There exists a better solution for an issue as prevalent and visible issue as homelessness, and everyone is able to exercise their influence to implement this positive change both in their own community and to pressure for housing first to become a standard as opposed to an option. Student 6 Works Cited Bertrand, Natasha. Utah Found a Brilliantly Effective Solution for Business Insider. Business Insider, 19 Feb. 2015. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Bornstein, David. The Push to End Chronic Homelessness Is  The New York Times. The New York Times, 28 May 2014. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. <https://opinionator.blogs.nytimes.com/2014/05/28/the-push-to-end-chronic- Carrier, Scott, Katie Rose Quandt, Josh Harkinson and Prashanth Kamalakanthan, Robert Okin, Gabrielle Canon, Inae Oh, Andy Kroll, and Jennifer Velez. The Shockingly Simple, Surprisingly Cost-effective Way to End  Mother Jones. Mother Jones, Mar. 2015. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Chronic  HUD Exchange. HUD Exchange, n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. <https://www.hudexchange.info/homelessness-assistance/resources-for-chronic- homelessness/>. Chronic Homelessness Background  United States Interagency Council on Homelessness. United States Interagency Council on Homelessness, 2017. Web. 4 March. 2017. Comprehensive Report on  State of Utah. Utah Homelessness Report, 2014. Web. 16 April. 2017. Danielson, Richard. New Strategy Targets Chronic Homelessness in  Tampa Bay Times. Tampa Bay Times, 7 July 2012. Web. 02 Apr. 2017. Student 7 <http://www.tampabay.com/news/localgovernment/new-housing-first-strategy-targets- chronic-homelessness-in-hillsborough/1239034>. Doing More with Less. Digital image. Pathways to Housing PA. Pathways to Housing PA, n.d. Web. 2 Apr. 2017. Housing  National Alliance to End Homelessness. Ational Alliance to End Homelessness, n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Housing First = Results. Digital image. Upstream. Upstream, Nov 19, 2014. Web. 2 Apr. 2017. <https://d3n8a8pro7vhmx.cloudfront.net/upstream/pages/251/attachments/original/14153 Rivlin, Leanne G., and Jeanne Moore. Home-Making: Supports and Barriers to the Process of  Journal of Social Distress and the Homeless 10.4 (2001): 323-36. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. See the  100,000 Homes. 100,000 Homes Campaign, n.d. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. <http://100khomes.org/see-the-impact>. We Stand for  Community Solutions. Community Solutions, n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. <https://www.community.solutions/>.