Student 1 Student ENC 1102 Dr. Thornton 30 April 2017 Military Equality A gender or sexual orientation should not be a reason for them to be scrutinized against in any job, especially not one that fights for freedom and equality. The US military has been trying for years to make women and LGBTQ (Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, and Questioning) individuals feel welcome and equal, but it simply has not been enough. It was not until, 2011, that military members that were lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, or questioning were allowed to express their sexual orientation. Before 2011, there was a Ask, policy that military members abided by to prevent any judgment (McVeigh). In addition to the military treating LGBTQ individuals unfairly, they did not allow women to work in all combat positions in the military until 2016 (Koren). In order for there to be equality in the military for LGBTQ individuals as well as heterosexual women, citizens need to take action and make this issue known, because soldiers fight for all those soldiers should be able to express who they are, and there should be equal treatment in their work place. Historically, the military has been a masculinist institution and it still seems to be although the military has opened up to LGBTQ individuals. Before 2011, when the Ask, policy was in effect, if LGBTQ individuals that expressed their sexual orientation could be dismissed from the military (Camouflaged Identity). military does employ the most transgender transgender people are serving in the this is a large percentage of people who had to hide who they really were in order to keep their jobs Student 2 (Camouflaged Identity). Although the military works to accept LGBTQ people, they still face scrutiny and judgement in the work place. Maya Martinez, a male soldier that was transitioning to be a female, stated that working in the military causes her to go from extreme to and being transgender in the military you feel separated from (Camouflaged Identity). A group called AMPA (American Military Partner Association) works to help LGBTQ families connect, get support, and fight for equality We Organizations like this help get the word out about the issues that LGBTQ individuals face. The military needs to realize that being an LGBTQ soldier in general is difficult enough, and when they do not feel welcome or accepted it makes their job that much harder. Women have faced similar struggles with trying to get the military to accept them and treat them as equals to men (Koren). It was not until, 2013, that the ban of women in combat roles were lifted, and even then they were not allowed to work in all combat positions Perspectives and Military They were finally permitted to work in all combat roles in any branch in 2016 (Koren). Although this law was put into place, the traditionalist military values still stand and some men in the military still believe that in combat units simultaneously means lowering military effectiveness and fighting Perspectives and Military Effectiveness: Implementing UNSCR Women continue to fight for equality, but they are not alone. They use resources like the Service Action Network or SWAN to help them get their message across. SWAN is an advocate for women in the military by fighting to improve the military for women in every way Action In order for the military to truly get better, not only for women, but for those who are LGBTQ, everyone needs to stand up and make it known that this is a problem and it needs to be fixed now. Student 3 People who are not involved with the military should still care about this issue, because equality in any work place should be taken seriously. Having a workplace that a person can be themselves and feel comfortable in makes their job easier rather than harder. In the past the military has tried to make things better for those who are LGBTQ, but there is still hate and discrimination that occurs. This should not be ignored, especially in society when coming out and expressing who you are is becoming more and more excepted. Women have been in the military since 1918, that is almost a 100 years, and they are still not seen as equals to men, this inequality is unacceptable (Gender Equality in the Military). Dr. Robert Egnell, a Professor and Director of Teaching of the Security Studies Program at Georgetown University, stated that begin to recognize the absurd inequalities and flawed assumptions that exist regarding gender [once understand gender perspectives and the theories behind (Egnell). So, in order to fix this problem, it needs to be made clear that gender and sexual inequality are unacceptable by educating others. In order to do this, every day people need to come together and educate themselves on this issue to make equality in the military happen sooner rather than later, because this has gone on too long. In order to get societies attention, the two stakeholders American Military Partners Association and Service Action Network could come together and hold a march for equality in the military. Lately, there have been many marches for a variety of different topics of concern such as; the March and the Pro-Life March. These marches grab the attention of the American people and allow them to see a side to an issue they may agree or disagree with, but never the less it brings it to their attention. If a march was held for LGBTQ and women in the military, the best place to have it would be Washington, D.C., because it would draw the most attention to the issue. People that would want to get involved in this issue after they saw the Student 4 march, could then contact the American Military Partners Association or Service Action Network to ask what they can do to help. In order to make changes, LGBTQ individuals and women in the military need people behind them to back them on the issue of inequality. The military has tried to make changes, but it has not been very effective. The evidence shown in this paper proves that there are still problems with equality in the military that need to be changed. The only way to get change made would be to raise awareness to the fact that there is an issue by having a march for women and LGBTQ people in the military. The march would not only raise awareness to people in the military, but to people in general about the issue. After light is brought to the issue, people may begin to see that this is a serious problem in the U.S. military. Then, maybe word will get back to the military to make them aware of the situation at hand. If this inequality continues in the military LGBTQ people and women may not want to be in the military, because working somewhere where you do not feel welcome can take a toll on a person. So, in order to keep them employed in the military to fight for the United States, change needs to be made now. Once the military is made equal, it could be an inclusive and accepting workplace for all people to join and fight for their country (WC: 1224). Student 5 Works Cited Camouflaged Identity. Dir. Gillian Laub and Shaul Schwaz. Perf. Landon Wilson and Jamie Ewing and Maya Martinez. Time, n.d. Web. 2 Apr. 2017. <http://time.com/camouflaged-identity/> Egnell, Dr. Robert. Gender and Military Effectiveness: Five Minutes with Dr. Robert  -. Georgetown Journal of International Affairs, n.d. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. <http://journal.georgetown.edu/gender-and-military-effectiveness-five-minutes-with-dr- robert-egnell/>. Gender Equality in the Military. Seesacorg, 15 June 2016. Web. 1 Apr. 2017. <http://www.seesac.org/Women-in-the-Military/Gender-Equality-in-the-Military/> Gender Perspectives and Military Effectiveness: Implementing UNSCR  Center for Complex Operations. N.p., 01 Mar. 2016. Web. 02 Apr. 2017. <https://www.inclusivesecurity.org/publication/gender-perspectives-and-military- effectiveness/> Koren, Marina. The Combat Jobs Women Can Now Fight  The Atlantic. Atlantic Media Company, 03 Dec. 2015. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. <https://www.theatlantic.com/national/archive/2015/12/women-in-the-military/418680/> McVeigh, Karen, and Paul Harris. US Military Lifts Ban on Openly Gay  The Guardian. Guardian News and Media, 20 Sept. 2011. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. <https://www.theguardian.com/world/2011/sep/20/us-military-lifts-ban-gay-troops> Service Action  Service Action Network. N.p., n.d. Web. 22 Jan. 2017. <http://www.servicewomen.org> Student 6 Who We  The American Military Partner Association. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Apr. 2017. <http://militarypartners.org>