Student 1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC1102 21 April 2017 Aid for the Abandoned Farming has always been an essential part of our society. Humans have always been dependent on a set group of individuals tasked with growing food for the entire community, individuals who have always tried to protect the Earth and responsibly grow food for everyone. However, as a society humans have progressively become extremely wasteful. It is a cultural trend now to be very picky, take more than we need, and waste what we do not end up using (Payne). This trend is growing and is not sustainable on our planet. Food waste is a major problem that is faced all over the United States, but can be easily resolved by using this leftover food to feed the hungry Waste in A major obstacle to ending food waste is that some stakeholders are unengaged and have not gotten involved, despite many reasons to end food waste. Redistributing leftover food should occur because much of wasted food is still safe to eat; wasted food has a negative impact on the environment; and redistributing leftover food can have a positive impact on businesses. The intended audience is grocery stores who do not donate their leftover food- more specifically, Costco to This audience was chosen because they have not taken any major stand on the issue. However, it is important for them to get involved because they are a large company and their involvement can have a monumental impact on solving the problem. Student 2 The chosen audience, Costco, is an unengaged stakeholder that has chosen to not act involving this issue to Their reasoning for not acting is because needs are far greater than our allocated This is more of an excuse used by companies who simply do not want to give leftover food away. The fear of backlash and economic downturn has kept them unengaged, even though they consider themselves to be a stakeholder (Jacobs). To get Costco to care about the issue, the importance of this issue can be explained to them to persuade them to become involved to The first reason that the stakeholder should care about the issue is the fact that of the food wasted is still fully fit for human (Blasi et al) meaning that good food is getting thrown away for no reason. The only reason that so much of this food gets thrown away is because our culture is wasteful and frivolous. As a society, we have deemed certain foods bad or good simply based on their outward appearance, causing us to be wasteful of edible food on every level and at every step of the process (Payne). This waste is bad because it can be prevented and instead be used to help those in need. If the leftover food that is still safe to eat is redistributed instead of wasted unnecessarily, hundreds of families in local communities can be impacted and receive the help they need (Pinther). This idea is supported by the research done by Garrone, which provides evidence that surplus food efficiently and huge potential for reducing both food insecurity and food Donating food that is still good to those in need seems to kill two birds with one stone, a strategy implemented by many organizations like Rescuing Leftover Cuisine, who strive to see an end to both issues (Ma). Overall, Costco should care about this issue because the food they waste is still usable and could be donated to those in need to Student 3 Another reason that Costco to should care about this issue is that wasted food has a negative impact on the environment (Blasi et al). A reduction in ecological footprint, lowered water usage, less resources wasted, and less food in landfills are only a few of the many environmental benefits to consider when reducing the amount of food wasted (Blasi et al). Most of these benefits are self-explanatory, however some are less obvious. One such example is less food in landfills- the benefits may not be as immediately obvious, however reducing the amount of food in landfills will reduce the methane released Food Methane is a greenhouse gas that contributes to climate change. Climate change is a critical issue because the problems caused by climate change are not exclusive to any group. Wasting food wastes the resources that are running out and speeds up climate change, which is why it is necessary to begin to reduce the amount of food wasted Food Costco should care about the issue of food waste and donating leftover food because it will help to reduce the impact on the environment and climate change, affecting everyone to The last reason that Costco to should care about this issue is that, contrary to popular belief, it will have a positive impact on their business and increase their profit The first way that businesses will benefit is by being able to buy and sell blemished produce, which is cheaper than the perfect-looking ones Secondly, if food is redistributed, the company will not have to pay a landfill tax or the fee to dispose of the leftover food Lastly, reducing food waste will increase the efficiency of the company and reduce the overall cost of production for the company Food Clearly, there are multiple ways a company can benefit economically from redistributing leftover food. Costco should care about the issue because they can directly profit from being socially and environmentally responsible to Student 4 Costco can become involved in more than one way to Costco can choose to partner with organizations that donate leftover food to local communities as well as creating advertisements that will encourage their customers to waste less and spread awareness about donating leftover food to By partnering with these organizations, such as Leftover or even smaller organizations such as Costco can do their part by setting a good example for other businesses and consumers. Furthermore, to raise awareness for the issue, ads can be run promoting this technique. One such example is the ad run by Food TV show that encourages consumers to reduce the amount of food they waste- whether it be by purchasing less or giving the leftover food away to those in need By utilizing these methods, Costco will make a direct impact on the issue and use their influence to motivate others to also help to Unengaged stakeholders, like Costco, should redistribute leftover food because most wasted food is still usable, it will help the environment, and it will create profit for their businesses. Costco does not want to get involved because since they cannot help every organization, they do not want to be unfair and have decided to contribute to none of them. While they may not be able to contribute to every organization, the pros of redistributing leftover food outweigh the cons. Socially, redistributing food makes sense because most of the food is unnecessarily wasted and can help those in need. Environmentally, reducing waste will lower the amount of resources wasted and impact on the environment. Economically, businesses will benefit by being more efficient and wasting less of what they have bought. Overall, informing unengaged stakeholders of what is at stake will help call them to act and redistribute leftover food because the benefits far outshine any negative impact they may anticipate. (WC: 1257) Student 5 Works Cited Food FWRA - Food Waste Reduction Alliance, www.foodwastealliance.org/services/. Accessed 1 Apr. 2017. Blasi, Emanuele, et al. Value of Food Waste: An Exploratory Study on Journal of Retailing and Consumer Services, vol. 30, 2016, pp. 96-104, http://www.sciencedirect.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/science/article/pii/S096969891630007 8?. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Costco, www.costco.com/charitable-giving.html. Accessed 13 Apr. 2017. PSA Central, Natural Resources Defense Council (NRDC), 16 Feb. 2017, Accessed 2 Apr. 2017. Food Waste in  Feeding America, http://www.feedingamerica.org/about-us/how-we- work/securing-meals/reducing-food-waste.html. Accessed 21 Mar. 2017. Garrone, Paola, et al. Food Waste in Food Manufacturing Journal of Cleaner Production, vol. 137, 2016, pp. 1076-1085, http://www.sciencedirect.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/science/article/pii/S095965261631041 1. Accessed 19 Feb. 2017. Jacobs, Harrison. Why Wasted Food Get To Poor Business Insider, Business Insider, 16 Oct. 2014, www.businessinsider.com/why-dont-some-grocery- stores-donate-food-to-poor-people-2014-10. Accessed 27 Apr. 2017. Payne, Emily, et al. Values: What We Choose to Eat and What We Throw Away Food Food Tank, 17 Mar. 2017, foodtank.com/news/2017/03/tama-matsuoka-wong- food-values/. Accessed 1 Apr. 2017. Student 6 Pinther, Jen. Does It Mean to Rescue Second Harvest Heartland, 82rHMy9a. Accessed 1 Apr. 2017. Stuart, Tristram. The Guardian, Guardian News and Media, 11 May 2012, www.theguardian.com/sustainable-business/food-waste-redistribution-sustainable- solution. Accessed 14 Apr. 2017. to Welcome to Costco Wholesale, www.costco.com/. Accessed 27 Apr. 2017.