Arcay 1 Fernanda Arcay ENC 1102 Dr. Davis 30 April 2017 Death to the Death Penalty Executions. Often when we hear this word, we tend to relate it to something that people performed hundreds of years ago. We think of execution as an antique method of killing people. However, though some may find it surprising, executions are something that continue to occur up to this day. The death penalty continues to exist. It has succeeded in dividing people into different groups, those against it and those supporting it. Most of the countries in the world today have abolished the death penalty. As presented in the Death Penalty Information Center, 2010 poll by Lake Research Partners found that a clear majority of voters (61%) would choose a punishment other than the death penalty for (DPIC). This statistic shows that more than half of the human population wants capital punishment abolished. As human beings we should eliminate the death penalty, seeing that not only is it an inhumane action, it also violates basic human rights, and on more than one occasion innocent people have been executed by mistake. Today, the death penalty has been abolished in more than 100 countries (Amnesty International). However, there are a few remaining countries in the world today that continue to support capital punishment. According to Amnesty International, 2010 the overwhelming majority of all known executions took place in five countries China, Iran, North Korea, Yemen, and the United (Amnesty International). It is striking to see how the United States, one of the most powerful nation, makes the list of the top 5 practitioners of the death penalty. Arcay 2 Primarily, the death penalty is merciless. Currently, the methods of executing inmates are the following: gas chambers, electrocution, lethal injections, hanging, or the firing squad. All of these methods are dreadful. It is not right to make someone, criminal or not criminal, go through this process, which sometimes can result painful; however, there is not any way to prove or disprove that inmates go through pain. Regarding the electrocution, inmates are placed in an electric chair, where they are strapped by their head, arms, legs, and chest. In their head a wet sponge is placed so that they electrocution can be carried out successfully (Death Penalty Information Center). In my opinion, this method is the most traumatizing one. U.S. Supreme Court Justice William Brennan described it as follows ...the eyeballs sometimes pop out and rest on cheeks. The prisoner often defecates, urinates, and vomits blood and drool. The body turns bright red as its temperature rises, and the flesh swells and his skin stretches to the point of breaking. Sometimes the prisoner catches fire...Witnesses hear a loud and sustained sound like bacon frying, and the sickly sweet smell of burning flesh permeates the chamber. (Ecenbarger, 1994) The description of this execution method is quite disturbing. However, with lethal injections it does not get any better. Generally, people have the idea that lethal injection is not painful at all even though they do not know the details. With lethal injection, sometimes the process does not go smoothly and inmates experience a vast amount of pain. While yes, they are prescribing an anesthetic so they become unconscious, sometimes it does not work. In addition, other chemicals are inserted into the mix, making the inmate paralyzed because of the pancuronium bromide and hence making them unable to demonstrate if they are feeling any pain. Most of these mixes are banned for animals, and yet today the government keeps using it on humans (Amnesty Arcay 3 International). However, as stated before, there is no way to prove or disprove if the method is actually painful or not. These are just the descriptions of two of the various methods of the death penalty. Wars have been fought over rights. Our rights are what makes us who we are today; the right to be free, the right of saying whatever you want, the right of being equal, the right to life, and as stated in the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights, one shall be subjected to torture or to cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or (United Nations). The death penalty violates more than one right as declared in the UN Declaration of Human Rights. The execution and torture of a criminal is still the assassination of a person. As humans, we get the power to decide who lives and who does not. Hence, this raises a question, should we be able to decide who gets to live and who does not? In some religions, people leave that to God, where they claim He is our creator and therefore He is the one whom gets to decide who keeps living and who does not. Some humans decide to take justice with their hands, while others tend to leave it as it is. We should not feel superior than others, or feel that we have the right to do with lives whatever pleases us. Everyone is equal and has the right to live. Being humans, perfection does not exist; we all make mistakes. Mistakes have been seen with the death penalty and innocent people. Hundreds of cases have been seen where people are sentenced to death row, and after a few years of serving their prison time, the jury realizes that they almost killed someone innocent. According to the Death Penalty Information Center, 1973, 153 people have been exonerated from death (DPIC). The Death Penalty Information Center has also claimed that, informant testimony is the top cause of wrongful convictions in capital cases At least 10 people have been executed despite serious doubts about their (DPIC). This demonstrates that capital punishment is wrong in all ways. Not only are they Arcay 4 executing people, but they are executing people even though they do not have solid proof that point they are guilty of the crimes they are being charged with. Other factors, such as cost and race, have proven to demonstrate that the death penalty is unnecessary and unfair. The death penalty is not a cheap process, most of the time it costs the state more money than people would actually believe. The death penalty can cost more than a life- imprisonment as punishment (DPIC). According to the Death Penalty Information Center Enforcing the death penalty costs Florida $51 million a year above what it would cost to punish all first-degree murderers with life in prison without parole. Based on the 44 executions Florida had carried out since 1976, that amounts to a cost of $24 million for each execution. (Palm Beach Post, January 4, 2000). Also, death penalty lawyers tend to be far more expensive than lawyers representing other cases, 8 times more expensive to be exact (DPIC). Not only is it expensive, but it is also racially unfair. Black people have been condemned to death penalty far more than white people. Even though black people are part of the minority of the United States population, they still get sentenced to death more often than a white person. According to the Death Penalty Information Center, 1976, there have been 293 black defendants executed for killing a white victim, while 31 white defendants have been executed for killing a black (DPIC). The difference between these numbers is colossal. Racial bias is a huge reason the death penalty should be abolished. People are not being treated or sentenced fairly, proving again the violation of human rights. Death is never the right answer, for anything. Today, life is invaluable. Living your life is the most important thing we should focus on. As humans, we should never decide on the death of another human being. Criminals will commit terrible and horrifying actions, some of these which might be traumatizing for others, but for these they should not be executed. Sometimes the best Arcay 5 punishment is to imprison someone and never let them see the light of day again. However, we can help society change the way of punishment today. There are several things we can do in order to help the abolishment of the death penalty. Signing petitions, writing to the state senator letters, and applying political pressure so that states can start to abolish executions are some of the ways to help. There are many organizations dedicated to abolishing capital punishment, such as the National Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty. Over 90 million people stand strong against the death penalty today (NCAD). The death penalty is inhumane, a violation of human rights, and unfair. It is a punishment we as humans should not consider. Arcay 6 Works Cited Descriptions of Execution  Death Penalty Information Center. N.p., 2017. Web. 12 Apr. 2017. https://deathpenaltyinfo.org/descriptions-execution-methods?scid=8&did=479#electrocution. 50 Facts About the Death  Death Penalty Information Center. DPIC, 2017 Web. 11 Apr. 2017. https://deathpenaltyinfo.org/50-Facts#50factsinnocence. Take  National Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty. NCADP, 2017. Web. 11 Apr. 2017. http://www.ncadp.org/action. Universal Declaration of Human  United Nations. United Nations, 2017. Web. 12 Apr. 2017. http://www.un.org/en/universal-declaration-human-rights. U.S. Death Penalty  Amnesty International USA. Amnesty International, May 2012. Web. 12 Apr. 2017. http://www.amnestyusa.org/pdfs/DeathPenaltyFactsMay2012.pdf W. Ecenbarger, Perfecting Death: When the state kills it must do so humanely. Is that  The Philadelphia Inquirer Magazine, January 23, 1994. 12 Apr. 2017