Student 1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 10 April 2017 Ketamine: A Treatment for Depression Depression is a very common disease that many individuals suffer from. In the United States alone, around 390 million people suffer from depression (Zambosky 1). Depression is a mood disorder that causes a persistent feeling of sadness and loss of interest (Noseworthy 1). According to John Noseworthy, author of the article (Major stated that depression could affect the way you do things not only mentally, but also physically (Noseworthy 1). Many medical professionals use the drug Prozac to treat depression, while very few use the drug Ketamine, also known as Special K (Winter 3). Ketamine is a drug commonly known as a party drug that many doctors have surprisingly found to help treat depression (Kirby 1). After doing extensive research on both these drugs, Ketamine is the drug that should be used because it works more effectively, efficiently, and there are very few side effects when it is used to help treat depression. To begin with, according to Caroline Winter, the author of Dr. Feel Good and The Drug Club Cure, Ketamine was shown to work more effectively and efficiently (Winter 1). When one of sons committed suicide because of his severe depression, Brooks went to a detox center where he started studying and administering Ketamine to patients that were suffering from different mood disorders. The Ketamine that was being administered showed quick alleviation of the brain (Winter 3). This means that the patient felt a relief of the symptoms. These symptoms can include suicidal thoughts, sadness, loss of appetite, and loss of interest in things that they Student 2 used to find enjoyable (Scutti 1). Not only does Brooks believe that Ketamine is the more appropriate drug to treat depression, but David Feifel who is a professor of psychiatry also has the same beliefs (Kirby 1). Feifel was one of the first clinicians to try and treat depression with Ketamine; he started up a clinical trial where he has treated patients with only Ketamine every two to four weeks (Kirby 1). Ketamine was shown to work more effectively because it blocks N- methyl-d-aspartate also known as NDMA receptors in the brain (Kirby 1). NDMA is a common receptor that is found in a brain that struggles with depression (Kirby 1). Patients who struggle with depression also have damage to nerves and their transmission pathways, but when given Ketamine these patients showed that it remodeled the nerves rather than causing damage to the brain (Scutti 1). Dr. Dan Iosifescu, a doctor who is licensed for prescribing Ketamine said that the results of using Ketamine seemed to appear much faster than other depression treatments that were used in the past (Scutti 1). The results of Ketamine appeared within a couple of hours or a couple of days, while the other treatments that were used did not show results until weeks or months after it was given (Scutti 1). One family noticed differences in the patients after they were given Ketamine (Scutti 1). The family members said that they saw a lot of improvement in their daily schedules. To continue with, Ketamine was used in a clinical trial where nine out of eighteen patients received the drug Ketamine and the other nine patients received a placebo pill (Zarate 1). A placebo pill is a sugar pill that patients are usually given in clinical trials to make comparison to the actual drug; the pill is usually identical in the shape and color (Zarate 1). Usually patients that receive the placebo pill do not know they are receiving it. The patients in this trial had to have major depressive disorder and were to be referred by someone who worked in a nearby psychiatric unit (Zarate 1). Student 3 The results of this the Ketamine experiment showed that Patients who received the treatment Ketamine had significant improvement in depression unlike the patients who had received the placebo pill, These results showed within an hour and fifty minutes after taking the pill Ketamine (Zarate 9). The patients that received Ketamine remained with the response for at least a week (Zarate 1). Moreover, Ketamine, which is also known as a party drug, may sound like it could have many negative side effects to it because of what it is known for, such as it being classified as a hallucinogen (Scutti 1). Although, it can be used for people to have an of experience not many people have this side effect when taking it the proper way (Scutti 1). The proper way of taking it would be taking the right amount prescribed (if it is prescribed) or having a doctor inject it for you (Kirby 1). The only major concern that doctors and medical researchers have found from the distribution of Ketamine to patients is that it can reverse tolerance to opioids (Scutti 1). This means that the side effects that are listed can be the complete opposite depending on the person, such as a side effect that says the person will feel drowsy, the reverse tolerance of this would be that the person would not feel drowsy at all, rather, they would be hyper. With the injection of Ketamine, doctors would have to administer it and then the patient would have to stay for a little time after the injection to make sure that they are responding to the drug well such as when you are given anesthesia. Furthermore, patients who are interested in taking Ketamine to treat their depression should do research on this drug to see if they are fit for it. Another option for those who are interested in learning about this drug can go to different websites or go to a library where information can be found. The best resource to find out more about this drug and to help get it more well known so people who have not heard about it before can know that it has more than Student 4 one purpose can go to a medical professional who administers the drug or has done a case study on it and ask them any questions you have about it. Individuals who would like to help those who are struggling with depression and believe that they should receive Ketamine as a treatment, can start up an organization to get the drug better known and help fund it, since this drug is not usually covered by insurance (Kirby 1). This drug can cost up to one thousand dollars so having an organization help fund this drug to use it as a medical treatment in depression could also help spread the use of it (Kirby 1). Finally, Ketamine is the more efficient and effective drug to treat depression, along with it not having very many serious side effects (Scutti 1). This statement was shown with the clinical trials that were mentioned above. In the clinical trials mentioned above, all of the patients noticed the alleviation of the brain once Ketamine had settled in. Unlike the other antidepressants that are used to treat depression, Ketamine was shown to be effective a couple of hours and days after the medication was given, while someone who was on another antidepressant it sometimes took up to a month to start working and feel the effects of it. Coffman, a doctor that is licensed to give the Ketamine treatment stated that even after a single dose of Ketamine that it had a positive effect on one of her patients that suffered from treatment- resistant depression, but not only did it help their depression it helped the patients anxiety as well (Kirby 1). Not only have the patients seen improvements in the way they feel, but doctors see these improvements too. (WC: 1270) Student 5 Works Cited Gardner, Amanda. 12 Great Blogs for People with  Health.com. Health Media Ventures INC., 2017. Web. 20 Jan. 2017. Kirby, Tony. Ketamine for Depression: The Highs and  The Lancet.com. N.p., Sept. 2015. Web. 28 Mar. 2017. Noseworthy, John H. Depression (Major  Mayo Clinic. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research MFMER, 2017. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Scutti, Susan. Party Drug Ketamine Closer to Treating  CNN. Cable News Network, 18 Aug. 2016. Web. 28 Mar. 2017. Shirayama, Yukihiko, and Kenji Hashimoto. Effects of a Single Bilateral Infusion of R- ketamine in the Rat Brain Regions of a Learned Helplessness Model of  University of South Florida Library. N.p., Mar. 2017. Web. 28 Mar. 2017. Winter, Caroline. Feel Good and The Club Drug 4439 (2015): 54-59. University of South Florida Library, Web. 22 Feb. 2017. Zarate, Carlos A., Jr. Randomized Trial of an N-methyl-D-aspartate Antagonist in Treatment- Resistant Major Jamanetwork.com. Arch Gen Psychiatry, 1 Aug. 2006. Web. 28 Mar. 2017.