Gutierrez 1 Ana Gutierrez Dr. Davis ENC 1102 4/10/2017 Finding Hope For most couples, starting a family is an important milestone in their relationship. Unfortunately, infertility is more common than one would think, and can strongly alter the future plans for many couples. Due to medical development, scientists and doctors have developed an alternate and successful method of conceiving a baby, allowing couples finally reach their milestone. In vitro fertilization, also known as IVF, is an internationally well-known fertility procedure. In this procedure, fertilization occurs by eggs, retrieving a sperm sample, and then manually combining an egg and sperm in a laboratory (American Pregnancy Association). Fortunately, in vitro fertilization is currently a legal medical practice. However, there are organizations that believe this treatment is inhumane and should not be practiced, and are doing everything possible in order to stop any fertility procedures. Without a doubt, couples have the right to start a family. Therefore, in vitro fertilization should remain an option for infertile couples. A popular fertility method, in vitro fertilization became a recognized fertility procedure in the United States back in the Known as a procedure of assisted reproductive technologies, IVF is one of the techniques that helps women become pregnant. Additionally, IVF is one of the most popular fertility techniques due to its high success rate. There are over 4 million babies worldwide who were conceived through this procedure (Conrad). IVF has become a very common treatment for couples suffering with infertility. This successful treatment is provided by various highly ranked fertility institutes across the nation. In the United States, IVF Gutierrez 2 has been pretty procedure, with studies showing that multiple attempts, two thirds of couples who try IVF eventually have a (Trifiolis). However, there are many factors that should be considered in order for this procedure to be successful. For instance, a age is one of the most important factors. According to research, there is a negative correlation with women of older age and successful IVF implantation (Conrad). Therefore, this procedure has a greater chance of being successful if the woman is under 35 years old. The cost of the procedure is another important factor, since not a lot of medical and health insurance plans cover IVF. Nonetheless, IVF has offered many infertile couples an opportunity to conceive a child that is biologically related to the parents. Additionally, it provides an opportunity for women to experience the stages of pregnancy, and more importantly, to experience life growing inside of them. IVF benefits infertile couples by aiding them to cope with their infertility, and providing an opportunity of starting a family. According to Melissa Conrad, a renowned fertility doctor, infertility affects about 6.1 million people in the United States, about 10% of men and women of reproductive Additionally, one in ten North American couples are infertile (Hollinger). Primary infertility is the inability to conceive a baby, even after trying without using any sort of birth controls. This type of infertility is more common than one would think. However, it is a rarely discussed topic. In general, infertility is not discussed among young couples. Thus when a couple is infertile, they are left hopeless due to the little-to-no information publicly provided about assisted reproductive technologies as an alternate possibility of conception. Infertility is a hard concept for both partners to accept. Typically, women are more affected after being diagnosed (Bray). Because of the social norm and human desire of nurturing their own offspring, infertile women have admitted to feeling ashamed, lonely, and broken. For Gutierrez 3 instance, in Rachel blog, Mother Far from she shares the story of her friend Jenn, and her experience after being diagnosed as infertile. In this blogpost, it explicitly illustrates suffering, remember continually thinking that my body was useless and could not do anything (Norman). Like Jenn, many women possibly feel this way about themselves and their infertility. It is not being diagnosed with infertility that upsets women, it is the idea that they might not have a chance of having a baby. However, the concept of infertility and IVF should be openly discussed in order for couples and women to receive support in hopes of starting a family. As stated by Conrad, more open and talking about fertility problems would normalize it and make people understand that infertility is as natural a phenomenon as Due to the many misconceptions surrounding IVF, many couples are too afraid to attempt this fertility method. For instance, the Catholic Church is an important stakeholder surrounding various misconceptions. They are a strong advocate of the of and believe IVF is an unethical and immoral method of creating life. The Catholic Church believes that a child must be the product of their love, not of a Additionally, the Catholic Church stressed that child is a unique gift to be received and must never be (Fournier). In other words, the Catholic Church believes that it is not morally and ethically acceptable to conceive a child in a very artificial manner. It is also mentioned that should be and have a right to be the fruit of the one-flesh union of marital (Zenit). The church has made it clear that IVF is a concept that is completely against the Catholic faith and teachings. However, their argument is based on religious beliefs, and these beliefs are not followed by many individuals. Another misconception surrounding IVF, is that it is a procedure with too many threatening (Zenit). This misconception has been Gutierrez 4 further emphasized by groups of conservative individuals without any religious affiliation, who view this method of conception as a These individuals also created the term in reference to the children who were conceived through IVF (Zenit). These conservative individuals are against accepting change in medicine and science. However, IVF has been proven safe a long time ago. Louise Brown was born through IVF in the and since then, fertility methods and technology have drastically advanced in creating safe and successful treatments. Starting a family is a human right, therefore religious organizations do not have the privilege of banning fertility methods for infertile couples. Not everyone follows the same ideology, therefore permanently removing these procedures is unfair to couples who desperately need them. It is a known fact that humans have a natural desire to reproduce and nurture children, so why should an organization get in between a desire of starting a family? In order to keep this practice legal, is by donating to Resolve; The National Infertility Association. Resolve is a organization, who works to improve the lives of women and men living with (Resolve.org). Their donations go towards research, couples who cannot afford the procedure, and public awareness. With just a five-dollar donation, a bright future is no longer a dream, but a reality. Times are changing, and with the advancement of technology, science and medicine, one should be open minded about a decision on in vitro fertilization. Having a family is a very meaningful life experience, but it is more meaningful knowing their contributions created a positive change in their lives. Every couple deserves a chance in starting their own family, disregarding the method in which their beloved child was conceived. Gutierrez 5 Works Cited Conrad, Melissa. In Vitro Fertilization: Facts About the  EMedicineHealth. WebMD, n.d. Web. Fournier, Deacon. Siblings: Manifestation of the Culture of Death and Genetic Catholic Online, Catholic Online, 13 Feb. 2011. Web In Vitro Fertilization (IVF): Side Effects and  American Pregnancy Association. American Pregnancy Association, 15 Feb. 2017. Web. Jenn, and Rachel Norman. This is What Infertility Feels  A Mother Far from Home. Sucuri, 05 Apr. 2016. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. RESOLVE; The National Infertility  Resolve. Resolve, n.d. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. Trifiolis, Kristie Lauren, Savior Siblings: The Ethical  (2014). Law School Student Scholarship. Paper 432. What Does the Church Teach About  Catholics Come Home. Catholics Come Home, Inc., n.d. Web. 3 Arguments Against  Zenit. ZENIT, 06 Apr. 2011. Web.