Student 1 Student Thornton ENC 1102 30 Apr. 2017 Helping to prevent pollution one step at a time Every ton of paper that is recovered saves 3.3 cubic yards of landfill space (afandpa.org). One misconception that might spark an excuse not to recycle would be the belief that one recycled piece of paper does not make a difference. From the statement, one can see that all recycled paper makes a difference. A single piece of paper can add up over time. With the help of all people, tons of paper recovered can be reached easily. Recycling should occur because pollution prevent has benefits for society, benefits for health, and benefits for the environment. A recent issue of pollution has surfaced that needs to be addressed. CalRecycle defines pollution prevention as, all forms of pollution, including toxics and other pollutants emitted into air, water, and (CalRecycle.ca.gov). The main type of pollution prevention that will be discussed in this paper involves littering, also known as, waste prevention. Recycling is a form of pollution prevention that attempts to stop littering all together. CalRecycle defines recycling as, waste as material to manufacture a new (CalRecycle.ca.gov). Recycling involves using old materials to create new materials. If the public followed this process, there would be no reason to litter and pollute the environment. Society is growing and changing every day. When it comes to pollution prevention, it changes just as much as society does. Over the past thirty years, we can see the true rapid growth Student 2 of the pollution prevention efforts. prevention had its origins in 1990, virtually all the fortune 1000 United States corporations had pollution (Overcash 1301). In just fourteen years, the pollution prevention efforts spread to 1000 United States corporations. This rapid spread of pollution prevention helps the everchanging society reap the benefits of an environment with less pollution. Without the efforts of pollution prevention, society would have to deal with negative effects of pollution like global warming, over-littered wastelands, and trashed oceans. Now is the best time to join the cause of pollution prevention due to the rapid growth of the cause. A recent stakeholder that has come forward to proudly promote recycling and its benefits is the American Paper and Forest Association. They claim that with recycling, the health is protected (afandpa.org). member companies use of recovered fiber results in avoided greenhouse gas emissions of more than 18.5 million metric tons of (afandpa.com). These greenhouse gas emissions pollute the air and affect the health of the environment. But with recycling, they can recover fiber that avoids greenhouse gas emissions. According to Jefferson Hopewell, recycling is one of the most important actions currently available to reduce pollution (Hopewell 2115). These sources work together to promote recycling for the benefits that involve the environment. Now is the perfect time to join the cause of recycling for pollution prevention because the environment is a vital place where everyone lives. The health of everyday people should be held at the highest priority. Pollution has been known to produce negative effects on the health of everyday people. can produce both long- and short-term adverse health effects, including bronchitis, headaches, heart disease and (Weinblatt). This source helps to prove this claim and state how the health of the public is directly affected with pollution. Another source that helps to prove this claim states, Student 3 pollution has been linked with a broad range of health 1861). With more health problems, the shorter the life spans will be for humans. Recycling can help to prevent pollution, which in turn, prevents these long- and short-term health effects. Everyone should do their part and help with recycling for the benefit of their own health. Non-engaged stakeholders should care about the issue of pollution prevention because they live in the same environment as everyone else. It is up to everyone who lives here to help take care of the environment the ways they should. People who do not recycle for the benefit of pollution prevention do not reap the benefits for society and their own health. A common excuse to not recycle is based on the belief that it is too late to join the cause. M. Overcash states in his article that Europe and the United states went through multiple stages in the past 10-20 years to help the spread of pollution prevention. (Overcash 1301). From statement, anyone can see that pollution prevention has not always been around, so it is not too late to join the cause. Other excuses to not recycle are based on the belief that if there are no recycling bins in a public place, it is easier to just throw away recyclable materials. If no recycling bins are available in public places, that is even more so a reason for non-engaged stakeholders to help the spread of pollution prevention. These non-engaged stakeholders can get with recycling centers to provide recycling bins in these certain public areas. This can help the spread of recycling and pollution prevention. The more people get involved with the spread of recycling, the more pollution prevention will be spread as well. Ineffective solutions to this problem that have been offered in the past to help pollution prevention have been to focus recycling on one certain material. The American Forest and Paper Student 4 Association promotes paper recycling for pollution prevention (afandpa.com), while International Plastics promotes plastic recycling for pollution prevention (interplas.com). If the public focuses their efforts on only paper recycling or plastic recycling, they lose sight of the goal of recycling all materials. When the public decides to recycle all materials, the more pollution they can prevent. One reading this paper may wonder how they can get involved with recycling. Or they may wonder how they can even begin to promote pollution prevention. One action would be to start using the recycling bins that different counties have made easily accessible. If the non- engaged stakeholders do not have easy access to a recycling bin, they can start by making their own recycling bin. After making their own recycling bin, they can take it to a recycling center to dispose of their recyclable material. Recyclingcenters.org is a great source to locate a recycling center by their location. This source not only helps to locate a recycling center, it also gives updated recycling news, directions to all recycling centers, and tips on recycling. Habits are created with daily practice and initiation to start one. In the beginning, it may seem very difficult for the non-engaged stakeholders to recycle, but it can become easy. When the non-engaged stakeholder recycles daily, they can see how little time it takes up of their day. Once they make recycling a habit, they can help the spread of recycling by promoting it and its practical ways to everyone they know. Pollution is a spreading problem that affects the society, the health of the environment, and the health of everyday people. Pollution prevention constantly changes just like society does. When society notices the affects pollution still has on the environment and the health of the public, recycling will be widespread one day. When regarding pollution prevention, recycling Student 5 plays an important role. Actions to start recycling include using the recycle bins available by the county, or making your own recycle bins and then taking the materials to a recycling center. Recycling is just a matter of throwing a can in a recycling bin. This simple action can have so many benefits attached. If recycling can be so simple, why is it such a struggle for everyday people to partake in recycling? Every piece of material that is recycled, helps the society become one step closer to a higher pollution prevention rate. With a higher pollution prevention rate, society grows and reaps from the benefits, the health is protected, and the health of humans are protected. WC: 1301 Student 6 Works Cited Hopewell, Jefferson, et al. Recycling: Challenges and Philosophical Transactions: Biological Sciences, vol. 364, no. 1526, 2009, pp. Web. 9 Apr. 2017. Marie S., et al. Wealth, and Air Pollution: Advancing Theory and Environmental Health Perspectives, vol. 111, no. 16, 2003, pp. Web. 9 Apr. 2017. afandpa.com. DC Web Design Company, 2017. Web. 5 Mar. 2017 Overcash, M., et al. Management for the Future [and Philosophical Transactions: Mathematical, Physical and Engineering Sciences, vol. 355, no. 1728, 1997, pp. Web. 9 Apr. 2017. Plastic Green Interplas.com. International Plastics, Inc., 2017. Web. 5 Mar 2017. Prevention CalRecycle.ca.gov. California Department of Resources Recycling and Recovery Inc., 2017. Web. 9 Apr. 2017. Weinblatt, Victoria. and Recycling Livestrong.com. Live Strong Inc., 2017. Web. 9 Apr. 2017.