Student 1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Save Paper Save Trees Two important words that everyone should abide to and follow are paper recycling. Paper recycling means that when paper is used by an individual, instead of throwing it away and getting rid of it, it is sent to factories where they could make the paper reusable. Paper recycling might not seem like a big deal for some people, but paper recycling is one of the most helpful way of keeping the resources and preserving them, instead of wasting resources that have to be used up for no reason. Paper recycling should occur because of the whole idea of saving resources; keeping the environment clean and less harmful of global warming; and, the main idea of throwing away useful and costly material. Saving resources is vital to live and thrive on earth. If resources are just constantly being used up and the amount of consumption overcomes the amount of production, then it will reach a point where earth will run out of resources and be able to be considered as a safe planet to live in. tone of recycled newsprint saves 7,000 gallons of water, 4.6 cubic yards of landfill space, and 60 pounds of air pollutants from being (LessIsMore.org). These statistics sound almost unrealistic because it sounds like so many resources could be saved up from just one ton of Newsprint. one ton of office paper saves17 trees, 7,000 gallons of water, 463 gallons of (LessIsMore.org). Paper recycling is a huge factor of our daily savings of resources, if everyone took the initiative to paper recycle day by day, the community saves so many of its resources. Student 2 Everyone should be taking this topic seriously because it could change the world we live in to a better world. a very easy step to undertake, and it takes no extra time then throwing paper away normally. Instead of throwing them away in a normal trash, throw them in a recycling bin. Recycling your paper makes people feel happy knowing that they are doing something good for their community. It is one of the easiest habits to add on to the daily duties and has one of the largest impacts on this world. If everyone decided to paper recycle daily, the amount of resources that will be saved up is incredible. Everyone should consider to start paper recycling due to three main reasons, some of which included: saving resources, Keeping the environment clean and away from global warming, and mainly the idea of throwing away costly material. When people recycle paper, they help save trees and reduce the rate of global warming. When companies and factories must cut down trees and run the wood in a factory to produce factory. That involves a lot of trees being cut down, on top of the factory releasing and exerting a lot of pollutants in the air that can help increase the rate of global warming. Recycling the paper cuts all these corners, and makes sure that no extra trees must be cut down and not as much pollutants are exerted. Staying away from the factories and having companies deal with the whole process of recycling is the best way to limit the pollutants that could be released from factories. The rate of global warming has gone down for the past couple years as paper recycling has been increased and more people have been practicing it. Everyone should be considering this issue and should start to at least give it a try and see how easy it is to make it a daily habit. The idea of throwing away costly materials exists when people recycle paper. The process of making paper is very costly and resourceful. Every time paper is being thrown out and not recycled is the time that we are throwing away money. People like good deals when Student 3 they go shopping, they like to use things repeatedly till they do so anymore. Why is it different when it comes to paper recycling? Paper could keep getting used repeatedly by a process called paper recycling. Why waste money, trees and other resources, when a habit as easy as paper recycling could be undertaken to facilitate the whole process. Saving resources is a good habit to undertake when trying to improve a community by only moving forward and never backwards. To do that, resources go to waste but instead need to be saved up and carefully taken care of. Countries advance by the number of resources they have, since the way to innovate and technologically advance, an excess in resources is needful. Paper recycling is the first step in saving a lot of resources that could help make the future better for everyone. Paper recycling is an easy habit to roll into daily life, and it has such a huge impact on the community. Paper recycling should be going on in every household. It should be an easy necessity that everyone can abide to and follow with ease. After mentioning all the main key factors of paper recycling, making this a habit and passing it down to children and so on is a very beneficial way of trying to improve the community in the many years to come. The easiest way to start making it a habit is to buy a certain recycling bin for paper that can be put in every single room where paper is utilized. In this case, every time paper needs to be thrown out, be thrown out in a recycling bin. Day by day, after practicing paper recycling, it will eventually turn into a habit in which paper recycling becomes a habit. Most people love to do good for the world they live in, and doing something good for the community that betters the world and the environment they live in makes people feel good about themselves. There is no better act that doing something right that benefits the people and the environment. To be able to do such an act Student 4 in a very easy way is incredible, so paper recycling should be considered by many people and if not by all. Paper recycling is a huge issue that should be considered by many people and practiced daily. Paper recycling helps save trees, resources, and saves costly material from being thrown away. Paper recycling plays a huge role in global warming as well. As paper is recycled the rate of global warming decreases, thus makes the environment a more healthy and safe place to live in. I encourage everyone to start recycling paper because only good things will come out of that. The environment is suffering and needs help, so act and make a difference, because end of the day the people get to decide what kind of environment they want to live in, whether they want to live in a clean one with a good future, or a bad one dirty and has no future. Paper recycling is a huge factor that everyone must keep in mind and consider, so make the right decision and be part of the good team that wants to make a good change in this world. (Word Count: 1204 words) Student 5 Works Cited Proposed Additional Sources. Kumar, Pradeep. Programming model for paper recycling system. Omega, 2008. LessIsMore.org: Santa Barbara Recycling Resource. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Roberts, J. C. (John Christopher). The chemistry of paper. Cambridge: Royal Society of Chemistry, 1996. Smith, Maureen. U.S paper industry and sustainable production. Cambridge: Mass MIT Press, 1997. Virtanen, yrjo. Environmental impacts of waste paper recycling. London: Earthscan Publications, 1993.