Student 1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 27 April 2017 The Growing Issue of Food Waste Many American households are unaware of the effects of food waste. David Evans, a researcher, goes on to suggest that, waste is a compelling any yet hugely under-researched area of interest for social (5). The lack of research done on food waste causes stakeholders to have less concern for the issue. Food waste, or food loss is food that is discarded or lost uneaten. The causes of food waste occur at the stages of production, processing, retailing and consumption. Wastage occurring at all stages of the food supply chain or value chain and ends up in landfills (Chandler 1). The minimal concern for food waste has caused a surplus of food to go to landfills, instead of foodbanks where the food could have been better used. Companies and households lack awareness on how to efficiently produce and take care of food, and that food wasted causes environmental and economic damage (Chandler 1). Non-engaged stakeholders need to join the fight against food waste to raise awareness, create production plans, and to send left over food to food banks. Food waste has dramatically increased over the past century due to industrialization in America. Following the industrial revolution of the 1800s, companies and farms began producing a lot more goods in less time than before (Evans 1). Then after World War II, entering the 1950s, food policies began to transform, marking a pivotal point for an upwards growth in food production (Evans 1). The large increase in food production in America over the past century has led to excess food going to waste. With the abundance of food, American culture Student 2 began adapting to show less concern for excess food going to waste. Change occurred when American culture adapted to the heavy amounts of food being produced by the rising food industry. About a third of the food produced in America is wasted every year (Chandler). Based on the concepts of supply and demand, the high supply of food shifted the demand, leading to extra food that would go to waste before it could be used. The lacking concern for food waste has also caused food production companies to have less effective methods of producing food (Evans). Without the help of other stakeholders, companies will continue to produce food in ineffective ways. The extensive amount of food in landfills has affecting the ecosystem and well as the economy. Food waste taken to landfills eventually begins to decompose. When food waste is in a landfill, it is not able to decompose properly due to a lack of air and sunlight. The improper decomposition has caused an excess amount of methane produced. An article by Johnathan Bloom states that, is about 23 times more potent at trapping heat in our environment than carbon (1). The extra methane gas is emitted into the atmosphere and contributes to global warming (Bloom 1). Educating individuals and companies on methods to efficiently use food can limit the amount of food sent to landfills. Companies and food services often determine what produce to sell or throw out based on size ratios (Lee 40). If the food does not fit a certain size or shape they throw the food out, even though there may not be any actual defects in the food. It is estimated that 4% to 10% of the food that food services provide will never get used. 203). The waste of edible food has had a negative economic impact on companies and households alike, compared to what they could save by being more efficient with food production and consumption 202- Student 3 204). The effects of food waste on the economy and the ecosystems continue to increase as more food is sent to landfills. Food waste has been known to affect wildlife just as much as humans. During the 1900s, National Park was once famous for its garbage Waste is Trashing the The article, Waste is Trashing the Waste is Trashing the explains that the designated trash sites attracted the wildlife and made it easier for spectators to see the animals. Overtime, the National Park Service realized that the food waste that the animals were feeding off of was harmful for the health. In the 1970s, the food waste dumps in the park were closed after the bear population suffered Waste is Trashing the This example of food waste describes what can happen when food waste is not properly managed. The food waste issue that occurred in Yellowstone is happening all around the country, with waste piles and landfills in each state and most counties being overfilled Waste is Trashing the Without help combatting the issue, animal life will continue to be affected, lowing wildlife populations and changing their food source dependencies. There are many Americans still going hungry, a research experiment done by Lee found that around 14% of homes fall under the category of food insecure (40-41). Food insecurity is the lack of consistent access to sufficient food (Lee 41). In the past, stakeholders have tried to reduce the amount of food waste and feed the hungry by encouraging companies to donate their unneeded food to food banks. This method ended up being ineffective, because it would cost companies more money and time to donate food, rather than throwing the food out as waste (Lee 40). Another way to avoid food waste is to create gleaning programs for the needy. A study done by Lee offers an effective way to operate a food gleaning service for the poor, without causing Student 4 expenses to companies (40). If people continue to avoid confronting the problem of food waste, or do not effective deal with the issue, then landfills will overflow, affecting the ecosystem, atmosphere, and economy. Stakeholders can begin getting involved by raising awareness campaigns, focused on households and individuals. The campaigns would serve to educate households on the issue, and offer advise on how they can help reduce food waste. Another way stakeholders can get involved is by developing plans for companies to use to produce food more effectively. Along with the plans, transportation could be provided to companies to transport excess food from the production chains to food banks. When stakeholders join the fight against food waste, much of the needy in America can be provided with food. Non-engaged stakeholders are needed to help raise awareness, create production plans, and send excess food to food banks to combat food waste. Farms, company production lines, and households all need help on how to efficiently deal with food. If non-engaged stakeholders create campaigns to support the issue, then many more households and companies will be reached in America. Teaching individuals to change the way they shop will help to protect against a lot of food waste in the homes. Also, creating production plans for companies will help to improve production lines so companies waste less food. Then by sending trucks to supply chains to pick up excess food, stakeholders can provide a means for extra food to be taken to food banks. The growth of food waste that has occurred over the past 100 years can change with the help of non- engaged stakeholders willing to join the battle. (WC: 1204) Student 5 Works Cited Bloom, Jonathan. Food Dude Backyard Wasted Food. 1 Feb. 2017. Web. 1 April 2017. P., et al. Full Length Article: Economic Impact Assessment of Food Waste Reduction on European Countries through Social Accounting  Resources, Conservation & Recycling, pp. 202-209. 16 Feb. 2017. 11 April 2017. Chandler, Adam. Americans Lead the World in Food The Atlantic. The Atlantic. 15 July 2016. Web. 5 April 2017. Evans, David, et al. A Brief Pre-History of Food Waste and the Social  The Sociological Review, no. S2, 2012, p. 5. 6 April 2017. Waste is Trashing the Take Extinction Off Your Plate. Take Extinction off Your Plate. N.d. 11 April 2017. Lee, Deishin, et al. Combining Two Wrongs to Make Two Rights: Mitigating Food Insecurity and Food Waste through Gleaning  Food Policy, vol. 68, 01 Apr. 2017, pp. 40-52. 11 April 2017.