Student1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 30 April 2017 Taking Depression Seriously Over the course of time, depression has become more prominent in society. For example, someone in the news has just suffered from a depressive episode and took their life because of it. Because depression has slowly become more prominent in society, why are the statistics of suicides by depression still growing? bigger movements and protocols be brought about to invoke change? According to Web MD, there are many types of depression that occur in different age groups and genders. These types are, Major Depression, Persistent Depressive Disorder, Manic Depression, Seasonal Affective Depression, Psychotic Depression, Postpartum Depression, Premenstrual Depression, Situational Depression, and Atypical Depression (Types). The most common type is major depression, which is a person feels depressed most of the time for days of the and shows thoughts of suicide, loss of interest and feelings of worthlessness (Types). The problem is that people need to be aware of the brutal symptoms that comes with depression and treat it as an important or legitimate illness. If this can happen, more beneficial treatments can become active. According to the Merriam Webster dictionary, legitimate as an adjective means exactly as (Legitimate). Legitimacy in Depression should occur because it would help scientists to look into the past for evidence to help with future treatments; the troubling high statistics would decrease; and people who have or is currently experiencing depression can help others. Student2 The handling of depression has come along why since the first sighting in human history occurred. Depression was actually not known by its current name back in ancient times. Actually before the term depression was coined, in ancient times, the mental illness was originally called melancholia (Bourke). Melancholia was described as to the humours (blood, black bile, yellow bile and phlegm) that made up the (Bourke). In Mesopotamian civilization accounts (2 millennium B.C), illnesses were attributed to demonic possession, attended to by which lead to the fact that melancholia was more spiritual/mental than physical (Nemade). Fast forwarding to the 18 th and early 19 th centuries, depression was thought to be inherited and an illness with no cure. Because of this, people thought that other people who are showing signs of depression should be shunned and committed to mental institutions, commonly known as asylums (Nemade). In the current century, depression is normal but not many people are reporting their symptoms in order to get help. After decades and worth of research, is considered to arise from a combination of multiple causes, including biological, psychological and social (Schimelpfening). Since new discoveries and technologies became available, the study of depression has continuously grown. Because of people in society not reporting their symptoms right away, this can directly lead to the increasing rates of suicide in different genders and age groups. According to troubling statistics, rate of suicide in America has tripled over the last 60 (Malcore). One age group that has been on the rise in depressive symptoms is teenagers and adolescents. According to teenage depression statistics, of teenagers will have more than episode of depression before (Malcore). Most episodes can go unnoticed and the teen will never confide in someone like their parents or doctor for help. 1 in 5 teens with depression get (Malcore). Speaking on depression in general for all age groups, the statistics are still as Student3 daunting. is a condition that affects 1 in 10 Americans at one point or (Depression). In addition to that, of the people that have symptoms of clinical depression are not receiving any treatment for their (Depression). As a result of these statistics, negative effects, like suicide and self-harm, have been reoccurring. Mental illnesses, especially depression, can be and emotional topics to converse about. As previously mentioned, the rates of suicide have grown tremendously over the past couple of decades. Another reoccurring point is that teenage and adolescent depression has become more and more on the forefront of society and culture as of late. Different media, such as the news, movies, songs and TV has brought these real tragedies to life. One example would be Thirteen Reasons Why. This is a book turned Netflix series that follows the life and death of Hannah Baker who created tapes talking about the 13 reasons why she decided to kill herself. One stakeholder, Lighthouse was founded on the basis of sudden tragedy that the founders encountered. On the website under the Get to Know Us tab, it explains how this stakeholder founded in 2004 by Virginia (Ginny) and Thomas (Tom) Neuckranz after their daughter Erika lost her life to the illness of (Teenage). Through their grief and pain, they were able to turn it into hope in trying to save the lives of countless of other teenagers in their town of Winnetka, IL and nationally also. They also make an effort to include the families of these teenagers as well. Can one put themselves in the shoes of Tom and Ginny? How would one feel if your child was taken unexpectedly from the wrath of depression?In another stakeholder, Postpartum Progress, is an organization that helps new mothers cope and deal with postpartum depression through a sense of community and knowledge. Postpartum depression is when a woman suffers from major depression in the weeks and months after giving birth (Types). One mother wrote under the Postpartum Progress Testimonials that she lived and Student4 suffered with postpartum a year after giving birth in silence. She states that the and information gave confidence and encouragement to talk to husband and doctor about what has been going (Postpartum). People often overestimate the power of postpartum depression because of the fact that they are bringing life into the world. But postpartum along with other types of depression are a real thing that impacts many people. Engaging other people in a topic as serious as depression is very important because as stated before, it can save a countless number of lives. People and non-engaged stakeholders should really care about this heartbreaking issue because a vast amount of people are impacted by depression. According to the statistics above, there is a high chance that anyone will have to deal with symptoms related to depression, some more severe than others. According to a Healthline article released in 2015, around 350 million people are affected by some form of depression (Pietrangelo). The odds of it happening to someone you know or yourself is high. Solutions that have been given for depression are through controversial treatments like electro conclusive therapy and different antidepressant drugs. The only reason as to why are super controversial is because they have a lot of dangerous side effects. The consequences for not confronting the problem of depression will just raise the suicide and self-harm rates even higher from where they are now if the problem correctly addressed. Action is very much needed in helping others combat this mental illness. Some simple ways to make a difference in the movement for depression is to definitely become well aware and educated in the field of mental illnesses. Read up on information online, pick up packets and talk to a health professional. Anything will be beneficial and at the same time will help to notice signs in yourself and others. As a newly engaged stakeholder well aware in information about Student5 depression, they should publicly come out and support other involved stakeholders who are working to help people who are dealing with depression. Depression is a serious legitimate mental illness that needs to be brought more into the public eye and taken more seriously. The discrepancies are shown in different evidence that was explained before. As stated in the previous paragraph, action is very important in this movement. For one, depression is no joke and if yourself or others are showing signs of depression to get help immediately. Dealing with depression all that when people are going through the same journey together. You are not alone. (WC: 1,343) Student6 Works Cited Bourke, Joanna. A History of  A History of Depression History Today. History Today, 9 Sept. 2012. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Malcore, Paul. Teen Depression: Troubling Statistics and  Rawhide., 20 Jan. 2017. Web. 12 Feb. 2017. Nemade, Rashmi, Ph.D, Natalie Staats Reiss, Ph.D, and Mark Dombeck, Ph.D. Historical Understandings Of  Mental Help Historical Understandings of Depression Comments. Mental Help.net, 19 Sept. 2007. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Pietrangelo, Ann. Depression and Mental Health by the Numbers: Facts, Statistics, and  Healthline. Healthline Media, 28 Jan. 2015. Web. 25 Apr. 2017. Schimelpfening, Nancy. When Were the Earliest Accounts of  Verywell. Verywell.com, Web. 25 Apr. 2017. Depression  Healthline : Power of Intelligent Health. Healthline, 2012. Web. 09 Apr. 2017.  Merriam-Webster. Merriam-Webster, Web. 25 Apr. 2017. Postpartum  Postpartum Progress. Postpartum Progress Inc.,Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Teenage Depression  Lighthouse.. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Types of  WebMD. WebMD, Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Student7