Student !1 Student Instructor Lewis ENC 1102 30 April 2017 Civilians Help Veterans Heal From Injuries Veterans put their lives on the line for our freedom. Returning to the civilian world they are often isolated due to their mental and physical states. Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) is associated with any mental disorder veterans received in combat. The majority of veterans suffer not from a cureless disorder, but from an injury that can be healed. The word here best a diagnosis of CRSI (Combat Related Stress Injury) because some veterans do indeed develop psychological disorders worthy of being labeled PTSD. There is no drug that can heal in veterans. The best known cure is through education enabling civilians and veterans to understand these injuries and physical exercise. Physical exercise is the key to healing veterans from their CRSI. More physical exercise should come from civilians participating with veterans in some type of hardship, events such as GoRuck Challenges (McCarthy), Tough Mudder Races, and Spartan Races. Civilians need to sign up for events such as the ladder, and join organizations such as Team RWB, Team Rubicon and Mission Continues, to better civilian-veteran relations. It is important to understand and to prevent PTSD stigmas in the civilian world. PTSD has been by the National Institute of Health as that developing in people who have experienced a scary, or dangerous (NIH). CRSI is by William Nash, author of Combat Stress Injury, as experiencing a scary, or dangerous in combat, and suggesting it is an (Nash). Once PTSD and CRSI are Student !2 understood by civilians, they can play a larger role in aiding veterans transitions out of the military. To develop closer bonds with veterans, civilians need to join a veteran organization such as Team RWB and participate in a GoRuck Challenge a veteran run company that creates military like training events. Their events range from urban survival training to special operations style training infused with military history lessons and life lessons. Their targeted audience are civilians who want to learn more about the life of military personnel. While PTSD and CRSI seemingly easy to identify in veterans, it is important now to understand why they develop. Only then can civilian interaction with veterans through exercise, be of any aid. Sebastian Junger is a civilian journalist who seems to understand the injury. In his TED Talk, Junger explains that his time inserted in a United States Army group in the Afghan Korengal Valley, gave him the same feeling of camaraderie and trust in one another that all soldiers feel when deployed. Sebastian Junger goes on to explain that lonely cannot easily accommodate that lifestyle experienced during deployment (Junger). Trust and camaraderie are two of the most important feelings civilians need to develop with veterans. Those two characteristics can be achieved by joining an organization such as Team Rubicon, and participating in a physically challenging event such as a Tough Mudder. Due to the missing lifestyle, emotional bonds to team members and the military itself, soldiers, Marines, sailors and airmen often lose a purpose in life after being discharged from the military. This is something felt by even the highest of ranks in the military. A letter, signed by the highest ranks in the United States Military, has been written to seek a solution to such an issue. The Call to Continued Service letter is addressed to Who Have Served in Uniform Since (Winnefeld). The letter acknowledges and thanks veterans for their service, recognizes their and urges them to face the challenges in civilian life as they would with any Student !3 military mission unwavering commitment. Presenting the transition into civilian life as a challenge to conquer, veterans are left feeling empowered to ranks with business leaders, volunteers and public (Winnefeld) to better their new civilian community. By collaborating with civilians in the public sector, trust and camaraderie will develop - in turn giving veterans back that which they gave up when being discharged from the military. To start the development of such characteristics among prior service members and civilians, Spartan Hero Races provide an adequate environment to begin such relationships - a relationship that civilians should initiate. While bettering their new civilian communities in a leadership position - through the development of camaraderie and trust - will help ease transitions out of the military, it does not account for the regimented and rigorous physical demands they experienced in training for combat. To accommodate for their exercise and overcoming of physical challenges, veterans will have the gap of service between the military and civilian sector to its fullest extent. Not only will physical exercise an aspect of the military they left behind, it will also help heal their CRSI. This can be in a study conducted by Caddick, Smith and Pheonix. The three researchers found that working out in the blue  as they called it -- in nature or other natural environments -- would facilitate a sense of  from CRSI (Caddick). Respite, as the research it, is a sense of release from suffering that was cultivated through [the natural and shaped by the stories veterans told of their  (Caddick). This correlation between exercise and PTSD or CRSI treatment can be by the of Cynthia LeardMann. In her research, a large population of service members were studied on their level of post-combat stress increasing or decreasing based on physical activity. They Student !4 learned that rigorous exercise more than once per week would decrease (LeardMann) of the service CRSI from getting worse. This theory is being tested by Hurricane Films. Two civilian photographers followed a group of ex-special forces operators on a skiing trip in the Alps (Huitt). The veterans live by the mantra before inferring that physical activity does more to cure combat stress than medication. While most civilians might not have the means to go skiing in the Alps, they are encouraged to participate in events such as GoRuck, Tough Mudders and Spartan Races. Those events offer physically demanding and regimented training to facilitate a bond between civilians and veterans through trust and camaraderie. Combining Sebastian inferences of CRSI, the Call to Continued Service letter, and the causality of exercise as a coping mechanism for CRSI, a new movement for better veteran-civilian relations can be created. While GoRuck Challenges, Tough Mudders and Spartan Races are seemingly engaged in military-civilian relations, what they are lacking is a solution to the biggest issue which plagues veteran-civilian relations stigmas of PTSD. One of the most powerful tools that can be used is telling the story of veterans who took their lives, unable to cope with damage from combat. Clay Hunt was a Marine story made it to former President Obama, leading to the creation of an Act of Congress for Suicide Prevention for American Veterans (Walz). In light of such, it would be for companies such as GoRuck, Tough Mudder and Spartan Races, to incorporate the stories of other service member who took their lives due to CRSI and PTSD. It would also be for civilians to reach out to the latter companies, if they have any relation to a veteran who took their own life. For the civilians who want to give back to service members, joining one of the following teams is the step in doing so. Team RWB, Team Rubicon, and The Mission Continues are all Student !5 companies which were made by veterans, but for a collective of veterans and civilians alike. Each has their own unique culture and veteran-civilian relations, and each of them has one common goal - continued service after discharge from the military for the well being of their communities through physical and social work. After joining a group start by; training with veterans for one of the three unique events mentioned earlier, listening to the veterans about their experiences in the military and their transition back into the civilian world, learning about how it is affecting their life and concerns that they have for their future, and preventing the veterans from feeling isolated. Prevent any more veteran suicides by successfully transitioning veterans back into civilian life, and make veterans feel welcome in the community. It is imperative that we grow stronger with veterans both physically and mentally. (WC: 1,392) Student !6 Works Cited Caddick, Nick, Brett Smith, and Cassandra Phoenix. The Effects of and the Natural Environment on the Well-Being of Combat  Qualitative Health Research 25.1 (2015): 76-86. SAGE Journals. Qualitative Health Research, 4 Sept. 2014. Web. <http:// journals.sagepub.com/doi/pdf/10.1177/1049732314549477>. Accessed 31 Mar. 2017. Veterans to Keep About Us - The Mission Continues. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Apr. 2017. <https://www.missioncontinues.org/about/>. Honor  Spartan Race. Reebok, n.d. Web. 12 Apr. 2017. <https://www.spartan.com/en/ race/spartan-honor-series/honor-series-overview>. Huitt, Desiree. for the Big Mountain Heroes Documentary has SOFREP. Hurricane Films, 04 Apr. 2017. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. <https://sofrep.com/78558/ kickstarter-for-the-big-mountain-heroes-documentary-has-begun/>. Junger, Sebastian. Our Lonely Society Makes It Hard to Come Home from  TED Talks Live. New York, NY. TED. Web. 31 Mar. 2017. <https://www.ted.com/talks/ Accessed 31 Mar. 2017. LeardMann, Cynthia A. et al. Assessed Posttraumatic Stress Disorder and Associated Physical Public Health Reports 126.3 (2011): Web. <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3072859>. Accessed 31 Mar. 2017. McCarthy, Jason.  About Us - GORUCK. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Apr. 2017. <http://www.goruck.com/about-us>. Team Rubicon. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Apr. 2017. <https://teamrubiconusa.org/ our-mission/>. Student !7 Nash, William P. Combat stress injury: theory, research, and management. Ed. Charles R. Figley. N.p.: Routledge, 2015. National Center on Domestic and Sexual Violence. Routledge Psychosocial Stress Book Series. Web. 5 Apr. 2017. National Institutes of Health. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Feb. 2016. Web. 23 Mar. 2017. <https://www.nimh.nih.gov/health/topics/post-traumatic-stress-disorder- ptsd/index.shtml>. Team RWB. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Apr. 2017. <https://www.teamrwb.org/our- approach/mission>. Run For a  Tough Mudder. Team Rubicon, 19 Jan. 2017. Web. 12 Apr. 2017. <https://toughmudder.com/fundraise-now>. Walz, Timothy J., S. H.R.203, 114th Cong. (2015) (enacted). N.p.,12 Feb. 2015. Web. 12 Apr. 2017. <https://www.congress.gov/bill/114th-congress/house-bill/203> Winnefeld, James A., Jr., Joseph F. Dunford, Jr., Mark A. Welsh, III, Paul F. Zukunft, Frank J. Grass, Jonathan W. Greenert, Raymond T. Odierno, and Martin E. Dempsey. Call to Continued to  Letter to To All Who Have Served in Uniform Since 9/11. 2 Feb. 2015. N.p.: n.p., n.d. N. pag. Joint Chiefs of Staff. United States Department of Defense. Web. Accessed 31 Mar. 2017.