Bailey Adams Ryan ENC 1102 19 April 2017 Sexual Health Care in two sexually active persons will contract an STD/STI [sexually transmitted disease/sexually transmitted by the age of (ASHA 2017). As a college student, you should be alarmed by that statistic. Whether you know it or not, you will become part of the terrifying sexual health statistics before you graduate. Sexual health care can help you understand safe sex and how to prevent unwanted issues such as diseases or pregnancy. Without sexual health care education, the statistics will only increase. This affects everyone, but the focus is on college students. College campuses have a variety of sexual health care providers. Many college students think sexual health just means using condoms. However, sexual health is defined as state of physical, mental and social well-being in relation to sexuality. It requires a positive and respectful approach to sexuality and sexual relationships, as well as the possibility of having pleasurable and safe sexual experiences, free of coercion, discrimination and (WHO 2017). By getting involved across campus or just taking care of yourself, the trending amount of unsafe sexual health lifestyles can be prevented. Sexual health is part of living a healthy lifestyle. Whether sexually active or not, it is important to take care of your body. No matter gender, race, ethnicity, relationship status, preferred sexual partner, etc., your sexual health is a necessity. Sexual health allows you to be comfortable and safe when interacting with someone intimately. It helps you mentally, because you are less likely to feel safe and happy if uncomfortable or feel coerced or forced. Adams 2 Sexual health care providers allow you to learn about yourself and safe sex confidentially, free of any type of discrimination or prejudice. There are a variety of sexual health care providers. College campuses have a small office for minor occurrences. At the University of South Florida, we have the Student Health Services center which allows students to make appointments for anything. Relating to sexual health, the Student Health Services provides free STD testing. College students take advantage of this privilege. The fact that is estimated that as many as one in five Americans have genital herpes, a lifelong (but manageable) infection, yet up to 90 percent of those with herpes are unaware they have (ASHA 2017) should encourage students to take advantage of this free service. Also on campus is the Center for Student Well-Being. At their office in the student center, they give away free male and female condoms to everyone. The Counseling Center and Center for Victim Advocacy and Violence Prevention also exists to provide sexual health care when it goes to the unfortunate extreme of rape or abuse. All of these resources are available for free to college students, however they are rarely used. On a national level, sexual health care providers such as Planned Parenthood and Community Healthcare Network provide confidential and affordable services. Both companies provide basic sexual health care services such as STD testing, treatment, and counseling along with low cost or free birth control ranging from condoms to the pill to the IUD (Planned Parenthood 2017). College for many students is full of drunk hookups and mistakes. Birth control services are a requirement for some women. No matter who you are, your sexual health is important whether in a committed relationship or having occasional hookups. than half of all people will have an STD/STI at some point in their (ASHA 2017). As a college student, you pay much attention or too nervous to see a doctor when you think something is wrong. Sexual health Adams 3 is a necessity because STDs can lead to more than just a temporary problem. College students have such easy, and free, access to all the resources necessary to live a sexually healthy lifestyle, why not use them? half of HBV [Hepatitis infections are transmitted sexually. HBV is linked to chronic liver disease, including cirrhosis and liver (ASHA 2017). Not only are you damaging your liver drinking alcohol at college parties, but you can be risking so much more by not getting tested. If free and easily accessible, why not do it? It is astounding how many students go throughout their college career never knowing what is happening with their body. condom use provides substantial protection against the acquisition of many STDs, including statistically significant reduction of risk against HIV, chlamydia, gonorrhea, herpes, and (ASHA 2017). The school gives out condoms for free every day, to every single student. Why risk getting infected when the simplest form of birth control is free. Even off campus, health care providers give away free condoms to ensure people are having safe sex. If the statistics about prevalence of STDs in college students convince you to practice safer sex or get yourself tested, read the long-term effects of not knowing. HIV is a commonly discussed sexually transmitted disease. HIV results in mild symptoms of rashes, fever, etc. but slowly breaks down your immune system until it progresses into AIDs. Gonorrhea is known as the invisible STD. Most often, it have noticeable symptoms but when it does, it can cause; painful urination in men and women, painful intercourse, pus like discharge and possible infertility (Mayo Clinic 2017). Another common STI that can cause harm if not treated is chlamydia. It can have mild symptoms but if left untreated, it can cause infections in newborns or even infertility. If testing is free, there is no reason not to do it. It harm you in any way, only help you. Adams 4 School services provide free testing for STDs and STIs. Outside clinics often perform free pregnancy testing and can provide free or low cost birth control. Sexual health is a necessity to ensure that everyone practices safe sex and has everything they need to do so. However, an abundant number of students utilize the free available resources or they know about it. This can be changed though. Students can only benefit from the free services provided by the school and other sexual health care providers. Students can learn how to be healthy through student led organizations or through professional help offered by the school. With so many available resources to students, it is possible to change these horrifying statistics. Statistics for STDs are so high and prevalent in young adults because they are uneducated. It has been proven that education on sexual health the potential to reduce exposure to unintended pregnancy and sexually transmitted (Kirby). With your help, this can be changed. To get the student body engaged, a Sexual Health Conference will be held in the USFs Marshall Student Center amphitheater to educate students about sexual health and the available resources on campus. Student Health Services will have a table that advocates for STD testing and what symptoms to look out for if you are unsure. Center for Student Well-Being will have a table handing out free condoms and promoting the use of them to prevent the transmission of STDs. Center for Victim Advocacy and Violence Prevention will have brochures that explain their services and the confidentiality in case a student does not feel they are in a safe sexual relationship. Student organizations involved in sexual health can participate and educate about their organization while also gaining new members. The event will be hosted Tuesday May 30 th at 6:00 in the evening at the Marshall Student Center Amphitheater. The organizations will have tables with information surrounding the circular perimeter that way students can gather in the Adams 5 middle and have the ability to visit each table. With students being educated on sexual health and the resources available, there will be an improvement nationwide. Adams 6 Works Cited Association, American Sexual Health. Statistics. American Sexual Health Organization. Web. 18 April 2017. www.ashasexualhealth.org/stdsstis/statistics/. Clinic, Mayo. Gonorrhea. Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research. Web. 18 April 2017. www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/gonorrhea/symptoms-causes/dxc- 20258681. Kirby, D et al. Programs to Reduce Sexual Risk Behaviors: A Review of Public Health Reports 109.3 (1994): Web. 29 April 2017. www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC1403498/?page=1. Organization, World Health. Sexual and Reproductive health. World Health Organization. Web. 18 April 2017. Parenthood, Planned. Mission. Planned Parenthood Federation of America, Inc. Web. 27 January 2017. www.plannedparenthood.org/about-us/who-we-are/mission.