Student 1 Student Dr. Thorton ENC 1102 16 April 2017 The Importance of the Labeling of Genetically Modified Organisms A GMO is a genetically modified organism, which can be defined as the product of a scientific process that takes genes from the DNA of one species and unnaturally forces them into the genes of a dissimilar plant or animal in order to create something new (GMO Education). A current social concern that is of great importance today is the fact that GMOs are improperly labeled, or not included on labels at all. Currently, companies are mislabeling or not including GMOs on packaging, which leads consumers to believe that their products are free of GMOs and therefore harmless. When in fact, GMOs should be made more aware of because they are of importance to anyone who is concerned with the betterment of his or her health. Unfortunately, the United States is not one of the sixty-four countries that have decided to require a mandatory labeling of GMOs (Wright). The labeling of GMOs must occur because of the consequences that they pose as a health threat; the misleading of customers that the unspecified labeling causes; and the need to ensure that customers are aware of what they are consuming on a daily basis. GMOs are a scientific way to put together species that would be impossible to combine by nature otherwise. This unnatural process is done by infecting animal and plant cells with bacteria and viruses in order to create new DNA. GMOs have been added to food crops, and in some instances they are added to allow the crops to build a tolerance to pesticides without completely killing them (GMO Education). The problem that this creates arises when genes are inserted, dormant genes may be activated or the functioning of genes altered, creating Student 2 new or unknown proteins, or increasing or decreasing the output of existing proteins inside the (GMO Education). This may then cause the plant to die out completely. If this process is not even safe for the plants involved, then the final products are definitely not safe enough to be consumed by humans as often, and in as big of amounts as they are on a normal basis. The potential health risks that are associated with genetically modified foods are, but not limited to: toxins, allergens, carcinogens, new diseases, antibiotic resistant diseases, and nutritional (GMO Education). Studies have shown that these foods are not safe because of the health problems that they can lead to if consumed regularly. Many studies in animals have been completed showing that there were potential risks such as, cell growth, damaged immune systems, smaller brains, livers, and testicles, partial atrophy or increased density of the liver, odd shaped cell nuclei and other unexplained anomalies, false pregnancies and higher death (GMO Education). This shows why consumers have the right to at least be aware as to whether or not the foods they are eating are comprised of GMOs. The FDA is in support of the labeling because they want to avoid having manufacturers mislead customers by placing terms such as, genetically engineered or bioengineered on products instead of GMO on the product. This tricks many customers, because they are uneducated of the further names that GMOs often go by. By forming different acts and laws the FDA delivered safety standards in the publics best interest to certify that the nutritional values placed on products are valid (U S Food and Drug Administration Home Page). The policies that the FDA has implemented support their claims by showing that they are putting in an effort in regards to labeling. For example, the FD&C Act forbids food from the industry that has been misbranded or mislabeled in an ambiguous way (U S Food and Drug Administration Home Page). Although this law is in place, the loopholes that companies have gone through calls for the need for more Student 3 strict laws to be put into place. GMO labeling should be a mandatory part of food sales as GMOs are prevalent in day-to- day food products that are consumed by most everyone, and have proven that they pose a threat to the health of people. feeds derived from genetically modified plants present unique animal and food safety concerns. Residues of plant constituents or toxicants in meat and milk products may pose human food safety (GMO Education). It should even be disclosed to consumers when GMOs are part of the production animal products that they consume. Today, it is a common practice for doctors to prescribe a non-GMO diet to their patients that are suffering from allergies and problems alike. are many stories of healing and reversal of diseases from those eating foods that are organic, non-GMO, and pasture-raised animal (GMO Education). If GMOs are not consumed in the first place, the likelihood of contracting various diseases has the potential to be avoided altogether. Many argue that GMOs do not need to be removed, but simply disclosed to the consumer. simply about disclosure. The consumer makes that choice, not (Wright). While Wright may not agree that GMOs are detrimental to the health of the people, he does agree that the labeling of GM products should be mandatory. As mentioned before, many allergic reactions, diseases, and nutritional issues have come from GMOs. This could be resolved by companies having the decency to simply state whether or not there are GMOs existent in their ingredients. Awareness of GM ingredients in food is a step in the right direction, but removal of GMOs all together would be ideal for anyone who has their health at their best interest. More attention, awareness, and importance should be put on this issue because it is something that affects consumers, whether or not they are aware of it. Consequences of failing to actively confront this problem will result in consumers not being aware that GMOs are present in Student 4 more products than it may seem. Not only will they continue to buy into falsely labeled products, but they will continue to consume GM ingredients that show negative effects on their health. To show support for this issue one should take action and create or become a part of an organization to get more involved in the support of labeling products. By reaching out to companies and asking why it is necessary to include GMOs in their products, those companies may then recognize that consumers care about the ingredients. Action must be taken in order to improve the overall quality and ingredients in the products that are consumed daily to avoid any health issues or diseases. Consumers have the right to know if any of the food they are eating has had GMOs present in any steps throughout the production. A push for stricter laws should be put into place to prohibit companies from withholding the fact that there are GMOs in food items. Not only should GMOs be properly labeled, but also the removal of GMOs as a whole should be pushed for. The more educated that consumers become on GMOs and how they can be hidden in labels, the more companies will have an urge to dismiss them from their products completely, which will greatly benefit the health of consumers.(WC:1211) Student 5 Works Cited Audette, Robert. GMO labelling law: DuPont, Syngenta fight disclosure of internal Watch. N.p, 21 June 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. DuPont USA. The DuPont Oval Logo, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. GMO  Institute for Responsible Technology. WordPress, n.d. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. Misko, George. FDA denies petition for GMO  Packaging Digest, Winter 2016, p. 24. General OneFile, 26 Feb. 2017. Randall,Chase. Fights Vermont Subpoena in GMO Labeling AP Regional State Report - Maryland, Associated Press DBA Press Association, 15 April. 2016. EBSCOhost, 26 Feb. 2017. Statement of Policy - Foods Derived from New Plant  Statement of Policy - Foods Derived from New Plant Varieties. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. U S Food and Drug Administration Home  U S Food and Drug Administration.Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Wright, James. From lab to label: should disclosure of GM products be mandatory at point of  Seafood Business, Sept. 2013, p. 20+. Academic OneFile, 26 Feb. 2017.