Student 1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 30 April 2017 Pet-companions as a Treatment Method of Depression and PTSD. Complex mental disorders, such as depression or Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder have different treatment methods due to theirs complexity, various reasons that cause them and diverse responses on treatment methods (National Institute of Mental Health, Traumatic Stress sec. 6). However, aside from standard treatment methods such as medical treatment and cognitive behavioral therapy, there is an alternative method (Stern et al. 570). Various studies have reported about positive impact of a service-pet ownership on human mental and physical health (Friedmann et al. 307). Therefore, since service-pet ownership showed a great potential for healing aspects and it might be considered as a treatment methods of depression and PTSD. A positive effect of medical treatments and cognitive behavior therapies has been proven and the effectivity of those treatment methods in curing depression as well as PTSD has been registered (National Institute of Mental Health, Post-Traumatic, sec. 7). Nevertheless, one of the most common barriers to receive help and treatment for people with mental disorders is negative attitudes and opinions that are held by public (Corrigan, the impact of 16). Many people perceive people with mental disorders as something abnormal or even potentially dangerous (Corrigan, and the 75). Furthermore, people who actually suffer from mental disorders do not want to acquire a negative reputation and be socially judged (Mojtabai 167). Besides that social stigma discourages people with mental Student 2 illnesses to ask for help, it also makes the conditions of these illnesses even worse. People with depression or PTSD usually react more strongly to negative social interactions, which creates more stress and social pressure, and causes some deterioration in mental health conditions (Corrigan, the Self-Stigma of Mental 464). Depression and PTSD might have similar symptoms, such as anxiety, low mood, panic attacks, trouble sleeping, keeping the mind focused, poor social relationships or feeling of guilt or worthless (National Center for PTSD, par. 6). Everyone, despite his or her age, gender and social status is at the risk of developing depression or PTSD and in addition to that, it is possible to have both disorders at the same time or develop as an additional symptom of each other (National Center for PTSD, par. 4). Thus, due to that, both disorders might be interlinked in some cases, the treatment methods might be similar (National Center for PTSD, par. 5). These treatments include medical treatment with a regular medicine intake and cognitive behavioral therapies, which are aimed to find the root of the problem and solve the psychological issue that caused the disorder (The National Center for PTSD, par. 5). These treatment methods reported great curing outcome and help to overcome mental disorders (National Center for PTSD, par. 5). In spite of a positive outcome, some people who suffer from depression or PTSD still might have not received a professional help. Social stigma on psychological issues and their treatment methods is a serious barrier for people who are seeking for help (Watson 1312). Social stigma that surrenders mental disorders has three main false beliefs: drugs addiction, potential danger and non-existence of mental disorders. Drug addiction refers to the belief that most people on medication are depended on their medicine, which leads a negative opinion that every person who takes antidepressants is a drug addicted (Ahmedani, sec. 2). Second belief that causes negative public opinion is based on the rumor that people with mental disorders cannot Student 3 control themselves, they are unpredictable and violent, which means that they might be a potential threat to the society (Parcesepe and Cabassa 236). The third false belief is based on the social lack of mental health literacy (Parcesepe and Cabassa 236). People simply do not know much about mental disorders, which makes them think that there is no such thing as mental disorders or that people with mental illnesses do not have any mental issues at all and they are simply seeking for attention. According to the article the impact of stigma on people with mental a negative public opinion around depression and PTSD leads to significant mental health condition deteriorations in those people who actually need help (Corrigan 16). Social stigma towards psychological issues causes barriers to mental care for people who seek for help. As a result of social stigma, people who suffer from depression or PTSD tend to develop such thing as self-stigma. According to the article the Self-Stigma of Mental Illness: Stages, Disclosure, and Strategies for is occurs when people internalize these public attitudes and suffer numerous negative consequences as a (Corrigan 75). The author also states that people with depression or PTSD might be too embarrassed or scared to admit that they need help, or because of the fear of being socially judged. Additionally to that, according to Patrick Corrigan particularly in the form of self-isolation, has many pernicious effects leading to decreased healthcare service use, poor health outcomes, and poor quality of (Corrigan, the Self-Stigma of Mental 464). The studies showed how dangerous is self-stigma that has been caused by social stigma. On the contrary, besides medical and cognitive behavior therapies, there is also an method of treatment, which actually can help people to overcome and reduce the stigma of mental illnesses (Beetz 234). The treatment called treatment method Student 4 because it differs from common treatments. The concept of the alternative treatment method is to provide a service pet to people with depression or PTSD in order to help them to overcome their mental issues. The alternative treatment method showed some positive aspects such as health improvements and potential social stigma reduction (Beetz, 234). Based on the article companions and one-year survival of patients after discharge from a coronary care animal companions improve mental and physical health (Friedmann et al., 311). The article states that people with pets are less likely to suffer from depression, stress and anxiety, than people who do not have pets. According to the same article, pet ownership also showed positive impact on physical health. Moreover, since depression and PTSD cause difficulty with handling daily activities, social anxiety, greater irritability or panic attacks, a pet-companion might be a good treatment to cure those symptoms (Stern et al.). As it is stated in the article and Psychophysiological Effects of Human- Animal Interactions: The Possible Role of one of the positive sides of the service pet ownership is that service pet does not cause any negative reaction from public (Beetz 234). The study showed that pet ownership evokes mostly positive reactions from public and stimulates social interactions. As a result, society perceives animal assistance in therapies more positively without having any or at least reduced prejudices against mental disorders and their treatment methods (Beetz 234). As it is reported in the article Support and Resilience to social interactions and especially social support and acceptance is highly important for people with depression or PTSD to overcome the disorders and prevent mental health deteriorations (Ozbay et al. 37). Therefore, service pets might be a great option for people who suffer from mental disorders in order to avoid social judgments and pressure, but still receive treatment and Student 5 encourage social interactions to feel social acceptance (Beetz 234). This treatment shows a great potential for social stigma reduction. To conclude, a psychological treatment, that includes a pet ownership, helps people to overcome mental disorders and increases the possibility of recovering from psychological illnesses (Friedmann et al., 3011). The psychological help that service pets render increases chances to recover from mental disorders and reduce social stigma that surrenders mental disorders. Thus, service pets might be a great treatment method of depression and PTSD. (Word count: 1,295) Student 6 Works Cited National Institute of Mental Health. Stress U.S. Department of Health & Human Services. March 20, 2015, web. https://www.nimh.nih.gov/health/topics/post-traumatic- stress-disorder-ptsd/index.shtml. 30 Apr. 2017. Stern, Stephen L. et al. benefits of canine companionship for military veterans with Posttraumatic Stress Disorder Society and Animals. 21(6), 568-581. DOI: 10.1163/15685306-12341286. Friedmann, E., et al. (1980). companions and one-year survival of patients after discharge from a coronary care Public Health Reports, 95(4), 307-312. Corrigan, W., Patrick. Watson, C., Amy. the Impact of Stigma on People with Mental World Psychiatry 1.1. 2002. Corrigan, W., Patrick et all. and the Effect: Impact on Life Goals and Evidence- Based World Psychiatry 8.2. 2009. Print. Mojtabai Ramin. Depression in Community Settings: Concordance with Structured Interview Psychotherapy and Psychosomatics. Karger Publishers. 27 Mar 2013. 161- 169. Corrigan, W. Patrick and Deepa Rao. the Self-Stigma of Mental Illness: Stages, Disclosure, and Strategies for Canadian journal of psychiatry. Revue canadienne de psychiatrie. 2012. Print. National Center for PTSD. Trauma, and PTSD - PTSD: National Center for U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs, 01 Jan. 2007. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. Watson, C. Amy, et al. in People With Mental Schizophrenia Bulletin 33.6. 2007. PMC. Web. Ahmedani, Brian K. Health Stigma: Society, Individuals, and the Journal of social work values and ethics 8.2. 2011. Print. Parcesepe, Angela M., and Leopoldo J. Cabassa. Stigma of Mental Illness in the United States: A Student 7 Systematic Literature Administration and policy in mental health 40.5. 2013. 236. PMC. Web. Beetz, Andrea et al. and Psychophysiological Effects of Human-Animal Interactions: The Possible Role of in Psychology 3. 2012. 234. PMC. Web. 1 May 2017. Ozbay, Fatih et al. Support and Resilience to Stress: From Neurobiology to Clinical Psychiatry (Edgmont) 4.5. 2007. Print. 30 Apr. 2017.