Student 1 Student Doctor Thornton ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Tackling PTSD with Therapy Post-traumatic stress disorder, commonly referred to as PTSD, has negatively affected endless individuals throughout the world. Among those affected, post war veterans who sacrificed themselves for our country often take the brunt of this horrendous ailment. PTSD is an illness that impacts veterans due to the graphic images and unforgettable traumas that they witnessed while in battle (PTSD Foundation of America). Therefore, those exposed to combat trauma account for the highest degree of this disorder (Jakob 83). While everyone can agree on the fact that PTSD victims need treatment, there is a degree of disagreement on which treatment is the best approach. There are multiple ways to treat this disorder including many different forms of therapy and a variety of drug treatments. Most recent treatment guidelines and meta- analyses have claimed that therapy has been proved to have the highest level of support for efficacy and effectiveness (Rauch 190). Though new discoveries and constant innovation is bringing rise to many new drug treatments for PTSD, these are under tested and poorly correlated with success; the most effective treatment method for PTSD is therapy because of its proven and highly tested level of effectiveness, the variety of types, and its ability to be adjusted to each personal needs. When PTSD was first diagnosed back in 1982, a huge opposition to call it a disorder occurred and many wondered what the origin of this disorder was (Kolk 517). The idea of blaming it on a soldier going to war and coming back with lasting mental problems was not an Student 2 accepted idea (Kolk 517). PTSD is a current social issue that should be in the minds of every single person out there. This disorder deteriorates the life and hinders them from being able to assimilate themselves back into reality (PTSD Foundation of America). Without proper treatment, they never get the opportunity to even have the chance to recover (PTSD Foundation of America). Therapy based treatments are the most effective form of PTSD treatment because of the large variety of options available within it. Types of therapy includes acceptance and commitment therapy, behavioral activation therapy, and dialectal behavioral therapy (Mulick 23). These therapies focus on exposure, which is a process that reduces patient anxiety by presenting them with their feared stimulus (Mulick 23). Based off the success of expose therapy, a new form of therapy came about. Virtual reality expose therapy uses head mounted displays so that patients can engage in anxiety provoking behavior through virtually controlled scenarios (Kathrin 86). As you can see, there are many different subdivisions under the therapy treatment option. Thus, if one form does not show positive results in a patient, another form can be tried. The variety yields a higher success rate in treating PTSD because it can be adjusted to the unique and individual needs of each patient. To add to the benefits of therapy treatment session, this method eliminates the risk of negative side effects to drug treatment options. Thus, therapy is both the more effective and safer method of treating this disorder. In recent years, the pharmaceutical field has been trying to find a new drug treatment to beat this disorder once in for all. One research that gained a lot of public attention was the study of MDMA and its effect on PTSD patients (Treating PTSD with MDMA-Assisted Psychotherapy). Their organization claims to have finally found a promising solution that will make the patient overcome any type of mental disorientation that they have suffered in the past. Student 3 Their research states that the use of this drug makes patient more comfortable in daily situations and also promotes oxytocin release which in turn triggers a greater sense of trust and bonding (Treating PTSD with MDMA-Assisted Psychotherapy). However, this treatment is incredibly new and not fully researched. When comparing drug based treatments to therapy sessions, it is impossible to not consider the drastic negative side effects that can come from the medical methods. body is different and a poor reaction to a new drug can be deadly. It is important to consider this factor when choosing a treatment plan for PTSD. Is it worth it to the new and innovative drug? The answer is no. It is unnecessary to risk life and shot at a better life when therapy based sessions have immense research to back up their effectiveness. There are countless instances in which a suffering life was changed as a result of therapy based treatments. A case study by Briana Boyd of the San Diego Medical Research Foundation is a perfect example of this success. A post war veteran was diagnosed with PTSD and displayed both cognitive and speech impairments due to a previous traumatic brain injury (Boyd 173). This patient underwent a pretreatment assessment along with several self- assessment reports before receiving twelve sessions of cognitive processing therapy (Boyd 176). These therapy sessions educated the veteran about the treatment and theory of it, discussed his thoughts, feelings, and thinking, introduced alternative thinking and power and control, and even assigned weekly homework that corresponded with the content of the session (Boyd 176). After completing the sessions, the veteran took a posttreatment assessment which revealed outstanding results. With the help of cognitive processing therapy, a 26-point reduction in self-reported PTSD symptoms was noted along with a 17-point drop in depressive rating (Boyd 177). In addition, the veteran experienced improvement in his sleep and speech patterns (Boyd 177). Student 4 This particular case study highlights the effectiveness of cognitive processing therapy, and is consistent with other cognitive processing therapy research. Not only did this form of therapy reduce the PTSD depressive symptoms, it also reduced his cognitive and speech impairments that were present at the beginning of the study (Boyd 177). While case study research is difficult to generalize to a larger population, they are essential to fully understanding challenging diseases and disorders (Boyd 173). There are many ways that both affected and non-affected individuals can help show support to the treatment of PTSD. The first step is to expand knowledge of the subject to fully understand the disorder itself along with the different treatment methods available. A good source of information is the PTSD Foundation of America website (PTSD Foundation of America). Individuals can also donate money to the research of treatment options for PTSD. By funding research, the most effective methods can be distinguished or a new treatment all together can be discovered. Within the community, individuals can take action by organizing events that promote the awareness of PTSD and make suffering victims feel less alone and helpless. This may not seem like it would make an impact, however world-wide change is a domino effect which starts at the local level. PTSD is present within the lives of many post war veterans, many of which are too afraid to seek help. Treatment options for this disorder include both therapy session and medicine prescriptions. With the world advancing each day, many new discoveries include those of various drugs that are said to reduce the symptoms of PTSD. However, therapy sessions still remain the more effective approach for treating this disorder due to the wide variety of option, ability to adjust to the individual patient needs, and the lack of potential deadly drug interactions. Making the public aware of PTSD and the use of therapy treatment options is essential to its Student 5 continuous success. In addition, those that support this cause can assist by monetary donations to therapy treatment research along with community organizations for PTSD victims. It is up to you to change the fate of the post war PTSD veterans. They suffered enough through battle for our freedom and time they receive the help they so graciously deserve. Word Count: 1232 Student 6 Works Cited Boyd, Briana, et al. Case Report on the Effects of Cognitive Processing Therapy on Psychological, Neuropsychological, and Speech Symptoms in Comorbid PTSD and  Cognitive and Behavioral Practice, vol. 23, 01 May 2016, pp. 173-183. Jakob, Jeanne M. D., et al. The Impact of Trauma Type or Number of Traumatic Events on PTSD Diagnosis and Symptom Severity in Treatment Seeking  Journal of Nervous & Mental Disease, vol. 205, no. 2, Feb. 2017, pp. 83-86. Kathrin, Friedrich. Therapeutic Media: Treating PTSD with Virtual Reality Exposure  Mediatropes, Vol 6, Iss 1, Pp 86-113 (2016), no. 1, 2016, p. 86. Kolk, Bessel and Lisa M. Najavits. Interview: What Is PTSD Really? Surprises, Twists of History, and the Politics of Diagnosis and  Journal of Clinical Psychology, vol. 69, no. 5, May 2013, pp. 516-522. Mulick, Patrick S., et al. Contextual Behavior Therapies in the Treatment of PTSD: A  The International Journal of Behavioral Consultation and Therapy, no. 1, 2011, p. 23. PTSD Foundation of America. n.d. 5 March 2017. <http://ptsdusa.org/>. Rauch, Sheila A. M. and Barbara O. Rothbaum. Innovations in Exposure Therapy for PTSD  Practice Innovations, vol. 1, no. 3, Sept. 2016, pp. 189-196. Treating PTSD with MDMA-Assisted Psychotherapy. n.d. 5 March 2017. <http://www.mdmaptsd.org/about.html>.