Student 1 Student Dr. Jamie Thornton ENC 1102 30 April 2017 Is Art Worth Downsizing? Recently, throughout America schools have downsized or even dismissed their arts program due to budget costs. Which is why there are programs and organizations that have been made to help schools that are in the need of an arts program. These organizations believe that the arts program is a must for every student because it helps the student discover their true self (Home). This issue needs attention because only a few have realized the issue has begun. With the help from other people, these organizations can broaden their scopes and help more schools find the way to keeping their arts program. Schools should keep their arts program because the arts program benefits all the students; there are many organizations that will help the school find money to support their arts program; and, a successful arts program can bring more money into the school. There are many schools that are sports illustrated schools which means they mainly focus on sports rather than focusing on the arts. Herts Sports Partnership is an organization that agrees that sports and outside activity is what will help a student succeed in their school work (Herts). cells were especially prevalent in the hippocampus, indicating that neurogenesis or the creation of new brain cells was primarily occurring (Reynolds). Since the hippocampus is the source of memory, a student with more brain cells could potentially remember more than one without as many. But these students who have seen an increase in their brain cells have been exercising for many days, which could be done by any student who has the determination as Student 2 those in the test. Exercise is great for the student and should be recommended because many do not exercise as much as they should, but that does not mean exercise is the only way to help the student (Reynolds). The arts program can help the student in numerous other ways as it will help the student discover their true selves (Home). There are also many schools in the United States that focus on the fine arts education and they are just as successful as the other schools. The arts are not a program that can learned through occasional or random exposure any more than math or science can. Education and engagement in the fine arts are an essential part of the school curriculum and an important component in the educational program of every (Bryant). The Katy Independent School District is one that has discovered why the arts program is so important to their community and to their students. arts enhance the process of learning. The systems they nourish, which include our integrated sensory, attentional, cognitive, emotional, and motor capacities, are, in fact, the driving forces behind all other (Jensen). This is just one reason why the arts are so important to every student and school. This should not be taken away from them because of how much is does for the student. The main reason that schools are dismissing their arts program is because of the budget cuts that had to be made. LA County alone, 1/3 of the arts teachers were let go between 2008 and (Gregory). This was because of the 2008 recession and the arts programs were the first to be cut. Schools across America have not realized that the arts program is one of the most important programs and cannot be dismissed. Art is mainly associated with creativity which means schools are cutting out the creativity from their students which is wrong. Schools are always expressing that their students need more creativity but they are doing the opposite by dismissing the arts program. Creativity is often what is the driving force in community Student 3 and the arts has a direct correlation with that. Even though there are many schools that are being forced to dismiss their arts program because of financial issues, there are many programs that are formed to keep this from happening to all schools. These programs are funding multiple schools and helping them form a new arts program, a successful one. The National Endowment for the Arts was by Congress in and is an organization that arts learning, affirms and celebrates rich and diverse cultural heritage, and extends its work to promote equal access to the arts in every community across (About the NEA). The National Endowment for the Arts or for short the NEA, is an organization that agrees that the arts program should be implemented in every school because the benefits outweigh everything else. This organization relieves other schools of the stress of finance and gives money to those who need it. The NEA also supports other organizations with the same mission, which is to promote, and strengthen the creative capacity of our communities by providing all Americans with diverse opportunities for arts (Home). The National Endowment for the Arts is a notable example on the programs that are fighting to keep the arts in schools around the United States. There are many schools in the U.S. that are trying to keep their arts program but cannot because of budget cuts. The American for the Arts is an organization that and the network of organizations and individuals who cultivate, promote, sustain, and support the arts in (About Americans for the Arts). The American for the Arts is another organization that believes that the arts program is crucial to the school and its society. The Vice President of Research and Policy of the American for the Arts believes, arts also are a fundamental component of healthy communities, strengthening them socially, educationally, and that persist even in difficult social and economic Student 4 (Cohen). Cohen gives ten reasons why the arts are so important and the first one being that improve individual (Cohen). The arts are also an export industry and a $30 billion international trade surplus in and an export arts goods (e.g., movies, paintings, jewelry) exceeded $60 according to the Bureau of Economic Analysis (Cohen). The arts program is a program that will benefit not just the student but also the community around. Now, the arts program cannot be dismissed on the fact that it increase the students brain cell formation, because there is data that bolsters the fact that the arts improves the well-being and academic performance. The arts program cannot be dismissed because schools are having budget cuts because there are multiple organizations in the United States that are willingly to help those schools that need finance and those who need bolstering of their program. The arts program cannot be dismissed that it does not help the community around because it has been proven that it helps the export industry and the economy (Iyengar). The Arts program is in other terms a creativity program for students. Creativity is what is driving world and schools are always promoting it, therefor there is no reason that the arts program should be dismissed. Instead the arts program should be promoted everyone who wishes to have these benefits. The arts program is a vital program in every school and cannot be dismissed. (WC:1203) Student 5 Works Cited About Americans for the  Americans for the Arts. N.p., 21 Mar. 2016. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. About the  National Endowment for the Arts. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Bryant, Bob. Katy Independent School  The Importance of Fine Arts Education. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Cohen, Randy. Top 10 Reasons to Support the Arts in  ARTS Blog. N.p., 14 Feb. 2017. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Gregory, Danny. Get Rid of Art Education in  Danny Gregory. N.p., 15 Apr.2016. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.  National Endowment for the Arts. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Jensen, Eric. Chapter 1. The Arts as a Major  The Arts as a Major Discipline. ASCD, May 2001. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Iyengar, Sunil. National Endowment for the  Taking Note: Trending Now-an Arts Imperative in Economic Policy NEA. N.p., 2 Feb. 2017. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. Reynolds, Gretchen. Exercise Could Lead to a Better The New York Times. The New York Times, 21 Apr. 2012. Web. 116 Apr. 2017