Student 1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 30 April 2017 Art Education and Its Importance The arts have power. Art education is a source of creativity and students can pursue it in any direction. Art is an accepting subject and should be valued as high as other subjects, it brings cultures together and creates businesses (Americans for the Arts). Many stakeholders do not recognize the importance of art education, they do not realize that art is just as important as core subjects. Art deserves to be valued as much as math and science because it teaches lessons other classes cannot, compliments other classes, and inspires students. A common misconception is that art education is a waste of money, this idea first came into play in the but the debate on value in education continues today (Addison). According to a website created by University of North Texas graduates in art history, much of education was focused on math and science in the twentieth century, which was possibly due to current events of Art For example, the launch of Sputnik increased the incentive for Americans to dedicate their time to math and science of Art Towards the end of the twentieth century, the concern of American education grew; with the reform to improve schools came the arts debate once again, whether the arts would help improve quality of education of Art One huge step for art education was in 2002 after the pass of the No Child Left Behind Act (NCLB), this act was made to close the gap between success in students who came from different areas and had different income rates; the Student 2 NCLB is further discussed in Sandra S. Critical Evidence: How the Arts Benefit Student Achievement on page six (Ruppert). The significance of the NCLB to art education was its recognition of arts as equal importance to English, math, and science (Ruppert). Despite this, art education has decreased due to budget cuts (United States of America). Sandra S. Ruppert states in Critical Evidence: How the Arts Benefit Student Achievement that when schools adopted art-integrated classes, student performance improved (Ruppert). Randy Cohen, of Americans for the Arts, also stated that students who participate in art have a lower chance of dropping out and higher grade point averages (Cohen). Lois Hetland, Professor at the Massachusetts College of Art and Design, argues that here is no direct evidence to tell that engaging in the arts increases student performance (Hetland). In her interview with Rafael Heller, Hetland says there is no way of knowing whether students are succeeding because of the arts or because successful students just happen to engage in the arts (Hetland). It is hard to prove that the arts are what caused increase in performance, but this is a common outcome of many studies; such as the fact that students who are involved in the arts have higher SAT scores (Ruppert). There is even evidence mentioned in Robert Seismic Shifts in the Education Landscape: What Do They Mean for Arts Education and Arts Education Policy that suggests many Nobel Peace Prize winners were involved in some type of art; this implies that the arts may have inspired Nobel Peace Prize winners to be successful (Sabol). Because it is hard to tell whether the studies prove that art equals academic success, the debate continues. The relationship between art and good grades is not the only argument that art education brings up, and conclusion does not limit the abilities of art education. Even if the outcomes are not correlated, the arts compliment other classes by teaching lessons in a different way. The arts can provide a visual representation to a history lesson; complimenting does not Student 3 necessarily mean art improves grades, but it may help teaching and learning (Hetland). Heltand goes on by saying that the arts allow students to connect rational with the (Heltand), meaning students can make a connection with two parts of their brain that cannot be made in other classes. The Committee on the Arts and the Humanities, in a publication titled Reinvesting in Arts Education: Winning Future Through Creative Schools, explained that the arts compliment other subjects, lead to creative thinking, and support brain development (United States of America). In Robert F. paper, he lists benefits of art education; the list included the fact that art teaches students how to solve problems with more than one answer, acknowledge multiple perspectives, and express what cannot be verbalized (Sabol). Students should learn that the of our language do not define the limits of our (Sabol), meaning just because something cannot be said, does not mean it cannot be expressed artistically; this type of experience cannot come from any other class. Americans for the arts is an organization that advocates for art education to be available in all schools; the organization has a multitude of sub-groups with more specific goals (Americans for the Arts). On the ArtsBlog page, a page with art-related blog submissions, the nonprofit supplies a post titled 10 Reasons to Support the Arts by Randy I. Cohen (Cohen). In this post, along with his comment earlier mentioned, Cohen states that the art is a source of inspiration that benefits the economy (Cohen). argument is backed up by the statement that arts and culture supplies 4.2% of the gross domestic product; art also attracts tourists and is an export industry, both are aspects that benefit the United States economy (Cohen). Art and creativity have been the sources inspiration that starts new businesses throughout the United States, employing roughly 2.9 million people (Cohen). Student 4 Currently, high school alumni in America are becoming more generalized and less creative, and the drop-out rates are extremely high; in some areas, the rate reaches up to fifty percent (United States of America). The Committee on Art and Humanities explains the previous publication mentioned about art education, that employers are expecting more from applicants (United States of America). This statement means that people in the work force need more than just common knowledge, they need something that will set them apart from the rest. Students who are preparing to enter the work force need help and inspiration, two things art can supply (United States of America). Because more high school graduates are becoming generalized, art education is more important now than ever (United States of America). Education concerns that do not address art tend to be centered around science, technology, engineering, and math based classes (Gonzalez). The quality of education in those classes in America is rising, but compared to other countries there is still some work to do (Gonzalez). Seeks of improvement include the quality of teachers and ways to make the subjects more appealing to students (Gonzalez). Art may be the subject for the students in the United States that fail in math or science based classes; art is potentially the subject those students are meant to succeed in. Because art benefits the economy, encouraging students to pursue it will help more than just student achievement (Americans for the Arts). According to Lois Hetland, there are multiple ways to add art into education, including art classes or implementing art into the curriculum (Hetland). Either way, art education should be a prominent part of American schools. Students should be given the option to pursue art, or learn about art through other classes. There are even goals that can be achieved through art classes that Hetland calls studio habits (Hetland). These goals act as a direction for art teachers to direct their classes in, to achieve the best quality of art education (Hetland). Art should be valued as much as Student 5 science, technology, engineering, and math; this can be achieved by advocating for art to be valued as much as other core subjects. Through creativity and expressing themselves, students can grow through art education. Lois Hetland states that the arts are essential for thinking and communicating, because of this art should be highly valued (Hetland). If schools need motivation, or many students are failing in the current subjects, they should be offered the opportunity to pursue the arts. The arts teach unique lessons, inspire students, and compliment other subjects. value should be recognized, because it is crucial for American education. (WC: 1370) Student 6 Works Cited Americans for the Arts. Americans for the Arts, 2015. americansforthearts.org. Accessed 21 Jan. 2017. Addison, Nicholas, Lesley Burgess, John Steers, and Jane Trowell. Understanding Art Education: Engaging Reflexively with Practice. London: Routledge, 2010. Taylor & Francis EBooks. Informa UK Limited, Jan. 2010. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Cohen, Randy. Ten Reasons to Support the Arts. Americans for the Arts, 4 Mar. 2016. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. http://blog.americansforthearts.org/2016/03/04/10-reasons-to-support-the-arts- in-2016 Gonzalez, H. B., &Kuenzi, J. J. (2012). Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (STEM) Education: A primer. Congressional Research Service. Retrieved from http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/misc/R42642.pdf. Hetland, Lois. the Goals and Outcomes of Art Interview by Rafael Heller. Phi Delta Kappan Apr. 2017: Vol. 98 Issue 7 p15-20. Web. History of Art  History of Art Education. University of North Texas, n.d. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. <https://ntieva.unt.edu//HistoryofArtEd/index.html>. Ruppert, Sandra S. Evidence: How the Arts Benefit Student Eric Institute of Education Sciences. MetLife Foundation, 30 Nov. 2005. Web. 9 Apr. 2017. Sabol, F. Robert. Shifts in the Education Landscape: What Do They Mean for Arts Educations and Arts Education Arts Education Policy Review 115. (2013): 33- 45. Taylor & Francis Group. Web. 9 Apr. 2017. Student 7 United States of America. Committee on the Arts and Humanities. Reinvesting in Arts Education: Winning Future Through Creative Schools. Committee on the Arts and Humanities, 6 May 2011. Web. 9 Apr. 2017.