Ajlouni 1 Omar Ajlouni Ms.Gottlieb ENC 1102 30/4/2017 The Legal Drinking Age The laws regarding the consumption of alcohol differ from country to country, and for the most part, the culture within each society dictates these rules. Most countries allow for the intake between the age eighteen and twenty-one, with some exceptions at the age of sixteen. The stakeholder called New Health Advisor believes that the drinking age should not be lowered, for it will harm young adults more than it will benefit them. The primary goal and mission is to provide aid to people, in order to live healthier lives through the use of professional knowledge One of their most significant discussions is the legal drinking age. They believe that lowering the drinking age will cause more issues than resolve, for lowering the drinking age will possibly cause more illicit drug use, also, will increase drunk driving related accidents. The organization is a prominent part when it comes to addressing this issue, and the stakeholder acts as a significant counterpart in bringing awareness to the controversy of lowering the legal drinking age. Moreover, this stakeholder is crucial in analyzing and addressing the potentially detrimental risks of lowering the drinking age. As a result, the organization shines light on the medical, social, and emotion issues that come with lowering the drinking age. Furthermore, it is of the utmost importance to address the issue and to act accordingly. Ajlouni 2 The consumption of alcohol is not meant to be taken lightly for an abundance of reasons. According to the NCBI, when considering the current legal drinking age; alcohol consumption is the third leading actual cause of death in the United States, a major contributing factor to unintentional injuries, the cause of death for youths and young adults, and accounts for an estimated 75000 or more total deaths in the United States annually (NCBI). Thus, lowering the drinking age will most likely increase the risks associated with drinking. Also, there are 10.1 million underage drinkers in the United States... 39% of current 8th graders, 58% of 10th graders, 72% of 12th graders, and 85% of college students have tried alcohol This clearly illustrates that this issue is serious and must be resolved immediately. Moreover, many mental and physical elements that contribute to the under aged abuse of alcohol. Firstly, research has proven that drinking at a young age can affect the development of brains. Furthermore, the consumption of alcohol affects the frontal lobe, which is responsible for decision-making, emotional regulations, planning, and organization Ultimately, if the development of young brains is afflicted, this would lead to long term chronic issues. This risk is more prevalent when considering that in the past decade, underage drinking in young adults has increased. In addition to the mental risks, there are physical ones as well, drinking at an age below 21 enhances the risk of binge drinking, illicit drug use, and irresponsible acts. It increases the risk of binge drinking because young adults will be more willing to experiment and eventually overdose on alcohol. Due to binge drinking in young adults, about 44% of teenagers attending 4-year colleges are involved in binge drinking, and about 30,000 college students require medical treatment each year to deal with alcohol poisoning (NHA). This depicts that the presence of alcohol amongst young adults promotes Ajlouni 3 binge drinking, which could potentially seriously harm the individual, also, binge drinking leads to many other detrimental and irresponsible acts. It promotes illicit drug use, for if alcohol is introduced at a young age, and abused, then adolescents are more likely to want to experiment with other narcotics. In a study from the Journal of Studies of Alcohol and Drugs, it was mentioned that teenagers who start drinking early in their lives are more likely to take illicit drugs as well (NHA). When considering all these risks associated with lowering the drinking age, the most damaging factor is that underage drinking causes individuals to act irresponsibly. Consequently, everyone within the vicinity of the underage drinker is at risk. For, if the alcohol is abused then it will cause one to act violently and irrationally. A prominent and lethal result is drunk driving, the risk of drunk driving is increased as young adults drink alcohol. This issue can be derived from the natural tendencies of teenagers, since they are more likely to participate in drunk driving for two reasons. Firstly, they are taking part in a social and enthusiastic activity that immediately promotes a reckless mindset. Secondly, if young adolescents are drinking without complete knowledge of the potential risks associated with drinking, then they are more likely to face the adverse effects of alcohol. This issue has and must be given utmost attention and caution. For binge drinking, drunk driving, and other alcohol-related incidents are too common and can be avoided. The stakeholders, in the end, want people to drink responsibly and in a safe environment. I strongly urge everyone to take action and pursue methods to eliminate this threat. There are many practical ways that the public can safely address this issue, while avoiding the consequences of underage drinking. The most significant method is to prevent signing petitions that are pro lowering the drinking age. Secondly, the public must be educated about the mental, physical, and Ajlouni 4 collateral risks associated with this behavior. An adequate method to achieve this is to subscribe to the stakeholder website and remain exposed to the advice and warning provided. Besides, young adolescents in school should be educated about the risks from a young age, to ensure a healthy and open-minded upbringing. The best way to ensure such actions are taken is through exposure and education. Consequently, the youth will be diversely educated about the risks and complications associated with this controversy, precisely when many perspectives and studies are provided as examples and resources for individuals to fall back on. Hopefully, these resources and efforts will become an easily accessible resource, so one may expand their knowledge, or refresh there memory, more adequately. However, another potential method could be to introduce soft liquor at the age of eighteen and then allow for the consumption of hard liquor at the age of twenty-one. In addition, when some individual turns eighteen they must take a course that successfully educates them about alcohol abuse, consumption, and safe handling. Soft liquor consists of beer and wine, and thus it as easy to get uncontrollably intoxicated from them. This is beneficial because this way you will be learning about how to drink responsibly in a safe environment due to the necessary precautions and courses. In addition, the fact that teens will still be allowed to drink legally removes the rebellious nature and curiosity. This claim is supported by the Health Research Finding organization when they state, In the critical eighteen to twenty age bracket, there are often binge drinking episodes simply because it is a thrill to break the law. Eliminate the thrill by lowering the drinking age and the taboo will be gone as well, encouraging regular alcohol consumption in the critical age bracket (HRF 1). Ajlouni 5 In summation, there are many physical and mental risks of underage drinking that have a collateral impact. It increases the likelihood of obstructed mental development, drunk driving, harming others, and binge drinking. Which as a result leads to other serious problems such as binge drinking. Thus I strongly urge parents, teenagers, and the public, in general, to avoid signing petitions to lower the drinking, get educated, or to acknowledge the possibility of introducing soft liquor. Hopefully, these compromises will limit the effect and spread of negligent acts of drinking and lower the fatality rate associated with drinking or drunk driving. Ajlouni 6 Works Cited Drinking Age  Should the Drinking Age Be Lowered from 21 to a Younger Age? N.p., n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. National Institutes of Health. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Mic. Top 3 Reasons Why the Drinking Age Should Not Be Lowered to  Mic. Mic Network Inc., 25 Oct. 2015. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Wagenaar, A. C., and T. L. Toomey. Effects of Minimum Drinking Age Laws: Review and Analyses of the Literature from 1960 to  Journal of Studies on Alcohol. Supplement. U.S. National Library of Medicine, Mar. 2002. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Wechsler, Henry, and Toben F. Nelson. Will Increasing Alcohol Availability By Lowering the Minimum Legal Drinking Age Decrease Drinking and Related Consequences Among  American Journal of Public Health. American Public Health Association, June 2010. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Why the Drinking Age Be  New Health Advisor. N.p., 29 Apr. 2016. Web. 09 Apr. 2017.