Ireland 1 Cameron Ireland Dorinda Davis ENC 1102 30 April 2017 Marijuana: Clearing the Smoke When people think of prohibition, images of 1920s era police cracking down on bootleggers comes to mind. But that era has long been over, and a new prohibition has arisen, the prohibition on marijuana. Similar to the failure of the ban on alcohol, the ban on marijuana has also failed, and it has done this at the expense of taxpayers and the American people who find themselves caught up in the legal system. This is a problem that has grown too large to ignore. Even if one chooses not to use marijuana, the legalization of it will be beneficial to all Americans. In short, the American people have the power and duty to legalize marijuana, and making it legal across the US will benefit both taxpayers and many groups affected by the prohibition. The war on marijuana has been long and costly. In addition to the financial costs, it has disproportionately targeted minority groups, leading to a human cost. The American Civil Liberties Union reports that, 2001 and 2010, there were over 8 million pot arrests in the (aclu.org). This equates to roughly one arrest every 37 seconds (aclu.org). Not only are these numbers staggering, but also the breakup of those arrests is unjust. use is roughly equal among Blacks and Whites, yet Blacks are 3.73 times as likely to be arrested for marijuana (aclu.org). Not only does this war cost taxpayers every year in enforcement and imprisonment, but it is also a systematic form of racism targeting African Americans. Often times, arrests and prison Ireland 2 time can ruin life, marking them forever as a criminal. Pot related offenses and jail time will show up on record and keep them from getting certain jobs or engaging in certain roles within a community. But its not just arrest rates that make the war on marijuana unfair to the American people. A shady underworld market for the drug has made drug dealers rich while crippling communities. The tax revenue from legalized marijuana could be used for any number of improvements to states and cities. Looking at Colorado as an example, one can see the scalability of legalized pot. In 2016, Colorado generated over $1 billion in legal marijuana sales (Huddleston). The tax collected from this staggering amount of money tops $150 million dollars, some of which goes toward school construction projects and other programs to help the community (Huddleston). Money can be used for new schools, or ways to enhance and build up the community, and the people within it. The United States government is missing out on taxing a billion dollar industry. Not only are they missing out, but the government is spending money to fight this booming trade. Instead of making money, and easing taxes on the people, the government needs to raise taxes to fight this costly battle. Just how much does the cost of enforcing these prohibitive laws add up to? Combining lost tax revenue as well as the cost to taxpayers; almost $20 billion was lost fighting marijuana in 2010 (Sledge). It is time for the American people to end this insane prohibition, and ease the costs that they all have to face. Not only does the it cost taxpayers money, but the missed opportunity for medical marijuana may cost some people their lives. News stories are seen everyday about people dying of painkiller overdoses, and the tools to stop this epidemic are at fingertips. Legalized pot is the answer to problem. One study found that states Ireland 3 with medical marijuana laws saw an average of 24.8 percent fewer overdose deaths from prescription painkillers (Bachhuber 1670). By some states allowing medical marijuana, the numbers can be further examined. While they may not seem definitive, the statistics from these states show the effects that medical marijuana has. It also shows the effects that medical marijuana CAN have, if it becomes legal on the federal level. This number shows the effect that legalized marijuana can have on a public health epidemic plaguing our nation. This leads many people to wonder just why they should care; after all, legalized marijuana directly affect those who choose not to use it. But this is where people are wrong. The structural racism is on hands. Just as it took a majority of the population to end segregation, it will take a majority to end this racially based system of laws. Additionally, the taxes, which are raised to fight marijuana, come from all tax paying citizens. Not only is money raised to fight marijuana, but also needed to keep people incarcerated in the prison system. The arrest rates have only climbed since the ban on marijuana began, rising most drastically in the 2000s. In addition to these expenses, the underground drug market has made dangerous criminals rich, only adding to the danger that they pose to society. Also, the money these criminals make could have been taxed by the government and used to build up America. Instead of costing them money, legal pot would make the government money. This money could then be used to benefit communities and the American people. In the end, legal marijuana is an issue that all Americans should support. This leads to the question of how can the American people band together? Ireland 4 The benefits of legalized marijuana are obvious, and while not everyone may choose to use it, help is needed to make it legal. There are a few simple steps that the American people can follow, and it will take them no less than 5 minutes. The first option, for anyone living at or around USF, is to contact district representative, Kathy Castor, by mail at her Tampa address 4144 N. Armenia Ave. Suite 300 Tampa, FL 33607 (govtrack.us). A second option, which may send a stronger message would be to call her office and tell her that we the people have had enough, and would like her to push for stronger legalization efforts in Washington (govtrack.us). For those who do not live in district 14 of FL, there are still many ways to help the movement. By searching their city on govtrack.us anyone can locate the contact info of their local representatives who report straight to Washington D.C. The message is the same, to push for stronger legalization efforts in Washington D.C. By taking these simple steps, Congress can change the laws in America, since they represent the voices of the American people. In whole, the issue at hand is a broad one that affects those in all walks of life, whether they personally support marijuana or not. From the detrimental affects to communities and to minority groups, to the taxes that everyone is forced to pay, the prohibition on marijuana is expensive and inefficient. Not only does it have its direct negative effects on the United States, it also reaches indirectly into every home. But the American people do not have to worry, because they hold all the power to change the law. It is as simple as a phone call, but its impact can be even further reaching and have long lasting beneficial effects to individuals and to society. Ireland 5 Works Cited Bachhuber MA, Saloner B, Cunningham CO, Barry CL. Medical Cannabis Laws and Opioid Analgesic Overdose Mortality in the United States, 1999-2010. JAMA Intern Med. 2014;174(10):1668-1673. doi:10.1001/jamainternmed.2014.4005  GovTrack.us. N.p., n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Huddleston, Jr. Tom. Colorado Topped $1 Billion in Legal Marijuana Sales in Fortune.com. Fortune, 13 Dec. 2016. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Sledge, Matt. Marijuana Prohibition Now Costs The Government $20 Billion A Year:  The Huffington Post. TheHuffingtonPost.com, 20 Apr. 2013. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Rep. Kathy  GovTrack.us. N.p., n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Report: The War on Marijuana in Black and  American Civil Liberties Union. ACLU Foundation, June 2013. Web. 08 Apr. 2017.