Student 1 Student Instructor Lewis ENC 1102 16 April 2017 The Real Cost of War The first thing that comes to mind when thinking of war would have to be guns, missiles, tanks and all the destructive machinery involved in battles. Of course, in order to utilize these weapons of mass destruction they must be operated by soldiers. And for these soldiers to properly handle these weapons they must have gone through training and maintained mental stability. Unfortunately, one major concern overlooked in all of the savagery that is war, is the mental deterioration of soldiers who are put at the front lines, experience live combat and end up with a traumatic experience. In the words of Jerry Lembcke, post-traumatic stress disorder was firstly speculated and simply defined as the aftermath of a traumatic experience, but soon became refined with military ties due to the excess amount of cases following the Vietnam War, which ended officially in 1975(pg. IV). According to the National Center for PTSD, post- traumatic stress  was conceived in 1980 and added to the third edition of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM). Historically, tracing back to the root of the problem, it is essentially the decision to engage in war that leads to these mental deficiencies experienced by veterans. This stems from our foreign policy and the ways in which we engage with foreign countries. By following such a pro-militant hands on government, we endanger our soldiers. In order to properly prevent this tragedy from reoccurring, it is essential that the foundation of the government and its collective members make the conscious decision to vote towards and change from a militaristic policy in order to implement a more amicable diplomatic policy. Student 2 As mentioned earlier the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders did not recognize Posttraumatic stress disorder as a mental disease until after the Vietnam War when bountiful amounts of veterans returned from combat plagued by what they had experienced. Studies show an alarming rate of about thirty percent of the thousands sent to war during the twenty yearlong battle, show some signs of PTSD within their lifetime. (PTSD History and Overview) This goes to show the shadow effect casted by these wars. Not only did the war take over twenty years to be decided, including millions of lives lost on both ends, but there are still veterans living today with conditions caused from the war. Some examples of these conditions include but are not limited to: alcohol abuse/dependency, generalized anxiety disorder, depression, and antisocial personality disorder. All of these factors lead into a familial burden cast upon the loved ones of these veterans, as well leading into dangerous behaviors exhibited by trained combat specialists. In order to prevent the domino effect of lives affected by coping with PTSD, it is imperative that the government the people of society vote towards a foreign policy that represents peace. Furthermore, due to the fact that they are disabled, many veterans are reliant on government assistance. According to the Veterans Affairs Office of Public Health and Environment Hazards recent Veterans are seeking care at VA more than ever before. VA data show that from 2002 to 2009, one million troops left active duty in Iraq or Afghanistan and became eligible for VA care. Of those troops, 46% came in for VA services. Of those Veterans who used VA care, 48% were diagnosed with a mental health (Analysis of VA health care utilization among Operation Enduring Freedom (OEF) and Operation Iraqi Freedom (OIF) veterans) This evidence displays the depths in which backlash from wars are felt, not only seeing many casualties and injuries during the display of violence but the aftermath with which Student 3 survivors are left with. Naturally the only remedy to this national epidemic is through peace, specifically a peaceful foreign policy displayed and actively pursued by the current white house administration, and those to come. By way of a shift in the mentality of those who hold power in the government, it is then ultimately leading the responsibility back in the hands of the American voters, to actively screen and demand candidates to advocate towards a peaceful policy. Naysayers who advocate for an active militaristic policy and promote war, often agree that America should display force in order to maintain peace. In reality this is a roundabout philosophy that essentially contradicts itself at the foundation of its argument. Unfortunately, these are currently the same founders who lobby heavily to endorse a state of war in order to promote an economic gain because of their selfish interests. A perfect example would be the influential forces lurking behind the decision to engage in a state of warfare with Iraq regardless of the fact that it was considered illegal by then United Nations secretary general Kofi Annan (The Guardian, Ewen MacAskil1). One of the main proponents of the war was Dick Cheney, who prior to linking with the Bush administration was the CEO of a company named Halliburton, which were leaders in the developing of oil fields business, as well as military contracting. So in most senses, he and his lobbyists would greatly advocate towards a war with Iraq, ignoring the thousands of lives placed in danger, in order to be able to increase his profits. Numbers show that his company Halliburton grew substantially during the Iraq war, blossoming from the 22 nd largest military contractor in 2000, to the 7 th largest in 2003. (A Closer Look at Cheney and Halliburton, David E. Rosenbaum) Nothing is of coincidence; these are all politically strategic moves that value ulterior monetary motives, over the lives and families of thousands of veterans. This is exactly what needs to be cleansed of the government Student 4 administration in order to stride towards a government policy that represents peace, and uses military only as a means of necessity. The responsibility lies on the shoulders of the nation and its voters. As mentioned earlier, voters should have taken into consideration the fact that the monetary influence would have a major impact on the decision making of Dick Cheney and his administration. The consequences of voter ignorance and the lack of voter rebuttal to the decision to invade Iraq, eventually snowballed into many deaths and thousands of cases of PTSD, which include a variety of horrid symptoms including death. This domino effect not only effected those of American heritage, but even larger quantities of There have been approximately 165,000 Iraqi civilians killed by direct violence while the actual number is unknown and likely higher. According to the Watson Institute international and public affairs likely in the hundreds of thousands. (Iraqi Civillians, Neta C. Crawford ) Therefore, the selfishness of a handful of powerful political figures led to the traumatization and or death of countless human beings, leaving distaste to be felt on both sides for generations to come. All government officials alike as well as the average voter, are the exact that can and will be the difference of the future. Realization and involvement will be vital to display to the just how engaged they really are. Providing themselves with an outlook towards peace and diplomacy, together both the government and its people can unite in order to bring about true peace. Finally, when analyzing the cost of war, is the trauma inflicted on human beings valued as high as the selfish interests of political officials? Up until this point in history it has not been weighed the same unfortunately and so it was paid for by the blood of those forced into war for Student 5 an economical gain. It is imperative that human lives are valued at much higher rates than those of profits of certain individuals and catastrophes like this never repeat themselves. In order for this to be prevented it is of the utmost importance that vote and take full advantage of their democratic power to advocate for peace. This can only be truly reprimanded by the power of the people in unison towards an amicable foreign policy. By vocalizing the positive advocacy of change in foreign policy as well as vocalizing the exposure of these corrupt politicians can we truly cleanse the government in order to bring about resolution to the true cause of PTSD, corrupt war. Late great President John F. Kennedy in his inaugural address once said, not what your country can do for you, ask what you can do for your Inaugural address) (wc:1395) Student 6 Works Cited: Alford, C F. Trauma, Culture, and Ptsd. , 2016. Internet resource Crawford, Neta C. Iraqi  Iraqi Civilians Costs of War. 16 Apr. 2017. <http://watson.brown.edu/costsofwar/costs/human/civilians/iraqi>. Kennedy, John F. Ask not what your country can do for you inuagural  Ushistory.org. Independence Hall Association, Web. 30 Apr. 2017. <http://www.ushistory.org/documents/ask-not.htm>. Lembcke, Jerry. Ptsd: Diagnosis and Identity in Post-Empire America. , 2013. Internet resource. MacAskill, Ewen, and Julian Borger. Iraq war was illegal and breached UN charter, says  The Guardian. Guardian News and Media, 15 Sept. 2004. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. <https://www.theguardian.com/world/2004/sep/16/iraq.iraq>. PTSD: National Center for  Findings from the National Vietnam Readjustment Study - PTSD: National Center for PTSD. 01 Jan. 2007. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. <https://www.ptsd.va.gov/professional/research-bio/research/vietnam-vets-study.asp>. PTSD: National Center for  Mental Health Effects of Serving in Afghanistan and Iraq PTSD: National Center for PTSD. 01 Jan. 2007. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. <https://www.ptsd.va.gov/public/PTSD-overview/reintegration/overview-mental-health- effects.asp>. Student 7 Rosenbaum, David E. A Closer Look at Cheney and  The New York Times. The New York Times, 28 Sept. 2004. Web. 23 Apr. 2017. <http://www.nytimes.com/2004/09/28/us/a-closer-look-at-cheney-and- The National Center for Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder. PTSD research quarterly. 2017. Internet Resource