Cortez 1 Daniel Cortez ENC 1102 Professor Davis 29 April 2017 ISPs: I Stop Service The internet is something that many of the people in our country use daily. From big business to the average internet surfer that checks their newsfeed, the internet is an important staple of the world we live in today. Since the service is used so much there is now a problem of bandwidth usage in cities that use the same provider. TechTerms states that bandwidth the maximum data transfer rate of a network or Internet connection. It measures how much data can be sent over a specific connection in a given amount of Thus, a town has limit to how much its users can use this bandwidth. When it becomes overcrowded this can cause internet to be slowed down to prevent crashing. ISPs (Internet Service Providers) believe this is the fault of constant video streaming services, such as Netflix, YouTube, and Hulu, which require high amounts of bandwidth and high speeds of internet. Currently, everyone is under net neutrality, which is the belief that the internet should be open and unhindered for everyone to use regardless of the source or user. ISPs want to make people pay for more bandwidth or create a type of subscription that gives consumers unlimited bandwidth to certain sites. The Economics of Net Neutrality, comment that this would create the commonly referred to and of the internet. The slow lanes would be for people who pay for the extra bandwidth making their internet slower on those sites. Fast lanes would be reserved for business and people willing to provide the with the money. The examples I am about to give should help to provide a Cortez 2 clear understanding of why the internet relies on openness. The FCC (Federal Communications Commission) lists all its goals on its website and describes their meaning to avoid misinterpretation. The first goal states that Economic Growth and National is something they care about. They state that this relates to technological innovation and economic growth in our society by promoting competition. The second goal affirms that Public Interest is something that the strive to keep in balance. This means that a group formed to protect the rights of the consumer must and will be heard. The third goal, the most important, Networks Work for is the goal most directly related with net neutrality. These are the guidelines that specify the rules that FCC must also ensure that all Americans can take advantage of the services they provide without artificial The fourth and final rule clarifies that Operational is a main concern of theirs. This means that the operation of the internet revolves around the consumer not the provider. ISPs obviously have not read these rules as they seek to end them. Comcast has already instituted a Terabyte (1024 Gigabyte) limit on its customers internet usage that was initiated in October of 2016 for all its customers. They noted that percent of customers use less than 1TB of data per month, and that median use is just 75 This though is because normal users do not download many things other than smartphone apps or streaming video over the internet. The problem that they do not note is that successful small businesses may need more data to help support their customers. There is a fee that customers can pay for unlimited, but that is 50 dollars a month added on to their existing bill. For a speed of 75 mbs (Megabytes per second) it costs 50 dollars. This would mean doubling their price to have truly unlimited internet. That equates to 1200 dollars a year to have unlimited 75 mbs internet speed for a small business. Cortez 3 The other option they impose is having subscriptions to your favorite websites in packages like cable does now. This does not come as a surprise since most high-speed internet companies own a form of cable network, including CenturyLink, Verizon, AT&T, and Bright House. This would leave you with the same predicaments about what package to get for websites you never use as others do with cable. If you pay these subscriptions, then you would get stuck in the slow lane of the internet even if you had faster speeds than someone else. The ISPs would also make deals with Netflix and social media sites to allow their internet service to have better speeds on their websites exclusively. While this creates competition between the ISPs it also creates a problem with the customer. The consumer then has too many options and must sacrifice too much when choosing an ISP. Some social groups have formed around the internet to protect its openness to the people and businesses alike which include the Internet Society and the Student Net Alliance. The Internet Society emphasizes on their online page that they in a wide spectrum of Internet issues, including policy, governance, technology, and development. We establish and promote principles that are intended to persuade governments to make decisions that are right for their citizens and each They also work on keeping the net neutral as it is one of their main tasks of having an open internet. The group wrote an article about the neutral net stating that it users to benefit from full access to services, applications, and content available on the The Student Net Alliance also helps to protect the internet from the restrictions of ISPs. Their goal as listed on their Facebook page pushes for the policy and technology that supports free and open flow of information, and make sure our private communications are equally protected online and They have staged many events to help protect the internet including a petition on change.org and events such as #FaxBigBrother which sent 6 million faxes to Congress Cortez 4 to protect the internet. The organizations that I named above have already started fighting for rights many of us do not understand are being taken away. Everyone should be informed of their rights as a consumer and the possibility that they could be taken aware. Staying informed as a consumer of what you are using and who is in control of it is the only way of doing this. time to stand up for every consumer and realize that net neutrality is the only thing keeping us from having the current problems occurring in every other form of media. Joining activist groups and letting your local FCC office know about the importance of an open web is the first step someone should take. The number for our state FCC office (located right here in Tampa) is (813) 348-1602. Other important numbers can be reached online for leaders of the FCC or members of Congress. The next step would be to participate in organized peaceful protest either in person or over the internet. FaxBigBrother is still going on and it just requires you to put your message in the box on their website, which you could include your email and a photo, and click send as their automated machine will fax. Any tweet with #Faxbigbrother will also be faxed to congress to fight against a constricted internet. The open internet is a right that should be given to everyone with no restrictions no matter what. If you pay for the same speed as another customer you should be entitled to the same quality of service. The goals of the ISPs are counterproductive to every goal of the FCC I mentioned above. The removal is detrimental to the flow of the economy, seeks to put the ISPs priorities above the consumers, and provide beneficial service to those with higher incomes. With the suggestions, I mentioned above you can help the FCC keep its goals, as the role of net neutrality protects these goals. Cortez 5 Works Cited About the  Federal Communications Commission. FCC, n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. <https://www.fcc.gov/about/overview>. Facebook and Google could turn into government spies next  CISPA is back! N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. <https://www.faxbigbrother.com/>. Internet  Public Policy - Information About the Internet Internet Society. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. <https://www.internetsociety.org/what-we-do/policy>.  ISP (Internet Service Provider) Definition. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Apr. 2017. Larson, Rob, and Sources. The Economics of Net  The Economics of Net Neutrality Dollars & Sense. Dollars and Sense, 15 July 2015. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. <http://www.dollarsandsense.org/archives/2015/0715larson.html>. Lawler, Richard. 1TB data caps start to roll out  Engadget. Engadget, 07 Oct. 2016. Web. 12 Apr. 2017. <https://www.engadget.com/2016/10/06/comcasts-1tb- data-caps-start-to-roll-out-nationwide/>.