Student !1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Are American Veterans Receiving Proper Care? Recently there has been a massive discussion in America about the Department of Affairs (VA) and the health care services the department provides to military veterans. This debate sparks around the idea that the VA health care system is inadequate and does not actually take care of those who risked their lives for this country. It is important that these men and women, veterans, receive the help that they need because of the selfless action they took by defending their country. The VA system should be changed because it does not provide timely health care to veterans, it does not provide quality health care to veterans, and it does not fulfill its promises. The U.S Department of Veterans Affairs is a government-run military veteran benefit system with cabinet level status. This benefit system offers education, health care, life insurance, treatment for post traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), and many other benefits. The department of Veterans Affairs is federally funded by the United States government and in 2016 had a budget of 168.8 billion dollars. The core values are Commitment, Advocacy, Respect, and (U.S Department of Veterans Affairs page). These core legitimacy have been questioned for many reasons. There is evidence of mistreatment and poor quality care given to veterans. Student !2 Many people have had a part in this discussion, one of whom being Senator John McCain. McCain was a prisoner of war held in Vietnam for five and a half year (McCain usnews.com). McCain believes that the United States veterans are not receiving and timely from the VA (McCain Affairs page). To support this claim, a study has found that in 2015 there was a large backlog of 425,000 claims at the VA (Derro 15). This is a very serious problem that must be addressed. The system that the VA has in place allows it to only review about 55,00 claims a year (Derro 15). That is less than 15 percent of the total amount of claims filed, meaning that more than 80% of people receiving help within a year of submitting a claim. Clearly there needs to be a restructuring of the system in order to decrease this enormous backlog. In a shocking article on U.S.A. Today it was said that, at least 40 veterans died waiting to be seen at the Phoenix VA while schedulers there kept secret wait lists hiding how long they were (Slack Paragraph 7). This was only at one VA hospital, imagine how many veterans in total have died while waiting to be seen. The system that the VA has in place right now is clearly unable to provide timely care to veterans. The VA is not able to provide timely care nor is it able to provide quality care. As previously mentioned, schedulers kept secret wait lists hiding how long were waiting (Slack Paragraph 7). Employees within the VA are hiding information which in turn denounces the quality of the the service they provide. There has also been speculation of employees not caring about the work and/or being lazy with it, therefor not giving the best care they could provide. Slack also reports that VA staffers entered the wrong dates in the scheduling system in some cases and follow up on appointment requests in a timely way (Slack Student !3 Paragraph 7). Many have proposed that there should be more incentives given to employees because, tend to motivate people to do more and to do it better or continue to do it (Abduljawad and Al-Assaf Paragraph 28). In addition to workers not working to their full extent, which lowers the quality of the care, some doctors have prescribed patients medicine which is harmful to their body. In an interview on The Blaze, US Army Sergeant Brian Moore recalls his personal experience with the VA. He says that he was at stage three for kidney failure because of the accumulation of medicine given to him by doctors at the VA (Lahren 1:35). This is just one example of very poor quality care given to veterans. It is a responsibility to prescribe medicine to their patient that will help them rather than cause a further problem that the patient must deal with. This issue regarding quality and timely care of the Department of Veterans affairs should be seen as a humanitarian issue. Even if these veterans were stripped of their title and were considered the average American, the actions taken by the VA is very disappointing and unlawful. No government funded organization should be performing on this level causing many different health problems to those who use the service. The core values are, Commitment, Advocacy, Respect, and (U.S Department of Veterans Affairs page). These values are clearly not evident within the actions taken by the Department. In their defense, with research comparing the quality of mental health care provided by the VA to that of the private sector, researchers found that VA performance was superior to the private sector by more than 30% (Watkins et al. 394). This statistic shows that the VA is the superior service compared to many privately owned services. This is a great cause for concern as Student !4 it means that veterans are being treated worse elsewhere.. Regardless, this is no excuse for the care in which the VA has been providing. Due to the issues of the VA system as a whole, some solutions have been proposed by many different people and organizations. One of those proposed solutions was to privatize the VA department, or transfer the service to private ownership rather than public. Some benefits of doing such process would be that the VA would no longer be federally funded or run by the government. This proposition, however, is not actually a compromise for both parties as the VA would not gain anything from it happening. In order to help these respected veterans there have been an influx of organizations and charities which donate money and raise awareness for veterans. Some commonly known charity organizations are Hope For The Warriors, Fisher House Foundation, and Wounded Warrior Project. These organizations make millions of dollars in order to help wounded vets, whether they have a physical wound or they suffer from Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD). President Lincoln once said that is our duty to care for him who shall have borne the (Lincoln-Second Inaugural Address).These brave men and women fought for America and its freedoms but have come back home with many issues. Though these issues are addressed, they have not been being properly dealt with and taken care of. There is a very high back log of claims submitted to the VA and there has not been a systematic change to solve the issue. There are a lot of instances where employees have cut corners in order to hide truths. Doctors are not being careful enough; Medicine is not being prescribed correctly which in turn causes harm to the user. It is not fair to treat veterans with such untimely and low quality care. It is the duty of Student !5 the people of America to donate to charities that give to veterans so that those veterans can receive better care and in turn a better life. WC:1218 Student !6 Works Cited Abduljawad, Asaad and Al-Asaaf, Asaaf F. for Better Performance in Health NCBI. 15 May 2011. Accessed 26 Feb 2017. Derro, Kristina. CARE ISSUES FOR Vol. 45, no. 1, 206ADAD, pp. Ndex to Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Accessed 26 Feb 2017 Lahren, Tomi and Brian Moore. Heart Recipient and Retired US Army Sergeant Brian Moore shares his shocking VA story. Facebook , 18 Mar. 2017, Accessed 1 Apr. 2017. McCain, John S. McCain, Prisoner of War: A First-Person www.usnews.com/ news/articles/2008/01/28/john-mccain-prisoner-of-war-a-first-person-account. Accessed 25 Mar. 2017. McCain, United States Senator John. Veterans  Veterans Affairs - United States Senator John McCain. N.p., n.d. Web. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Office, VA Public Affairs. U.S. Department of Veterans  U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs. N.p., 03 Oct. 2005. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Accessed 29 Jan 2017. Slack, Donovan. VA Wait Times Preclude Thousands of Vets from Getting Outside Care, Probe 3 Mar. 2017. United States. Congress, House, Lincoln, Abraham. Lincoln: First and Second Inaugural Addresses: Message, July 5, 1861: Proclamation, January 1, 1863: Gettysburg Address, November 19, 1863, G.P.O., 1912. Student !7 Watkins, Katherine E., et al. Quality of Medication Treatment for Mental Disorders in the Department of Veterans Affairs and in Private-Sector Psychiatric Services, vol. 67, no. 4, 2016, pp. doi:10.1176/appi.ps.201400537.