Traitz 1 Robert Traitz ENC 1102 Prof. Mariama No Place for Guns The right to bear arms is one of most coveted constitutional rights. In Florida, over 1 million citizens have obtained concealed carry licenses, which some believe has contributed to a 30% decrease in violent crime since 2013. Many concealed handgun owners believe that the right to carry their firearm for protection should not be infringed upon or restricted to certain locations. The issue of concealed handguns on college campuses is not primarily one of constitutional rights, but one of public safety and morality. Firearms should not be allowed on our college campuses because they are a common cause of accidental deaths in the US, the tool used in violent confrontations and school massacres, and a violation of the sense of safety and security a school campus is known for. When turning on the news any given day, one can expect to find a headline about the most recent mass shooting or violent attack on a school campus. Gun violence in schools has claimed hundreds of lives in the last decade and victims and citizens alike are demanding that it be stopped. no secret that guns are dangerous, there were over 15,000 people killed by firearms in America in 2016 alone (Gun Violence Archive, 2017). Despite this information, many citizens are misinformed about just how many threats firearms pose to safety. Firearms are one of the most notable causes of accidental death. When someone is untrained in the safe handling of a firearms, that weapon becomes just as dangerous as if it were pointed at them. Over 600 children lost their lives last year through the accidental use of a gun, open the accidental category up to all age groups and the number skyrockets to over 2,000. Aside from accidental deaths, many tend to overlook that firearms are the most common and lethal form of Traitz 2 violent escalation. For example, in 2014, a retired police captain shot a man dead in a movie theater during a confrontation about texting during the previews. The man, Chad Oluson, threw popcorn at the retired officer during the argument which prompted him to draw his handgun and fire killing Oulson on the spot. This is just one of the local and most recent examples of how the presence of firearms can cause what should be a non-violent confrontation to turn lethal. Finally, one of the major reasons many oppose campus carry and having firearms on college campus is that doing so violates the feeling of safety, security, and sanctuary that students and staff are supposed to feel while at their school. Students from the University of South Florida told reporters that they felt comfortable with police officers being armed on campuses to respond to situations, but did not want to have regular, possibly untrustworthy students carrying lethal weapons into their classrooms. These reasons, amongst many others, comprise the dangers of allowing firearms to be carried on college campuses (Burnett, 2012). Colleges and universities are not only places of academia and learning, but also places where the next generation comes to express themselves and form their opinion on the world and how they want to change it. When a life is taken, it does not only affect the life of the victim. The families, the friends, and people who will never get to know that victim will all be affected. A college campus is a place where people can express themselves without the fear of being hurt or killed over their opinions. If firearms are allowed on campus, students be able to voice their opinion without the fear of being shot if the conversation becomes too heated. America has seen more shootings and gun violence at schools in the last decade than any other country in the world. When someone wants to make a statement, or assert their power agenda, the trend seems to be to shoot up a school or bring gun violence to places where people feel safe. If actions are not taken to keep firearms out of our colleges and universities, the message will be sent that Traitz 3 schools are now places for guns and lethal threats. Inexperienced students could be carrying firearms with them or in their dorms while intoxicated or partying which can result in an accidental discharge of the gun. Equally as deadly is the possibility of students escalating fights and arguments to the lethal level due to the presence of firearms. It is vital that these possibilities never become reality, and the way to accomplish that is to keep firearms off college campuses. It is easy to become overwhelmed by the weight of this issue and the lives that are at stake. Many become overwhelmed and convinced nothing they as an individual can do to make a difference. This could not be farther from the truth. The best way to make a difference is to contact your legislators and communicate your concerns to them. The only way that firearms will be introduced to or schools will be if government officials and policy makers believe that that is the best thing for their constituents. By writing and calling to express your concerns, you can directly influence how your legislator votes, thus ensuring pro campus gun bills are shot down on the senate floor. After talked to your legislator, you can continue to spread the word and raise awareness about the dangers of firearms on campus. Keep Guns of Campus and Mothers Demand Action for Gun Sense both hold demonstrations and rallies against the presence of guns at colleges (Keep Guns Off Campus, 2017). By joining these demonstrations, you can educate others about this issue and rally support to increase the influence we have on legislative decisions. Gun violence in America is at an all-time high. Allowing guns to enter our colleges and universities will bring about even more injury and mortality because guns are a leading cause of accidental deaths, the tool used to turn conflicts lethal, and are a violation of the academic sanctuary college campuses are supposed to provide. Your duty as a concerned citizen is to educate yourself on this issue and use the knowledge learned to influence how tomorrow Traitz 4 will unfold. Making an impact here can save lives and keep families united. Keeping firearms off campus will save lives, help make the difference. Works Cited Burnett, David. Carry on College  USCCA-Concealed Carry Self Defense Insurance & CCW Info. N.p., 04 Oct. 2012. Web. 02 Mar. 2017. Florida Judge Denies Your Defense in Movie Theater  KTLA. N.p., 10 Mar. 2017. Web. 20 Apr. 2017. Mulhere, Kaitlin. Push for Concealed Guns on Campuses Is Gaining  Push for Concealed Guns on Campuses Is Gaining Steam. N.p., n.d. Web. 02 Mar. 2017. Past Summary  Gun Violence Archive. N.p., n.d. Web. 20 Apr. 2017. Take Action  Keep Guns Off Campus. N.p., n.d. Web. 20 Apr. 2017. Unknown. Regents of the University of Colorado v. Students for Concealed Carry on  Justia Law. N.p., n.d. Web. 02 Mar. 2017.