Student 1 Student Richard Gaspar ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Battle the Fight to Reduce Food Waste Picture a child that is so malnourished that his bones become visible through his skin. Imagine the little kid crying because he is starving and does not have anything to eat. This concept alone would make anyone feel bad for even wasting the tiniest amount of food. Food waste is a critical issue that needs to be taken more seriously than it already is. It is kind of obvious that as the population increases, the food supply necessary for human beings will slowly decrease which further questions the need to waste food that is perfectly fine to eat. This is where stakeholders, or businesses that shows an interest or concern for an issue, come into play (Vared). One such stakeholder includes ReFED which is an organization that is working to reduce food waste by providing various solutions to different businesses. ReFED believes that preventing food waste can lead to multiple benefits such as jobs, conservation of water, and reduction of greenhouse gas (Vared). Without further actions, the increase in food waste will be terrible for the population and the economy as a whole. In order to reduce food waste, people can start donating food to local soup kitchens and other places, grocery stores can keep better track of their shelf life, and people can take better care of food in their own home. First and foremost, donating food is a great start to help reducing food waste. It is a well- known fact that there are large sums of people dying from hunger and starvation. This makes a person wonder how much of the food they throw out can actually benefit someone who is not Student 2 fortunate enough have breakfast, lunch, or dinner prepared for them. Taking this fact into consideration, there are still people who constantly throw out meals after meals because they complain that it is not These people do not realize that they might end up being in the same position as these unfortunate people in the future. According to an academic article written by Kevin Hall, there has been a spike in food prices which led to an increasing concern about global food (Hall). If this spike continues, food prices will become so expensive that there will be even more people who will be suffering from starvation. To battle this issue, people can start donating food to their local soup kitchens. Instead of buying a large meal that they know they will not be able to finish eating and will probably rot away in the fridge, it is advisable that the food be donated to help the people that are in actual need of food and nutrients. In addition, it would be more helpful if restaurants came into play as well. There re aplenty of restaurants that waste healthy food instead of donating because they fear that they will be sued if something happens to the consumer (Parfitt). However, according to the Bill Emerson Good Samaritan Food Donation Act, are protected from civil and criminal liability should the products donated in good faith cause harm to the (Parfitt). Due to this law, no one should have an excuse to donate food that might end up saving a life. In addition, another way food waste can be reduced is if grocery stores keep better track of their produce. Believe it or not, grocery stores tend to waste more food than a person might think (Parfitt). According to an article by Julian Parfitt, and drink waste is estimated to be approximately megatons in the UK, of which 20 percent is associated with food processing, distribution, and which happens more in small grocery stores rather than large supermarkets (Parfitt). As stated by Parfitt, small grocery stores to be used for consumers for top-up shopping, which makes demand (Parfitt). This is because businesses Student 3 get so blinded by the money that they forget to think about the food that is being wasted. The owner of small grocery stores has a tendency to overstock their products because they believe that customers are more likely to buy the produce if it is from a fully stocked display (Parfitt). What they do not realize is that the ingredients on the bottom is most likely to be damaged from all the weight that it is supporting. Due to the damage received, the groceries usually get thrown out because they are not physically appealing or wanted by customers. In order to take better care of their products, grocery stores should start improving their methods of keeping track of the ingredients. For example, it is advisable that retailers should regularly do check-ups on food stocks to check if the ingredients are in good condition. It is doubtful that owners will stop overstocking their food. But checking up on them regularly will result in less produce being damaged, meaning less food will be wasted. Even the costumers can take part by notifying the owner or manager if they notice any of the ingredients being damaged or going bad. Finally, keeping better care of household waste is a way people can start reducing food waste. Usually, common people tend to buy packaged goods in bulk because they become lazy and do not feel like going shopping at a later time. They tend to miss the fact that packaged goods come with an expiration date which result in the food being wasted. According to an article by Helen Williams, 20-25 percent of household waste is usually related to packaging (Williams). This is due to the fact that consumers labeled the packages as being and to (Williams). As been stated before, it would be wise to donate the food if the consumer feels like they will not be able to finish before it goes bad. In addition to donating, people can try to buy more prepared food rather than packaged food because it lasts for a longer time. In the same article, it is noted that environmentally educated households wasted less of prepared than packaged ones (Williams). It is advisable that people learn how to better Student 4 refrigerate ingredients in order to make them last for longer time. For example, they can learn about optimal temperature which food stays in their best condition. Also, there are certain cooking tips that will allow consumers to use the random assortment of ingredients in the fridge (Lebersorger). If this is done properly, the amount of food being waste in the household will reduce considerably. In conclusion, reducing food waste is not an easy job and will definitely not happen by the next morning. It will take patience, motivation, and the drive to succeed. If people band together and work to solve this issue, there might be a tremendous change in the world. All it requires is donating the food that might go to waste, grocery stores keeping better tabs on their ingredients, and people managing their food wisely in their own household. With the implementation of these solutions, over 20 percent of annual food waste can be reduced over the next decade which is then estimated to shoot up to 50 percent by the year 2030 (Vared). Instead of sitting around doing nothing all day, try to make a difference for the starving population of the world (Word Count: 1219). Student 5 Work Cited Evans, David. A brief of food waste and the social  The Sociological Review. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/1467- 954X.12035/full Hall, Kevin D. The Progressive Increase of Food Waste in America and Its Environmental  PLOS ONE. Public Library of Science, n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. <http://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371%2Fjournal.pone.0007940>. Lebersorger , Sandra, and Felicitas Schneider. Discussion on the methodology for determining food waste in household waste composition  ScienceDirect. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0956053X11002650 Parfitt, Julian. Food waste within food supply chains: quantification and potential for change to  Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society of London B: Biological Sciences. The Royal Society, n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. <http://rstb.royalsocietypublishing.org/content/365/1554/3065.short>. Schneider, Felicitas. The evolution of food donation with respect to waste  ScienceDirect. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0956053X12005430 Vared, Sarah. ReFED Rethink Food  ReFED . N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. http://www.refed.com/?sort=economic-value-per-ton Williams, Helen. Reasons for household food waste with special attention to  ScienceDirect. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0959652611004793