Diamond !1 Alexia Diamond Instructor Ryan ENC 1102.045S17 19 April 2017 Stand Up to Standardized Testing Starting in the 1920s, standardized testing has been seen as a key factor in assessing schools, students, and teachers. Most of the time these tests consists of multiple choice questions pulled from a common bank of questions that are used to assess on individuals knowledge consistently. However starting in 2002, parents, students, and teachers believe that these tests are a biased and unreliable way of testing the students. The purpose of these exams is to test what the teachers have taught and what students have learned. In the past, it was believed that if a student wanted to pass an exam, they had to study the material, but in this day and age it seems like the focus has changed. Students now-a-days are more focused on how they can pass the exam rather than learning the material. To high-school students it seems like the odds are against them, like they are being set up to fail. To improve the education in schools, the state must evaluate the students and teachers in terms of what is taught and learned, however, the current standardized tests that are given are unreliable and an unfair way to measure academic performance. Therefore, standardized tests should not be eliminated completely, but rather reevaluated to give every student an opportunity to succeed. In the early 1930s, standardized testing was created to compare the performance levels of various students from different schools and different districts. By giving one general test to all these students, the state or the school county can see if the teachers are accurately teaching the Diamond !2 material that the state deems necessary. However, standardized testing is now seen as an unreliable way of measuring this. On standardized exams, students answer a series of questions that do not necessarily measure the ability to think deeply or creatively but rather tests if they can memorize the material. Therefore, it does not show what the students have learned throughout the school year, which does not help the teachers understand how a student thinks or learns. Also, an test score can vary depending on testing conditions, mental state, or emotional state. As of October 2016 the United States has 64.7 million non-english speakers and counting meaning half of the population knows little to no English (Hohmann 2016). However, if they attend a public school, they are still required to take a standardized test in English. Therefore, non-english speaking children are walking into a foreign language class where they are expected to know the grammar and spelling that goes with the English language before they know how to do it in their native language. Standardized tests does not only test what the student has learned, but it also assess if teachers is capable of teaching the material. This is causing teachers to teach to the test rather than teaching the material. A teacher in Pasco county recently resigned saying, cannot continue to teach students to regurgitate information standardized I want my students to be original, innovative thinkers, not a test score. Too much testing leaves no space and creativity in the (Admin 2016). About 30 percent of classroom time is spent on testing-related tasks, including preparing students, proctoring, and reviewing the results on previous standardized tests. This does not include passing time, lunch time, and tests that students are required to take for the class itself. Diamond !3 The results of these standardized tests affect everyone, not just those who are directly connected to the school. Students are known as the future generation; they are the ones that will become doctors, lawyers, police officers, teachers, and maybe even the President. Considering they are the future, it is expected that they are given the best education and resources to help them succeed, however some may argue that the education system is actually doing the opposite. After the No Child Left Behind Act law became official in 2002, stating that all students are required to take standardized tests, high school dropout rates experienced a groundbreaking increase (Watkins 2011). The financial consequences of these drop outs do not just affect the individual, but it affects the society as well. If all the high-school dropouts in 2011 stayed in high school and earned their diplomas, the nation would have gained around 154 billion dollars in income throughout their careers (the alliance 2011). Not only could the society have gained money from them, but they are also losing money with every high school drop out. According to a study at Northeastern University, high school dropouts cost taxpayers over 292,000 dollars. Standardized tests are not only affecting the federal income, but they are also threatening the safety. Over 80 percent of the incarcerated population consists of high school dropouts (Lynch 2014). There is a 75 percent chance that high school dropouts will commit a crime and end up in jail. As an attempt to stand up against standardized testing, parents should opt out of these standardized tests. Opting out of these standardized tests is a powerful way to protest against this malpractice on education. The No Child Left Behind Act requires states to administer state assessments, but it does not require every student has to participate. Therefore, it is mandatory for the state to administer these assessments, but it may not be mandatory for every child to take Diamond !4 the assessment. To request to opt out of standardized exams, parents just have to send a letter to the school district stating they wish for their child to be excused. The parents who chose to opt out of the test are sending a message to schools about testing and test preps, protesting against the harmful uses of standardized exams, and prevents test results from being used against students, teachers, and schools. By opting out of standardized testing, unfair tests are taken out of the equation allowing administrations of all schools to focus on the student and their education. Parents and school administrators have vocalized their negative thoughts about the number of standardized tests required by the government in an attempt to improve the education system. Students today can either make a huge positive or negative impact on the society. Therefore, it is in the best interest to reevaluate the current standardized tests to give these students the best education schools can offer. Diamond !5 Works Cited Concepts, Liberty. Standardized Test  The Glossary of Education Reform. N.p., 12 Nov. 2015. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. <http://edglossary.org/standardized-test/>. Hohmann, Leo. Record 64.7 Million Non-English Speakers in  WND. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. <http://www.wnd.com/2016/10/record-64-7-million-non-english-speakers-in-u-s/ Just Say No to Standardized Tests: Why and How to Opt Out (Updated March 2017) FairTest. N.p., n.d. Lynch, Ed.D. Matthew. Cause and Effect: The High Cost of High School  The Huffington Post. TheHuffingtonPost.com, 30 Nov. 2014. Web. 09 Apr. 2017 Watkins, Bill. Do Standardized Tests Raise Dropout  Do Standardized Tests Raise Dropout Rates? Newgeography.com. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. <http:// www.newgeography.com/content/002522-do-standardized-tests-raise-dropout-rates>. Why Standardized Testing Should Not Be the  Odyssey. N.p., 10 Oct. 2016. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. <https://www.theodysseyonline.com/why-standardized-testing-should-not-the- standard>.