Chiluisa 1 Gerson Chiluisa Professor Theodosiou ENC 1102-075 18 April 2017 Global Talent left Vacant Being, that the United States is one of the most culturally diverse countries in the world you would expect the country striving to flourish in all fields especially at Silicon Valley (livescience). Silicon Valley is prominent for having reputable ties, housing many of the largest high- tech corporations as well as thousands of startup companies (Quora). However, economic trouble arises when the future of H-1B programs is compromised and an order, Protecting American Jobs and Workers by Strengthening the Integrity of Foreign Worker Visa Programs, is drafting stages that would in other words stop the hire of non-US workers through H-1B visas that help fill voids of adept technical job positions (LinkedIn). In an effort to create a prosperous technological industry, it is in the best interest to allow the spread of international ideas to intertwine because foregoing leads to lack of industry inceptions rendering economic doom. Outlets that help promote the technological industry well-being include pledging the again and connecting that pledge by posting it online or printing it out and having people physically apart of the movement. H-1B Visa is the hurdle of all hurdles when it comes to application season for skilled worker visas. Supplementation of this visa allows Technology companies to recruit top tier foreign workers in increments of 3 years for their companies. With this being said, it is conceivable how 85,000 H-1B visas furnished in the year prior stands meager compared to the Chiluisa 2 236,000 who applied. Provided these numbers many critics still find fault with the program, describing H-1B visas as a to displace United States workers with cheaper foreign (NewYorkTimes). These very words by President Trump proves to be a fallacy as 20,000 of the visa recipients were selected based on their merit of having a degree and the other 65,000 have bachelors. The excess high-skill it and computer science jobs vacancy is a representation of the minute number of able workers in the United States (LinkedIn). In addition, in turn leaves the United States at a disadvantage, leaving these unoccupied spots open renders a state of technological disadvantage compared to our foreign allies by minimalizing technology innovation (NewYorkTimes). Another fallacy proposed against H-1B visa program recommends reeducating US workers to fill the empty technology seats while simultaneously gutting the visa system. This proposal is insufficient because the problem lies in the simplicity of the solution. It is reliant that an 18-month retraining program suffices or is equivalent of the technical experience required which undermines the process of master degree education (LinkedIn). United States efforts in turn should not be directed toward an annihilation of able foreign workers but redirected to embark STEM education starting at the elementary level. This reasoning is backed by the technical illiteracy that is profound in the United States, where kids entering high school in the United States rank 35 th in the world putting the US on par with some of the most struggling developing nations (LinkedIn). At this rate it will take decades to reverse the internal damage striking our under experienced technical plague Thus the H-1B program allows the United States leeway for its laggard technology savvy state from economic calamity. What makes the H-1B visas promising to prospective foreign technology experts is it is an outlet to become a United States citizen. While working with the H-1B visas you are Chiluisa 3 automatically eligible for a green card (NewYorkTimes). An eager mind such as Minh Nguyen, a software designer from Vietnam, explains he finds America attractive for employment pursuits because are in the center of new technology and cutting-edge changes in the I.T. (NewYorkTimes). However, the optimistic pursuit for an American dream is eradicated with obstacles, as it is Mr. second attempt at a visa. Sponsored by BitTitan, a cloud software company in Kirkland, Wash was not even enough to become eligible. Reform for the H-1B visa thus is desirable, because potential able candidates could not fill the void of 545,000 of the most technical jobs already vacant. And complacency is not an option as these jobs left open costs losses in technological progress and wanes on other factors including less new energy, communication, commerce resulting in a weaker America (LinkedIn). It is in best interest to join against Trumps draft work- visa order of Protecting American Jobs and Workers by Strengthening the Integrity of Foreign Worker Visa Programs. Citizens should take notice that, in 2016 study from the National Foundation for American Policy, a non-partisan think tank based in Arlington, Va., found that immigrants started more than half of wave of US-based startups valued at $1 billion or (LinkedIn). The value of global minds appears crucial, as we should continue to invite without exception such peoples that aid in the technology job market development. With a promising tone, the plan aims to the protection of American to the degree (TheTimes). Nevertheless, gives a contradictory impression as its real intent was 100,000 revoked visas and should be gone with determined by a federal court (TheTimes). Simultaneously H1-B visa holders are not the only ones targeted but their families do not go unnoticed as their visas are on the line as well, the amount of lives affected are estimated to be 65,000 and that is just in the UK (TheTimes). Chiluisa 4 An utter halt on the culmination of the H-1B visa program would dispel any competitive edge the United States has in terms of its I.T talent (NewYorkTimes). A way to work for a more technological sound nation begins with speaking out. Lobbying can start with access to a smart phone and web where you Tweet I, <your name>, hereby commit to the neveragain.tech pledge. Please stand with me and hold me to it.  (neveragain). Now for the technology inapt, ways to engage the issue with neveragain.tech of visa reform includes discussing with members of the community who share the same values. In addition, determine from there if discussing the issue at professional organizations is the correct route or inviting local advocacy speakers to in-person tech worker organized meetings. Neveragain.tech stands out as it is revered by a wide cross section of technology workers from startups to the largest technology companies who aim to stop U.S government from targeting people based on national origin. Another outlet to publicly express opposition of the visa reform includes visiting ww.fwd.us. On www.fwd.us, getting involved becomes a hands on approach by joining a local chapter and from there members voice disapproval to lawmakers about the urgent need for visa reform. The website also allows for a passive approach to support the cause by allowing members to create a digital love letter to an immigrant to show alliance with the immigrant community. And for the and Mlk of the United States, www.fwd.us provides a search tool that will allow members to see where their representative stands on the visa reform and provides contact information to voice opposition. In all, the executive draft order, Protecting American Jobs and Workers by Strengthening the Integrity of Foreign Worker Visa Programs, signing allows U.S companies zero opportunity to fill skills gap and compete globally in the tech world (NewYorkTimes). Silicon Valley, known for being a base to tech companies with global presence, would vanish if Chiluisa 5 the United States suddenly becomes reliant on its sub-par American workers and laagering STEM education, where both need sprucing (LinkedIn). Quite as overwhelmed are able foreign tech workers as they would see no chance at improving the United States economy through innovation and new found technological progress. Now it is not favorable to let a problematic issue like visa reform of this nature go unheard so involvement in the community and through social media can make big progress in this new wave of terror. For the United States to flourish in the technological industry, letting exceptional global citizens become involved in the center of new technology that is America would lead to an advantageous economy and let America reign of technological success (LinkedIn). Chiluisa 6 Works Cited Irving, Blake. Assured Cost of Clamping Down on H-1B LinkedIn, 1 Feb. 2017, www.linkedin.com/pulse/assured-cost-clamping-down-h-1b- genius-visas-blake-irving?articleId=6232397708972429312#comments- 6232397708972429312&trk=prof-post. Accessed 18 Apr. 2017. Irving, Blake. Assured Cost of Clamping Down on H-1B LinkedIn, 1 Feb. 2017, www.linkedin.com/pulse/assured-cost-clamping-down-h-1b-genius-visas-blake- irving?articleId=6232397708972429312#comments-6232397708972429312&trk=prof-post. Accessed 18 Apr. 2017. 65,000 Britons Working in US Face Crackdown on  The Times (London, England), 2017. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=edsgbe& AN=edsgcl.480204031&site=eds-live Chiluisa 7 http://www.livescience.com/28945-american-culture.html https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/assured-cost-clamping-down-h-1b-genius-visas-blake- irving?articleId=6232397708972429312#comments-6232397708972429312&trk=prof-post https://www.quora.com/What-are-the-biggest-Silicon-Valley-companies http://search.proquest.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/docview/1883596371?accountid=14745 https://www.theatlantic.com/business/archive/2017/03/tech-industry-trump/519780/ http://neveragain.tech/