Student 1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 30 April 2017 Making Change: With Coins or With This Country The United States has started to consider the effects of the one-cent coin on the economy and the public. As currency changes and prices rise, the one-cent coin, also known as the penny, has become less practical. Throughout history, many coins have circulated in and out of currencies, specifically the half cent coin used in the United States in 1857 (Gore, What Can You Buy). It is time for Americans to follow trends around the world and should drop the lowest denominational coin because it is costing Americans more money to make than what it is worth, it is not being used as much anymore, and it is costing businesses and customers more time than realized. One of the many problems that has plagued the penny is the cost to value ratio. Statistics demonstrate Americans are using a coin that costs almost double its value to make (Sanburn, Waiting for Change). To solve this problem, arguments have been proposed to drop the production costs by changing the metals of the penny. However, The United States Mint has already dramatically changed the metals that are used to produce the penny (DiChristopher, Time). As stated by the United States Mint Director in an interview with CNBC, the penny is made up of 97.5 percent zinc and only 2.5 percent copper (DiChristopher). Copper and zinc prices have increased; therefore, the production cost has increased to 1.8 cents (Gore). It is also argued that pennies could be made with cheaper metals (Sanburn). Although this idea Student 2 sounds promising, it would sacrifice the quality of the coin, which would shorten the pennies life tremendously. This means Americans would not be saving money because more pennies would have to be made to replace the one-cent coin as they fall apart or are no longer usable (Sanburn). Americans would also benefit if the penny was phased out of circulation because the tax to make the penny would vanish (Lewis and Yun, Penny Production). Jacqueline Lewis and Justin Yun claim, save $900 million in taxpayer money, which could be used to feed their families, start businesses, create jobs or donate to (Lewis and Yun, 5). If the penny production tax were eliminated, Americans can save money and put it to better use because Americans would be spending the money instead of losing it (Lewis and Yun). The second issue with the penny is it is not used enough in the market today. As the American economy evolves, the penny and even paper money has started to phase out because electronic payment methods are paving the way into the future (DiChristopher). Vending machines no longer accept pennies and businesses are starting to stop using them as well (Orr, Does Keeping the Penny). On top of that, the United States military has not used the penny for over thirty years because it is simply too heavy and not cost-effective to (Gore, It Makes 5). Jeff Gore, founder of Citizens to Retire the Penny, states same logic applies in the States, as five pennies weigh 12.5 grams compared to a 5-gram (Gore, 5). This is a significant weight difference that makes the penny less practical for not only the military and states to ship, but for the American consumer. Therefore, caring around five pennies is inefficient when a nickel will accomplish the same purpose; especially in a society that is moving towards electronic payment alternatives that weigh next to nothing (DiChristopher). The penny has already become a relic of the past for other countries. Countries, including Canada have decided to retire their one-cent coin (Chase, The One-Cent Solution). These Student 3 countries have concluded the coin was causing the economy to suffer more than it should. As a result, Canada has demonstrated the economic improvements when surveys confirm Canadians save over $11 million in tax money every year (Chase). However, these tax cuts have not been seen in America because over half of the population wants to keep the penny (Lewis and Yun). Kevin McManus wrote an article comparing Canada and the United States and he believes that Americans would not work well with retiring the penny because they do not work well with change (McManus, The Great Penny Elimination). Although Americans fear change, citizens must realize the results and improvements this change has brought throughout the world. Along with losing money, time is lost when using pennies (Orr). and the National Association of Convenience Stores estimated that handling pennies adds an average of 2 seconds to each cash as stated in a study conducted by Jeff Gore (Gore, 4). Gore concluded the economy loses roughly $2 billion dollars a year due to the time lost in these transactions (Gore). Both the customer and the cashier lose time in each transaction; adding up to about 120 million hours annually (Gore). If the penny is taken out of circulation it would make up for lost time and ultimately create a stronger flow of money into the economy by eliminating the tedious transaction time the coin inevitably brings with it at the register. Opponents who argue against phasing out the penny are concerned with inflation because they think the penny keeps prices down. (Gore). However, this is a according to the Citizens to Retire the US Penny website (Gore). This myth has been confirmed false when Robert Whaples, Chairman of the Economics Department at Wake Forest University, confirmed that rounding is neutral (Gore). Businesses can decide to round up or down and many have to take into account if costumers will buy something that is more expensive than before (Gore). In fact, Tom DiChristopher wrote in a CNBC article that businesses are more likely to round down Student 4 instead of upsetting the costumers (DiChristopher). Many other countries have discontinued their one-cent coin with little to no and America can do the same (Gore). It is also worth mentioning that not all transactions would be affected due to credit card and other electronic transactions (Orr). In fact, reality is that about 25 percent of all transactions are now in cash. The other 75 percent is in electronic forms of one type or  as stated by J Scott Orr in a Seattle Times article (Orr, 6). This means 75 percent of transactions would remain the same; prices would not be effected. If the transaction is electronic, then the price can still use one-cent intervals because no cash would be transacted. This will help keep the balance of prices and once again, help save time (Orr). The fear of change that Americans have is causing a halt in the decision making about the penny (Gore). Well-known Americans, including former president Barak Obama and YouTube sensation and author John Green support the idea of retiring the penny (Gore). They find it to be a coin that is no longer being used to its full potential (Gore). Both people have chosen to voice their opinions about the penny, and now it is time for other Americans to voice their opinions. Using facts and statistics, the idea about retiring the penny can expand. Creating a petition and taking it to local, state, or federal legislation can help speed up the process so Americans stop losing money. It is time for Americans to retire the penny because Americans would save money, time, and would not have to carry around extra weight. The penny has already started to fade out of circulation and is rumored to eventually be taken out completely in an effort to modernize the United States economy (Cavanaugh, Penny Reign). Americans need not fear the idea of change because all the evidence demonstrates the success other countries have benefitted by retiring the penny (Gore). It is time for change, to keep up with modern customs but it is up to Americans to Student 5 speak out. Legislation has not been passed because too many Americans support a coin that just lies around the house (DiChristopher). The penny is no longer useful, time should not be wasted, speak up and inform others to think about what retiring the penny can do for Americans. (Word Count: 1,357) Student 6 Works Cited Cavanaugh, Tim. Penny reign: least valuable coin  Reason, Jan. 2011, p. 70+. Opposing Viewpoints in Context, link.galegroup.com/apps/doc/A243525211/OVIC?u=tamp44898&xid=c7dec6e5. Accessed 2 Mar. 2017. Chase, Steven. The one-cent  Globe & Mail [Toronto, 30 Mar. 2012, p. A11. Opposing Viewpoints in Context, link.galegroup.com/apps/doc/A284637600/OVIC?u=tamp44898&xid=0dd84d73. Accessed 2 Mar. 2017. DiChristopher, Tom. Time to Kill the Penny: Fmr US Mint CNBC, CNBC, 30 Dec. 2015, www.cnbc.com/2015/12/30/its-time-to-kill-the-penny-fmr-us-mint director.html. Accessed 27 Mar. 2017. Gore, Jeff. Can You Buy with a Citizens to Retire the U.S. Penny, www.retirethepenny.org/. Accessed 27 Mar. 2017. Lewis, Jacqueline, and Justin Yun. Production Does Not Make The Chimes Biola University, Biola University, 5 Apr. 2016, chimes.biola.edu/story/2016/apr/05/penny-production-does-not-make-cents/. Accessed 27 Mar. 2017. McManus, Kevin. great penny Industrial Engineer 2013: 16. Academic OneFile. Web. 18 Feb. 2017. Student 7 Orr, J Scott. Keeping the Penny Still Make The Seattle Times, The Seattle Times Company, 4 June 2006, Accessed 27 Mar. 2017. Sanburn, Josh. Waiting for  Time, vol. 181, no. 4, 04 Feb. 2013, pp. 36-40. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=r m&AN=85504546&site=eds-live.