Student 1 Student Professor Thornton ENC 1102 26 April 2017 Healthy for Happiness Stigmas prevent people from forming their own opinions. Due to the negative stigmas surrounding depression and its treatments, many people refuse to seek treatments for their depression (Takashi et al 2). This leads to a handful of people that are refrained from living a healthy and happy life. Being happy means one is well and is living in contentment. People are not truly living in contentment if they are being engulfed by negative thoughts and have a lack of motivation. Seeking treatments and an education about depression will help people head towards the path of happiness. Being educated about depression should occur because it helps one seek treatments, it teaches the benefits about treating depression, and brings the opportunity of living a healthy and happy life. Additionally, those against depression and its treatments need to understand that having a stigma on this topic will jeopardize health and happiness (Takashi et al 2). Since depression is treatable, it is important to take advantage of the treatments to become happy and healthy. Companies that do not care for their mental health and those that do not care for treating depression do not realize the harm that they are making people go through. Performances in life depends on mental health state. By having a poor mental health state, people will have a lack of motivation to strive in life, work and relationships (World Health Organization). The stigma about depression and its treatments needs to be replace by an encouraging perspective to make people realize the positivity about treating depression. Student 2 Furthermore, depression have been one of the leading illnesses of the world with over million people (World Health Organization). It has also been predicted to affect of adult by year (Martin, Angela et al 50). As more people become affected by this illness, more people will be living in agony if the stigma continues to prevent people from realizing the benefits of treatments for depression. Depression can affect anyone for any reason. People, especially employers, should care about mental health because depression the work productivity (Martin et al 51). It has been studied that of leaders or have experiences working with people with depression. (Martin et al 51). If employers put effort into helping their employees seek treatment, it can also help the employer by having employees become more motivated to work their best. With employees working their best, it would mean better customers satisfaction. Depression not only affects the person experiencing depression, but also people around them as well. Despite depression being a social stigma to many, many stakeholders such as the Anxiety and Depression Association of America (ADAA), promotes the idea of people being educated about depression and its treatments to encourage people to seek treatments. Based on a survey, the lack of education about depression and its treatments mixed with the stigma against depression caused of people to refuse (Van Voorhees et al 750). Stakeholder like the ADAA promote treating depression with treatments such as medication and cognitive therapy-based treatment to help guide people down a positive path instead of paths such as suicide. Japan has even been rated ninth highest suicide rate because of their high numbers of people affected by depression (Takashi et al 2). Suicides can be avoided if society become educated on the benefits of treatments and stops putting pressure on those with depression. Student 3 Suicides can affect everyone. Imagining have life without a loved one becomes heartbreaking, thus people who carry the negative stigma need to rethink their perspective about depression. Mark Henick, from his Ted Talk We Choose talks about his previous path down towards suicide due to his intense depression (Henick). He understood pain and the desire to end their life due to being depressed. However, he found hope when people kept providing support for him. Support is a way to treat depression as it helps people realize they are not alone and there are many people who love and need them. Without the support system, Mark could have been dead. This harsh reality is what people need to truly see about depression as death could happen to a loved one due to no support and treatment. Depression takes time to heal, however, the time differs for everyone. Hunter Kent in her Ted Talk, depression: How I became my own talks people through her journey of depression that started within her early days of high school (Kent). Despite her years of no hope for the future, when she found people to talk to and lean on, she found hope and began seeking treatments to bring life back into her life. Not only do people find ways to authentically live again after seeking treatments, but they also find ways to overcome the stigma surrounding depression. Ali Shulte came to terms with her depression and decided to fight against it. In her Ted Talk, The Real Me: The Stigma Surrounding witnesses story about how she hid her depression due to the stigma (Shulte). Coming to an agreement that she has depression encouraged her to find a way to fight it. Even though she is not completely healed, she is on the path towards happiness. Depression is not a simple cold that can be cured with medication within forty-eight hours. However, it is treatable with support and proper treatments. Student 4 People and employers with such stigma need to acknowledge the importance of a health mental state. Depression causes many high death rates even though there are ways to help one heal from depression (Takashi et al 2). It is not weak to be ill. It can make a person stronger when he/she can overcome a challenge. Many people are afraid to seek help because it is not acceptable or their work place do not care for mental health, thus does not provide any resources (Martin et al 52). Society needs to realize that by helping people become mentally healthy, success rates are more likely to rise due to the immense motivation people will have to work with a healthy mental state. Companies that do not care for mental health need to take action and provide their employees with a mental health program promotion to ensure the employees are mentally happy to put their best effort in to their work for the company (Martin et al 51). Companies are not the only ones that need to promote healthy living, but also people who have the negative stigmas need to attend workshops to learn about depression and its treatment. Obtaining a simple education about depression and it treatments will shine light to those who oppose depression and its treatments because of social pressure (Takashi et al 7). While being social accepted is important to many, having a healthy mental state is the only way to strive through life with happiness and motivation. Ultimately, depression is an illness that can affect anyone, thus everyone needs to be prepared to decide how to face depression. While opinions can stay opinions, it is important to realize the importance on treating depression for an opportunity of a happy, healthy life. The only way to realize the importance of treatments is to have an education about depression and its treatments. By having an education about depression, it can lead one to many pathways to success and happiness. Happiness is achieved through contentment and loved ones can be happy with a healthy mental state. (WC:1249) Student 5 Work Cited Anxiety and Depression Association of America. Anxiety and Depression Association of America, 2010, https://www.adaa.org . 14 Apr 2017.  World Health Organization. World Health Organization, n.d. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. Henick, Mark. We Choose YouTube, uploaded by Tedx Talks, 1 Oct 2013, https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=D1QoyTmeAYw . 14 Apr 2017 Kent, Hunter. depression: How I became my own YouTube, uploaded by Tedx Talks, 21 Jan 2015. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Rv9SwZWVkOs. 14 Apr 2017. Martin, Angela, et al. Managing Employees with Mental Health Issues: Identification of Conceptual and Procedural Knowledge for Development within Management Education  Academy of Management Learning & Education, vol. 14, no. 1, Mar. 2015, pp. 50-68. EBSCOhost, doi:10.5465/amle.2012.0287. 14 Apr 2017. Shulte, Ali. Real Me: The Stigma Surrounding YouTube, uploaded by Tedx Talks, 1 Jun 2016, https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uk-8T7p2WMQ . 3 Apr 2017. Van Voorhees, Benjamin W., et al. Attitudes and Illness Factors Associated with Low Perceived Need for Depression Treatment among Young  Social Psychiatry & Psychiatric Epidemiology, vol. 41, no. 9, Sept. 2006, pp. 746-754. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1007/s00127-006-0091-x. 2. 14 Apr 2017. Student 6 Takashi, Yakushi, et al. Usefulness of an Educational Lecture Focusing on Improvement in Public Awareness of and Attitudes toward Depression and Its  BMC Health Services Research, vol. 17, 10 Feb. 2017, pp. 1-9. EBSCOhost, 14 Apr 2017.