Student 1 David Kostitsyn Richard F. Gaspar ENC 1102 16 April 2015 The fact about you clothes that you know. At the present moment on our planet every person constantly renew his or her clothit buying all kinds of clothes. In the modern world, you just need to follow the regularly updated canons of fashion, and simply update the worn items. Few people thought about the proper recycling of textiles, very few people know what happens to the thing after it gets into the garbage truck. It is time to tell people the truth and tell about the destiny of detached items of clothing and draw public attention to this issue. According to the modern fashion website (fashionunited) people are about clothes overwhelming majority of average consumers obviously did not know about include the following statistical figures: overall global apparel market is valued at 3 trillion dollars, 3,000 billion, and accounts for 2 percent of the GDP, with over 80 billion pieces of clothing and footwear produced annually worldwide. The Americans generate around 15 million tons of used textile waste a year, the amount which has doubled over the last 20 years. In the USA, one consumer tends to throw away 80 lbs. of used clothing. Now that synthetic fabrics have mostly replaced natural ones, it may take hundreds of years for such waste to decompose. Involving awareness in the mass consciousness of this problem leads to better results Overconsumption keeps becoming a world scale issue, and its solution is going to be versatile in many ways. Domestic household waste is a particular cause for concern, Student 2 especially when it comes to used textiles. Majority of consumers have wondered where the litter, rubbish and waste go after being dumped. Along with urban sprawl and overconsumption, littering vast territories with municipal waste and turning wildlife areas into dumpsites has long been seen as a burning issue of the world scale. In the developed countries, the disposal of used clothing keeps giving more causes for alarm than before. According to U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (https://www.epa.gov/ ), American citizens discard over 10 million tons of textiles on a yearly basis; maximum 15 percent of them is reclaimed for recycling, which signifies the rest are dumped in landfills. This is where the harmful effects occur, as decomposing clothing releases methane, which is among the most harmful greenhouse gases. Thus, it remains a significant contributor to global warming. Used fabrics also contain dyes and chemicals that gradually penetrate into the soil and contaminate groundwater. Another huge issue is subsequent shortage in the amount of space. Ten million-ton volume of dumped textiles clogs up 115 cubic meters of landfill space, and this is only a year volume. Major part of such fabrics can be recyclable, provided that it is collected on time. Secondhand clothing is widely demanded in numerous developing countries; besides, the fabrics can be recycled into furniture padding and insulation / wiping rags. The textile industry is one of the most pollutants releasing industries of the world. It releases range of pollutants that do harm to water, soil, and air. As a result, lands are made barren in the long run. Surveys show that textile manufacturers emit hazardous waste into the nearby lands, thus contributing 20 percent of all fresh water pollution. Sadly, enough, clothes overconsumption is becoming a trivial subject. Practically every piece of clothing has impact on resources, energy and pollution. The root of this Student 3 overconsumption lies in affordability. Clothes have become more available worldwide, and average consumers tend to believe they are saving money when buying cheap clothing, which is self-deception, since lower prices mean low quality, so the life of such garments is definitely shorter. After that, they are either reused or recycled. In this paper, value of recycling is going to be highlighted. This approach to cope with textile waste is to be seen as a beneficial activity in terms of environment and economy. Such a technology is able to help avoid pollution as well as reduce the consumption of energy during the production of new clothing. Overall, recycling old clothes is to be positioned as another step on the way to solid waste reduction. SMART organization states its objective as applying the technological know-how to make the most out of used clothes. According to it, 85 % of all clothing ends up in the dumpsites, thus being totally useless, even though applying basic recycling technologies would help to utilize them. It is absolutely relevant to estimate SMART official website in order to receive the proper impression. SMART, which stands for materials and recycled positions itself as an international trade association and promotes worldwide the opportunities of innovative methods in recycling textiles. Participation in recycling is considered to be social responsibility, and SMART presents it as a way of making money as well. In fact, they have been successfully coping with these goals throughout decades, since 1932. Thus, it can be confidently stated that the organization is taking up the challenge of making average consumers more environmentally aware by encouraging everyone to prevent the overall cluttering caused by the growing volume of refuse and waste. SMART company is involved into socially beneficial activities. Not only does it apply appropriate technologies to give second life to used textiles but also Student 4 promotes active participation of average consumers by getting across the message like not pretend it does not concern you: we are all in the same SMART is not alone in their initiative: in the state of Connecticut, Department of Energy and Environmental Protection has long been running campaigns in both recycling (and actually reusing) for second-hand textiles. Particularly it claims that at most 5% of used clothes prove to be unusable, while 45% are sold as second apparel, 20% are reprocessed intro fiber, and 30% can be remade into technical cloths. It is worth mentioning that such extended range of functions is a guarantee of secure direct employment. Evidently, in the world where there are fewer and fewer biodegradable substances around, any attempts to promote recycling and prevent the issues of over-cluttering (the inevitable process that goes side-by-side with urban sprawl) are supposed to pay off. To summarize, it is worth noting that everyone is involved in this problem and everyone should know what is being done (WC 1192) Student 5 Work cited Alamanda, Dini. Conflict Resolution Using Graph Model for Conflict Resolution: Case Study Textile Industries Waste  Proceedings of the 3rd International Seminar and Conference on Learning Organization (isclo-15). N.p., n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Burtynsky, Edward. Edward Burtynsky: My wish: Manufactured landscapes and green education TED Talk TED.com. N.p., n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Circle Textiles  Circle Economy. N.p., n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Council for Textile  Council for Textile Recycling. N.p., n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Norris, Katherine Lucy. The life-cycle of clothing : recycling and the efficacy of materiality in contemporary urban  British Library EThOS - Search and order theses online. University College London (University of London), 01 Jan. 1970. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. RB, Chavan. Environmental Sustainability through Textile  OMICS International. OMICS International, 26 May 2014. Web. 09 Apr. 2017.