Gonzalez 1 Leidy Gonzalez Professor Ryan ENC1102.045S17 25 th April 2017 Sex education in our society Sex education is and has always been a topic no one wants to talk about but it is something very important we need to discuss as a society. Sex education helps our youth become more aware of their own sexuality and highlights the importance of being aware of their own reproductive health. An active and productive sex education program is proven to help reduce the amount of and unwanted pregnancies in our society. This is Planned mission, to help rid the common myths of sexuality and reproduction through the way of sex education. The effects of an abstinence only program is hurting our youth and our society at a large scale. Most abstinence teachings or just plain exclude imperative 1.Advocates . This means Information like how to use contraception, dispelling myths about how one can and cannot get pregnant, and the importance of inclusion in our society. Most Abstinence classes are also tied to only a certain religion and therefore are not inclusive to people not of that particular faith. Religious abstinence also tends to blame and shame its particular audience for having thoughts and urges that are completely normal and human. Planned mission is to help the populace grow towards being sexually healthy no matter what faith. Planned Parenthood has many ways of communication if someone were to have sex related questions. Planned Parenthood has their own website with contact information and they have their own social media that is constantly putting out helpful facts about sex (@PlannedParenthood). Planned Parenthood Gonzalez 2 is making effort to reach out to youth on many forms of media but if we are just skipping over important reproduction information because of the fear of our youth then we have already lost as a society. Our youth has the right to reproductive health that no matter what their faith. Through Planned Parenthood our youth can have access to accurate and helpful education they need to be prepared for the intimate relationships they will have in the future. Continuously, abstinence programs also skip over the use of contraceptives and this severely hurts our youth when they feel they are ready to have sex. Planned Parenthood helps you find the right contraceptives for your own personal lifestyle. Many people of all ages, gender, race, and sexuality, use contraception for many different reasons. Most women use methods like birth control to help with heavy menstrual cycles and painful cramps. There are many different kinds of contraception and they all cater to different life styles. Condoms are the most popular form of contraception. This is because when used properly, condoms have the highest chance to reduce unwanted pregnancies and the transmission of HIV and other 2.FamilyPlanning While it may seem like the pill and condoms are the only two options Planned Parenthood also has a lot of information of other contraceptives that are not so widely known. Contraceptives like the shot, an IUD, the ring, patch, and even n implant. These other forms of birth control are just one of the ways we can make our youth aware of the power they have to make choices that are best for them. The importance of being sexually aware can be the difference between a good time and a regretful experience that can follow you for your life. easy to point out that societies see a dramatic fall in unwanted pregnancies, and a drop in abortions with a productive education program. Even so that Siecus reports sex education was associated with a 50% lower risk of teen National p1 Sex education programs like the ones that Planned Parenthood offers helps the community Gonzalez 3 overcome very common sex myths that even some adults into their believe. Planned Parenthood helps disprove sex myths like get pregnant the first or that get on the Myths PP Pg.1 Silly misunderstandings like these about sex hurt our youth. Planned Parenthood even has their own page on the most common sex myths and the real facts behind them. Sex myths These fictional ideas about sex are one of the main causes of sexually transmitted diseases and unplanned pregnancies that can lead to abortions. Having a class detailing how contraceptives work helps eliminate many of the scary aspects of sex and helps highlight some of the not so well known facts about safe sex. Planned sex education is also very proud of being inclusive to the LGBTQ community. Classes that cater to reproductive health for gay, lesbian, and trans youth is very important and it often gets over looked because of the complexity and the needed detail. Inclusion also helps dispel myths of what homosexual sex is and the common misconceptions about regarding gay sex. A class even touching base on these aspects will open a lot of doors for people in the LGBTQ community and make them feel respected, important, and valued as a member of their own community. While many of you are thinking so You might think that this does not concern you because you have kids or already old enough to know the information you need. But there are many people within varying ages that have all of these myths about sex still imbedded in their brain because they lacked proper sex education growing up. Awareness and basic information could be the difference between the overwhelming numbers of abortions, and unwanted pregnancies. The absence of reproductive health is adversely affecting our communities and we see it every day. We are constantly seeing a lot of attention towards the devastating amount of teenagers pregnant, so much so that we even have television shows like Gonzalez 4 and and The Guttmacher institute even says that U.S. rate for teenage pregnancies is still one of the highest in the developed This is because of the lack of information our youth has about safe sex. We must get together as a society and move towards normalizing the idea of being able to gather sex information in a timely manner. Even if you see how this issue personally affects you it affects the society you live in. Better health care information makes for a smarter and safer community. Safe sex is something that our youth should have access to. Safe sex can range from using contraception, condoms or birth control, or just plain abstinence. It is just important to share the options that our youth has instead of trying to force them to fit into one solid box of what we think sex should be. Thanks to Planned Parenthood its clients know about the range of reproductive options they have. Just a simple place that our community can find sexual inclusion is enough to help keep the negative consequences of unsafe sex farther away. One easy way to get on board is to simply go on Planned Parenthoods website and sign the petition to support and stand behind their mission to bring sex education to everyone. As a society we must weigh in and be a part of the discussion of how we should educate our populace in the manner of reproductive health. What your family and children will choose is up to you but we need to open all the options for everyone. Right now you can call your local state representative and let them know that you care about our future and that you back up Planned Parenthoods idea of inclusive sex education. A step towards sex education is a step towards a safer and happier society. Gonzalez 5 Works Cited Youniversitytv.com. N.p., n.d. Web. 19 Apr. 2017. https://www.youniversitytv.com/college- tips/sex-education-schools-pros-cons/ Birth control and family  MedlinePlus Medical Encyclopedia. A.D.A.M, 25 Apr. 2016. Web. 25 Apr. 2017. <https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/001946.htm>. Comprehensive Sex Education  Advocatesforyouth.org. Advocates For Youth, Sept. 2009. Web. 25 Apr. 2017. <http://www.advocatesforyouth.org/publications/1487>. Teen  Guttmacher Institute. N.p., 01 Apr. 2017. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. <https://www.guttmacher.org/united-states/teens/teen-pregnancy?gclid=CLGa0fq- zdMCFVQHhgodwZMHtg>. Support  SIECUS. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. <http://www.siecus.org/index.cfm?fuseaction=Feature.showFeature&featureID=1041>.