Dietl, 1 Katrina Dietl Professor Robert Ryan ENC 1102 30 April 2017 Stand Up for Mental Illness Mental illness is not a common topic for many people to have conversations about. However, mental illness should not be a topic that is dodged or frowned upon. The National Alliance on Mental Illness (NAMI) has created an environment where a person who has or knows someone who has a mental illness can go to receive information that he/she may need. Even though we have an organization like this, and many ones similar to it, there is still stigma and misrepresentation about mental illnesses and it in turns creates an environment where mentally ill people may feel misunderstood, shamed, or disgraced. There should be less stigma towards mentally ill people and it should be socially acceptable to talk about different mental illnesses someone may encounter. Many people may know someone in their life who suffers from some type of mental illness, whether it has been diagnosed or not. According to NAMI, 1 in 5 adult Americans (about 43.8 million or 18.5%) experiences mental illness in a given year. This means that in an average graduating class of about 500 people, 100 of those that are graduating may have a mental illness. NAMI also states that serious mental illnesses affect approximately 1 in 25 adult Americans (about 9.8 million or 4.0%) in a given year. By using a real-world demonstration of this statistic with population of 12,336,038 adults (Infoplease), then there are approximately 493,441 adults in Florida that suffer from a serious mental illness. These more serious mental illnesses would substantially interfere with or limit one or more major life activity for that Dietl, 2 person. Substance use disorder is the most common disorder in America, with it effecting 20.2 million adults (about 50.5%) and about 10.2 million adults have had a co-occurring mental illness. (National Alliance on Mental Illness) If you added up all of the people that you know and divided that number in half then that amount of people would be about the number of people that you might know that suffers from substance use disorder. Then if you took that remaining number and divided it by two again, that number would be approximately the amount of people in your life that might have had a co-occurring mental illness. While so many people suffer from mental illness, they also become part of a stigmatized group. According to Peter Byrne, stigma has become a marker for hostile experiences and he states that the first sign of hostility towards mentally ill people is the sense of shame. Even though the everyday human has evolved through the years, our perceived perspective on mental illness has not followed this evolution. This unchanged view of mental illness presents the illness as a sign of weakness. This mentality is then shown towards the mentally ill which results in self- stigmatization, which is when a person is aware of the stereotypes towards them and agrees with them. (Byne) Once a mentally ill person starts to self-stigmatize, they start to lose their self- esteem and self-efficacy. Most of the time, a mentally ill person self-stigmatizes because they already believed in the stigma towards the mental illness even before they have been diagnosed. When a person believes the stigma is relevant to themselves, they start to limit their social networks and opportunities because they believe they will be rejected. This belief of being rejected leads to the isolation, unemployment, and lowered income for the mentally ill. (Corrigan) Some of the most important people in your life could have suffered from some type of mental illness and the illness could have been as common as depression or as severe as Dietl, 3 schizophrenia. If one of your loved ones suffered from mental illness, would not you want to help and create a stigma-free world for them? Luckily, there are many ways to make a change towards creating a stigma-free world. Some organizations that you can get involved with to make this change are National Alliance on Mental Illness, National Institute of Mental Health, and American Psychiatric Association. If you would rather work on a local scale, some organizations in the Tampa area include the Federation of Families for Mental Health, Hillsborough County Chapter and United Cerebral Palsy of Tampa Bay (The National Directory of Family- Run & Youth-Guided Organizations for Behavioral Health). All of these organizations would accept donations or volunteers to support their work. Mental Illness is not a common topic and people who may suffer from a mental illness will most likely be looked down on. These people need someone to stand up for them, even when they do not feel like they could do it themselves. It is the job to create the social environment where anyone is accepted and no one is set aside because they might be different, even if the difference is not as noticeable as other differences. If the power of the citizen was enough to change the mindset towards the LGBTQ+ community and changed how the masses view their lifestyle, then why do the masses still stigmatize an illness that could affect anyone? Dietl, 4 Works Cited National Alliance on Mental Health. NAMI, www.nami.org/. Accessed 30 April 2017. The National Directory of Family-Run & Youth-Guided Organizations for Behavioral Health. Child & Family Studies. familyorgdirectory.fmhi.usf.edu/stateOrgList.cfm?getstate=FL. Accessed 30 April 2017. Infoplease. Demographic Statistics. www.infoplease.com/us/comprehensive-census-data- state/demographic-statistics-58. Accessed 30 April 2017. Byne, Peter. of Mental Illness and Ways of Diminishing BJPsych Advances. apt.rcpsych.org/content/6/1/65. Accessed 30 April 2017. Corrigan, Patrick, and Jonathon E. Larson, and Molly Sells, and Amy C. Watson. in People With Mental Schizophrenia Bulletin: The Journal of Psychoses and Related Disorders. academic.oup.com/schizophreniabulletin/article/33/6/1312/1898943/Self-Stigma-in- People-With-Mental-Illness. Accessed 30 April 2017.