Annis 1 Nicholas Wayne Annis Mariama M. Changamire ENC 1102 13 April 2017 Project 3 The best way moving forward to support a sustainable community is to rely on a mix of both nonrenewable and renewable energy sources. This would help to make a smooth transition into a society that runs completely on renewable energy rather than a hard transition that could have negative impacts on the global economy. In the end, fossil fuels will be use strictly as a backup in the case of emergencies and hopefully as technologies continue to advance, fossil fuels will not even be need in situations such as that. In transitioning to a more green society there are things that can be changed on the industrial level, the political level, as well as on the individual person to person level. Every sector of industry can make changes that would help to reduce consumption of fossil fuels, on the political level legislation and laws can help to make transition to renewable energy sources through subsidies, and people can learn to practice more energy efficient behaviors as well as buying more high efficiency products. Over the last several years the emissions that are put out each year by fossil fuels has grown by an enormous 60% and this is for the total world carbon dioxide emissions 1171). This is an astonishing leap in the amount of carbon dioxide that is put out each year, however carbon dioxide is just one of the greenhouse gases that is put out into the atmosphere. The main source of this is the current way in which the majority of the world produces its energy through the burning of fossil fuels such as coal and oil. At the moment to IEA, Annis 2 carbon capture sequestration and storage is expected to enter into commercial use by (Hodzic 1172). Which would help to bring emissions of coal power plants much closer to zero carbon dioxide emissions around 15% of electricity coming from CCS-equipped plants by (Hodzic 1172). This something like this serving as a main base or power reserves, overall it could help to bring down the amount of pollutants that are put out each year. Car are also a large contributor to the amount of carbon dioxide that is put out each year due in large part to the types of fuel they run on. In the case of car there are already several solutions that are being implemented in some locations across the world. For example in Brazil use of ethanol was implemented, and since the year of 2008 biodiesel has been used as an additive in diesel Something like this can be slowly implemented over time to remove the use of fossil fuel entirely or very near to zero and when industrial processes switch to biofuels in can cause great cuts to the percentage of carbon emissions each year. The only issue with biodiesel however is that it highly susceptible to oxidation due to its chemical nature, but antioxidants can be added to the fuel as a way to help prevent this from occurring. In some situations making a switch to more renewable sources can lead to power outputs very similar to hybrid systems, in Shizuishan City, China a solar only system would be capable of putting out around 51 GWh while a solar-coal hybrid system would be able to reach around 60 GWh annually. 1974). The capabilities of solar are advancing and eventually will be at equal footing to a hybrid system, however as it stands a hybrid system produces more energy and is still an effective way to lower carbon emissions. On of the things that has been considered the root cause of the global increase in temperatures is the increase of greenhouse gases (GHG) put into the atmosphere each year. The Annis 3 rising of global temperatures can have all sorts of hazardous effects on the planet, such as rising sea levels, extinction of animals, and the loss of vegetation. One option at the moment that can help to reduce the amount of GHG emissions put into the atmosphere is the use of biomass co-firing which would also mitigate some of the negative impact on the environment. Something like this also has the advantage of having a benefit in the cost to retrofit non co-firing plants as well as the flexibility of fuel supply. (Agbor 1). This type of system relies the blending of both a combustion of biomass and either natural gas or coal as a means to produce electricity. By not relying on coal or natural gas along the amount of GHGs produced are able to be cut significantly and it also for a somewhat more smooth transition to a system that would one day be a fully renewable ran one. There are different option when it comes to coal firing, one concern of this over simply burning coal would be the cost of all of this. Of the options that exist co-firing is the most straightforward and least expensive option for co-firing biomass with coal, indirect co-firing can best handle higher biomass co-firing (Agbor 1). Not only are these an economically feasible alternative to the current system but they would also help to reduce the GHG production that is considered the main root cause to global warming and climate change. Although short term it may seem that climate change has little impact on the world, in the long term it will have devastating effects that will ultimately change the face of the earth as we know it. Zero emission plants would be the ideal for achieving less GHGs, but at the moment the most economically feasible are hybrid plants that help to transition closer to zero emission plants and promote advancements and continued research. In some locations stand-alone hybrid plants can be economically ideal due to the fact that in some locations it may be more difficult to transport fuel to the plants and a grid is not feasible. (Petrakopoulou 6). Annis 4 A reliance on fossil fuels will only hurt us in the long run, however a hard switch to fully renewable sources for energy is just not yet feasible. What needs to be down is a more widespread adoption of the various types of hybrid system and fuel sources such as has been down in Brazil and several European countries. This is the best way to transition nations closer to a zero emission system and can be achieved through laws and regulations, by talking to local governments to push for these types of measures. The Paris agreement was an example in the right direction and for the countries involved it will help to bring down the GHGs through the use of regulation. By talking to local government representatives can get an idea of what it is that the people want and if that is green energy then they will speak up for that. The use of car that runs on biofuels is a great way to help reduce the amount of carbon emissions that are put out each year. One car does not make much of a difference, but a whole country switching to a biofuel for all of their industrial practices as well as the cars that people drives, that makes a difference. Annis 5 Works Cited Amaral, Beatriz Silva, Novaes, Moreira, Ramos, Maria da Klaus V., Neto, Francisco Radler de Aquino, Gioda, Adriana, profile of pollutants generated by a stationary engine fueled with diesel, biodiesel, and Elsevier Ltd, Journal of Aerosol Science October 2016 100:155-163 Ezinwa Agbor, Adetoyese Olajire Oyedun, Xiaolei Zhang, Amit Kumar. Integrated techno-economic and environmental assessments of sixty scenarios for co-firing biomass with coal and natural  Vol. 169, 1 May 2016, Fontina Petrakopoulou. On the economics of stand-alone renewable hybrid power plants in remote , Conversion and Vol. 118, 15 June 2016, Hodzic, Nihad, Smajevic, Izet, Kazagic, Anes. of co-firing coal with biomass and natural gas - on track of sustainable solution for future thermal power Science; 2016, Vol. 20 Issue 4, p1171-1184, 14p Yawen Zhao,Hui Hong,Hongguang Jin. Effectiveness analysis of solar replacement scenarios in a typical hybrid  Sources Part A: Recovery, Utilization & Environmental Vol. 38 Issue 13, 2016, p1969-1974, 6p Word Count 1,208 Annis 6