Student 1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 16 April 2017 The Need for Feed: Reduction of Food Waste Food waste is a recurring issue that is happening in every part of the world (FAOUA). It is a critical issue because as the population grows, the amount of food people need to survive decreases. Along with the issue of food waste comes with other problems deriving from food waste. These problems include the amount of food being thrown out, the amount of pollution it increases, and the starving people that should not be starving, and they need to be reduced or at least attempt to be reduced (Aubrey). To reduce the amount of food waste, Stakeholders such as ReFED are focused on using larger companies to work together on attacking the issue. Stakeholders are people or a group who have an interest or concern in something such as a business. The reduction of food waste should occur because of there are a great deal of materials wasted that other people need, plus the environmental and economic loss that comes with the issue of food waste such as an increase in pollution, increase in wasted material, and the increase of people that are starving. It is crucial for everyone, not just stakeholders, to participate and adopt this position because it is essential that the amount of food that is wasted is reduced. The reason why it is important is because reducing food waste will also decrease the amount of pollution in the air as it takes away from the release of greenhouse gasses that the wasted food emits (Vared). By using or joining larger companies that participate in the reduction of food waste, jobs are also being created. This is another reason why even regular people who are not part of large companies that are concerned about food waste should participate in the reduction of food waste. As a regular Student 2 person, one can participate in the reduction of food waste by either joining a stakeholder or finding a non-profit organization and volunteering to become engaged in reducing the issue such as distributing food or packaging them for someone to distribute the food. If more people do the same thing, the power of compounding will be shown. There are so many cases of food waste that are important such as the Shoshone method of hunting their food (Parry). This method consists of frightening entire herds of buffalos, stampeding their way, falling off cliffs, plummeting to their deaths (Parry). Now this is a case of how some people are very wasteful of their food. The Shoshone Indians are wasteful of their food but they can also be used as an example of how they are smart with their food. When the Indians acquire the buffalo, they try to use as much of the animal as possible. While the meat of the animal was used for food, parts such as the hide was used for clothing, shoes and such, bones were turned into tools, horns as cups, stomach as cooking containers, and bladder as pouches (Parry). Regardless, they do not waste what they have been given and they try to find different ways in how they can utilize what is left. More people need to learn from them in how they try to use everything they can. If that is not enough information for someone to get involved, what if decreasing the amount of food waste will actually increase employment rate. right. Larger companies and businesses can create jobs for people to aid in the reduction of food waste. Based on research, it is probable that standardized donation regulation can potentially increase up to $2,863 per ton in financial benefit (Vared). This means that safe handling of food and the donation of food through federal policy is beneficial to not only to those that are receiving the food, but also to the ones giving so a win-win situation. If more people knew about this piece of information, more people would do it. Another number that ReFED predicts is that by conducting campaigns with Student 3 the purpose of raising awareness and educating consumers about ways to save money and prevent wasted food have a financial benefit of up to $4,531 per ton (Parry). There are so many opportunities out there for a non-engaged stakeholder to participate and act in something as important as the reduction of food waste. Remember, as the number of food waste goes up, so do the number of deaths due to starvation. These lives that are lost can be easily avoided just by helping out any organization who are trying to reduce food waste. It does not have to be an organization, a person can go down a street and donate food to any homeless, hungry person in need. To another scale, it even have to be a hungry person, just donate the food to someone who will consume it. If that is too much effort, then package the food and save it for a later time. There are so many ways to conserve food and it is also easy where anyone and everyone can do it. Regardless of whether it is a stakeholder or not, everyone should be contributing to the reduction of food waste in their everyday life as it will not only benefit the saver financially, but also benefit those that need it. The world should act as a community together rather than dividing ourselves by color or races. If the bodies of two different races are seen through in x-ray, everyone is the same underneath. The failure to actively confront this problem will cause an increase of so many other things that are harmful to the environment such as pollution and the waste of water. To summarize the main points, it is important to act and play a role in the reduction of food waste as soon as possible. There are so many different non-profit organizations that want volunteers who are passionate and caring towards mankind. be the majority of people who say they care, yet do anything about it. are only two days in a year that nothing can be done. One is called Yesterday and the other is called Dalai Lama XIV (Word Count: 1291) Student 4 Works Cited Aubrey, Allison. The Average American Ate (Literally) A Ton This  NPR. NPR, 31 Dec. 2011. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Estimating and addressing food  N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Food, Save The. Save The Food 5 ways to revive  Savethefood.com. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Hunger and World  Poverty.com - Hunger and World Poverty. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Key facts on food loss and waste you should  Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. hotel guests to reduce food waste as a environmental  hotel guests to reduce food waste as a environmental measure. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Parfitt, Julian, Mark Barthel, and Sarah Macnaughton. Food waste within food supply chains: quantification and potential for change to  Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society B: Biological Sciences. The Royal Society, 27 Sept. 2010. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Reasons for household food waste with special attention to  Reasons for household food waste with special attention to packaging. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. The food waste hierarchy as a framework for the management of food surplus and food  The food waste hierarchy as a framework for the management of food surplus and food waste. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Vared, Sarah. ReFED Rethink Food  ReFED Rethink Food Waste. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.