Student 1 Student Professor Richard Gaspar ENC 1102 5 March 20 Should the federal minimum wage be increased to $15. The topic of an increase in minimum wage to $15 can be thought of as a delegate policy battle, where some people are pulling the baton for an increase while some people are pushing to stop such an action. It is principled that increasing the minimum wage to $15 will bring about benefits to the working population thereby improving their lives. However, the real notion to be questioned is how long would such benefits last. On this account, one may find that increasing the minimum wage from $7.25 dollars to $15 dollars would be a drastic hike in labor price, making it impossible for businesses to meet the wage range. Thereby, creating more harm than good to the entry Level working population. By definition a minimum wage is the lowest rate of pay at which a worker may be legally employed (Richard). Usually, it is earned by entry level workers who are low skilled or have little education entering the workforce (HeathFeild 1). Thus, increasing the wage rate of these workers would lead to unemployment. This is because when the minimum wage goes up, employers are forced to either pass costs on to consumers in the form of higher prices, or cut costs elsewhere, leading to the loss of jobs for  About the minimum ). Some people think that increasing the minimum wage will help to improve the poverty margin; however, Economist Sabia Joseph have proven this thought to be a myth and show that  individuals in economic hardship do not work so they benefit from higher  Effects of the minimum wage ). Similarly, a minimum wage increase can have a disastrous domino effect on the economy, decreasing profit through an increased Student 2 production cost. Unless employers are ready to build a bunch of wage compression into its system, the impact of the minimum wage increase is going to ripple through entire  (Giardina 2). Although Fightfor$15 claims that the current minimum wage is unjust and an increase would bring employees many benefits, an increase to $15 is not feasible for the economy. Since it will create unemployment, poverty and harm the economy. Most often it is people who are unaware of the facts about a minimum wage that pushes for such an increase; however, educating these individuals on the long term effects and ways to move out of the minimum wage range would help them to understand why this is such a bad idea. One major factor that makes increasing the minimum wage to $15 so detrimental to entry-level workers is that it cost jobs. Striking up the minimum wage to $15 brings extra production cost, which could be difficult for employers to offset. Resultantly, this cost is reflected onto their workers. According to Employment Policy Institute, employees earning the minimum wage are mostly young, low skilled individuals who may have just finish college working in small businesses  About the minimum ). So if the minimum wage increases, these small businesses are to either pass costs on to consumers in the form of higher prices, or cut costs to less full-service and more customer About the minimum ). When this happens fewer becomes jobs available for the entry- level working population meaning less working hours or unemployment. Studies show that every 10 percent increase in the minimum wage, teen employment goes down by 1.5 (Mantel 71). To add to this point, an increase to $15 may make it even more difficult for these low skilled workers to enter the workforce as their pay increases with their responsibilities remaining the same. Economic models of competitive firms shows that wage increase reduces demand for labor by firms and the least valued workers are fired first and hired  (Burkhauser Student 3 16). This goes to shows how much advocates such as Fightfor$15 should consider these unplanned outcomes when pushing for such a cause. Not only does a minimum wage increase to $15 cut jobs but it does nothing for the poverty margin. Economist Sabia Joseph proved in research that increases in the minimum wage had no relationship to the poverty   Effects of the minimum ). Since individuals who are in economic hardship do not work, they will not benefit from higher wages. Additionally, the fact that poverty is dependent on a income, minimum wage earners are not necessarily from poor families (Neumark 144). Studies conducted by economist Gramlich shows that most low-waged workers are teenagers from high income Only about 13.2 percent of workers earning less than $7.25 were in poor families (Nuemark 145), therefore, increasing the minimum wage have little to no effect on poverty. One may say that the minimum wage is not only earned by teenagers and that it can improve the life of older entry level workers. While this is true, it may not be for a long time. A logical reasoning is that because a minimum wage increase causes unemployment for entry level workers it has a domino effect, declining income, which triggers an increase in  Minimum wage pros and ). With this in mind, one can see how the minimum wage increase attacks the poverty margin inadequately. Another important factor to consider when dealing with a minimum wage increase is the businesses that would have to pay that increased price for labor. A minimum wage increase would hurt businesses and force companies to close from higher production  Minimum wage pros and cons ). The reason for this is simple, as labor price increases, production cost are going to increase and businesses would have to find a way to deal with these increases in cost. Sadly, some businesses may not be able to meet that new cost while maintaining everyday business activities (Burkhauser 18). In addition to laying off workers, another way some Student 4 businesses deal with higher labor prices are through higher prices on consumer goods. A study according to Purdue University found that raising the wage of fast food restaurant employees to $15 or $22 per hour would result in a price increase of 4.3% and 25% respectively, or a reduction in product size between 12% and  About the minimum ). Now one can assume that with higher prices for consumer goods coupled with higher unemployment rate brings less profit for employers. This is because an increase in the price level will reduce real income and purchasing power for  (Neumark 225). Hence, people would have less money to spend at businesses for the same amount of goods. Another consequence can be increased inflation from an increase in the wage floor. Higher incomes means more money to spend, which in turn would cause prices of good to go up and decrease profits  (Neumark 225). When dealing with the minimum wage, it is important to look at it from all standpoints. While it would benefits many employees in terms of higher income it can be considered a win or lose combination. A win for workers gaining an increase while at the same time a lost for those employees losing jobs or higher production cost for businesses. The thing that creates tension between the minimum wage increase battle is understanding the true effects of such a policy. The best way to approach such an issue is to gain knowledge of the facts, which will provide a better view of the issue. To achieve this, educational sessions can be done to teach non-engaged stakeholders about why increasing the minimum wage to such a high range would create economic problems. With this approach, more people can become engaged in the issue. A further step in combating this issue is by encouraging these newly educated persons on ways to move themselves out of the minimum wage range such as furthering their education or advancing their skills. However, the fight does not end here, training programs can be developed to enhance entry level skills to move them up the working ladder. Back to school programs can be Student 5 developed to further older entry level education. Non stakeholders can become engaged by coffunding projects such as impact of the minimum wage on wage  to inform the public on what comes with a drastic increase in the minimum wage. With this, the public would be able to know that future minimum wage rate can increase, however it must only be increased if these economic aspects cannot be affected. (WC 1400) Student 6 Works Cited Bursting Myths About the minimum . Minimumwage.com,Web. 25 March 2017 Burkhauser, Richard V., et al. Who Minimum Wage Increases Bite: An Analysis Using Monthly Data from the SIPP and the  Southern Economic Journal, vol. 67, no. 1, July 2000, p. 16.  Effects of the minimum . epi.org, Web. 14 April 2017. GIARDINA, MICHAEL. Retail, Restaurant Benefits to Feel Pain of Wage  Employee Benefit News, vol. 29, no. 1, Jan. 2015, p. 8. Heathfield, Susan M. what is an entry  The Foundations of Long Careers are Built on Experience, Web. April 8. Hoffman, Saul D. Are the Effects of Minimum Wage Increases Always Small? A Reanalysis of Sabia, Burkhauser, and  Industrial & Labor Relations Review, vol. 69, no. 2, Mar. 2016, pp. 295-311. Mantel, Barbara. Minimum Wage: Would Raising the Rate Be Good for the  CQ Researcher, vol. 24, no. 4, 24 Jan. 2014, p. 73. Minimum wage Pros and . Minimumwage-procon.org, Web. 14 April 2017. Newmark, David. The Employment Effects of Minimum Wages: Evidence from a Prespecified Research  Industrial Relations, vol. 40, no. 1, Jan. 2001, p. 121 Osberg, Lars. Robert Pollin, Mark Brenner, Jeannette Wicks-Lim, and Stephanie Luce, a Measure of Fairness: The Economics of Living Wages and Minimum Wages in the United  Labour/Le Travail, no. 63, 2009, p. 315. Student 7 Sheposh, Richard. Minimum Wage around the  Salem Press Encyclopedia, January. 2016, p. 1-4 Who Benefits from Income Tax  The New York Times, 2016, p. A26