Whitney 1 Alex Whitney Professor Robert Ryan Composition II 30 April 2017 Enhanced Education From the beginning of a life, the way they are raised has a deep impact upon the outcome of their life. why parents pay to make sure their children are given every opportunity to grow into fine successful adults. As the age of digital and technological advances continue to occur, it becomes important that the newer generations are exposed and acquainted with these forces be interacting with all their lives. Individuals such as Chip Donohue, founder of the Technology in Early Childhood Center, say that lack of exposure could widen the digital divide that is, the divide between those with and without access to digital technology and limit some school readiness and early (Donohue). Technologically enhanced education can bring success and opportunities, improve the quality of life for future generations, and still be incorporated with traditional teaching methods as a tool rather than as a controller. Bringing technology into the mix of learning will allow young children to receive opportunities that they would otherwise have little to no chance of receiving. The rapid evolution of all things digital has left older generations quite baffled when they are unable to comprehend the simplest of devices. In order to give newer generations more adaptation, early exposure in healthy but not overwhelming doses can allow children to become comfortable with the operation and usage of common devices and programs. no longer uncommon to see babies and toddlers operating tablets and phones to watch their favorite shows and play digital games Whitney 2 for entertainment. By gaining this exposure, these children can take learning opportunities that would normally be quite difficult to understand or focus upon. Technology has been benefiting the ways of society, so incorporating technology into learning can bring greater benefits to the world. Technology and its many advancements have made improvements to everything from communication to entertainment to combat. Francis Wardle, a Ph.D holder in Education/Curriculum and Instruction, agrees that the use of technology in the classroom is to expand, enrich, implement, individualize, differentiate, and (Wardle). Safe exposure to technology at a young age will allow these bright new minds to develop new ideas and advancements that can benefit the world in every aspect available. With technology, the boundaries are no longer so limited. History has shown that people fear change, and that has not changed regarding this idea. There are parents concerned that the increased exposure to technology and digital devices will cause unwanted effects such as deteriorating senses and less resistance to the messages told by entrepreneurs and governments. The idea proposed is that technology be used merely as a tool, rather than as a replacement for the learning methods that exist already. This will allow the benefits of technology to be prevalent, while mitigating any possible negativities caused from this incorporation. also a fear that the lack of socialization will cause children to be unable to interact with others. Therefore, making sure that children spend time with friends, family, and teachers will offset this worry and help the children learn basic social skills. In fact, technology is used appropriately, technology can be used in collaboration with other (DigiParenthood). Video streaming programs such as Skype are used to meet face to face with people from around the world, and helps promote social interaction with others. The Whitney 3 changes from incorporating technology into early learning are not as harmful as others believe, so long as they are done so with care and preparation. Bringing in technologically enhanced learning methods will be beneficial to the future generations of the world. For parents looking to provide their children with a successful future, choosing a program that incorporates technology into the learning program will improve their chances to be more successful this digital age. Their successes will also break down the superstitions about the negativities of technology, allowing future generations to receive the same benefits and improve the quality of learning and society as a whole. There are many groups such as the NAEYC, the National Association for the Education of Young Children, who can provide additional information and links to learning programs benefiting from these improvements. Whitney 4 Works Cited Association for the Education of Young Children National Association for the Education of Young Children NAEYC, www.naeyc.org/. Skarda, Erin. the Experts: How Can We Fix Early Childhood Nation Swell, 3 Sept. 2015, nationswell.com/ask-experts-can-fix-early-childhood-education/. can benefit young children when used appropriately, says Erikson Institute, 16 Mar. 2013, www.erikson.edu/news/technology-can-benefit-young-children- when-used-appropriately-says-donohue/. Wardle, Francis. Role of Technology in Early Childhood Earlychildhood NEWS - Article Reading Center, Benefits of Exposing Young Children to Modern DigiParenthood, 27 Aug. 2013, digiparenthood.wordpress.com/2013/08/23/10-benefits-of-exposing-young- children-to-modern-technology/.