Student 1 Student Dr. Richard Gaspar ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Blowing Away Expectations: Why Wind Energy Works If a random person within the United States over the age of 16 was asked in an interview what the most common renewable energy source is, what would the answer be? Currently, solar energy provides the largest amount of renewable energy in the U.S., nearly doubling in size last year (Solar Energy Industries Association). Although there is a large influx of support in the solar industry, the wind industry could provide a much larger source of power through the same number of machines. A shift towards wind energy will provide a larger outlet of power while boosting the economy and compromising to the needs of individuals. When wind energy was first invented, it used for harnessing power for latter used, nor was electricity even invented yet. The first uses for wind energy was in windmills, as seen in many depictions of Europe more than a few centuries ago, and in propelling boats forward, both on the Nile River, and in sail boats throughout the world (Bartlett 112-113). In the 1940s during World War II, the first well known Wind turbine was developed, providing 1.25 megawatts of power, which is the equivalent of about 164 homes (Bartlett 112-113 and SEIA.org). Today, the largest turbine is providing almost a gigawatt of power, almost one thousand times more than the initial amount, and other improvements in the industry can be seen today (Bartlett 112-113). More than 40,000 megawatts of potential power capacity was created between 2007 and 2013 through the production of new wind turbines, allowing for the new amount of wind energy potential onshore and off shore to surpass 14 million megawatts (Wind Energy Foundation). In Student 2 just the first quarter of 2013, wind energy was capable of producing power over 14 million homes, showing the substantial benefit of this investment by saving the country from using large amounts of coal or oil (Wind Energy Foundation). Through the progress of wind energy this far, the capability to produce energy for even larger portions of the country is very plausible. With the ability to produce a large amount of energy, wind turbines must be extremely large in size, and even though they can enhance a landscape by showing the industrialization of America, many people are concerned with their homes being overrun with these unnatural monuments. Though many may think a wind turbine may be placed anywhere, there must be certain requirements met before a site for wind energy is built. There must be an adequate amount of wind, lease agreements need to be compromisable, permits must be requested and secured, transmission capacity must be within certain cost limits, a utility company must be buying the energy created, and there must be investors to finance the site (American Wind Energy Association). Once these elements are secured, the project can be constructed and operation can commence. Additional concern may rise from the community about the harm for wildlife, and with the amount of precaution put into placing these machines, the industries constructing the wind turbines makes them flow with the environment. The turbines are completely space saving, make no pollution in the air or water, and even cause less bird and bat deaths each year than are caused by humans (Anker et. al. 145-178). There are an endless supply of strict guidelines for construction and placement of turbines, ensuring there is minimal invasiveness to the community and the environment. With the possibility of doubt still swirling in the minds of many, there are alternatives to the production to new wind energy turbines that will disturb the community. The first approach calls for the compromise of wind and solar energy in one machine, maintaining constant Student 3 collection of energy on either dark days or days without wind (ENERGY.GOV). This solution, although possibly viewed as an eyesore could be the most efficient option in environment with fluctuation of light and wind patterns, and involves the installation of solar panels on wind turbines, or the production of smaller turbines with both the blades and the solar panels on the base (ENERGY.GOV). Since these turbines can be smaller yet not completely dismissed from the view of many negative onlookers, another option in through the production of more offshore wind turbines. The U.S. Department of Energy found that by 2030, offshore wind turbines could provide 22 gigawatts of energy of the 300 gigawatts total needed to deliver 20% of the energy (ENERGY.GOV). These turbines can have larger wingspans due to the unlikelihood of disturbance to most communities, and there may be more spread out throughout shorelines due to meeting many of the requirements created by the department of energy. These projects already have taken over the East Coast, West Coast, and the Great Lakes without harm, so influx of future production in underutilized areas is likely (American Wind Energy Association). Overall, wind turbines can take over many areas without causing any harm to the people surrounding the area. Continuation of the production of wind energy is likely, and the smart choice of environmentally friendly citizens. With the lack of pollution and the sustainable options continuously being produced, there should be a large influx of support for the Wind Energy Foundation and all of its supporting groups. Student 4 Works Cited Anker, Helle Tegner, Birgitte Egelund Olsen, and Anita Wind Energy and the Law: A Comparative  Journal of Energy & Natural Resources Law 27.2 (2009): 145- 78. Web. AWEA - American Wind Energy Association. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Bartlett, Richard A. Wind Energy in America: A History Robert W.  Pacific Historical Review 66.1 (1997): 112-13. Web. Hybrid Wind and Solar Electric  Hybrid Wind and Solar Electric Systems Department of Energy. US Department of Energy, n.d. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. Solar Energy Industries  SEIA Solar Energy Industries Association. Accessed Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Wind Energy Foundation. Wind Energy Foundation, 2017, http://windenergyfoundation.org/. Accessed 22 Jan. 2017.