Steven Reyes Professor Mariama M. Changamire ENC 1102 22 April, 2017 Drones for America Technology is advancing in warfare and this is increasing the use of drones. There are many pros and cons to using this weapon. Media outlets often attack drone operations which makes it difficult for pilots. As a result, many drone pilots elect to leave their job. However, it is crucial that the United States increases the use of drones in war. Regardless of the general perception, it is important that drones continue to be used for military operations. Drones are one of the most precise weapons that the United States military owns. Offensive drones are the ones that attack in operations. Under the Bush and Obama administrations there have been more than 500 drones strikes. These strikes have primarily been directed towards high valued terrorists. Because of their precision, have killed 2,075- 3,005 terrorists in Pakistan, 2,111-2,708 terrorists in 231-408 terrorists in (Wei, 10). These numbers are significantly higher than the terrorists killed by ground troops. Drones such as the MQ-9 are also more precise than common fighter planes because the missiles can be guided by the pilot Fighter pilots do not have the luxury of guiding the individual missile because they are occupied flying, navigating, and evading enemies. One counter- argument brought up is that fighter planes have more power in their weapons. This is a false statement as the the equivalent firepower of an (Fowler, 11). Of course, the drone cannot fly at the same speed, but it can use lethal force with great precision. Drones are also extremely cost effective. The military and taxpayers will benefit greatly if more drones are built and used. The F-35 Lightning II is the United most technologically advanced fighter plane. However, it costs roughly $40,000 per hour to fly. There are more than 1,500 F-35s in the most expensive fleet ever made. The MQ-9, for example, only costs approximately $5,000 per hour to fly (Wei, 11). Additionally, fighter planes cost more to maintain. Ground troops are also costly. It is estimated that medical costs of Iraq and Afghan veterans would be enough to fund the drone warfare program for the next 186 (Wei, 12). Having ground troops and manned aircraft is important. There is no arguing that these are not effective, and necessary, methods of war. There should be a balance between these strategies. The only logical step towards finding this balance would be to allocate money towards drone warfare. The most intense argument that relates to drones is civilian casualties. During the Obama administration, there were times where the reports on drones were mostly about civilian deaths rather than reporting terrorist deaths. This caused a mass support opposition of drones from people. Organizations such as Human Rights Watch, Human Rights First, and others took a stance and went as far as writing letters to President Obama to cut drone warfare. The first thing that must be made clear when arguing against this stance is that civilian casualties are going to exist in war. It is estimated that ratio of civilian deaths to combatant deaths anywhere between 10 to 1 and 2 to (Brooks, 4). This goes to show that civilians are vulnerable regardless of the military strategy that is used. A study was done to compare the number of civilians killed in wars. The war in Afghanistan and war in Iraq have a total of 160,000 civilian deaths. Drones have only encountered and estimated 380-801 confirmed civilian deaths. It can be determined that warfare is actually by far the most accurate form of (Wei, 6). It only makes sense that people support this method of warfare, especially as technology advances. I encourage people to put an effort into changing their perspective on drones and show more support so that it makes it easier for the military to recruit and retain pilots. Petitions are an effective method to change military policies. After all, the people are one of the most important source of funding. Works Cited Brooks. Rosa. and Cognitive N.p., 2013. Web.17 Apr. 2017. Fowler, Mike Strategy of Drone Journal of Strategic Strategy. N.p., n.d. Web. Wei, Jason. case for Drone N.p., Nov. 2016. Web.