Devura 1 Milica Devura ENC 1102 Prof. Davis 29 April 2017 The Fight Against Animal Testing When it comes to the American population, there is one thing that, for the most part, we all take part in. That one thing is the use of cosmetics; whether it be makeup, shampoo, conditioner, or any other cleansing products. There are many popular brands that are purchased such as Benefit, CoverGirl, Aveeno, Neutrogena, Redken, and Dial, just to name a few. It is known that these brands are dependable and reliant, but what they do not know is that they all use animals when testing their products. They keep helpless creatures such as rabbits, guinea pigs, mice, and rats in cages to use for the testing of all of the products that they produce. Some of the tests they conduct check for ingredients in the products that can cause skin and eye sensitization, irritation or corrosion, or acute oral toxicity. The result of these tests is year, more than 100 million mice, rats, frogs, dogs, cats, rabbits, hamsters, guinea pigs, monkeys, fish, and killed in U.S. laboratories for biology lessons, medical training, curiosity-driven experimentation, and chemical, drug, food, and cosmetics (Collins) Cosmetic companies need to reevaluate their methods for testing their products. They should not be using animals in these methods because it often severely injures or even kills the animals involved. Devura 2 When people hear about how companies test on animals, some take it very lightly and do not think much of it. However, these tests are incredibly dangerous for the animals that are being used for them. The tests that are used, besides the ones listed previously, include tests for allergic reactions on skin, tests for changes in the cells or organs caused by repeat exposure, tests for cancer, and test for effects on fertility. This is only naming a few as there is a number of different tests that are used on animals. The actions that are performed on the animals are extensive and hard to think about. These include but are not limited to: applying a testing substance to the surface of the skin or injected under the skin, applying substance to the shaved skin of an animal, applying substance to the eyes or ears, forcing substance down the throat using a feeding tube, or placing an animal into a tube and forcing them to inhale the substance. Everyone needs to think about the severity of these tests. Using helpless animals as disposable testing objects should not be considered a humane method animal testing. On the brighter side, there are already companies that have taken action on this issue, such as Lush, The Body Shop, Too Faced, and NYX. For example, Lush Cosmetics is a company that helps with this fight by advertising their opposition on animal testing. It is a widely known industry that offers products without testing on animals. They are avidly against the method of animal testing, and advertise it all over their packaging and website. There are many companies that use the internet to help present their opinions and beliefs on animal testing. This is a method that they use to demonstrate their knowledge on the issue, and informs the public about ways they can help. The websites use a good amount of text to inform the readers about what they do. They also use pictures to illustrate their accomplishments and important individuals that are apart of the industries. By going through the websites that can inform the Devura 3 people, everyone can learn that with this particular issue at hand, it is important to fully explain the issue so that readers really understand what they are really fighting for. So now the real question is, what are the alternatives to animal testing that everyone is talking about. There are many ways for cosmetic companies to do away with animal testing. Some alternatives include but are not limited to: in vitro testing, computer models and simulations, and microdosing. In vitro testing is essentially the use of tests tubes that have human cell and tissue cultures in them. The substances that go into the cosmetic products are inserted into the tube and the culture reaction is observed. Microdosing is when humans are given a very small amount of the substance that will affect the body on a cellular level, and will not actually harm them as a whole. These tests are much more accurate and efficient than using animals to test these products. Since the products are made for humans, it should make sense to test them using human parameters. To use an example, on rats, hamsters, guinea pigs, mice, monkeys, and baboons revealed no link between glass fibers and cancer. Only after human studies related the two did the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) label these fibers as (New England Anti-Vivisection Society). This essentially means that some of the tests being performed on these animals are completely unnecessary. Additionally, cosmetic product tests that do not include animals are more friendly toward the wallets of the companies that use them, they are seen to be more practical, and they are proved to have faster results. According to NEAVS, or New England Anti-Vivisection Society, which is an organization that protects animals who are potentially in danger of being tested on and informs the public of alternative options to animal testing, Corrositex (synthetic skin) can provide a chemical corrosivity determination in as little as 3 Devura 4 minutes to four hours, unlike animal testing that often takes two to four (New England Anti-Vivisection Society). This information alone should be enough for companies to stop animal testing. If a test that does not use animals only takes minutes to get results as opposed to weeks, why is animal testing not obsolete yet? All in all, animals should not be tested in the processes of making cosmetic products. It is incredibly dangerous, and most of all unnecessary. As many as 100 million animals die every year from these tests, and that is not what they were put on this planet for. So as Americans of this great country, we need to go out and fight against animal testing. We need to Boycott companies that still use animals to test their products, and make sure they know that their products will not be purchased until a change has been made. There are so many different alternatives to this method that are all around better than the method of animal testing. There are helpless creatures that need our help, and the solution is not unreachable. Devura 5 Works Cited Companies That Test On Animals  N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Pacelle, Wayne. Cosmetics Tests That Use  Humane Society of the United Humane Society, n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Collins, Francis S. Experiments on Animals:  PETA, n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. New England Anti-Vivisection Society. Animals in Science /  Neavs, 2017. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. LUSH COSMETICS, THE HUMANE SOCIETY OF THE UNITED STATES AND HUMANE SOCIETY INTERNATIONAL LAUNCH GLOBAL CAMPAIGN TO END COSMETICS TESTING ON  News 2012: Academic Web. 16 April 2017.