Wilson 1 Wilson Ms. Heiser ENC 1102.068 5 April 2017 Space: The Final Frontier For millennia now, the human race has looked up to the stars wondering what could be hidden up there, how could such a beauty called the nighttime sky ever exist, and what could it possibly mean. The human curiosity has led us to multiple different frontiers that we have discovered. Starting from the savannahs of Africa to the bountiful lands of Eurasia, then driven across the sea to the Newfoundland and all across the western frontier. Now that curiosity drives humans to the one thing that was thought to be heavenly and unreachable by mankind, the forever expanding home of the stars, space. Only finally reached by mankind exactly 51 weeks and 45 years from today still a lot more to know about space; especially since humans even been in physical contact with even 5% of the solar system (Redd). Recently, however, the majority of mankind wanted to continue progress in space and feels comfortable with the so little they know and have explored. This is a serious issue and needs to be corrected. Space is something that everything is made from, the Earth and the Sun and everything on and around it is made up of recycled material that could be found since the beginning of time. Everything that ever was and ever will be is in this infinite and endless void and is the home of trillions of different galaxies and potentially different forms of life other than just humans. Space is the answer to everything about humanity and how humanity ever came to be in existence and can provide answers that humans have been searching for since the dawn of time. Our progress Wilson 2 in space in some ways can be considered a success; teaching humanity more about gravity, our position in the universe, how big our universe is, the potential life the universe could hold, and an abundance of so much more. However, barely just the tip of the iceberg when it comes to the grand scheme of things. Space can still teach about the concept of time and shows the beginnings of the universe and how life was formed, and can still teach mankind how to be humble and to recognize its insignificance. Still, with knowing all of this, mankind has become complacent with what we know in space. The reason that being complacent with our progress in space is such an issue is because the human race is constantly being propelled by the drive for exploration. For generations, mankind has been pushed and driven by a thirst of knowledge filled with an incredible amount of curiosity. A look back at history shows that the majority of technological advancements within the human race have happened within the time period of expansion. Examples of this are seen in the American expansion towards the west with inventions such as the use of coal, steamboats, and railroads. This particular instance is repeated with the competition for the ones to claim space in the 1960s with the invention of the calculator, computer, and even aluminum foil. The point is this, mankind, there will no longer be anymore progression if the decision to not take space as a serious prospect for the future of humanity is made. NASA, the company that for so long was the kingpin of space technology and exploration, has recently been singlehandedly dismantled by the US government. This setback has led to the gradual decline in advances in space and has made it very difficult for different projects in space to be carried out. With the US government being able to control budget and even some of their rockets and spaceships, the space program was almost entirely reliant on the decisions of politicians. However, the space industry has been revitalized by the Wilson 3 risingly more prominent private space company, SpaceX. SpaceX ran by a man named Elon Musk has taken numerous strides to ensure that the drive for space never dies down completely and that the progress of technology never slows down or completely dies out. SpaceX has been, as of late, almost a sole contributor to the research of space and has been the forefront of revolutionary ideas that will change the fate of humanity forever. With the incredible successful inventions of rockets that can land themselves and can be reused later on in the future SpaceX has proven its capability to pull through on its promises and its capability to constantly innovate and try again (Manno). SpaceX, with all of these advancements, has the capability to take the first pair of commercial customers to the Moon in 2018 and has promised to be able to make it to Mars by 2030. These advancements hold serious implications and can change the world as we know it today. The first commercial flight in space means that the possibility for space to become a revenue rather than just an expense could revitalize funding in NASA and encourage citizens to become more interested in the aspects of space. Then being able to reach Mars in the near future can allow us to do extensive research on a planet other than our own and be able to understand more about our solar system and the universe as a whole. The continued progress done by SpaceX holds a multitude of different possibilities that could benefit mankind significantly and holds the key to the future of humanity. This is why space and SpaceX are both important to all humankind. Space and technology being detrimental to failure or success. Therefore, this generation should take part of STEM programs and become more involved in space and technology (Loston). The STEM program is short for The Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics program and teaches precisely what the name implies. Students in the program are taught the necessary Wilson 4 skills to become functioning working members of a rapidly increasing technology based environment especially with endeavors to go to different planets are on the horizon. Already in 2017, STEM-related jobs comprise of 20% of the job market in America and that number is steadily rising due to the changes being made around us (STEM Education Coalition). In correlation to this rise of technology there will also be some downfalls. Numerous of potentially beneficial inventions could be used for very horrible things and could lead to either the death of planets or the death of mankind itself. Therefore, it is imperative to teach kindness and to spread love and respect to others and to the environment. The human race has had a history of being its own worst enemy when it comes to technology and cases of this are still being shown today (Tsang). Negative human interactions such as the continued testing of nuclear missiles and natural phenomena heightened by humans such as global warming are just a couple of instances shown where humans are the worst potential threat to themselves. Spreading love and tolerance of different people of different skin tones and culture and backgrounds is what is need to be able to go out into space and explore. Being able to effectively communicate and get along with each other would allow for the difficult task of developing technologies and going further out into space could make it a feasible reality. Wilson 5 Works Cited Loston, Adena Williams, et al. NASA Education: Using Inquiry in the Classroom so That Students See Learning in a Whole New  Journal of Science Education and Technology, vol. 14, no. 2 (2005): 147-156. Website. Manno, Peter J. Breaking The Monopoly: The Potential to Reduce Costs in Its Evolved Expendable Launch Vehicle  Public Contract Law Journal, vol. 43, no. 1 (2013): 87-104. Website. Redd, Nola Taylor. Yuri Gagarin: First Man in Space. 5 April 2017. Article. 3 April 2017. <http://www.space.com/16159-first-man-in-space.html>. STEM Education Coalition. Resources. 5 April 2017. Article. 3 April 2017. <http://www.stemedcoalition.org/reports/>. Tsang, Wai H. The Problems of This World Today. 5 April 2017. Book Summary. 3 April 2017. <http://www.iawwai.com/ProblemsOfThisWorld.htm>.