Forbes !1 Health care reform Health care reform is a major issue of debate right now within the United States. Many individuals are pro-reform while others are against it. Reforming the institution of health care involves making a change that would allow all individuals of the country access to excellent quality health care (American Nurses Association, Care nursingworld.org). Health care reform is vital to the socioeconomic development of a nation and will ensure that its citizens live long and productive lives for future generations to come. The United States is currently the ninth wealthiest country in the entire world and has a gross domestic product of $54,630 per capita. Even with this high influx of money, America is one of the few countries that do not provide complimentary health care to its citizens. The bulk of people within the country have to rely on private health insurance companies so that they can ensure the well-being of their health. However, many families cannot afford to offset the cost of private health insurance and are forced to suffer through many chronic illnesses and diseases. Individuals who have to endure illness and disease without formal treatment become less productive in society. businesses lose more than $1 trillion a year in productivity due to chronic (Williams, sickness and In People who are sick may not be able to physically or mentally carry out jobs to the best of their abilities. Others, with more serious illnesses may not be able to perform their jobs at all and may start requesting time off of work. These situations can have serious implications to the economy of America. Having people who are not putting in their best effort or not working at all, affects the productivity of the country. Having a shift in productivity greatly affects the output of goods and services produced. These goods and services are imperative to the functioning of the country and Forbes !2 its economy. Without it, the gross domestic product of the country (GDP) can be greatly reduced and the importation of necessary goods such as natural gas and oil can be affected. Therefore, providing health care services at no cost to citizens ensures long and healthy lives and as a result the survival of the economy. Health care reform also stands on an ethical and moral platform. Due to the high expense of health insurance, many people cannot afford to pay for it. As a result, people are left untreated and continue to suffer up to this day. Is it fair to those people who are not as financially well off to experience such pain? It is morally righteous for a government to protect the health care of its citizens, especially if they cannot afford to pay for it themselves. Being able to live a healthy and prosperous life is a basic right of citizens within any country. A group of individuals who are elected to run the country should not be able to take away these basic rights. nearly every advanced industrial democracy, there is a right to healthcare, since public health protections are provided to whole populations, reducing the risk of disease and injury, and institutions exist in them that also assure everyone access to needed personal medical services regardless of ability to pay. (Daniels 362) Therefore, reforming the health care system into one which provides free access to health services in the United States is particularly important as it is morally sound to minimize the suffering of people. health care system of the United States of America (USA) is lavishly funded and those with adequate insurance usually receive excellent attention. However, the system is fragmented and Changing the system into one which provides free health Forbes !3 care for its citizens will also help the development of the nation in terms of the happiness coefficient metric. A major cause of stress within families is not being able to provide health care for yourself, partner or children. When someone in the family becomes ill a lot of time is spent worrying about how the household is going to pay for treatment of that person. In turn, constant stress, anxiety and worry is not great for the individuals mental or physical health. It can lead to further illnesses that may also have to be treated. Providing medical care free of cost to the citizens can save them a lifetime of worry. Without worry they can focus of their happiness and other pressing matters. By the government providing this essential service they are protecting the health of their citizens. happiness does not cure illness but it does protect against becoming ill. The effect of happiness on longevity in healthy populations is remarkably strong. The size of the effect is comparable to that of smoking or (Veenhoven). The level of happiness within a population is inordinately important to its development. This is because its citizens can be active members within the day to day society and can contribute what they have to offer to ensure that the country is run smoothly. Health care reform needs to happen as soon as possible, so that individuals do not have to unnecessarily suffer and the development of the country can be protected. It is possible for each and every person to be involved in trying to make health care free for the citizens of America. Singing petitions are a good way to take action in promoting critical issues. Many organizations such as Families USA, Healthcare NOW and Physicians for a national health program (PNHP) create petitions for people to sign, so that support can be shown. When Forbes !4 many different people sign these petitions it shows the government that people are concerned about health care reform and the they want change in the country. It also unifies all the people who signed, so that they can fight the issue together. The more people who sign these petitions, the more likely health care reform is to happen and human suffering minimized. Social media is also a powerful tool that can be utilized in this day and age. Most people of younger generations have at least one social media account. It may either be Facebook, Instagram or Twitter. Either one of these forms of social media are useful for spreading the word. Pictures and or statuses about health care reform and why it is such an important issue can be posted. The more and more posts that are made about health reform is the more attention the topic gets. The more attention it gets, the more people learn about it and see the need for change. Seeing the need for change is one of the most important steps in actually getting something to be transformed. The American health care system desperately needs to change. It needs to be adjusted because it has an effect on the economy, it affects moral and ethical development of the country and lastly, it affects the development of its citizens happiness. These are all important issues and neither one of them should be compromised. Without health reform, suffering of the people will continue and the so will that of the country. A most noteworthy resource is its people, they should not be let down. Forbes !5 Works cited care Nursing world, www.nursingworld.org/healthcarereform. Accessed 9 April 2017. Daniels, Norman. Is there a right to healthcare and, if so, what does it encompass. Blackwell publishing limited, 2010. state of primary care in the United Stated of America and lessons for primary care groups in the United British journal of general practice. Bjgp, www.bjgp.org/ content/50/4531319. Accessed 9 April 2017. Veenhoven, R. happiness: effects of happiness on physical health and the consequences for preventative health Journal of happiness studies, vol. 9, no. 3, 2008, pp. 449-469, www.link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10902-006-9042-1. Accessed 9 April 2017. sickness and in Unnatural causes, directed by David Williams, California Newsreel, 2008. Word count: 1208 Forbes !6