Wallace !1 Desirae Wallace Ms. Heiser ENC 1102.068 5 April, 2017 Changed for the Better When people think of cosmetic animal testing, it is no surprise that some would be reminded of a certain dramatic animal rights advocate. With that friendly reminder comes opinions on animal testing but they are not always formed with the correct information or a plan for the future. Cosmetic animal testing has multiple alternatives that do not get as much recognition as they should, despite them being the better option over its cruel cousin. Focusing on alternatives can help save animals and humans alike, for these scientifically advanced alternatives can expand on knowledge. Part of focusing on these alternatives is taking action to inform others, working to outlaw animal testing, and opting to support companies that do not test on animals. The roots of animal testing go all the way back to Greek biomedical research. Although animals then were only tested for medical purposes, they are now used to test for cosmetics too. Mice and guinea pigs have always been commonly used because they share 95 percent of human genetics, making them an easy target for experimentation. On the other hand, rabbits are optimal for eye irritation tests because, unlike humans, they lack tear ducts, so the chemicals in their eyes can remain there long enough to be observed (Ross-Fichtner 16). In the past, these animals were the best option when testing for cosmetics, but because there have been multiple developments and discoveries in science, there is no need to make these animals suffer any longer. Wallace !2 Before stressing the importance of alternatives to animal testing, it is necessary to know what they are. The most popular forms of alternatives include in vitro and in silico testing, the former already being used by beauty companies like Lush, and Marc Jacobs Beauty. In vitro testing is simply the of cells [and outside the where they can remain in a test tube for long periods of time. These cells and tissues are used to test for irritation, usually in the eyes and on the skin, replacing the use of rabbits and other rodents in the laboratory. In silico testing is the use of computer simulations to various possible biological and toxic when testing drugs or any other substance without having to dissect an animal. These simulations come from past experiments and research knowledge, making them able to mimic what would happen when an organism reacts with the substance in question (Doke 225-226). These alternatives were created to overcome the many downsides of animal testing: the excessive amount of animals used, the unethical procedures, the risk of harm to staff from the animals, the high prices of testing, and much more. Organizations like People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA), Center for Alternatives to Animal Testing (CAAT), and the Fund of the Replacement of Animals in Medical Experiments (FRAME) have researched and/or aided in the development of alternatives for more than a decade. These advances allowed the EU Ban to come into existence, which banned animal testing in European countries since there are cruelty-free options available (Zurlo 32). Europe is not the only one to ban cosmetic animal testing, for Turkey, Norway, India and more have all joined in on bans like the EU Ban (Ross- Fichtner 16). This means that it is possible for America to do the same, but that can only happen if the American government sees a reason for a change. Wallace !3 In terms of laws, America currently has the Humane Cosmetics Act (HCA) and the Animal Welfare Act (AWA). The HCA was aimed to ban animal testing in any U.S. laboratory, but it has not been very successful. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA), in charge of protecting public health, has advised that cosmetic companies use they find appropriate and effective to validate the safety of their practically making the HCA useless (Ross-Fichtner 16). Because of the advising, cosmetic companies can use any means of testing, cruel and cruelty-free alike. The AWA poses to protect all warm-blooded laboratory animals from a cruel life in the laboratory and on the farm. While this sounds like it is doing good for animals, it actually does not protect as many animals as one would imagine. The AWA does not cover birds, mice, or rats during experimentation, despite falling under the category of warm-blooded laboratory animals. To make matters worse, the AWA is only a federal act, so it only applies to facilities under federal with only percent of the animals used in those federal research (Engelsman 329). This means that cosmetic companies can freely treat animals how they want because they are not testing in a federal research facility. The AWA pretends to protect all animals in the lab, but really it does not protect 95 percent of animals that undergo cruel experimentation. (Engelsman 329). So what can be done to make alternatives come before animal testing? Clearly, altering and creating new laws is a strenuous process, but that does not mean it is impossible to make it happen. Additionally, the first goal is to have a push toward the alternatives to cosmetic animal testing and there are small ways anyone can help make that happen. A plausible fix is to opt for cosmetic companies that test on animals over those that do. Writing to those non-cruelty- free companies about why someone refuses to purchase or use their products can help give them Wallace !4 a hint about what direction they should be heading. PETA offers a list of cosmetic companies that test on animals, including Barefaced Cosmetics, The Body Shop, NYX and more (PETA, These Companies DO NOT Test on Animals. All alternatives can be found online on their respective websites, but some can even be found in a local grocery store (Target, Walmart, Winn Dixie, etc), in a makeup store (Sephora, Ulta, etc), or in a department store (Belk, JCPenney, etc). Alternatives, despite popular belief, are not ridiculously expensive, either. They have a similar price range to non-cruelty-free options, sometimes even cheaper! An easy switch to a cruelty-free companies gives more support to them as well, helping them continue to use the alternatives to animal testing. As for a bigger step to changes in America, petitioning to have the HCA or AWA modified to fully protect all animals from testing can create a major change. Since the HCA was already created to put an end to animal testing in America, it only needs more support via a petition in order to be reasserted over the FDA. A larger group of people that support cruelty-free experimentation means a higher likelihood of change in America, so there is an easy way to make this happen: inform others. Social media has made it easy to share links and talk to others around the world, so it is possible to spread information around without a hassle. Animal testing, although used for many decades since there were not any other options, should be a thing of the past. Allowing them to continue in America especially without strong regulations can lead to a future where there are no limitations to animal testing. There are alternatives available and they need be used to aid in advancing knowledge in science. Putting an end to cosmetic animal testing and introducing the alternatives for cosmetic testing is just one step, but what if that led to these alternatives being used in medicine and other Wallace !5 resources humans are dependent on? If humanity can expand the use of alternatives, then no telling what other kind of scientific advances can be created to help the human race. There is no need to dwell on older testing methods when new ones are readily available, acting as a gateway to even better sciences. not just about a cry of saving the animals, but about saving humanity. Wallace !6 Works Cited Doke, Sonali K. and Shashikant C. Dhawale. Review: Alternatives to Animal Testing: A  Saudi Pharmaceutical Journal, vol. 23, 01 July 2015, pp. 223-229. Engelsman, Stephanie J. -- at What Price? A Look at Lagging American Animal Protection  Pace Environmental Law Review, vol. 22, 01 Oct. 2005, p. 329. PETA. These Companies DO NOT Test on Animals.  PETA. PETA, n.d. Web. 05 Apr. 2017. Ross-Fichtner, Robert and Daniel Noble. Gauging Cosmetic  Cosmetics & Toiletries, Jan/Feb2016, p. 16. Zurlo, Joanne and Alan M. Goldberg. Seeking Alternatives to Whole-Animal  Forum for Applied Research & Public Policy, vol. 11, 15 Apr. 1996, pp. 31-34.