Aljahwari 1 Elias Aljahwari Professor Kristen Rouisse ENC1102 April, 2017 Gun Control in the United States Over the past years, and especially during the Obama Presidency, there has been abundant debate on gun control; Obama spent 8 years in office and without setting any kind of strong rules with congress. In 2013, there were 73,505 nonfatal firearm injuries and gun violence. In 2013-gun violence cost taxpayers approximately $516 million in direct hospital bills (Howell, Embry). People care about these types of things because it effects the average person, there were a few in the Tampa area last year. In fact, one of the people that got robbed is a friend of mine. He used to live in an apartment complex on 42nd street. When he told his story, he said that two men with guns and masks came in at night while they were in the living room. They forced them to pack up anything valuable in their place, like laptops, phones. The gunmen had their guns pointed at the victims while yelling at them and telling them to get anything they can. After gathering their belongings, they left. My friend called the police but get any of their belongings back. This story is the reason of why I chose gun control as my topic. It is scary that this kind of thing could happen to a 1st world country. Even though the burglars shoot anybody, they used their guns to scare their victims at gun Aljahwari 2 point and rob the place, and that is criminal. This issue at hand here is that anybody with a gun and mask could do that, if they have access to the building. I have only lived in the United Stated for two years, but I have heard about a lot of club shootings, elementary school shootings, and airport shootings. There has been a public outcry for stricter gun control laws, such as a ban on assault weapons and stronger background checks. Gun violence has become a regular image in our society. is something we should politicize. It is relevant to or common life a visibly frustrated Obama said after a community college shooting (Business insider). And yet all his past for gun control have been ignored by congress. The rules and regulations in this country are broken. There is something wrong with the system, it should not be this hard implementing a better system in order to have tougher gun laws. Acquiring guns is going to be more laws and background checks before purchasing a gun, and there will be no more online gun sales. I would even encourage nationwide recall of all guns in the country, the government of Australia did a similar thing a few years ago, and I would encourage the US to do the same. Thus, because of the issue of gun violence, the average non-gun owning person can never really feel safe until there is more security and background check at every gun store in the country. Public responsibility could be very effective, if each person was responsible for locking up their guns at all times. There is a basic argument around gun control: does having more or less guns around makes us safer? On the government website of they have a strong slogan against President Trump, and against the NRA. NRA spent 30 million dollars to elect Donald Trump and they will expect to get what they paid This is written on the home page of their Aljahwari 3 website alongside a picture of President Trump and Vice President Pence. Having more guns can only lead to more violence. In their perspective, adding more guns is not going to stop gun violence and mass shootings. It is hard to disagree with them, since the frequency of mass shootings in schools and universities is raising concerns regarding the gun legislation. It is safe to assume that the current gun regulations are not working. The purpose behind gun regulations is to keep convicted felons and the mentally ill from being able to acquire a gun, legally. It is clear that most other countries do not have as much of a problem with mass shooting like the US does: 12,000 Americans are murdered with guns every year a rate more than 20 times higher than that of other developed countries. The number of non- fatal shootings has increased. Because we have not enacted common sense gun policies that will save lives, we have not reduced gun violence in America we have just gotten better at saving the lives of gunshot wound This explains the point of view of the NRA and how they feel about the current American gun policies. They are extremely enraged because of how many innocent people are getting shot in this country. Right now, if any US citizen wants to purchase a firearm, it is easier than ever to do. So first things first, buying a gun cannot be this unchallenging. There will be more security and background checks in forced by every gun story around the country. Buying guns online will also be prohibited. are buying guns online: 1 in 30 would-be buyers on Armlist have prohibiting criminal records. Armlist hosted an estimated 790,000 firearm ads in 2013. At this rate, the website is likely to put at least 25,000 guns into criminal Armlist.com is an advertisement website mainly selling firearms. Allowing the public and everyone with access to Aljahwari 4 a computer to buy a gun online and have it delivered to them with minimal background checks is wrong. Criminals can get their hands on guns effortlessly. This shall not go on any longer, the ability to buy online changes everything. There are too many guns out there, and they were obtained legally. vast majority of guns used in 16 recent mass shootings, including two guns believed to be used in the Orlando attack, were bought legally and with a federal background check. At least eight gunmen in the past 2 years, who had criminal, but were still able to obtain their murder weapons This past quote from the New York Times discusses the fact that most mass shooting gunmen obtain their guns completely legally. So what does that tell us? We are providing criminals with their murder weapons legally. Public responsibility could be extremely effective if each and every gun owner takes full responsibility of their gun and keeping it locked in a safe at all times. If Nancy Lanza had locked her rifle, her son Adam might not have have killed her and 26 first grade students at Sandy Hook Elementary School. Another example is the Virginia Tech attack in 2007, when a student with mental health issues purchased two handguns legally after breezing through backgrounds checks. After that he killed 32 people in the University. The killer was obviously a disturbed individual; this sort of mental history should disqualify someone from purchasing a firearm. Background checks only occur when a gun is purchased from a licensed dealer. If a buyer has the money, and knows that they pass the check, they can buy weapons from any private seller, since they are not required by law to run the check. People who pass the background checks are usually felons or individual with mental illness. Aljahwari 5 Guns kill more than 12,000 people in the United States every year. Every person living in America has something at stake here. The main goal for everyone is to lower crime rates and mass shootings. I expect that this issue will be still as controversial in 10 years. I am against guns, and I support tougher gun control laws, and even encourage a nationwide ban on all guns, like what happened in Australia a few years ago, that is the only way this country will truly be free of gun crimes. Guns control should be done in a way that will change the current system, a recall of all guns is the country is the best way to make sure that we are gun free. Aljahwari 6 Work Cited Businessinsider.com- americas-gun-problem-2015- Dear America: why Everyone Thinks you have a Problem with Guns) 28.2 (2015): 34-51 McNeil Smith, S., Holtrop, K,. & Reynolds, J. (2015). Does the NRA hold too much power? Family Relations, (5), 606. Doi:10.1111/fare.12166 McVicar, D., Moschion, J., &van Ours, J.C. (2015). From substance use to homelessness or vice virca?. Social Science & Medicine, 136-13789-98. Doi:10.1016/jsocscimed.2015.05.005 Johnson, Guy, Chris Chamberlain, Australian Journal of Social Issues (Australian Council Of Social Services) 46.1 (2011): 29-48 Wayne LA, Pierre President of the NRA: The gun The gun magazine Y.t.,2014. Web. 12 December 2014.