Crews 1 Zackery K Crews Professor Mariama Changamire ENC 1101 105 The Solution to Gun Violence Is Not More Gun Control Year after year when a mass shooting of some kind happens in the United States, people bring up the topic of Gun Control. With the bi-partisan nature of our political system, it is easy for one side to claim gun control needs to be applied to all, while the other side brings up gun control as an attack on the second amendment. Greg Keidan wrote an article for the National Civic Review stating a conversation as a binary question with only two alternatives is a sure way to create unconstructive shouting matches, especially when the subject is a hot-button political (Keidan 48). In reality, most mass shootings are done by those who have mental health disorders and have acquired the firearm illegally, so a blanket ban on certain firearms or a general increase on gun control do much to curb the statistics on the number of people killed each year with firearms. Adding a blanket control on firearms will do harm and very little good, form things like stripping guns away from law abiding citizens, and preventing the use of guns against a tyrannical government that may arise in the future. But at the same time, something must be done about the mass shootings happening across America. The true nature of gun violence is the lack of awareness and help for people with mental health problems, so they go unnoticed until they hurt someone or themselves using anything they can find, most notably a firearm. When it comes to the nature of gun violence, normally the solution by those who fight for gun control is of course more gun control. These come in forms such as gun free zones, more Crews 2 laws preventing people to own certain firearms, or just laws preventing people from owning firearms in general. Most of these legislations that come out state wide are reactionary, normally right after a mass shooting, and do more harm than good. Gun free zones, such as schools and universities, are prime targets for individuals who wish to commit mass shootings of some kind because the lack of security in the area. In an article written in the Connecticut Law Review by David B. Kopel, he talks about the effectiveness of gun free zones and of police response to an active shooter situation on a school campus. A quote used in the article by Dick Fairburn, a police trainer, talks about the effectiveness of police response to an active shooter on a school campus, of the active shooter incidents we examined were over in three to four minutes, much quicker than four officers could be assembled as a rapid deployment team and hope to find and neutralize the shooter. This suggests that the only hope for stopping the shooter and saving lives in most active shooter events, will come from someone who is at the scene when the shooting starts (Kopel 541). These gun free zones are only preventing those who are armed from stopping a shooter before the cops can arrive. By enacting more gun control on those who are legally and mentally capable of owning firearms, you are only taking the guns away from legally and mentally capable owners. The real targets should be high-risk individuals such as felons or those with mental disabilities. When it comes to felons, they are the highest risk offenders to using a firearm for violent crimes. Though current laws are very light on felons owning firearms because of underlining features in the current legal system, even though indicates that a subset of active offenders account for over half the criminal impact (Vizzard 901). William J. Vizzard states in Crews 3 The Journal of Criminal Law & Criminology that officers have historically often felt the need to apprehend offenders during or immediately after a primary offense has occurred to assure evidence necessary to prosecute the (901-902). Felons apprehended beforehand that much by law enforcement for owning firearms because it is only considered as a less serious and get the proper sentencing and investigation. If laws were stricter on felons and felons alone on the ability to own a firearm through regular searches during parole and probation, then we could possibly see a drop in the amount of gun related crimes cause by these felons and then in turn a drop in the total amount of gun related crimes across the US. In addition to felons, the mentally ill account for a large amount of gun related crimes and mass shootings as well, though our actions against them should be different than that of felons. Most recent legislation after mass shootings target the mentally ill and require medical professionals to report any person they deem dangerous to themselves or others (Wolf & Rosen 858). This only hurts patient-doctor relations and solve the problem. Instead we should increase the awareness of mental illness and remove the stigma on it so that more and more people get the help they need before anything like the recent mass shootings can even happen. More legislation in this aspect will only stigmatize individuals by adding a negative stereotype that individuals with mental illness are more prone to violence. Many Americans are not getting the mental health care they need, which is denoted via budget cuts and closings of mental health facilities (Wolf & Rosen 869). Instead of adding more legislation, Carolyn Wolf and Jamie Rosen from The Journal of Criminal Law & Criminology have proposed a solution, better solution is to (1) amend current state mental health laws to increase funding and provide more readily accessible and comprehensive mental health services; (2) offer Crews 4 community programs and preventive training to allow for early interventions; and (3) fix the flaws in the federal and state background check (Wolf & Rosen 869). If we help those with mental health problems instead of scrutinize and criminalize them, we can possibly prevent future occurrences of violence against society. In conclusion, gun violence is very prevalent in the United States of America. Simply placing blanket gun control laws on all citizens will only harm law abiding gun owners. Instead legislation should be placed on felons with stricter laws in place to increase the sentencing and severity of owning a firearm during parole or probation. In addition, legislation should not be used against those who are mentally ill as that only cause these people not to seek out help in fear of being attacked by the government as a potential criminal. Instead, an increase in funding to mental health institutions and providing more readily accessible and comprehensive mental health services will show a decrease in the amount of violence cause by those who have mental health problems. Crews 5 Works Cited Kopel, David B. Pretend School Zones: A Deadly Legal  Connecticut Law Review 42.2 (2009): 515-84. Connecticut Law Review. Web. 11 Mar. 2017. Wolf, Carolyn Reinach, and Jamie A. Rosen. MISSING THE MARK: GUN CONTROL IS NOT THE CURE FOR WHAT AILS THE U.S. MENTAL HEALTH  Journal of Criminal Law & Criminology 104.4 (2015): 851-78. Web. <http://eds.b.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?sid=d68ee13e- 249b-4f07-9756-81d8232245be%40sessionmgr101&vid=1&hid=126>. Keidan, Greg. Talking about Guns and Violence: Strategies for Facilitating Constructive  National Civic Review 103.3 (2014): 48-54. Web. <http://eds.b.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?sid=fff0d49e- 1204-4a21-bd00-77ba1b049e12%40sessionmgr101&vid=1&hid=126>. Vizzard, William J. THE CURRENT AND FUTURE STATE OF GUN POLICY IN THE UNITED  Journal of Criminal Law & Criminology 104.4 (2015): 879-904. Web. <http://eds.b.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?sid=5671ac2a- fde6-4e71-9605-853f11b6da30%40sessionmgr104&vid=1&hid=126>.