Mitchell 1 Jessica Mitchell Ms. Heiser ENC 1102.068 23 April 2017 Between a Rock and a Corrupt Place When a prison comes to mind, money is not typically the first thing to pop into the thoughts of an individual. Usually it would be the colored jumpsuits, tattoos, people considered to be intimidating, guards, cells, and the building itself. But those who are in those cells, wearing those jumpsuits, with their arms, face and other body parts covered in tattoos are the money source, that is the private prison industry. Private prisons or for-profit prison is a place in which individuals are physically confined or incarcerated by a third party that is contracted by a government agency. To turn a blind eye on a situation when not directly affected is not challenging because there is no need to think about certain events, or even consider what is happening around them. Private prisons and the profits they benefit from locking people up in large numbers is a great example of this. Because on a day to day basis the information about private prisons, and those behind bars is not something that is a topic of conversation, it goes unnoticed. The sentencings and the profiting from the bodies of those who are processed into private prisons within the United States, is in need of serious reform and reevaluation. Private prisons began in the 1980s Corrections Corporation of America pioneered the idea of running prisons for a profit. just sell it like you were selling cars, or real estates, or one of its founders told Inc. (Pualy). This comparison to selling cars, real estate and such inanimate objects is very dehumanizing because the business Mitchell 2 profit making is from humans, and those in charge of these corporations just see their prisoners as money not as actual people. Since the forming of these private prisons over 30 years ago CCA, GEO Group and other corporations now eight percent of American (Pauly). Within the United States a war on drugs was declared which trickled into the arresting and indictments of hundreds into the prison system, this caused overcrowding in state prisons. Because of the overcrowding these inmates began to be sent and processed into the private prisons owned by corporations number of prisoners in private prisons increased by approximately 1600% between 1990 and (Shapiro). Laws were put in place that helped to send more people into prison one which was implemented by Bill Clinton and backed by the private prison industry was the strikes (Shapiro). This law for example allowed an individual who had previously been arrested for possession of marijuana on the third time if they had any amount in their possession would be sent to prison for up to fifteen years possibly. The implementation of this law still exist within certain parts of the country even though marijuana is legal in some states recreationally. There is a relationship between sentencings and private prisons, due to certain positions individuals within then private prison industry are able to hold simultaneously, that deal with formulating of bills and resolutions which propose possibly laws. Conflict of interest is the best word to use to describe the previous statement, because those who are in charge of CCA are able to make and impact decisions which will put more money into their pockets. It is unjust to be able to sit and make laws which help put more people into prisons when those helping to impact those laws also benefit from them financially. Recently, private prisons have started making money from detaining immigrants by housing them within their facilities while they await Mitchell 3 processing and possible deportation. That is roughly immigrants detained by Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) at any given (Shapiro) those detained are sent to live and sleep at these private prisons in conditions which are nothing short of some of the concentration camps the Japanese were subject to during World War II. The belief that these prisons help to benefit the United States economy by saving the government money is a talking point many profit companies, certain private prison supporters and policy (Shapiro). This idea has helped to send the false sense these corporations are better and safer then state and federal prisons and this is incorrect, because it does not reduce the population of those incarcerated nor are they safer. Which is what the true goal should be, to help effectively better the society in this country not to increase the population of those in jail to fatten the pockets of those in power. GEO, which is another group that owns some private prisons has that GEO prisons provide local communities with an of capital has the ability to stimulate the economic makeup of a community through consumer this false ideal is the types of information that these companies put out in order to help gather more support. An example of this is the prison operators in Arizona were paid $63.52 per medium security prisoner per day in 2009, and as early as 2000, the federal government agreed to pay CCA almost $90 per day for each detained immigrant at a San Diego (Shapiro). This increase in pay is just an incentive because of the increase in the amount of people they were able to imprison, the more they can acquire. When humans are being used as a means to an end, which is money, that in itself is wrong because even though they may be in prison they are still people that should be granted dignity. That meaning, those incarcerated deserve empathy and a voice to speak up about the unjustness they are facing. The voices of people who feel as though the private prison industry is Mitchell 4 corrupt and does not help to benefit this economy but rather exploit the negative aspects of this society can be expressed through activism. This activism has many seen on a gambit of scales for example reaching out to President Judy Genshaft through writing, or with a petition signed by students, faculty, and others, expressing that the support of the private prisons and their money should not be a reflection of the University of South Florida is a way to make a change. Although it may appear to be something small making speaking up and simply educating people on what private prisons are and allowing them to create and form their own opinion is a step forward to ending the for profit prison business within the United States. Works Cited Hallett, Michael A. Private prisons in America: A Critical Race Perspective. n.p.: Urbana: University of Illinois Press, c2006., 2006. University of South Florida Libraries Catalog. Web. 4 Apr 2017. Heiserman, Alice. in Exposes Private Prison World. N.p., 03 Apr. 2017. Web. 05 Apr 2017. Pauly, Madison, Shane Bauer, Jaeah Lee, Mother Jones, Clara Jeffery, Samantha Michaels, David Corn and AJ Vicens, and P.R. Lockhart. Brief History of Corporate-run Prison Mother Jones. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Apr. 2017 Mitchell 5 Shapiro, David. on Bondage: Private Prisons and Mass Banking on Bondage (2011): n. page. Banking on Bondage. American Civil Liberties Union, 2 Nov. 2011. Web. 4 Apr 2017. American Civil Liberties Union. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Apr. 2017.