Thiha 1 Min Thiha Dori Davis ENC 1102 : 048 26 April 2017 Age rating system and its corruption It has been noticed that age rating system is getting known as a corrupted system with false rating on games. Some of the users argue that games are not suitable for young people since games includes lots of graphical images and the system has rated those games as games which are suitable for young people to play. Therefore, system users are now trying to let the ESRB make changes about this problem and furthermore change the whole system if necessary. ESRB age rating system is a system that decides games on age difference depending on their graphical and platform design. It is also a non-profit, self-regulatory body that assigns ratings for video games and apps so parents can make informed choices (About/ ESRB). However, most of the users fail to notice the corrupted flaw on the age rating system and letting their children to have games which are unsuitable for their age. It is a wonder that some users trust the whole system blindly. In those cases, people think this is such a small problem and care too much about it. But, if these problems keep happening while unnoticed, it will have a huge effect on children as they are able to play games that they should not be playing at such a young age. Moreover, the problem will not stop here and will keep spreading from generation to future generation. In order to make changes, people should try to educate themselves or provoke the main system to make changes for them. Knowledge is power and when people know more about games, they can try to educate other people without the Thiha 2 need of relying on the system. The more people that are educated on this, the better we can create a safe-gaming atmosphere for our children. The age rating system encompasses guidance about age-appropriateness, content and interactive elements with industry-adopted advertising guidelines which helps ensure responsible web and mobile privacy services under its privacy certified system (About/ ESRB). The ratings are made for parents so that inquisitive parents can be informed to make sure that their video games experience is fun and age-appropriate (Resources for parents/ ESRB). The system was designed to evaluate a content by having trained raters review each submission and recommend the rating they believe to be most appropriate (ESRB). The major flaw on the age rating system is that some users are starting to think that age rating restrictions are nothing but a marketing gimmick. It has been discovered that games that are rated Mature has other games which are surprisingly identical except but they are rated differently such as Teen rating. According to the ESRB rating guide, M(mature) rated games have a content generally suitable for ages 17 and up but may contain intense violence, blood and gore, sexual content, or strong language. T(teen) rated games have content generally suitable for ages 13 and up which may contain violence, suggestive themes, crude humor, minimal blood, simulated gambling, or infrequent use of strong language (ESRB rating guide). In a game called of Duty: World At it was rated as teen although it contains extreme gore and violence and strong language. It even includes zombie mode which is brutally killing terrifying looking people at a close range and yet they are rated as teen. However, in another Call of Duty Modern Warfare game, it contains almost no blood, no gore with almost no swearing but it was rated as Mature. For another example for age rating problem is the age difference. Some games are rated as Adult so people are not allowed to buy those games until they are 18 or older (ESRB rating guide). However, in United State army, people are able join the army on different sections starting at the age of 17 Thiha 3 (Military.com). It is confusing because the system is deciding that M-rated games are more brutal and intense that doing an activity which is as brutal as shooting people except it is reality. It is questionable that people are allowed to have real guns at the age of 17 but not virtual shooting games until they are 18 (The Apex Player). These are also one of the main reasons why some users are calling ESRB as a corrupted system. There are also games that are falsely rated and most people remained unnoticed or stayed quiet as it was not a big deal to take action. For some people, they take age rating very seriously for the sake of their children and trust the age rating system when buying games for them. However, it is not a problem that will go away when ignored and it is affecting every user and around them. The problem is that these users need to notice what is happening around them and they need to figure out how to fix the problem before it gets bigger. There are two ways that people can involve in solving this problem. The first solution is by working together as a group and try to find a way to encourage ESRB to make changes in their age rating system. ESRB says, accept so people can work together to let them know what is corrupting their system. Moreover, users can also volunteer in their system and help ESRB with the changes. In another way, people can participate in the system and educating themselves so that they can make their own decision relating to those problems. They can start by going to meetings, attending educational programs. Some of the meetings are open to the public and everyone is welcome to join them. By doing this, they can stop waiting for ESRB to make changes in the age system. Users can also stop relying on the rating system and can make their own decision for the children for which game they are having. Moreover, if they are educated, they can also try to educate others which can later create an environment that is rich in knowledge about the age rating system community. Although this is just an optional idea, education can have a huge effect on public and this can lead them to work together and can provide a wave strong enough to make changes that are almost impossible. Thiha 4 Just because age rating system is found as the system that is corrupted, it does not mean that users should stop using it however it should be used when it is fixed and made suitable for everyone. After all, it is an important system that allows users to decide which games they should play. The best way users can try to do is by having both knowledge on the system through self-learning and relying on the system and decide for themselves whether they should buy it or not. If this succeeds, then we may be able to recreate a gaming community that is much safer than the first one for our children and future generations of the United States. Thiha 5 Work Cited  Entertainment Software Rating Board, About ESRB http://www.esrb.org/about/ Accessed 12 April 2017  Entertainment Software Rating Board, Resource and Tips for Parents Accessed 12 April Jan 2017 Are you Eligible to Join the Military?, Age Requirements http://www.military.com/join-armed-forces/eligibility-requirements Accessed 12 April 2017 Apex Age rating makes no sense (Just Cause 3 Gameplay) Pub. Apr 21, 2016 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mrwzo3lLp8o Accessed 12 April 2017 Do you think most video game Age restrictions are a gimmick? http://www.xboxachievements.com/forum/showthread.php?t=272904 Accessed 12, April 2017