Courtemanche 1 Dylan Courtemanche Martha Heiser ENC 1102.68 21 April 2017 The Dangers of Drinking and Driving Alcohol is a big social norm in college with most students par-taking in drinking games at college parties and most people that do it believe they know their limits alcohol effects the brain is ways most people understand while drinking: it slows reflexes, blurs vision, and creates impaired memory (Meruelo). Most teens know about these effects from programs like D.A.R.E in elementary school, all the way to College orientation classes that require them to know, even after knowing and understand that alcohol does this to the brain college students still find themselves getting behind the wheel after a long night of drinking. If the legal risks of drinking and driving were much more serious than people would be less willing to chance drinking and driving, if the laws were refined then possible we could decrease the amount of drinking and driving cases in the U.S. Drinking and driving on average causes nearly 10,000 deaths a year, making up an entire third of all traffic related fatalities (CDC). Most people who either get caught, killed, or injured while drinking and driving are usually repeat offenders who have done it before and gotten lucky enough that nothing has happened however every time they do this the increase the chances of something happening and this is a serious hazard to those who use the roads whether the driver, passengers, other drivers, or pedestrians. The standard Blood-Alcohol Content (BAC) for all U.S. states is over 0.08 for there to be any penalties this is not an effective way to enforce and prevent drinking and driving because 0.08 is different for every person; some people can drink a Courtemanche 2 lot and be under 0.08, some can drink a little, some can be too drunk to drive under 0.08, and some can be fine well over 0.08. a serious problem when people can be drunk but still legally able to drive and another problem with that is the penalties can be something like a small fine if they get caught before they hurt anyone and in some minds if the punishment was only minor and no-one was harmed then no real risk in doing it again. This is why we need drinking and driving laws to be reformed if people have a fear of repercussions from doing something then what is going to stop them how society works, if people are too afraid to do something then they The government and many other private corporations have tried to stop drinking and driving not by fear of the law, but instead by rather informing them of the dangers and risks of drinking and driving. Many popular car manufacturing companies such as BWM, Volkswagen, Fiat, Audi, Ford, and Chevy all created several ad campaigns against drinking and driving to help protect the public and their primary consumers. The company that is known for combating drinking and driving the most will be the best looking car company for consumers and will help improve their sales, therefore companies want to keep the public informed about drinking and driving to improve their own images. The company BMW, who has been around since the early and is today one of the largest European car importers, has created several images to persuade the public against drinking and driving by featuring very emotional photos with text about statistics included; their most famous photo is a picture of a person with a prosthetic leg from a drinking and driving accident and says parts for humans are not as original as those for BMW is trying to show the public one of the possible outcomes of drinking and driving so that drivers can remember it the next time they want to do it. Courtemanche 3 Although drinking and driving is still a major issue on the roads today it has seen some decreases in fatalities over the last few years, 51% since 1982 (Resposibility.org), thanks to harsher punishments, a more informed public, and easier alternatives. Today everyone has smartphones and can download an app with the click of a button and get apps like Lyft or Uber as an alternative ride home people uses their smartphones more than anything today and have easier methods of travelling after a night of drinking yet people still continue to do it. Lyft teamed up with Budweiser to create a partnership against drunk driving by allowing free rides between the hours of 10pm and 2am on weekends in Florida, Colorado, Illinois and New York. This partnership had the goal of reducing drunk driving deaths by 10,000 by offering free rides with codes found on Budweiser drinks (Yeung). However even with this free method of transportation according to the American Journal of Epidemiology Lyft and Uber have almost no noticeable effects on drinking and driving in cities where they operate (Brazil). The report looked 100 of the most populated cities in U.S. and compared the results of drunk driving fatalities from 2009 to 2014 and the popularity increase in Uber from 2009 to 2014 in those same cities. The results they found rise of Uber correspond to any decrease in even during their busier times like evenings and weekends, the number of Uber drivers in those cities was incredibly small compared to the amount of people that were out drinking for there to be enough for people to get home drunk safely. Even though these results have been posted Uber still claims that other studies have seen 3% to 5% decreases in California, however this just enough, because people who have been drinking and are already thinking irrationally, may not want to pay for a ride home and then back for their car the next day when they easily just drive home for free and not have to leave their car at a bar somewhere overnight. This is why there needs to be stricter laws and punishments on drinking and driving so that when someone has Courtemanche 4 reached that point after drinking of thinking irrationally it is implemented into their brain of what will happen if they drink and drive. The current forms of punishment for drinking and driving are small to large fines: nights locked up, license suspensions, classes, or serious jail time only after someone is killed or multiple offenses. Driving Under the Influence (DUI) or Driving While Intoxicated (DWI), depending on where in the U.S. you live, is a criminal offense when a drivers BAC is over 0.08 which is usually for the average person at 150lbs about 5 to 6 beers and although quite a few, the effects vary from person to person. For most people alcohol affects the brain the most and creates poor judgement, meaning it can make people make poor decisions or feel overconfident which is not someone that should be behind the wheel of a vehicle. If voter could vote to improve these laws however we can create a much stronger fear of drinking and driving for everyone whether the driver or bystander who notices it, even though people get drunk and become irrational they make choices that could destroy their life like murdering someone because of that fear of the repercussions if we vote to make stricter punishments for drinking and driving we can create that same fear factor that will stop people from doing it in the first place. The government and police in cities and towns have tried to stop the public from drinking and driving anyway possible; creating programs to inform people of the dangers of drinking and driving like D.A.R.E. or alcohol education, creating ad campaigns from people know and trust, and creating laws and punishments so that people If people believe that they can get away with drinking and driving or face only minimal punishments if caught then they will continue to drink and drive; this is why we need stricter laws to keep the streets safe from drinking and driving. Courtemanche 5 Works Cited Brazil, N. Kirk, D.S. Uber and Metropolitan Traffic Fatalities in the United  American Journal of Epidemiology (2016): 192-198. Document. CDC. CDC. Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System . D.C.: CDC, 2014. Document. Meruelo, A.D., Castro, N., Cota, C.I., Tapert, S.F. Cannabis and Alcohol use, and the developing  Brain Behaviorial Research (2017): p. 44-50. Journal. Resposibility.org. Responsibility.org. 2016. Page. 1 April 2017. Yeung, Ken. Lyft teams with Budweiser to curb drunk driving with free  Venture Beat (2016): 1. Online.