Honorat 1 Gianny Honorat Martha Heiser Enc1102-068 5 April 2017 The Cost of Smelling Good Cosmetic products aside from the common makeup and beauty products, include things such as perfume, toothpaste, shampoo, deodorant, and some everyday items used for hygiene. Most of these products are used every day and many people never stop to think about how these products are regulated and how they become safe for human use. For example, in Axe body wash one of the ingredients labeled on the bottle is citric acid. At the right concentration, Citric acid can burn the skin and the eyes; however, these products are tested to make sure they are not harmful for humans to use. These products are tested using animals such as rabbits, mice and Guinea pigs. The harm and abuse against animals for cosmetic testing is wrong and in order to stop the abuse everyone needs to get involved by spreading awareness and by refusing to buy products from companies who conduct these types of tests. Testing for cosmetics include skin and eye irritation tests where chemicals are rubbed onto the shaved skin, dripped into the eyes of rabbits and even force large amounts of chemicals into their mouths to determine the dose needed to cause death Cosmetics Animal These experiments can cause blindness, swollen eyes, sore bleeding skin, internal bleeding and organ damage, birth defects, convulsions and death. At the end of the experiment, those who survive, are usually killed by injections or by decapitation Cosmetics Animal Not only are these animals forced to take part in these experiments but there is no pain Honorat 2 relief provided to ease their pain. These animals are caged used as objects and disposed of when they no longer serve a purpose. Although using animals to test these products is a good way to make sure they are safe there are other safety tests that can be conducted without harming animals. For example, creating tissue like that of the human skin from stem cells would be a good alternative to animal testing. This will also be providing a safe way to test the safety of cosmetic products. There are different skin and even eye tests using reconstructed human skin such as EPISKIN, EpiDerm, SkinEthic, and even the Bovine Cornea Opacity and Permeability test for eye corrosion Cosmetics Animal In the United Kingdom, there was a law passed that banned animal testing. They could not use animals anymore and their scientist had to come up with an alternative to testing to toxicity of their products. Toxicologist Kristie Sullivan, director of regulatory testing issues at the non-profit Physicians Committee for Responsible Medicine, stated that need a better way to test toxic In 2009 cosmetics Europe, along with a division of the European Commission on Research & Innovation started a $68 million campaign to develop machines that can predict the toxicity of chemicals in humans (Mone 20). Animals are used because their bodies, eyes, and skin are like that of a making them a good subject to test chemical reactions on. Because of the similarities of their body structure, these animals are abused and tortured. However, animal testing is not very efficient and it takes many animals to successfully determine whether a product is safe or not. tests take too long and are too expensive, they say, often requiring several years and millions of dollars or more to carry out (Mone If animal testing takes years to carry out that means hundreds of thousands of animals have died and suffered while being tested on. Based on the data provided by the Humane Society of the Honorat 3 United States, there are 13 different test that can be conducted and for each test a minimum of 3 animals are used for each. For example, when testing for carcinogenicity or combined carcinogenicity/ chronic toxicity, which is testing for cancer and other long term effects of exposure, about 400 mice or rats are used Tests That Use Assuming this is only for one product, there are hundreds of other products being tested. The reliance on animal testing have obstructed the evaluation of the chemicals that are being tested. (Mone 20) In addition to the 400 suffering mice and rats used for Carcinogenicity, there are 12 other areas where more animals are being harmed. This is morally wrong. Forcing animals and using them as objects to benefit humans, while treating animals as if they are inferior is not right. of the ethical perspective one favors, there is strong agreement that animals matter morally and that at a minimum their welfare must be considered in the design of research, not just out of 11 personal sense of caring, but from ethical obligation and duty (Gluck and Jordan This quote asserts the idea that although researchers are using animals to better human health they must also treat them in a way that is not cruel. Society views animals such as mice and rats as abominations or dirty animals and because of it there is not a lot of attention drawn to their mistreatment. Aside from the fact that animals feel pain and bleed the same color, society has decided which animals to care for and which ones to ignore. Society does think twice about killing mice yet when a dog or a cat is abused it is an outrage. Dogs, cats, hamsters, and snakes have health insurance and even special foods made specifically for them yet the other animals who are not so popular are overlooked. It is true that there are some people who decide to have mice, rats, and bunnies for pets but they are not valued as much as cats and dogs. There are hundreds of commercial on the mistreatment of Honorat 4 cats and dogs but not many on the mistreatment of mice, rats and rabbits. The biggest difference between how cats and rats are viewed is that one has been domesticated and the other has not. The animals that are loved are emphasized while those who are disliked are disregarded and ignored. The animals that are being tested and hurt are being treated in this way so that a perfume bottle can be distributed and sold. These animals are suffering because everyone needs a new perfume or better smelling lotion and companies want to make money from selling them. These are all things that are not necessary to live and survive. These animals are being sacrificed so that people can smell It is okay to have good hygiene and smell good. It is also normal for creams used for treating rashes to be tested but there are still alternatives to animal testing. The best way to end the extensive animal testing is by refusing to buy from companies such as Clorox, Colgate-Palmolive, Aveeno, Neutrogena, and even K-Y lubricants(Garlow). There are other ways to help besides giving donations to an organization. Things often get put off by people because they assume there will always be someone else that will do it instead. If everyone reacted similar there would be no changes to this dilemma. Refusing to buy these products will force companies to stop testing their products on animals in order to sell them. Honorat 5 Works Cited About Cosmetics Animal Testing: Humane Society  RSS. N.p., n.d. Web. 31 Jan. 2017. Cosmetics Tests That Use  The Humane Society of the United States. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Apr. 2017. Garlow, Ariel. Companies That Should Stop Testing on Animals (and What to Do in the  One Green Planet. N.p., 23 May 2014. Web. 21 Apr. 2017. Gluck, John P. and Jordan Bell. Ethical Issues in the Use of Animals in Biomedical and Psychopharmocological  Psychopharmacology, vol. 171, no. 1, 15 Dec. 2003, pp. 6- 12. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1007/s00213-003-1478-y. Mone, Gregory. New Models in Cosmetics Replacing Animal  Communications of the ACM, vol. 57, no. 4, Apr. 2014, pp. 20-21. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1145/2581925.