Kristen Hilsabeck Hilsabeck 1 Professor Mariama Changmire English 2 19 April 2017 Bees Need Help The colors yellow and black represent many iconic aspects. For example, the autoboot called in the Transformers franchise, or the Pittsburg team colors. The most important thing that those colors represent something iconic, rather an important, underappreciated part of the ecosystem: bees. Bees are vital to almost every species on the planet, directly or indirectly, because of their pollination powers. They pollinate crops and flowers, which make communities look colorful and feed the population. Tragically, the population of bees is declining at a rate as high as 44% in the winter, which is a lot more of a population loss than typical (A Pandemic, NW Honeybees). The issue of population loss in bees is one that everyone should be educated about, because every person is affected by bees and every person can do something to help save them. In order to help bees, it is important that people be aware of the issue. Honeybees are held in man-made colonies to harvest the honey they produce. This process can be viewed as inhumane because the constant transportation of these hives can cause the bees stress (NW Honeybees). Another threat to bees is the use of pesticides, which can make bees immune to diseases, and even Colony Collapse Disorder, or CCD for short. Colony Collapse Disorder occurs when the drone bees, which are the bees that do all the pollinating, leave the hive but lose their sense of navigation and are unable to return home (Colony Collapse Disorder (CCD), Hilsabeck 2 Encyclopedia Britannica). This is detrimental to a beehive because the drone bees are the ones that make the honey for all the other hive members (National Geographic). Without the honey, the bees in the beehive inevitably starve to death. As a species that is reliant on the service bees offer, it is important that everyone is informed on the disastrous conditions of the powerful pollinators. With the information provided, one could easily draw the conclusion that a threat to bees is a threat to the human population, maybe even the ecosystem as a whole. This conclusion alone gives every reader a reason to care about the bees. Just a few of the foods pollinated by bees that we have without them include: apples, mangoes, peaches, strawberries, coffee, cotton, lemons, watermelon, broccoli, onions, avocadoes, bell peppers, vanilla, and tomatoes (Sarich). Without a doubt, every person consumes at least one of the products on this list at some point in their life. It may be clothes made from cotton, or spaghetti sauce made with tomatoes, or the cup of coffee in the morning. One in three mouthfuls of food a person eats contains a product of bees, so the other dozens of foods not listed are consumed, whether the person eating knows the product comes from a bee or not (NW Honeybees). Along with the herbivorous foods that bees pollinate for direct human consumption, bees also pollinate food eaten by livestock such as alfalfa for cows (NW Honeybees). So the decline in bee population could lead to a loss of livestock, which means not only less steak and burgers for anyone who consumes them, but also less milk, cheese, and yogurt for those who eat them. And alas, the obvious loss would be all the beautiful, colorful flowers. Without flowers, communities would look monotonous and alike. These bee products are most likely important to a everyday life. Hilsabeck 3 Though bees are vital to a livelihood, some people may argue that bees are harmful, and some people may even be allergic. In the case of an encounter with a bee for someone with an allergy, the best thing to do is not bother the bee. In some cases, a first instinct may be to swat at it. This will only aggravate it, so it is best to just stay still and let the bee find its own way out of the room. Allergy or not, the entire ecosystem benefits from the existence of bees. An allergy should not be a defense for not caring. In the end, there are so many actions a person can take to help bees from the comfort of their own home. The first step is to plant flowers that bees enjoy. The type of plants a person should plant depends on the climate of the area in which they live. However, the best plants to plant for bees include clovers, sunflowers, and berries (Honeybees: The Most Misunderstood Natural Resource). The second step to helping the bees from own home is avoiding certain pesticides. For example, neonicotinoids are known to be harmful to bees and other insects. There are natural alternatives that can be used, depending on the type of plant. Also, when buying pesticides, its best to look for one that has natural ingredients. Third, there are organizations that help bees that one can donate their money to. A great example is The Honeybee Conservancy, which not only helps fund advocacy campaigns, but also gives advice on plants that help attract bees and how to plant them accordingly. This would be the best option for someone who have the time to plant a garden, but has the money and the drive to help. The fourth step one can take is changing their consumer habits. There are many alternatives to bee products like honey and beeswax. Honey can be easily replaced by agave nectar or maple syrup, which have the same consistency as honey. Instead of beeswax, cosmetic products that are vegan or use different waxes can be bought for the same prices as other beeswax cosmetics. Beeswax candles can also Hilsabeck 4 be replaced by soy candles and have the same burning time and scents as beeswax. Finally, the simplest action one can take is urging their state representatives to take action. By calling state representative, they are making sure that their voice is heard by someone who can do something to help. Help is easy, and everyone should have the desire to save the bees considering what invaluable, irreplaceable service they provide. In conclusion, bees are an important piece of the ecosystem that cannot be replaced. They provide so much for humans and animals, from foods such as cotton for clothing and food for livestock, to flowers that provide beauty to the world. Because of how simple it is to help, everyone who is capable should pitch in to prevent this valuable resource from going to waste. At the current rate of population decline, there much time until the bees become endangered and possibly extinct. Everyone who can act, must act now. Hilsabeck 5 Sources A  NW Honey Bee Habitat Restoration Home. N.p., n.d. Web. 13 Apr. 2017. Honeybees: The Most Misunderstood Natural Www.uvm.edu, 21 Apr. 2013. Web. 13 Apr. 2017. Colony Collapse Disorder  Britannica. Britannica, Inc., 31 Mar. 2017. Web. 13 Apr. 2017. Sarich, Cristina. List of Foods We Will Lose If We Save the  Urban Beekeepers. Honey Love, 15 Aug. 2013. Web. 13 Apr. 2017. Society, National Geographic. Honeybees, Honeybee Pictures, Honeybee  National Geographic. N.p., n.d. Web. 02 Feb. 2017.