Student 1 Student Dr. Rick Gaspar ENC 1102 13 April 2017 Stepping Out of the Comfort Zone For many years, women in many job industries have been looked down on and have been criticized for choosing jobs that are not necessarily based, e.g., tech. There are many reasons why women get criticized for pursuing their passions in something male dominated and a lot of women believe it has to do with change. Some men employees in tech believe that they have already created this much success so why change it? Something very important that people should understand is that this issue of women being mistreated in their workplace and being looked down upon by many people is just not right. Women are some of the most hard-working people in plenty of industries and this should be seen by people who are not even aware of this mistreatment. Support from everyday citizens can raise awareness to prevent the use of sexism and misogyny within the professional workplace and in general as well. More organizations can be developed that could inform people on what and why this issue is happening and also, to target younger audiences, speakers can come to schools to educate the future generation on something that could affect them in the future. This is an issue that can and will be changed because it could affect any woman at any time. Back then, women were more active in the tech than they are presently. The really defined the impact that women made in technology. For example, between the years of 1938 and 1945, a set of women cracked codes that aided in winning World War II. Known as the Park code these women able to give Prime Minister Winston Student 2 Churchill advanced knowledge of invasion by solving difficult codes in a mansion in Bletchley Park. (Women Who Changed History). Fast forward twenty years and Jean E. Sammet comes into place. Sammet was the first woman to receive a Ph.D. in computer science in 1968 and proceeded to develop the computer language while working at (Women Who Changed History). In 1969, computer scientist Margret Hamilton teamed up with a group of students from Massachusetts Institute of Technology to develop something that would change the future. Her and her team created the software that successfully landed Apollo 11 on the moon. (Women Who Changed History). Now, this seems like the number women in tech should have continued to rise in coming years, but actually, that is not what happened. As the years went by, interests went down. By the 37% of computer science majors were women; in 2012, (11 Facts about Women). Despite this decreasing interest, many women still dominate the tech industry. For example, Susan Wojcicki is the current CEO of YouTube, Marissa Mayer is the current CEO of Yahoo, Meg Whitman is the current CEO of HP, and there are plenty more. Most Powerful Women in Tech). Organizations have been developed to help women pursue their passions in tech, but the numbers are still minute compared to the amount of men in tech. The lack of women in tech is driven by several factors such as, mistreatment in the work place, lack of encouragement/teasing in younger years, and sexism. (Real Reason Why there More Women in Tech). To start, women tend to get mistreated in their workplace, especially in the tech industry which leads to women working in science and high-tech fields being 45 percent more likely than their male peers to leave the industry within a year, often due to gender bias and feelings that they are being weighed against male (11 Facts about Women). Younger girls are often pushed to interest themselves in more feminine activities Student 3 because they have a lack of encouragement and are essentially teased for liking something they Eileen Pollack interviewed Yale physics undergrads and they told some of their shocking stories to her. One mentioned that she was to find herself one of only 3 girls in her AP Physics course in high school, and even more so when the other two dropped out. Her classmates teased her mercilessly: a girl. Girls do (Real Reason there More Women in Tech). Pollack herself experienced a lack of encouragement from her physics advisors/professors so she discontinued her studies in physics. She stated that a single professor not even my advisor encouraged me to go to graduate (Real Reason there More Women in Tech). Lastly, sexism is a major issue in certain industries, especially in tech. Defined by Huffington Post, pipeline problem the belief that the tech industry diverse because of a scarcity of available talent would seem like the reason that less women are entering the tech industry, but in fact, it is by the issues with sexism. The tech industry favours men and its resulting organizational culture is making that point very clear to any women who would want to be a part of (Real Reason there More Women in Tech). Overall, one cannot say that women are not being mistreated and are receiving encouragement to pursue tech. According to statistics developed by Jeff Desjardins of Visual Capitalist, having women in tech is a positive attribute that every company should have. Companies like Apple, Facebook, Google, and Microsoft have tech positions that are growing 238% faster than (33 Must Know Facts). Also, allowing more diversity between employees can drastically increase the status of the company. For instance, Women Who Code mentions that teams perform better by increasing collective intelligence and companies with the highest representation of women leadership have seen a 34% high ROI (return of investment) than those Student 4 with few or no (About Us). Going back to the the scarcity of talent is not the reason why less women are in tech, it is the fact that no one believes in women and what they are capable of and if companies reduced female attrition in science, engineering, and technology by 25%, it would add 220,000 people to the talent (Why You Hire More Women in Tech?). On a more serious note, these criticisms that women receive from their male higher-ups are horrifying and honestly unbelievable. Women are often put down at a young age, especially in college when they have a chance to pursue something they are passionate about. Eliza Rawling is the chief business officer at Cloud Direct and studied electronic engineering at her previous University. She remembers one of her male lecturers coming into her class with a handful of girls and said to them what are you doing here? You are wasting your time. There is no place for you in this industry. I mean it waste your time here. This industry does not want (The Worst Advice Ever Received). This one of the many stories told by women world-wide. Furthermore, what is important to take from this information is that it could happen to any woman; a daughter, a wife, a friend, anyone. If no one acts upon this issue, it will just continue to grow until there is nothing that can be done. Organizations and conferences helping women to succeed in this industry have been put into place and have aided in the improvement of this issue. However, actively participating and really getting the message out there that women can succeed in tech is when change can begin to happen. To conclude, being informed that the mistreatment of women in tech and other STEM (science, technology, engineering, and mathematics) areas is a controversial issue and is the first step in becoming involved and fighting to make a difference. Non-engaged people now know Student 5 that this on-going issue can be stopped, but not just with the resources currently available. They are a start to decreasing this mistreatment, but more awareness and organizations need to be introduced and if we continue on with this development, hopefully this issue will be stopped for good. (WC: 1340). Student 6 Works Cited 11 Facts about Women and  Www.dosomething.org. Scope, 2015. Web. 13 Apr. 2017. About  Www.womenwhocode.com. Women Who Code, n.d. Web. 13 Apr. 2017. Bateman, Kayleigh. Horror stories of women in tech: The worst advice ever  Www.computerweekly.com. TechTarget, Feb. 2013. Web. 13 Apr. 2017. Desjardins, Jeff. 33 Facts About Women in  Www.visualcapitalists.com. Visual Capitalists, 2 Mar. 2016. Web. 2017. Dockweiler, Scott. Women Who Changed  Www.themuse.com. Daily Muse, Inc, 2016. Web. 13 Apr. 2017. Hill, Zahara. The Is Just An Excuse For The Lack Of Diversity In  Www.huffingtonpost.com. Thehuffingtonpost.com, Inc, 11 Oct. 2016. Web. 13 Apr. 2017. Pratt, Siofra. Pipeline or Culture?: the Real Reason there More Women in  Www.socialtalent.co. Social Talent, Ltd, 27 Apr. 2016. Web. 13 Apr. 2017. The Daily Muse Editor. The Latest Stats on Women in Tech  Www.themuse.com. Daily Muse, Inc, 2016. Web. 13 Apr. 2017.