Genord 1 Joseph Genord Instructor: Angelica Aranda ENC1102.032S17 March 5 th , 2017 Gun Violence resolution Gun control has been a very controversial issue for many years. Many people want gun capable of holding magazines bigger than 10 rounds to be outlawed because of mass shootings. There are some organizations that support the use of guns in the United States, and others that are against the idea of guns. On one side, many organizations feel as though, allowing people to own a gun leads to an increase in violence and crime. However, organizations such as the National Rifle Association (NRA) support the ownership of guns for safety. The NRA uses images to portray their message of gun control. The NRA successfully supports gun control by the use of pathos, ethos, logos and kairos their advertisements and posters. The NRA is a pro-gun organization founded on November 17, 1871 dedicated to teaching gun safety across the country (home.nra.org). The NRA stands for freedom to own weapons within reason. They also pride themselves on teaching weapon safety for people of all ages and provides safety protocols on their main website. The following quote shows how gun control laws can affect a countries ability to defend itself and their commitment to country by helping an ally in need: the call to help arm Britain in 1940 resulted in the collection of more than 7,000 firearms for defense against potential invasion by Germany (Britain had virtually disarmed itself with a series of gun- control laws enacted between World War I and World War (home.nra.org). Genord 2 The NRA portrays their message of safety through their use of their advertisements and posters. In image A the background is two tone with a diagonal line from the bottom left corner to the top right color separating dark grey from grey. The year since more guns have been purchased is in the color whit and the number of how many guns have been purchased is in yellow, the percentage of the murder rate the decreased is in blue and less crime is in big letters at the bottom of the page with a white pistol in the bottom left corner of the image. The goal of the image is to show the audience that statistically, the more firearms that were purchased, the faster the crime rate decreased. The image shows the positive sides to owning a gun like being able to defend yourself and when criminals know you have a gun on you the most likely will not attack you. The image shows ethos, appeals to credibility, by showing the symbol in the middle of the image. By showing the organizations logo, it validates the image because it lets the audience know that the image was produced and sponsored by a certain credible organization. NRA also appeals to pathos, an appeal to emotion, by using neutral colors throughout the poster, which represents calm and neutral emotions. The image uses very subtle colors, such as yellow, blue, white, dark grey, and grey. Using those colors instead of a color like red, which people can associate with blood and death, would make people think badly in association with guns. Blue is used as a relaxing color and is an essentially soothing color. In addition, yellow is also used as an emotionally soothing color. Grey is used a neutral color and is suppose to provoke calmness towards the audience, the use of colors evokes certain emotions towards the audience. The image also uses logos, an appeal to logic, by the use of statistics. The image uses logos by stating, 1991 128 million firearms purchased in the U.S., murder rate went down by This shows the Genord 3 cause and effect of responsibly owing a gun. The use of statistics allows the audience to see what good can come of taking the safety route to responsibly owning a gun. The organization also uses kairos, an appeal to timeliness, by stating By using these words, it allows the audience to know what time frame the statistics were validated. The NRA continues to showcase their support towards safe gun control through image B. The second image is very minimalistic, but it gets straight to the point. This image the background is also two-tone with a horizontal line going right across the middle of the image separating silver from a dark blue at the bottom. DEFEND YOUR is right above the line in the dark blue and SELF is right below the line in the silver. Next to the words is the logo of the NRA showing that this image is their piece of advertisement. At the bottom of the image is writing stating that the image is property of the NRA and not to be used by any candidate or candidate committee. This image appeals to ethos, an appeal to credibility, by showing the symbol and the Rifle wording to the left of the image. This shows that the image has credibility because it shows the audience that the organization produced the image. In addition, the image appeals to logos, by using the simple statement defend your right to protect This statement is short but to the point. The image wants to provoke a thought to the audience that they should stand up for themselves and have that ability to defend themselves with the use of guns, if necessary. The organization also uses pathos, an appeal to emotion by the use of colors that are portrayed in the image. The colors that were used were also neutral, just as they were in image A. Since the image is very simplistic, the neutral color of grey is correctly used to portray the sense of calmness and neutrality in the image. The image appeals to kairos, an Genord 4 appeal to timeliness by stating your right to self By using this statement, it portrays a sense of urgency to the audience and makes the audience want to fight for their American right to bear arms. In conclusion, the NRA successfully supports the use of guns for safety through the use of their advertisements and their posters. In regards to fallacies, NRA stays consistent with their images and the messages they portray. Both images use appeals to act as aid to raise awareness of safe gun control. Overall, the posters and advertisements that NRA produces successfully show a consistent support on the use and the right to possess a gun for safety precautions. Works Cited NRA  NRA Home. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. The Coalition to Stop Gun Violence Seeks to Secure Freedom from Gun Violence through Research, Strategic Engagement and Effective Policy  Coalition to Stop Gun Violence. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. Genord 5 Imag e A Genord 6 Image B