Bynon 1 Austin Bynon Professor Hanson ENC 1102 30 April 2017 Protecting the Environment While walking down the street to your favorite public area, you will for sure see litter of some sort. The wad of rolled up paper on the sidewalk, the myriad number of cigarette butts around the garbage can, or that piece of gum you stepped on that ruined your day. This is why littering is a huge issue. People carelessly just throw trash out of a car window or just throw it on the ground when they feel like it. What those people do not understand is how them littering is going to have harmful effects on the environment and wildlife. In order to stop this problem, there should be a day organized every month where people go out and clean up litter in public places. Littering is an increasing problem which needs to be dealt with. People must act and stop littering before it ruins the environment. Littering is destroying the environment. Litter also known as land pollution is ruining the aesthetic appeal of the places people enjoy. The Environmental Protection Agency, also known as the EPA, is an organization which creates laws and makes sure the environment is being protected from pollution. They want to stop litter from the source. Stated on their website, can reduce waste by considering packaging when buying anything, and we can reuse materials like containers and products. We can also use reusable Trash at the They are discussing recycling and reusing items. The slogan Reuse, is exactly what the people need to do to prevent litter. It is simple so even kids can understand Bynon 2 the slogan. For example, people should recycle all of the plastics and glass they use. Litter is harmful to humans and other living creatures. Plastic takes years to decompose, so if an animal is eating something in a field and for some reason a plastic bag or bottle might be there on the ground they might decide to bite it. This is an issue because the plastic clogs the food pipe which can cause the animal to die. This could be a huge issue with animals that live in public parks. People always litter in public places, which can affect the humans and the animals in that environment. Littering is a nuisance to the environment and people must do something about it. Littering in public places is a huge issue in society. People think it is not detrimental to just throw their garbage on the ground. This makes the place look unappealing and disgusting. It also affects the wildlife that live in the particular place. For example, when people throw trash into bodies of water it affects that ecosystem. Birds can get their heads stuck in plastic materials which can cause them to die. Fish can get trapped in garbage or even get plastic stuck around them which causes death or growing defects. According to the Humane Society, Ocean 2008 International Coastal Cleanup garnered 3.7 million pounds of trash along 9,000 miles of U.S. shorelines in a single Deadly Truth About This shows how much litter is actually out there. The litter was cleaned up across the US shorelines, a place where people and their children enjoy going to the beach. It breaks hearts that the place they once loved is now covered in trash. Litter is has also affected animals in all environments. A wildlife rehabilitator said she has seen, poisoned from lead weights, skunks with yogurt containers stuck on their heads, eyes poked out from fishing hooks. But the worst case she remembers was a raccoon whose paws were stuck in beer Deadly Truth About This is obviously an important matter because it has to do with living creatures. People have to realize by them littering it can take an innocent Bynon 3 life. Even if the animal does not die from exposure to litter, it can still harm the animal and make life miserable. For example, that raccoon describes earlier who got its paws stuck in the beer cans. The animal did not die but it had to learn how to walk with the inconvenience of the cans being stuck to its paws. Imagine if that was your pet, you would be upset and disgusted with people that litter. This is exactly why people need to stop this epidemic. People need to do something fast to prevent and reduce litter. Communities should come together and organize a day every month where people go out to public places and clean up the litter. If the local cities throughout the world are willing to help the movement, it is likely that they will supply the garbage bags and will properly dispose the trash. People would go to local parks where kids play and clean up the trash. This will benefit the kids, people living in the neighborhood, and the wildlife that live there. This action alone will not get rid of all the litter but it is a good start. If people nationwide or even worldwide participate in this day once a month, positive progress would definitely be visible. Other people say, recycling is the best and easiest way to reduce the litter problem. There is a lot of litter on the beach which causes harm to the wildlife living there. A particular fact regarding the beaches in Italy states, different sites of a beach were sampled seasonally from spring 2014 to winter 2015. A total of 31,739 items were removed and classified into 103 categories. Plastic represented the majority (94.4%) of the collected Marine Pollution Bulletin, This shows that littering is ruining environments worldwide. This is why people must recycle to reduce litter. No one wants to go to their favorite places, whether it be a public park or the beach, and be unable to enjoy it due to the litter that surrounds the area. It ruins the visual appeal and makes the area seem dirty due to the excessive amount of litter. It also has a negative effect on the wildlife in that ecosystem. Birds and fish can get stuck in the litter which will be very harmful to the creatures. This is why people Bynon 4 must act upon the issue at hand. People must stop littering and should try to recycle. Another idea proposed is making all the public parks a no smoking area. This will prevent cigarette butts on the ground plus it will benefit the kids by not inhaling smoke. It will also benefit the wildlife because now the animals will be less likely to ingest a cigarette butt. This would reduce a lot of litter in public places which is what the environment needs. No one wants their kids playing in an area where there is cigarette butts on the ground and people smoking around their children. Some people are also in favor of fining people for littering. A community was sick of people littering on their beach so, vast majority of the population endorsed a fine for beach Ocean and Coastal This might reduce littering if the law enforcement enforces it. All in all, the next time you go to throw that receipt or piece of gum on the floor, remember the long lasting effects that result from that small action. Nothing good results from the action of littering. Littering has to stop. It is ruining the environment and has harmful effects on both humans and animals. It takes the action and hard work of the people in these places to reduce the amount of litter. People should plan on organizing a day once a month where they go out and clean up public places. In addition, everyone should take part in recycling. Once people are educated on the harmful effects of littering, they will want to take action and make a difference. The earth is like a home and must be treated as one. Hence, it is time for a change in environmental protection and people must act fast before litter ruins the environment. Bynon 5 Works Cited Cigarette Butt  Cigarette Butt Waste. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Eastman, Lucas B., et al. Identification of Self-Reported User Behavior, Education Level, and Preferences to Reduce Littering on Beaches a Survey from the SE  Ocean and Coastal Management, vol. 78, 01 June 2013, pp. 18-24. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.ocecoaman.2013.02.014. Preventing Trash at the  EPA. Environmental Protection Agency, 29 July 2016. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Reducing and Reusing  EPA. Environmental Protection Agency, 14 Dec. 2016. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Poeta, Gianluca, et al. The Cotton Buds Beach: Marine Litter Assessment along the Tyrrhenian Coast of Central Italy Following the Marine Strategy Framework Directive  Marine Pollution Bulletin, vol. 113, 15 Dec. 2016, pp. 266-270. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.marpolbul.2016.09.035 The Deadly Truth About  The Humane Society of the United States. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.