Roman 1 Isabel Roman Professor Heiser ENC 1102-068 23 April 2017 Media and Body Satisfaction The media is everywhere. It has risen over the years to make an appearance in life. It is showcased in magazines, television, social media, and more. Most people think of the affects that the media has on an individual, especially concerning body image. The women that are publicized are usually thin and use photoshop to hide any flaws. That portrayal of a woman is false and unrealistic; however, many young girls look at those images and long to look similar. There are girls who want to alter themselves to reach societies expectations. Body shame and body dissatisfaction among adolescents is rising, women around the globe need to empower each other to realize the beauty they hold within. It is often difficult for a woman to look in the mirror and be satisfied with the reflection. The media has caused women to compare themselves to an unrealistic ideal which leads them to be dissatisfied with their body. In 2004, a beauty company known as Dove conducted a study that concluded that only two percent of women consider themselves beautiful (Dove). There are seven billion people in the world, a little over half of those are women; however, only two percent think they are beautiful. This is an eye-opening statistic because it puts into perspective how many women feel unsatisfied with their self-image. It has become natural for women to compare themselves to the images that the media advertises. In an article written by Cavel Whyte and his colleagues from Syracuse University, comparison is described as an instinct: Roman 2 comparisons may be relatively spontaneous, effortless, and unintentional (Whyte et al. 834). Since the media is everywhere, it is almost like an automatic reflex to absorb the information presented and integrate it into personal views. The depiction of a thin, tall, blonde model is drilled into the minds of young girls to mold their expectations to fit societies standards. The American culture has created an image of a woman that adolescents wish to become. On social media, the girls that have the most are those that are thin, tall, and blonde. The popular social media stars post pictures wearing provocative clothing and glamourous make- up. Most of these girls use social media as a platform to become a high fashion model. According to a website called Mirror Mirror, average female fashion model wears a size two or four, for instance, while the average American woman wears a size 12 to (www.mirror- mirror.org). If the average American woman wears a size twelve to fourteen, it makes no sense that the women that are promoted on television, magazines, and more are a size two to four. The reasoning behind this is that designers often say they only use very thin models because the clothes simply look better on (www.mirror-mirror.org). Fashion designers are promoting body dissatisfaction by designing clothes for an unrealistic body size. Issues like this give rise to eating disorders, body shame, and low self-esteem. Body dissatisfaction is something that not only affects a woman personally, but it affects relationships. According to Kim Claudat from the University of Nevada, women who are less satisfied with their bodies tend to feel self-conscious during sexual activity. The natural act of sexual intercourse is hindered by body shame. Claudat blames this phenomenon on the media. Sexual objectification occurs when a entire being is identified with her is treated as a body or a collection of body parts (Bartky, 1990). For example, in media advertisements, bodies are often displayed in isolated Roman 3 body parts, such as a bare stomach, buttocks, or cleavage (e.g., Sommers- Flanagan, Sommers-Flanagan, & Davis, 1993). According to objectification theory, such images send the message that women are to be viewed as body parts and objects to be desired. (Claudat 2) This sexual objectification results in a insecurity. As stated in the quote, a woman is viewed as for the act of pleasure. If a woman does not have confidence, it is very likely that engaging in sexual activity would feel uncomfortable. Claudat brings up a controversial topic in the article regarding a influence on body satisfaction: . . one must attain the ideal physical appearance and be sexually attractive to (Claudet 3). The media also influences a perspective of women. Since the American culture oversexualizes the image of a female, a man expects a woman to look like the advertisements; however, that depiction is unrealistic. Men fail to recognize the pressure that women face to reach the ideal body which causes women to feel unsatisfied when engaging in sexual activity. It has been made evident that the media has a major influence on body image. It has been proven through the percentage of women who see themselves as beautiful, the expectations of fashion designers, and the pressure that men put on women. The only thing that women have is each other. It is women against the world. If women keep giving in to the expectations that are put upon them then that two percent of women who consider themselves as beautiful will decline, the amount of eating disorders will rise, and the number of women who undergo plastic surgery will increase. According to Heart of Leadership, more than 90 percent of girls aged 15 to 17 want to change at least one thing about their physical appearance (www.heartofleadership.org). That percentage is too high; however, to change that number, women need to join forces to make a difference. Roman 4 Women spend a substantial portion of their morning looking in the mirror to get ready for the day. During that time, if a woman can take a second to look at the reflection and say one positive thing about themselves, progress can begin. Something as simple as complimenting the length of their eyelashes or the prominence of their cheekbones can alter their self-perception. As a self-love begins to flourish by engaging in those routinely exercises, women can start empowering each other. The first step to empowerment is loving oneself, so once that is completed, women can use that positive energy to radiate it among other individuals. Women can make it a mission to say one compliment to another female each day. If a large majority of women participate in this then it is likely that the influence will begin to fade. The idealized size two, tall, and blonde model can be replaced with a size twelve, averaged height, everyday woman. If women change the perceptions of themselves, society can alter the expectations placed on women. Men can learn to appreciate the natural attributes that a woman has rather than the oversexualized image that the media portrays. Fashion designers can design clothes for the average women rather than the exotic size two model. Young girls can look up to the image of a real women rather than wishing to alter themselves to please society. One compliment can change the world. Roman 5 Works Cited A Girl Should Feel Free to Be  Dove Self-Esteem Project. N.p., n.d. Web. 04 Apr. 2017. Claudat, Kim and Cortney S. Warren. Self-Objectification, Body Self-Consciousness during Sexual Activities, and Sexual Satisfaction in College  Body Image, vol. 11, 01 Sept. 2014, pp. 509-515. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.bodyim.2014.07.006. Statistics on Body Image, Self Esteem & Parental Influence Heart of  Heart of Leadership -. N.p., n.d. Web. 04 Apr. 2017. The Media And Body  Eating Disorder Help. N.p., n.d. Web. 04 Apr. 2017. Whyte, Cavel, et al. A Confound-Free Test of the Effects of Thin-Ideal Media Images on Body  Journal of Social & Clinical Psychology, vol. 35, no. 10, Dec. 2016, pp. 822-839. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1521/jscp.2016.35.10.822.