Equizi 1 Tyler Equizi Martha Heiser ENC 1102 5 April 2017 Big Top Cruelty Many children grow up attending the circus with their families at local fairs or even on larger stages such as hockey arenas and football stadiums. As a kid, it is always an exciting time to see people juggle fire, watch ten clowns get out of one two-door car, and gaze at trapeze artists soaring through the air. But what really excited kids the most is the exotic animals doing amazing tricks. While watching a tiger jump through an inflamed hoop may seem impressive, most people do not know what happens to that tiger behind the scenes. In fact, circus animals spend their lives in captivity while being badly beaten in order to be Circuses such as Big Apple Circus and Ringling Bros. are all guilty of mistreating animals for the enjoyment of their audience, but it is time for that to end. By agreeing to protest circuses that use animals in their show, circuses will have no other choice than to shut down or stop using all animals. With the first circuses being held in the early animals have always been used for entertainment (Jando). Although instead of the elephants and tigers used today, horses used to be the main source of entertainment. Riders would perform tricks while riding on the back of their horses. Around 1780, jugglers and acrobats were added as performers in-between the equestrian acts. Exotic animals were added to the circus when Hachaliah Bailey purchased an African elephant. By the late the circus was known around the world and loved by everyone of any age (Jando). Equizi 2 The most entertaining part of the circus is watching the exotic animals do unimaginable tricks, but these animals do not voluntarily perform. As PETA states, tigers, and other animals that circuses use to entertain audiences do not stand on their heads, jump through hoops, or balance on pedestals because they want to. They perform these and other difficult tricks because afraid of what will happen if they According to Big Cat Rescue, the ways in which tigers and elephants are trained include bull hooks. Starting when they are young, elephants are disciplined using the bull hooks, and grow up fearing them. The circus trainers carry the hooks into the ring to maintain order of the elephants and make them do tricks. Other means of discipline include whipping, poking, and shocking the animals (Paws). While elephants look like they enjoy standing on their back legs or tigers love jumping off podiums, it is important to remember they are not doing it by choice, they are doing it out of fear. Fear and training should not be two words that have any relation to each other. But for the circus and animal trainers, it is the only way they know. While the training of circus animals seems to be too much, it does not end there. Many people do not realize that since the circus is always traveling, so are the animals. It would be nice to use different animals for each performance, but as stated before, animals do not voluntarily perform for the circus. The same animals must be used for every show. Paws, a long- time animal right support organization, reports that circus animals spend about 96% of their lives in chains or cages, and spend over 11 months a year traveling. And the traveling conditions of circus animals are no first-class. The animals are kept in small box cars with no climate control, they are forced to eat, sleep, and use the bathroom all in the same car. Since shows only last a couple hours, the animals are kept either in their cars or in exhibition cages (Kawata). The exhibition cages put the animals on display for people to come and see while the show is not Equizi 3 going on. An acclaimed British animal impresario, Frank Bostock, has stated, an exhibition which is open to the public all day long, it is extremely difficult to give any animal absolute quiet; but we always do our (Kawata). Bostock points out that exhibitions are open to the public all day long, which means the animals are in their cages all day long. Bostock also says, soon as she appears uneasy, the cage is covered up, and she is left to herself until she has had plenty of time to settle down with her little When the animals become upset they are not moved to an area with more space, instead their cages are covered up to hide them from sight. This is an ineffective and inhumane method of caring for animals. If an animal is upset, it should be taken away and put into an environment where they can relax and resume their normal life. While many people think they are unaffected by this, they do not consider how unethical this issue truly is. Every day, hundreds of exotic and beautiful animals are being mistreated for the pleasure of others. People who run the circus do not care about the animals they are mistreating, instead they only see them as dollar signs. While Ringling Bros. is about to shut down for good, there are still multiple circuses around the world that use and mistreat animals in their shows. Try thinking about it like this, what if circus trainers used humans instead of animals? A person would be forced to sit in a cage when not being used, trained by being beaten, and they would be put on display for all to see without any privacy. When the role is switched to a person, many people begin to get upset. So why is it any different for an animal? It is time for the excuse of being uninformed to come to an end. The circus has been around long enough, and there are plenty of organizations exploiting the harsh conditions for people to make a change. A great way to help put a stop to animal use in the circus, is to stop attending the circus. This is a simple task that does not require any effort. The next time the circus comes to town, Equizi 4 simply do not go. If people stop attending the circus, they be able to afford to keep it running. This means they can either shut down for good, or find a way to stay running without including animals. If even half of the people who normally attend the circus decide not to go for the sake, the circus will be forced to choose one of these options. This is an easier solution than donating to a fund or going out to protest, because it does not require you to even go out of your house or give up any of your money. And for people who do not want to give up the circus, there are many other circus-like events that do not include animals. Cirque du Soleil is an example of a non-animal circus, and Circus Vargas is an example of a circus that once used animals, but now does not. So step right up, step right up, come one, come all, and protect the animals from the abuse of the circus. Equizi 5 Works Cited Beverage, Emily A. Abuse under the Big Top: Seeking Legal Protection for Circus Elephants After ASPCA V. Ringling  Vanderbilt Journal of Entertainment and Technology Law, no. 1, 2010, p. 155. Circus Acts That Use Wild Cats Should be  Big Cat Rescue. N.p., n.d. Web. 03 Apr. 2017.  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 03 Apr. 2017. Enjoy the Circus? The Animals  PAWS. N.p., n.d. Web. 03 Apr. 2017. Jando, Dominique. Short History of the  Short history of the circus - Circopedia. N.p., n.d. Web. 03 Apr. 2017. Kawata, Ken. Wild Animal Training: A Glance at Circuses and  Der Zoologische Garten, vol. 85, 01 Jan. 2016, pp. 261-279.