1 Student Student Instructor Lewis ENC 1102 30 April 2017 Food Waste: Solutions & Inaction Food waste not only impacts the environment, but also everyday lives. Food waste is known to adversely affect the environment and the animals that inhabit our country, but there is also a social impact in addition to this environmental issue. The solution to the food waste issue could not only impact the environmental, but social issue involved. The social impact of food waste is felt by people through many ways, both directly and indirectly. The problems food waste imposes on our society do have a solution. There needs to be a concerted effort to both reduce food waste and help the communities that are most effected by our corrupt food industry. People who are impoverished are at a higher risk to not have enough food Waste: The The problems of hunger that affect impoverished communities could be solved with a potential solution of food waste. Poverty is defined as income below the threshold of living without government assistance. The solution proposed for food waste can indirectly fix a social problem that plagues the most vulnerable in the society. What is to be done of this problem? The solution entails getting grocery stores to help transfer food that would normally be wasted, into the hands of those who can not buy food with their current income. The goal is to inform the public of the problems and explain the solutions, while addressing he inactivity on the part of society to fix this problem. The call to action is a guide of how to solve the societal issues caused by food waste. 2 Student The issue of food waste affects everyone that lives on the planet Earth (Office of the Chief Economist 2017). The effects of food waste are directly negative to the environment. The over production of food has caused top soil around the world being depleted, then the food that is causing this depletion of the top soil is being wasted. The environment however is not the only thing at risk to being damaged as a result to food waste. Food waste negatively impacts our society and our local communities in ways that the average consumer or citizen but they are not aware of it happening. The specific societal impact that needs to be addressed is that our lower income communities are impacted by food waste more than any other group. The Natural Resources Defense Council states percent of the food in the United States is never eaten. But at the same time, one in eight Americans struggles to put enough food on the This statistic is shockingly harsh. The implications of this are that we waste nearly triple the amount of food is wasted, that would be necessary to feed the people who are starving. The issue arises when we try to solve this problem. It will only be possible to solve it when people come together and form systems that help transfer food near spoiling to communities and people who desperately need them. Thus we must identify the stakeholders who are not aware of the position that they hold. These stakeholders include grocery stores and their owners who have a great deal of power to help fix the societal problem caused by food waste. Verena Gruber talks about the ways in which a store owner has the power and ability to help solve the issue of food waste a Waste! Exploring the Human Reality of Food Waste from the Store The historical significance of food waste is also important. Hundreds of years ago before the industrial revolution many more people were farmers than they are today. The result in modern society is that we no longer provide food for ourselves, but trade money or services in 3 Student exchange for food. The main problem with this system is that it has led to the waste of food that is not consumed or purchased by the expiration date. In the best people would consume what they produced and sometimes sell excess or trade food in the local towns. The problem we face now has little precedent in terms of the long course of human history. Environmental issues regarding food waste are also a modern phenomenon. The over farming of certain areas has eroded top soil, solving the issue of feeding the poor helps reduce excessive food production. The specialization of work means more people do not grow their own food and are reliant on the food supply. This reliance forces the food industry to always produce more than necessary to always accommodate the demand of the consumer. Food forward tells us, according to the NRDC, 20% of vegetables and fruits grown never leave the farm Waste in The solution proposed does not address all of the issues concerning food waste, but it does prevent about half of food waste and fixes a social affect caused by it. The social impact is not only important to those individuals directly affected, but the rest of the community is also indirectly affected. The food wasted could otherwise be used to help feed individuals who are impoverished. If this was the case they would have more money to spend on other necessary goods. At the same time, less government assistance in the form of monetary aid would be needed. The result would be lower spending and thus tax payers would have to spend less money to help feed the rest of the community. Every party included is benefitted. The secondary benefits would include the fact that the environment would be significantly better off with less food waste as well. The main reason to care about food waste is that it matter how much more food we are able to produce, if we do not have the systematic distribution of food to all people solved. The problem now that there is enough 4 Student food, but in the fact it is thrown away; this requires us all to get more involved to help address this issue. The issue of food waste will not go away without the support of many people. There needs to be a concerted effort to help transfer food into communities in poverty that would normally be wasted. How can people achieve such a feat? People must contact their local groceries and form a connection. The connection between the food supply and the actual people who make up that community is vital to the success of the plan. The people then need to create a system where food that is going to go bad, can make its way to places like food kitchens or others that help feed the impoverished or less fortunate people. The goals for the non- engaged stakeholders is contacting local groceries and coordinating efforts to give people in poverty food for free/reduced. The incentive for the business is positive exposure and maybe increased profits. The business owners will increase profits due to generating some revenue from selling food to local soup kitchens. The money will come from charities that would normally buy food at higher prices can now buy local food at a lower price. The people in poverty are benefitted by having more food available to them through this systematic transfer. The main point of the solution is the call to action. The solution is only attainable if the people organize and form a system that helps to reduce food waste while at the same time fixing a crucial societal issue. The effects of under nutrition are bad and can have a lasting effect on an life. The solution comes at no cost to the individuals who help to solve it, while helping those in our communities that need help the most. (WC: 1283) 5 Student Works Cited Waste: The United States Committee for FAO, Date Published 2015. Web. Date Accessed April 2017 Food https://www.nrdc.org/issues/food-waste. Natural Resources Defense Council, 2017 Published. Web. April 2017 Accessed. Waste in https://foodforward.org/2015/10/food-waste-in- america/?gclid=CM7ouo6eh9MCFUQDhgodLE4B0A FOOD FORWARD, Date 2017 Published. Web. April 2017 Accessed. of the Chief https://www.usda.gov/oce/foodwaste/faqs.htm. USDA.gov , 2017 Published. Web. April 2017 Accessed. Gruber, Verena; Holweg, Christina; Teller, Christoph a Waste! Exploring the Human Reality of Food Waste from the Store Journal of Public Policy & Marketing Spring2016, Vol. 35 Issue 1, p3-25. 23p Koonchun, Lai; Sooking, Lim; Pehchiong, Teh; Kimho, Yeap. Characterizing a Novel Food Waste Recovery Process Using an Electrostatic Separator. Polish Journal of Environmental Studies. 2016, Vol. 25 Issue 5, p2227-2232. Calvo-Porral, Cristina; Chema. Can Marketing Help in Tackling Food Waste? Proposals in Developed Countries. Journal of Food Products Marketing. Jan2017, Vol. 23 Issue 1, p42-60. 19p.