Garcia 1 Anibal Jose Garcia Instructor Lewis ENC 1102 30 April 2017 Saving the World Starts with You We always imagines how the future will look like. Some said there would be time travel, some predicted a human civilization in space, and others said there would be flying cars. Unfortunately, these theoretical and factionary stories have not come true. However, humans have created a invention a car running solely on electricity. Tesla has been able to nearly perfect the electric car and has started the mass production of these environmental friendly and relatively cheap cars. Electric cars are proven to be better for the environment (DeLuchi, Mart, et al.). Since the industrial age, the world has seen an increase of pollution due to the waste of fossil fuels. This contamination has come from factories, trains, boats, and cars. Today the largest industries are looking at diverse ways and energy sources to help reduce the pollution levels and reverse the damages already done by past actions. Because many experts have argued that gasoline powered cars cause a significant impact on the pollution, daily commuters should consider making the switch to electric vehicles to decrease the pollution levels and cause a positive impact on the planet and consider yourself to be someone that can make a change in the world. Car production is increasing every year. It was estimated that was 1999 there were about 39 million cars produced. (Worldometers) It is also estimated that in 2012 that number surpassed the 60 million mark. (Worldometers) According to Union of Concerned Scientists, about one- fifth of all US emissions are caused collectively by cars and trucks (Nerdwallet). It is clear how Garcia 2 much damage gasoline powered vehicles actually cause on the world. It is scary to think how the levels of pollution are currently affecting so many people in the world. According to the American Lung Association, nearly half of all Americans are currently living in unhealthy levels of air pollution (MacMunn). This is a serious problem that can be fought in a simple way. Solutions have to be created in order for this problem to be resolved. It is also clear that there are companies out there who are making the effort and gaining ground on these solutions. Every electric car that is added to the road is a step forward in the right direction. Gasoline powered cars are not complete destroyers of the Earth. There are many people who argue that the cost of having an electric vehicle can even be higher than that of a gasoline powered one. Some people think that you cause pollution either way when you charge your electric car because you use electricity. Currently it is cheaper to buy a gasoline running car, having the option to buy used cars as low as anyone can think that run fine and get the user from one place to the other which is ultimately the end goal of using a car, to get from one place to another. The downside to these vehicles is that they produce even more emissions than current gas powered cars. Solutions such as hybrid vehicles that use both electricity and gasoline have tried to make an appearance in the past but never made enough of an impact and have slowly died off. Since the cheaper solution continues to produce the same or even more levels of pollution, it is not a wise choice since the ultimate goal is to reduce the levels of emissions and reverse the damage already caused in the past by these vehicles. Tesla and its electric cars have been very keen in showing consumers that not only do their vehicles help the environment but they also can help consumers save money in the long run while still having prices which can compete against main car companies. On website, there is a cost calculator which, when inserting the needs, can give an estimate of Garcia 3 how much money one can actually save monthly on gas when operating their Model S (Model S). To calculate these savings, it takes information such as how many miles are driven daily and which type of charger the consumer could use. Not only is it convenient to plug in a car at night and have it ready to go by morning, but on average it would cost less to charge than filling up at a gas station. In addition to this, electric vehicles are praised for being more energy efficient than gasoline powered vehicles. Tesla vehicles, according to the website, their vehicles produce zero emissions (About Tesla) which is absolutely better than that of the gasoline powered cars which produce one-fifth of all US emissions (Nerdwallet). In addition to this, according to 2015 study, the average cost of a vehicle, apart from the cost of the car itself is estimated at about $725 a month (Nerdwallet). This includes maintenance costs which can be oil changes and other fluids which are necessary in a gasoline powered engine. Since engines require no moving parts, these extra maintenance costs do not add up. There have been many cases of lung cancers around the world due to air pollution caused by vehicles. As stated in the article Air Pollution Makes Victims, the U.S. loses almost 10 thousand people to diseases caused by air pollution in cities and surrounding (Williams, Henry, Peggy Schmidt, Dawn Saunders, and Renee Randazzo). One specific case where a victim was affected by air pollution was an 8-year-old and a 14-year-old Chinese girls (Demick). As stated in the article, the 8-year-old girl is the youngest patient to have lung cancer, and the girl from Shanghai, the daughter of two nonsmokers with no family history of lung (Demick). The cause of these girls to be diagnosed with lung cancer is because of the high emission produced by cars. As Demick explains in the article, it the fine particulate matter known as PM 2.5, the microscopic particles from exhaust, coal smoke and vehicle fumes that can burrow their way into (Demick). This story can cause an impact on Garcia 4 everybody that lives in high polluted cities because one of those victims can be you or someone that you may know. It also impacts most people because the victim is a young girl, that obviously smoke, and do anything bad to be diagnosed with cancer. There are many ways one can help with the clean-up of the world. Emission have had a great impact on Earth and will continue to do so if actions are not taken. One way to take action on this problem is to take an immense step and switch out gasoline powered vehicle for an electric car. This of course is a costly step but in the long-haul both the user and the environment will benefit by providing zero-emissions, comfort with home charging and fuel cost savings. However, this is not the only way to contribute to the problem of gasoline powered vehicle emissions. One can also participate actively in recycling which will help reduce excess waste and provide companies and organizations such as Management Recycle and Plastics to recycle and reuse the waste that permits this. People can also volunteer at many local organizations to help clean up their city. By doing this they will reduce wastes on the streets, help marine life that get caught in human waste, and make the city have a nicer appeal. It is just a matter of wanting to help and change can be easily presented. In order to help clean up the environment, everyone must take a part by doing anything each individual can. Whether it be making the switch from gasoline powered automobile to an electric vehicle either by Tesla or another maker, or simply by taking part of recycling in own home, it is simple to make a difference and improve the world that humans live in. Supporting this cause required dedication by most if not all of the world since all humans contribute to the future of the earth. It is each individuals choice to either contribute in a positive way or to do nothing, keep living the way they do and continue the horrible cycle the world is in. (WC:1372) Garcia 5 Work Cited About Tesla, https://www.tesla.com/about. Accessed 15 Apr. 2017. DeLuchi, Mark, et al. Electric Vehicles: Performance, Life-Cycle Costs, Emissions, and Recharging Requirements. Berkeley: University of California Transportation Center, 1989. Reprint/University of California Transportation Center: no. 7. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezprosxy.lib.usf.edu/login.asp x?direct=true&db=cat00847a&AN=usflc.030267305&site=eds-live. Demick, Barbara. Cancer: A Cloud on Polluted Los Angeles Times. Los Angeles Times, 24 Dec. 2013 <http://articles.latimes.com/2013/dec/24/world/la-fg- china-lung-cancer-20131224> MacMunn, Allison. of the Report Finds More than Half of Americans Live with Unhealthful Levels of Air American Lung Association. N.p., 20 Apr. 2016. http://www.lung.org/about-us/media/press-releases/2016-state-of-the-air.html Model S, https://www.tesla.com/models. Accessed 13 Apr. 2017. Nerdwallet, https://www.nerdwallet.com/blog/loans/total-cost-owning-car/. Accessed 14 Apr. 2017 UCSUSA, http://www.ucsusa.org/clean-vehicles/car-emissions-and-global- warming#.WPQQpoWcHE0. Accessed 15 Apr. 2017 Tesla, https://www.tesla.com. Accessed 12 Apr. 2017. Williams, Henry, Peggy Schmidt, Dawn Saunders, and Renee Randazzo. Pollution Makes Victims World Report World Report Now. N.p., 11 Aug. 2016. <http://www.worldreportnow.com/air-pollution-makes-victims/4172/> Worldometers, http://www.worldometers.info/cars. Accessed 13 Apr. 2017