Hathaway 1 Michelle Hathaway Ms. Hannah Lay ENC 1102:047 26 January 2017 Tyson Foods Advertisement Strategies Tyson Foods is a well-known meat company in America that does many advertisements to get people to buy their product. Tyson is a company that has a very strong mission statement that states they we are people that engaged in the production of food, seeking to pursue truth and integrity, and committed to creating value for our shareholders, our customers, our TEAM Members, and our  Core ). There are two advertisements below that Tyson used to get people to buy their food through using the appeal to people and their families. Both of which are a part of the family campaign that Tyson established with Hillshire that the main goal was to, a portfolio of brand that spans different consumer Foods Bearer of Branded Business The first one is the one with the baby and the second one is the one with the child. In both of these advertisements, Tyson uses ethos the appeal to credibility, pathos the appeal to emotions and logos the appeal to logic. The most used appeal in these advertisements is pathos the appeal to emotion which they use to get their target audience, families. Tyson keeps this family orientated campaign going by making sure that they are, to boost brand perceptions of quality, safety, value and Inc. Each advertisement has an appeal as well to Tyson itself because it goes back to their mission statement that is all family and TEAM oriented. Hathaway 2 Hathaway 3 Hathaway 4 Ethos is the appeal to credibility, which is used in both the advertisements shown. In the first advertisement which is with a baby in the photo, it brings a sense of trust to the advertisement because normally family orientated people will trust food that has a happy and healthy baby on it. This works as well with the second advertisement because of how there is a child on the advertisement. Also in both ads, it is made clear that this is a product that is made in America which for some Americans gives great credibility. Both advertisements have a mini photo of a put together food platter of food which has vegetables and protein which implies healthy eating. In the first advertisement in the actual wording, it also says healthy which gives a buyer a good sense that what they are buying is good for their family as well as themselves. Tyson is implying that they are credible because if you eat their food it will make you healthy. Finally, in both advertisements, both the baby and the child are in healthy looking conditions which show that the brand of food that they are eating, which is literally in their mouths, is a great way to make baby and or child healthy looking and happy. Ethos is used by the Tyson to make sure that the buyers know that the company is well known and has great standing behind it so customers will buy their food. Pathos is the appeal to emotions, this appeal is the main appeal used in both advertisements. In the wording of the first advertisement with the baby, it immediately makes people think of feeding their family which brings in a happy feeling which is a reminder of how a family gets together and sits down at the end of the day. Likewise, the baby gives off the perception of happiness as well because for a good majority of women and or mothers will get a sense of security and happiness with a smiling baby. The sense of security and happiness due to the baby also works for the second advertisement with the child. Not only because the photo is of a child but as well as the child is playing in the snow which is a happy activity. Finally, another Hathaway 5 emotion that can be given from both of these advertisements is excitement because not only is the child and the baby smiling and happy but they are both also showing a sense of want and happiness in eating the brand Tyson, which is literally printed on both of their tongues. Pathos is used by Tyson because the company wants to make sure that the advertisements will draw on emotions to have a better chance of them buying the product. Logos is the appeal to logic which is used in both advertisements. In both advertisements they show a logical thought of that as a member of the family that is cooking dinner they would want fast and easy way to make sure the kids or themselves are happy and feed fast. Likewise, another logical appeal is that there are mini photos of what the meals would look like which both have a protein, starch, and vegetables which is the perfect healthy meal. It is also logical that the color used in the brand label is a bright red which draws the attention of anyone looking because it is a well-known brand of food that has a standing behind it so it is logical to buy them over someone else. Logos is used by Tyson in their advertisements because they want the customers to just know that logically they are the best choice for this type of product. Tyson Foods is a company that is well known around America. Its goals are to keep the family orientated atmosphere around in each individual family. Tyson tries to achieve this in their advertisements by using different strategies. Ethos by appealing to credibility, Pathos by appealing to emotion and Logos by appealing to logic. Tyson mainly uses pathos and this is good to note because that is how the company tries to get customers to buy their food by appealing to their emotions. Tyson does a very good job at integrating these three appeals into their advertisements which get their product sold and into the right type of customers that they wish to appeal to. In this case, mainly family orientated people that have children and care that their child is healthy and happy. Hathaway 6 Works Cited  Coloribus.com. Tyson Chicken Breast Strips, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.  Coloribus.com. Tyson Fresh Frozen Chicken, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Core  Tyson Foods: Core Values. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Jan. 2017. Foods, Inc. Tyson. Tyson Foods, Inc. Unveils New Advertising Campaign: What Your Family  PR Newswire: News Distribution, Targeting and Monitoring. N.p., 22 Mar. 2000. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Tyson Foods Bearer of Branded Business  Meat Processing, Food Safety, Poultry Processing. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.