Barroso Campos 1 Alberto Barroso Campos Professor Jackson ENC 1101 4/30/2017 Project 3 Final Draft Being an athlete, has so many benefits because universites pay for their tuition, scholarship, meals, free tutoring, etc. But also they have a main issue that is the money that they do not receive for playing, and this money goes to the coaches, sponsors or the Universities. Over the years, money was a big issue for athletes and cause a lot of problems in the teams, there are being little changes such as: money for advertising or video games. According to the NCAA, college athletic programs are big money makers for colleges. Ticket sales, television, radio, alumni donations, royalties and NCAA distributions, combined bring in over $6.1 billion in annual revenue to colleges. According with Veronica Majerol football and basketball are the main sports in all the universities, these sports generate many profits to universities, sponsors, coaches. For example, television networks are also generating huge amounts of money thanks to the athletes.This is big money for the schools. It also is a wonderful marketing tool for colleges, there are pros and cons why college athletes should get paid. One of the motivation behind why they ought to get paid it is college athletes put their bodies on hold each amusement they In the 2013 NCAA competition Louisville player Kevin Ware endured a terrible harm to his lower right leg while endeavoring to obstruct an opposing shot. After six months, Ware was mended and back to rehearsing. He was fortunate. There have been cases of players getting to be plainly incapacitated by hits or handles on football fields or different wounds that have finished Barroso Campos 2 vocations before they even begin. These competitors are yielding their bodies and physical wellbeing at an opportunity to play an amusement they cherish, and conceivably make it to the expert Another enormous reason it is these understudy competitors acquire an unfathomable measure of cash. Journalist (Michael Wilbon) has composed that seeing the $11 billion arrangement between the NCAA and CBS/Turner Sports for March Madness in the vicinity of 2011 and 2024 incited him to alter his opinion about paying understudy competitors. This arrangement demonstrates the measure of cash the NCAA is getting through the span of one month alone. March Madness is a standout amongst the most viewed wearing occasions in the nation. However, the cash being made off this occasion is not streaming down to the players, who are the stars of the competition. The last motivation behind why they ought to get paid it is paying school competitors would start making a feeling of budgetary mindfulness. One viewpoint I find ailing in this subject talk is the overlooking of the genuine actuality that a great deal of competitors are monetarily reckless. The ESPN narrative Broke gave an inside perspective of the money related troubles of numerous expert competitors, taking note of that around 60% of NBA players are down and out inside five years of retirement. Huge numbers of these players faulted poor ventures, trusting untrustworthy budgetary counsels and luxurious ways of managing money as the purpose behind their cash inconveniences. If schools somehow managed to start paying players, they could likewise help these understudies assemble an establishment of monetary proficiency. This would enable them to acquaint these understudies with budgetary financial specialists who had their best advantages as a top priority. Regardless of whether these Barroso Campos 3 school competitors went ahead to play professionally, they would at any rate, have some kind of monetary education to convey with them into whatever vocation they pick. This would (ideally) set them up a better money related future. (Patterson). Hence, there are many individuals that imagine that school athletes ought not get paid, the reasons are numerous understudy competitors as of now get grants and different advantages. While not all understudy competitors are on grant, many are, especially the individuals who are playing for schools we see winning national titles. Notwithstanding free educational cost and food and lodging, these school competitors likewise frequently get stipends to help towards books and other essential needs. This cash does not need to be paid back. Most different understudies are not getting these advantages, and will leave school with an incredible arrangement of student advance obligation. Subsequently, in examination, understudy competitors as of now have it less demanding, fiscally, than the greater part of the understudies at their school. That is the reason a few people answer the question Ought to understudy competitors get  with a firm  Another enormous motivation behind why they ought not get paid it is paying school competitors could reduce the virtue of the game.(Patterson). There are many fans of university level games who are fans since they trust the players at this level play with more energy and love of the game than competitors at the expert level. There are some who say proficient competitors do not play as hard on the grounds that they have effectively made it to the most elevated amount, and they would prefer not to hazard harm if an amusement is not for a national title. Paying understudy competitors could Barroso Campos 4 diminish their enthusiasm and make them less propelled to play hard to get to the following level. The last motivation behind why they ought not get paid it is truly troublesome. Paying school competitors is troublesome for various reasons. Right off the bat, as per (Jeffrey Dorfman), just a couple of university games really get cash. College football, and additionally and basketball, are the cash producers to the extent university sports is concerned. Most different projects are really desperate. Subsequently, the issue moves toward becoming ought to just football and basketball school competitors be paid? Is that reasonable for other understudy competitors? Besides, where ought to the cash originated from? Is it the duty of the school to pay these competitors or the NCAA? Different inquiries incorporate what amount ought to understudies competitors be paid, how frequently, will it work also that expert contracts work, etc? All these inquiries uncover how troublesome it is change the school athletic framework to repay school competitors. In conclusion, there are different reason why they should get paid or not, and both of them make sense. It is a difficult decision that the NCCA has to make. But college athletes deserve the money and being pay for their hard work. Barroso Campos 5 Work Cited MAJEROL, VERONICA, et al. Should College Athletes BE  New York Times Upfront, vol. 147, no. 2, 15 Sept. 2014, pp. 14-15. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/log in.aspx?direct=true&db=eue&AN=98041132&site=eds-live. PR, Newswire. March Madness - Should College Athletes Get  FL- PR Newswire US, 26 Mar. 2013. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true &db=bwh&AN=201303261743PR.NEWS.USPR.CG83694&site=eds-live. Should College Athletes Be  American Teacher, vol. 86, no. 1, Sept. 2001, p. 4. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true &db=eft&AN=507707534&site=eds-live. Tiffany Patterson 03 Febl 2017 https://smartasset.com/retirement/should-student- athletes-be-paid. Accessed 08 April 2017 Jeffrey Dorman /www.forbes.com/sites/jeffreydorfman/2013/08/29/pay-college- athletes-theyre-already-paid-up-to-125000year/#1f342c772b82. Accessed 08 April 2017 Barroso Campos 6 Schultz, Jeff. COLLEGE ATHLETICS: NCAA Needs to Take a Hint: At Very Least, Push to Unionize Athletics Will Lead to Paying  The Atlanta Journal-Constitution (Atlanta, GA), 2014. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true &db=edsggo&AN=edsgcl.363086567&site=eds-live.