Lillia1 Matthew Lillia Project 3 Final Draft Dorinda Davis 04/30/2017 Gun Control One of the biggest debates in the country today is whether there should be stricter gun laws legislated throughout the country. The debate over gun control has dominated news and social media debates, being a highly contested topics talked about in the last election. Gun control has been a talked about topic in America for many years but the debate has really gained momentum in the past ten years because of the many recent mass shootings terrorizing Americans. Many people around the country see the problem in America and that it needs to be addressed by enforcing stricter gun laws across the country, while the other side has strong views for the second Amendment and they believe that gun regulations are a direct violation with the Constitution. Organizations like the Coalition to Stop Gun Violence and the National Rifle Association fight for support on Congress to either pass or vote against gun restriction laws that are are presented to our politicians. This country has a problem with gun control that will only get bigger and more deadly if we stand up and do something about it. That is why we need to all do our part and stand up against the NRA and fight for stricter gun laws. America is consistently one of the most dangerous countries throughout the world when it comes to gun violence and we look to be continuing on that path if nothing is done about it. Compared to countries in Western Europe the US ranks first in gun violence per 100,000 people and they have almost three times as many incidents then the nearest country Portugal (npr.org). Lillia2 They rank second in compared to Central Europe, Eastern Europe, North Africa, and the Middle East. There is obviously a problem that needs to addressed in the US. The statistic that stands out the most is that the US is well above all the countries of Western Europe, and is the region that the USA gets compared to the most. Countries like the UK, France, and Spain all have strict gun regulations and all have much lower gun violence than US. While the US has 3.55 gun deaths per 100,000 people Spain, the Uk, and France are all under .24 (npr.com). Obviously the rest of the world knows something the US does not. Looking at the rest of the world the USA has a big problem with gun violence and the statistics highlighting the dangers of gun violence in the USA are staggering. In 2015 there were 13,468 deaths as a result of guns in the US (bbc.com). The article on bbc.com also states all the murders in the US in 2012, 60% were by firearm compared with 31% in Canada, 18.2% in Australia, and just 10% in the In Australia they banned all guns other than hunting weapons and their homicide rate as a result of gun violence went from 58% to only 10%. There were 372 mass shootings in the US in 2015, killing 475 people and wounding 1,870. Of those 372 mass shootings 64 were school shootings. Mass shootings have gotten the most media attention in recent news. Shootings like the Orlando nightclub shooting which was the deadliest on US soil killing 49 people and wounding 50 have added fuel to the fire in the debate (npr.com). Orlando is unfortunately just one of the many unfortunate mass killings in the US. According to the Washington Post 884 people have died as a result of mass shootings in America in the last 50 years. Of those 884 deaths 134 of them were children or teenagers. Mass shootings get much of the attention in the news and the opposition to the stricter laws claim that these events are impossible to prevent but killed in mass shootings make up less than half of 1 percent of Lillia3 the people shot to death in the United States. Mass shootings are a very big problem that needs to be addressed but it is not the only problem that needs to be addressed. Mass shootings get most of the attention, but all shootings need to be prevented not only the ones that get the media attention. The CSGV and other pro gun law organizations responses to the mass shootings are very public and well known but the responses by the NRA are not very known. The NRA has really no response when it comes to mass shootings and gun violence in America. When asked about most mass shootings the NRA has After the Orlando shooting the President of the NRA, Chris Cox blamed the Obama for the tragedy (NBC.News.com). Cox also said control will not prevent the next attack. But when asked what solution do they recommend the NRA does not acknowledge that there is a problem. The NRA firmly denies that the US has a gun control problem. The NRA also blames any of the mass shootings on radical Islamic terrorism and firmly believes that restriction is not the answer to the problem (NBC.News.com). The only response the NRA has had to gun violence in America is to increase gun safety in America and teach more gun safety in the country. As explained earlier in the paper there is an obvious problem in this country with gun control and increasing gun safety would be a good step in helping the problem but it will not solve the problem. The only way to fully solve this problem is to have stricter gun laws. You can not defend a side that even acknowledge that there is a problem in this country. Obviously there is a problem in America and nothing is being done to solve it. Pushing for stricter gun laws is the only way to stop the increasing gun control problem in this country. People need to stand up to the NRA and fight for the right side. Everyone needs to publicly back Lillia4 the pro gun law side and stand up against gun violence. It is time to fight for stricter gun laws and push for change in america. The best way to do that is everyone to contact their congressman and explain why they should vote for stricter gun laws when they come up in congress. We need to show out politicians that the public is done seeing the violence and wants change throughout the country. People also need to do research and vote for candidates that are for pro gun laws and that will fight for stricter laws on the Congress floor. Also people can march in pro gun law marches and attend rallies to show the NRA that this side will not be silence anymore. Laws legalizing nationwide background checks and restriction on assault rifles will greatly improve the gun violence problem in this country. These changes will lead this country into a much safer and more prosper future. Obviously the US has a problem with gun violence and something needs to be done to make this country safer for the next generations. The NRA has sat back and done nothing to solve the problem facing this country and has failed to acknowledge the problem at all. Fighting for stricter gun laws is the only way to make this country safer for the future. Talking to your politicians and fighting for stricter laws will be the defining factor in limiting gun violence throughout the country. This is the opportunity to change America for the better and make the country safer for future generations. Lillia5 Works Cited Guns in the US: The Statistics behind the  BBC, 05 Jan. 2016. Web. 16 Apr.2017. Kelto, Anders. The U.S. Is A World Leader In Gun  NPR, 07 Dec. 2015. Web. 16 Apr.2017. Lindeman, Tom. 50 Years of U.S. Mass Shootings: The Victims, Sites, Killers and  The Washington WP Company, 8 Jan. 2017. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Merod, Anna. How the NRA Has Responded to Mass Shootings Over the  NBCnews.com News Group, 15 June 2016. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Peralta, Eyder. A List Of The Deadliest Mass Shootings In Modern U.S.  NPR, 12 June 2016. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.