Student 1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 30 April 2017 Solar Energy Saves the World In this modern day, going without electricity is not an option. However, supplies are sometimes limited, or dangerous to get. Even more so, the supplies used for electricity could significantly harm the planet in which we live. What if there was a way to get our electricity where it harm the planet or be dangerous, and even better, is unlimited? There is a way, that way is called solar energy. Solar energy works by installing solar panels on either the roof or side of a home or commercial building and then have them connected to a circuit board Solar With this, energy will be instantly generated and stored to the home or building it is attached to and produce electricity Solar One of fastest growing industries is solar energy (Leaman) and has been the fastest growing source of electricity since 2014 However, most people are accustomed to the grid system that is mostly used today (Storey). This means having to purchase electricity from energy suppliers and being susceptible to power outages (Storey). Though a typical grid sourced from fossil what most people use today, implementing solar energy into everyday life is safer for everyday use, cleaner for the environment, and can help consumers save money on electricity. In the current lifestyle of most people, everything is very updated and fast moving. Most people do not perhaps have the time to concern with what their electricity is doing to the environment or care enough to have a concern. electricity [grid is sourced Student 2 from fossil fuels such as coal and natural the Benefits of Solar A primary cause of air pollution and global warming is the fact that when fossil fuels are burned, they emit harmful gasses the Benefits of Solar This means that while people are going about their lives, generating all this electricity for the house, the Earth is getting filled up with toxic air pollutants (Kalogirou). concern has extended to the control of hazardous air pollutants, which are usually toxic chemical substance that are harmful in even small (Kalogirou). Examples of these air pollutants include sulfur dioxide (SO2), nitrogen oxides (NOx), carbon monoxide (CO), and carbon dioxide (CO2) (Kalogirou). In addition to these fossil fuels being extremely harmful to the environment, they are not a renewable resource. It is also estimated that by the year 2025, the world will use about million barrels of oil, a (Kalogirou). Eventually, when electric companies are no longer able to get a hold of fossil fuels, there will need to be some other source of energy available (Leaman). The issue with that is that there is no way to know if this new form of energy gathering will be more harmful or less harmful than the current way until it is already in use. Unlike the grid system, solar energy will always be available and does not produce any carbon dioxide Solar In fact, solar energy gives off low greenhouse gas emissions, making is outstandingly better for the environment than what is being used today the Benefits of Solar energy is the cleanest and most abundant renewable energy source Over time, if the use of solar energy were to be used, it can start to reverse the effects that fossil fuels have done. According to the stakeholder, SolarCity, can combat climate change at an individual and national the Benefits of Solar The solution to saving energy and decreasing environment pollution is as simple as using and installing renewable energy systems, much like Student 3 solar energy (Kalogirou). If saving the environment is as easy as that, there should not be any questions as to why implementing solar energy needs to happen, sooner rather than later. A lot of the concern that comes with using solar energy and installing it, is the cost it takes to do such. In 2016, the estimated cost for a 5-kilowatt system would cost about $25,000 to $35,000 (Storey). Immediately, consumers get turned off from this and no longer want to consider this as an option. However, further research shows that installing solar panels will eventually pay for itself. U.S solar markets are trying to produce more solar technology such as solar panels and make it cost less to make and install Companies and stakeholders such as Solar Market Pathways are working towards lowering the cost of solar energy They also state that cost of solar has decreased 60% in five years and there are now more jobs in solar energy than in There are now roughly 31,000 jobs in America in solar energy alone (Leaman). That not only means that the industry is growing, but that there are opportunities to make money working for something that betters the environment. When consumers purchase and install solar panels, they are essentially making their own energy. more you use your self-produced solar power in your own household, the less electricity you need to purchase from energy Solar The way in which solar power works is that what energy that is collected from the sun that is not used, is then stored, and saved for a later time. At that point, any unused energy can be sold back to electricity companies for credit or profit (Leaman). Consumers can save thousands of dollars annually on electric bills (Storey). After time, these solar power systems start to pay for themselves by the consumers not only not having to purchase more electricity from suppliers, but can then turn around and sell back any excess energy. Student 4 According to an article written by Eric Storey, panels are the most prevalent alternative source of electrical (Storey). Various forms of solar panels are being used for residential and commercial use internationally (Storey). There is a sense of urgency that the faster these renewable resources such as solar energy are implemented, the faster the environment can turn around and better itself. In addition, the world is running out of the current resources that are used for the typical energy source, the grid system. power is energy from the sun that is converted into thermal or electrical The sun is always going to be an available resource to the planet, it is illogical that consumers would not take advantage of this resource, that is essentially a free resource. Even more so, consumers should care about the environment where they live, and by implementing solar power, we can easily change the course in which the planet is headed, for the better. To conclude, there is no doubt that implementing solar power into daily life can do nothing but help the environment. In addition to helping the world, using solar power ends up paying for itself because consumers will not have to purchase as much electricity from energy suppliers. Even though there are other means of getting electricity through renewable resources, solar is the most reliable. Solar energy does not produce any type of hazardous air pollutants unlike the more common grid system used today, making it safer for everyday use. The faster that solar power starts getting used at an individual and commercial level, the quicker the effects of issues such as global warming, and air pollution can be reversed. As well as the faster consumers will start saving money for something that is needed in daily life. The time to act is now before it becomes too late to change the action of the past. (WC: 1274) Student 5 Works Cited Solar Market Pathways. N.p., n.d. Web. 02 April 2017. http://solarmarketpathways.org/about/. Kalogirou, S A. Environmental benefits of domestic solar energy  Energy conversion and management 45.18 (2004):3075. Web. 02 April 2017. Leaman, Chris. The Benefits of Solar  Renewable Energy Focus, vol. 16, no. 5/6, Dec. 2015, pp. 113-115. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.ref.2015.10.002. Solar  SEIA. N.p., n.d. Web. 02 Apr. 2017. http://www.seia.org/about/solar-energy. Storey, Eric B. Solar Panel Projects: Does It Pay to  Journal of Property Management, vol. 77, no. 6, Nov/Dec2012, pp. 46-50. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db =bah&AN=83439388&site=eds-live. the Benefits of Solar SolarCity. N.p., n.d. Web 02 April 2017. http://www.solarcity.com/residential/benefits-of-solar-energy. Solar SolarWorld. N.p., 30 March 2017. Web. 02 April 2017. http://www.solarworld.de/solar-power/for-private-customers/why-go-solar/.