Shpilchevskiy 1 Vladimir Shpilchevskiy Karen Hanson ENC 1101 15 th April 2017 Vaccination Saves Lives The importance of vaccinations as a way to protect ourselves from diseases is hard to overestimate. According to United Nations Foundations, every 20 seconds a child dies from the vaccine-preventable disease Most of those deaths take place in developing countries, which are too poor to provide their citizens with vaccines. But even in America, where most of the population has a large access to proper medicine treatment, many people just do not consider vaccination important or even think that vaccines can be dangerous. According to Centers of Disease Control and Prevention, only 6 of 10 girls and 5 of 10 boys in USA have started their HPV vaccines series that can prevent several types of cancer, yet as we can see many adolescents are not up-to-date with vaccination Immunization is an effective way to protect children and adults from some very dangerous diseases, and still some people in America vaccinate, and a large part of world population even have this opportunity due to the poor health care. We must understand importance of immunization, vaccinate ourselves, our close ones, and help those who have no access to modern medicine. To understand the significance of the vaccines, it is necessary to understand how they work. And to do that, it is essential to know how our immune system reacts to the invasion of germs that cause disease. According to Richard Alder, the intervention of microbes triggers the activity of special cells, called B-cells and T-cells, which collect important information to Shpilchevskiy 2 memorize certain microbes and bacteria, as well as ways to find them. This process is called adaptive immunity and, if the same microbes invade the body again, it allows our organism to quickly recognize them and eliminate(Alder 1). However, it takes time for an organism to respond to the threat, and if the organism is too young or old, illness may cause severe consequences, death included. That is where vaccines help - they prepare organism for a rapid immune response even before illness. Vaccination is the process of injecting of an antigen (a vaccine) into the individuals organism in order to develop an immunity to the certain disease(Alder 3). There are several types of vaccines: live attenuated vaccines, which are made of the microbe itself, but much weaker one; inactive vaccines are made of the microbe which has been killed; subunit vaccines are made only from the certain part of the Do Vaccines These vaccines are made differently, but for the same purpose - to trigger the immune reaction, so when the body will be invaded by real, full-powered germ, the organism could provide a quick immune response and get rid of those microbes. However, despite of all obvious advantages that vaccination gives, there are still people who are against vaccination. These people believe that vaccination is not only ineffective, but dangerous and can even lead to neurodevelopmental disorders such as autism. First, vaccines are not dangerous, because all of them are studied and tested for years before they become available to public, and even afterwards the effects on people are carefully monitored by doctors and scientists. Second, Professor Christopher Turville of Federation University of Australia has conducted an analyses of ten scientific studies trying to find any relationship between vaccination and autism. Five of selected researches were cohort studies and included 1,256,407 children, other five were case-controlled studies and involved 9920 children. All these researches took place in different parts of the world (UK, USA, Denmark, Poland, Japan, France) by different scientists, but the results were the same - there are no Shpilchevskiy 3 convincing evidence that vaccines cause autism. These studies shows that vaccines should not be associated with autism or any other neurodevelopmental disorder, and all the accusations from the members of anti-vaccine movement are pointless. Because of these people and others who are just not informed about the importance of vaccines, disease outbreaks happen and kill thousands of people in the U.S alone. Vaccination is an easy and safe way to protect adults and children from vaccine-preventable diseases. One of those diseases is influenza, which is usually mistakenly considered as mild disease. The disease spreads in the air, however people also can get virus from touching surfaces and then moving hands close to eyes or mouth. The first symptoms are high fever, runny nose, coughing, headache, muscle pain. The disease is highly contagious and especially dangerous for young children and elderly. According to The Immunization Partnership Statistics, the average number of deaths associated with influenza in the United States only 1998-2007 is 32806 per Striking Statistics About In America, 31.4 million outpatient visits, $10.4 billion in medical costs, $16.3 billion lost earnings - all of that is caused by the disease that can be easily prevented by vaccination Striking Statistics About And this is only one of 15 illnesses that can be prevented by timely vaccination. This list includes such dangerous disease as measles, which killed over 500000 children worldwide in 2003 - more than any other vaccine-preventable disease are Children According to the Center for Disease Control and Prevention report, one of the measles outbreaks in California between December 2014 and February 2015 led to 125 measles cases and Mortality Weekly Among the 110 California patients 45% were unvaccinated, 43% had unknown or undocumented vaccination status. Most of the patients attended Disney theme parks in Orange County, California. Moreover, there were reports about 15 more cases linked to the Disney theme parks in 6 other states: Arizona, Colorado, Nebraska, Oregon, Utah and Shpilchevskiy 4 Washington. This outbreak shows that the majority of patients were unvaccinated or had unclear vaccination status. If those people got proper vaccinations, the amount of cases would significantly decreased. The sources of disease were Disney theme parks where people usually go with their children, who are especially exposed to illnesses and can suffer most serious consequences. This example shows that disease can strike every time and in most unexpected places, that is why it is better to be prepared for it. The statistics show terrible numbers; however all these deaths can be avoided by a timely vaccination. First thing you should do is to protect yourself and your family from all this deadly diseases by vaccinating, and keeping your immunizations up-to-date. Immunization Schedules are the recommendations on using of vaccines are provided by credible health organization, they will help you to find out what vaccines should you take and when, as well as the certain health conditions when vaccines are not recommended. Immunization schedules for adults and for children are provided by Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and can be found on their web-page. Many regions of Africa and South Asia do not have a proper health-care system, that is why people there cannot afford themselves a vaccine. That leads to the large mortality from vaccine-preventable diseases. According to Word Health Organization vaccination prevents 2 to 3 million death per year. One and a half million more could be saved if vaccination coverage WHO also states that an estimated 19.4 million kids worldwide miss basic vaccination, which is one of the biggest reasons for the high children mortality rate in developing countries. However, vaccination coverage can be increased by donation for the well-respected humanitarian aid organizations such as UNICEF or World Vision. They promote immunization in poor countries, helping population to fight diseases. Every dollar you donate may save life. Shpilchevskiy 5 Vaccination is a safe way to protect people from wide spectrum of diseases, yet many people in the USA do not want to immunize themselves and their people, and most people in the developed countries cannot afford themselves a vaccine shot due to the poverty. Vaccines are the products perennial research, so they are not dangerous and surely do not cause autism. Immunization will help safe millions of lives from such deadly diseases as influenza, tetanus, measles and others. Lack of vaccination is considered to be a global problem, but if we work together, if we vaccinate ourselves and close ones, if we help to vaccinate those poor people who have a little or no access to modern medicine, we can make a change by reducing or even eliminating mortality from the vaccine-preventable diseases. Works Cited Striking Statistics about  The Immunization Partnership. N.p., 19 Feb. 2015. Web. Accessed 16 th April 2017. Alder, Richard, PhD, et al. Immunization and  Medical Guide (Online Edition), January. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.asp x?direct=true&db=ers&AN=87690553&site=eds-live Dhanasarnsombut, Kelwalin. How do vaccines work? - Kelwalin . YouTube, uploaded by TED-ed, 12 Januar 2015. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rb7TVW77ZCs&t=183s Accessed 16 th April 2017 United Nations Foundation. http://www.unfoundation.org/what-we-do/issues/global-health/?referrer=https://www.go Shpilchevskiy 6 ogle.com/?referrer=http://www.unfoundation.org/what-we-do/issues/global-health/ Accessed 16 th April 2017 Papillomavirus Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. January 2017. Accessed 1 st May 2017 Immunization  World Health Organization. Mar. 2017. Web. Accessed 16 th April 2017. and Mortality Weekly Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. February 2015. Accessed 1 st May 2017 Turville, Christopher and Isaac Golden. Autism and Vaccination: The Value of the Evidence Base of a Recent Vaccine, vol. 33, no. 42, 13 Oct. 2015, pp. 5494-5496. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.vaccine.2015.02.002. Are Children UNICEF. Accessed 16 th April 2017 Shpilchevskiy 7