Pemberton 1 Michael Pemberton Professor Martha Heiser ENC 1102.068 17 April 2017 Post Piracy Revolution Media Piracy is the illicit acquisition of movies, music, and other forms of multimedia. It occurs for a variety of reason: for personal use, redistribution, and resale. In most part, piracy is illegal due to the possibility of resale. Reselling a product that takes hours or even days of work, that was meant to be sold, cuts into the revenue stream of the individuals or organizations involved in its production. The media industry has a large market value, with billions of dollars of revenue yearly. The industry is cause to multitudes of jobs in the United States of America alone; therefore, large scale piracy could result in severe economic changes. Currently, large media production studios like Universal claim that piracy is a major issue. They have proposed that the continued piracy of media could lead to lower the quality of original production and at the worst case, cease production all together. On the contrary, some individuals may propose that they need to pirate the content, lest they never get it. As well as the fact that to others the price of the content that they want is just too steep a cost to pay for entertainment. Alexander Dent, from the Department of Anthropology at the George Washington University, in his article Property, Piracy, and explores the grey area between intellectual property rights and piracy. Dent makes light of scenarios in which the act of piracy may be legal: such as Pemberton 2 situations where the individual does not share or intend to share the media (24). People need to be aware of how their choices on piracy affect the economy. An educated public would be able to engage and make positive choices in regards to the functioning and uprising of their economy. Both the involved and completely unaware individuals feel the consequences of piracy within the respective industries. Uninvolved parties consist of individuals who are simply ignorant of the aspect of media sharing that is piracy. Moreover, these individuals do not consider how others may come across the media that they consume. One may keep uninvolved even whilst knowing about piracy because they themselves do not see a need for it nor do they know of the possible consequences in the long run. On the contrary, stakeholders who are wholly conscious of piracy are the media producers and the pirates themselves. Pirates use a multitude of methods to gain access to and reproduce the illicitly obtained media. Colleagues at the department of Electrical Engineering at UCLA, Yu Zhang and Mihaela Van Der Schaar worked together to publish an article in the journal of Signal Processing; Image Communication. In the article, Multimedia Sharing based on Social the authors explain Peer-to- Peer file sharing as the together of resources of many autonomous (Zhang and Van Der Schaar 383). Due to this being the most popular method of piracy, pirates work together anonymously. There are no singular distributors, for any given file a pirate would share data with others after the same file. Due to this aspect of piracy, it poses a vast difficulty to stop or even contain. Some pirates operate under the condition that the media is completely unavailable to them due to expense or location; others use piracy as a means to sample content that they would pay for if they truly appreciate it. On the other hand, media producers are against piracy for the unambiguous fact that it takes away from their revenue stream. In this regard, claims have been made by larger media production corporations that piracy is having such a large impact on Pemberton 3 profits, that over time production quality may be reduced and at the worst case completely halted. As a Professor of Economics at Montpellier SupAgro in France, Gilles Grolleau worked with his colleagues Sana El Harbi and Insaf Bekir to write the article, with Pirates: How Companies Can Win the El Harbi and Bekir are a professor and associate professor, respectively, at LaREMFiQ, University of Sousse in Tunisia. In their article, they make the claim that all pirates are not the same, and under some plausible circumstances, it can be a good business decision to let some pirates pirate, even if it goes against the (Grolleau 32). The article went on to explain that in this case pirates are beneficial to entrepreneurial firms that may suffer from limited resources, and that the pirates provide free promotional activity. Consensus would be the best option to guarantee change, opposed to government imposed law that seeks to punish any and all involved in the act of piracy. Associates at the City University of Hong Kong School of Law, Wan Man Jason Fung and Avnita Lakhani cooperated to write the article, Peer-to-Per File Sharing of Copyrighted Material via Anti- Piracy Laws: Issues, Trends, and The article was based on research they had conducted on case law in China, and was published in the Computer Law and Security Review journal. In concluding their article, they claimed that, current case law in Hong Kong, makes everyone involved, no matter the means, liable to criminal prosecution (398). As with any law, provisions can only be made in the general case while making a few exceptions for expected common outcomes. However, individuals within the nation should be trusted to make decisions that have an effect on their economy. Media producers rather than lobbying for new policies against piracy should raise awareness as to exactly how piracy may affect the economy. The article Effectiveness and Managerial Confidence: Insights from Multinationals in was published in the Journal of World Business. This article was written by Deli Yang, Pemberton 4 Gerald E. Fryxell and Agnes K. Y. Sie. Yang works at Bradford University School of Management in the United Kingdom where as Fryxell and Sie work China Europe International Business School and Valspar Incorporated, respectively, in China. In conclusion of the article the authors state that several anti-piracy methods must be implemented simultaneously for continue success to be maintained (336). The cost efficiency to eradicating piracy should also be considered be the larger media corporations. The effects of piracy must be strongly considered because destabilizing media production would severely harm the complimenting industries. The initial and direct consequences of redirecting the revenue stream of any major media production studio would the laying off of lower level employees. During the production of any film, aside from the main actors and the directors and producers. Large masses are responsible for preparing sets and props as well as an abundance of other tasks. With decreased profit, there will be a decreasing need for these smaller jobs in attempt to keep within a budget. Complimenting industries such as movie features, and anyone responsible for the production of movie making equipment, will also suffer from decreased revenue and their goods and services would be in lower demand. Now with basic knowledge of the consequences that come from media piracy, informed decisions can be made. Whether individuals will continue to condone piracy, or if empathy will be shown for the employees just trying to earn a living in the media industry. Pemberton 5 Works Cited Dent, Alexander S.1. Intellectual Property, Piracy, and  Annual Review of Anthropology, vol. 45, Oct2016 Supplement, pp. 17-31. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1146/annurev-anthro-102215-100127. Fung, Wan Man Jason and Avnita Lakhani. Combatting Peer-To-Peer File Sharing of Copyrighted Material via Anti-Piracy Laws: Issues, Trends, and  Computer Law and Security Review: The International Journal of Technology and Practice, vol. 29, 01 Aug. 2013, pp. 382-402. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.clsr.2013.05.006. Grolleau, Gilles, et al. Playing with Pirates: How Companies Can Win the  Journal of Business Strategy, no. 3, 2016, p. 30. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx ?direct=true&db=edsgao&AN=edsgcl.455872345&site=eds-live. Yang, Deli, et al. Anti-Piracy Effectiveness and Managerial Confidence: Insights from Multinationals in  Journal of World Business, vol. 43, 01 Jan. 2008, pp. 321-339. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.jwb.2007.11.010. Zhang, Yu and Mihaela van der Schaar. Peer-To-Peer Multimedia Sharing Based on Social  Signal Processing: Image Communication, vol. 27, no. ADVANCES IN 2D/3D VIDEO STREAMING OVER P2P NETWORKS, 01 May 2012, pp. 383-400. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.image.2012.02.003.