Garcia 1 Christian Garcia Professor Mariama Changamire English 1102 20 April 2017 Why Should Cruel Animal Treatment Be Eliminated? Consumers tend to stroll through grocery stores and shopping malls stress-free, debating on what type of meat to buy for dinner or which shampoo will be best to retain the color in their hair. Although we can find comfort commercial products, especially food, there are underlying stories behind the production of these items. Whether it be the trendiest Gucci sweater or discounted chicken from your local grocery store, there is likely a strong background of animal abuse that took place during the manufacturing process. Large corporations within the food, clothing, and cosmetic industries efficiently dish out products but do not reveal their methods of doing so. Cruel animal treatment is typically involved within the process and has been since the beginning of many companies. The People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, otherwise known as PETA, was created in 1980 and revealed the first case of monkeys abused for laboratory research in 1981. This is only an example of one case revealed by a single organization, but who is to say that it did not begin before then within many other companies. Animal cruelty has long been a method of production that companies intentionally hide from their consumers, knowing that it is morally wrong and unacceptable. With the use of modern technological advances and studies, many alternatives exist that can be widely used within companies to stop animal cruelty entirely. Since there is a definite possibility for change, the ill treatment of animals used for laboratory testing, clothing production, and food production needs Garcia 2 to be eliminated because there are alternative methods available and methods of electrocution, skinning, chemical exposure, and more are cruel and immoral. Companies that produce hygiene and cosmetic items are notorious for animal cruelty. The method behind their madness is that if a product is proven to be safe for use on bunnies, monkeys, rats, and other animals, then it should be safe humans as well. Consumers are often unaware of the methods it takes to attain the perfect product. Animals that endure the torture of laboratory testing are subject to chemical exposure to the skin and eyes, being chained up and having limbs restricted, and living life within small and unsanitary cages. Not to mention that these animals are experiencing the effect of chemicals before they are deemed safe for the public and undergo chemical burns and tissue corrosion. Unfortunately, if the animals live through the torture and hopeless life within these laboratories, they usually die there as well after everything they go through. Much like the use of animals for laboratory testing, they are also used for clothing. Foxes, bunnies, and more are used to make clothing products that have fur, especially in companies that flaunt the quality and of their products. Animals in fur farms are used and bred within the confines of the farm for their entire lives. Not only are animals killed within the process, but they are often electrocuted, strangled, exposed to chemicals/gas so they cannot fight back, roped down so they cannot move their limbs, and skinned alive. In some cases, the animals are kept alive after the process and are left to roam with no fur and bleeding bare skin. One video was released portraying the reality of fur farms and stated that the workers begin to cut the skin and fur from the leg, the free limbs kick and (Meredith 2013). One would think that the animals would at least be killed before the process to make it a bit more Garcia 3 humane, but this is not the case. Burberry, Dior, and Gucci are a few companies, along with many others, that partake in animal fur farming. Animal abuse within the food industry is probably the most commonly known among consumers. Often times, cows, pigs, chickens, and other animals undergo torture as well in slaughterhouses. Animals are kept in absurdly small boundaries, have limited food and water, get to see sunlight, are forced to walk and live atop their own feces, and are treated horribly with no care for their wellbeing. Because they are kept in unsanitary living conditions, many of them get diseases and die before they are even sent off to be slaughtered. On chicken farms, they are often overfed resulting in broken legs because they cannot support their own weight. Finally, when it is time for them to be killed, they are hung upside down by their limbs resulting in bone fractures, not to mention the terror the animals experience. They are then cut at the throat by a machine and left upside down to bleed out. In addition, chickens are sometimes killed by being beaten on the ground rather than going through the machine. Large manufacturers including, but not limited to, Tyson and National Beef, produce meat insanely fast and utilize the consumer demand as justification for their methods. In one case, PETA revealed what was happening behind the scenes of an AgriProcessors Kosher slaughterhouse in Iowa. It was stated that at the plant said they had observed animals with their tracheas removed up and walk after being dumped from the kill (Animal Welfare Institute, 2006). The methods observed in the videos violated the Jewish law and Humane Methods of Slaughter Act. This might make one wonder how many more secrets are withheld by the hundreds of other manufacturers out there. Surprisingly, animals are not the only individuals that are negatively affected by these inhumane acts. Animals that are fed genetically modified foods and foods high in chemical Garcia 4 content pass on the same chemicals to consumers. The biggest risk that these chemicals pose to consumers is the risk of carcinogens or genotoxic chemicals being transferred to the consumer through their consumption (Dorne, J.L and J. Fink-Gremmels, 2013). In order to match the amount of food that is demanded, companies feed the animals large amounts of which is a mixture of different foods that hastily meet the nutritional needs of each animal, whether it be cows, pigs, chickens, etc. (Dorne, J.L and J. Fink-Gremmels, 2013). These animals are fed excess amounts of food that are designed to meet their nutritional requirements and are growing much larger in comparison to the natural growth rate. Chickens, for example, are becoming so heavy that their legs collapse under their weight, confining them to a life of limited movement. The same problem is present among cattle. These animals become sedentary and are increasingly susceptible to illness. Once again, if not handled correctly, these illnesses produce lower quality and potentially dangerous products for consumers. Besides the issue of personal health, alternative methods exist that replace cruel methods. Faux fur, organic and certified humane food products, and using technology and chemistry for cosmetic products are all advances in modern society that allow for the elimination of animal abuse. One example is that of a recent research study that tested the efficiency and chemical content of detergents, pesticides, and other compounds without the use of animals (S. A. Ostroumov, 2016). You might be wondering what you can do about the issue now that you are informed and understand what food, clothing, and cosmetic industries do to animals for the sake of a simple product. The most common form of support is donating to animal right activist organizations, like PETA, that will use the money to fund their undercover investigations and continue to fight for animal rights in all industries. If you find yourself to feel very passionate about the issue you can email PETA for an opportunity to join the organization and have a direct impact on fighting Garcia 5 for animal rights. More information will be given by the organization, or any other organization of your choice, that will guide you in the right direction. Lastly, the most appealing form of support, especially since college students are generally broke, would be to sign a petition of your choice. Finding a petition that you support is easy to find on your free time, it makes a significant impact, and most importantly, it is entirely free. Animal cruelty is simply inhumane. Alternative methods of production such as technological testing, humane methods of meat production, and faux fur exist and can be used by industries rather than electrocuting, skinning, gassing, and torturing innocent animals. It will not only benefit the animals, but also in health and conscious of consumers that invest in such products. Word Count: 1398 Garcia 6 Works Cited (Australia), Humane Society International. Humane Society International  Humane Society International :: The Fur Trade - Stores and Designers who sell or use real fur. Humane Society International (Australia), 10 Nov. 2016. Web. 20 Apr. 2017. Dorne, J.L.C.M. and J. Fink-Gremmels. Human and Animal Health Risk Assessments of Chemicals in the Food Chain: Comparative Aspects and Future  Toxicology and Applied Pharmacology, vol. 270, no. Risk assessment of undesirable substances in feed, 01 Aug. 2013, pp. 187-195. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.taap.2012.03.013. Inhumane Slaughter and Misconduct Uncovered at Kosher  Inhumane Slaughter and Misconduct Uncovered at Kosher Slaughterhouse Animal Welfare Institute. Animal Welfare Institute, n.d. Web. 02 Mar. 2017. Meredith, Charlotte. Animals electrocuted, strangled and skinned alive: The true face of fur  Express.co.uk. Express, 01 Mar. 2013. Web. 02 Mar. 2017. Ostroumov, S. A. Toxicity Testing of Chemicals without Use of  Russian Journal of General Chemistry, no. 13, 2016, p. 2933. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1134/S1070363216130028. Two fur farm groups hit animal rights rally  WWD, 11 June 1990, p. 6. Academic OneFile, go.galegroup.com/ps/i.do?p=AONE&sw=w&u=tamp44898&v=2.1&id=GALE %7CA9101231&it=r&asid=9b18b7670af09bd75f6de719572e7428. Accessed 20 Apr. 2017.