Harding 1 Kaamera Harding Spring 2017 Project 3: Final Draft Instructor Brandon Jackson The effects of captivity on the natural behaviors of wild animals An issue that has sparked debate in recent years is the care of wild animals in captivity. Peoples main concerns align with the belief that wild animals belong in their natural habitat not confined to cages. To ease civil unrest, the Association of Zoos and Aquariums (AZA) was created to hold Zoos accountable for the care of their animals by requiring them to develop enrichment programs to simulate the natural environment of animals that cannot be released back into the wild. Although polices have been put in place to protect the welfare of captive animals there is evidence that proves that the social and biological behaviors of wild animals are altered due to captivity. In a study conducted by a group of post graduate students at The Autonomous University of Barcelona; evidence linking captivity to biological changes in wild animals has become available. In this particular study the researchers were focusing on the stress levels on different groups Gazella Dorcas; a species of antelope (Salas, et al. 2016). They were organized in four groups (with four individuals each); one all male group, one all-female group, one with on male and the rest female and the last was vice versa. Within the four groups the males were more likely to partake in more negative interactions then positive. In groups with more than one male, researchers found that each subject was prone to excessive amounts of Cortisol, a hormone associated with high levels chronic stress (Salas, et al. 2016). In the wild the density of gazelle in Harding 2 a region determines the number of males there are in a group. In a region with a low gazelle density; like the groups the researchers are focusing on, there is typically one male and 1-5 females in a group accompanied by a satellite groups of immature males (Lawes 1993). Given this information safe to say that the spike Cortisol levels is linked to the concentration and proximity of male antelopes within a confined space. The males in the groups with other males were liable to engage in a power struggle because there was a lack of space and a low density of other gazelles, causing copious amounts of Cortisol to be produced. Many studies have been conducted proving that wild animals that are kept within captivity have showed signs of developing social behaviors that are not typical of the in the wild. With a doctoral degree in psychology; Dr. Joanne Altman conducted a research study on why captive lions were prone to inactivity and stereotypic behaviors which is the constant repetition of an action without purpose. Throughout her study, she discovered that the way the lions were being feed was a huge factor in the differences between the behaviors of the captive lions versus the wild lions. When the lions were on a conventional feeding schedule they were more likely to exhibit abnormal behaviors and obesity due to lack of activity (Altman 2005). Once the cause of the behaviors was discovered the captive lions were switched to a random gorge and fast feeding schedule that closely resembles naturalistic patterns. The implementation of this new feeding strategy proves to increase the activity of the lions and reduce agonistic behaviors (Altman 2005). Another study focused on behaviors of thirty giraffes at nine different zoos; six of which implemented guest feeding programs while the other three When comparing the differences in behavior, the researchers discovered that the giraffes that were apart of guest feeding programs were likely to exhibit idleness because they would wait near the platforms all day expecting to be feed. However, the giraffes that were not involved in guest feeding programs Harding 3 were more likely to participate in oral stereotypic behaviors such as object licking and tongue rolling. Despite abundance of articles and research stating that captivity does indeed effect the biological and social behaviors of wild animals there are still some people that claim the opposite. The arguments that encourage the placement of wild animals in captivity necessarily talk about behavior. Their defense centers around how zoos and other places that house captive animals are important places to teach the public about wildlife conservation and rehabilitating animals to release back into the wild (Lin 2017). They believe that as long as these places follow AZA regulations that call for enrichment programs and maintenance techniques that closely mimics how should be in the wild (Lin 2017). However, this solution does not negate the fact that captivity alters the social and biological behaviors of wild animals. In a study conducted by M Elsbeth McPhee; a conservation biologist, researchers were looking at the long term effects that captivity had on a whole species (Mcphee 2004). They removed groups of wild rats from the national Ocala forest. One group was 35 generations removed from the wild, another 14 generations removed, and the last group was 2 generations removed (Mcphee 2004). They discovered that there was a gradual loss of behaviors across generations. They lost certain reproductive behaviors, also when captive animals were reintroduced to the wild they often died due to behavioral deficiencies (Mcphee 2004). There are significant amounts of research out there that proves that some wild animals can thrive and show normal behaviors that are synonymous to those that are expressed in the wild. However, there are some animals that are prone to poor health, repetitive behaviors, and breeding difficulties when they are in captivity (Clubb 2003). Dr. Ros Clubb spent most of her Harding 4 time researching this phenomenon trying to figure out why these differences occur between animals. Using caged carnivores are her subjects of study she found out that the inability for some animals to thrive within captivity is based on the constraints that are put on certain animals that limit them from practicing natural behaviors (Clubbs 2003). A popular example of the constraints put on animals in captivity are the stories of the orcas that were a part of the documentary Blackfish. These animals were packed into small pools with little to no enrichment three at a time even though the pools were not big enough for one killer whale to swim around in (Blackfish 2013). The lack of space and simulating activity caused negative social behaviors, they would attack each other leaving large scraps and deep wounds. These behaviors that are common at in the wild, lead to unhealthy stressed out and aggressive whales that would result in the deaths of some orcas and even humans (Blackfish 2013). From this information, it becomes evident that captivity has its effects of the social behaviors of wild animals. Even though the AZA has programs in place that try to limit the effects of captivity on wild animals by implementing enrichment programs to simulate a natural environment, any deviation from how an animal would interact in the wild whether big or small can significantly alter the way these animals behave. Work Cited Altman, Joanne D., et al. and Behavioral Effects of Gorge and Fast Feeding in Captive Journal of Applied Animal Welfare Science, vol. 8, no. 1, June 2005, pp. doi: Clubb, Ros, and Georgia Mason. Welfare: Captivity Effects on Wide-Ranging Nature, vol. 425, no. 6957, Feb. 2003, pp. doi:10.1038/425473a. Harding 5 Cowperthwaite, Gabriela, director. Blackfish. Magnolia Pictures , 2013. Lawes, M.j., and R.f. Nanni. Density, Habitat Use and Social Organisation of Dorcas Gazelles (Gazella Dorcas) in Makhtesh Ramon, Negev Desert, Journal of Arid Environments, vol. 24, no. 2, 1993, pp. doi:10.1006/jare.1993.1016. Lin, Doris. Zoos Still Have a Place in the ThoughtCo, 30 Mar. 2017, www.thoughtco.com/arguments-for-and-against-zoos-127639. Accessed 9 Apr. 2017. Mcphee, M Elsbeth. in Captivity Increases Behavioral Variance: Considerations for Captive Breeding and Reintroduction Biological Conservation, vol. 115, no. 1, 2004, pp. doi:10.1016/s0006-3207(03)00095-8. Orban, David A., et al. of Guest Feeding Programs on Captive Giraffe Zoo Biology, vol. 35, no. 2, 2016, pp. doi:10.1002/zoo.21275. Salas, Marina, et al. Behavior and Hair Cortisol Levels in Captive Dorcas Gazelles (Gazella Dorcas) as Animal-Based Welfare Zoo Biology, vol. 35, no. 6, 2016, pp. doi:10.1002/zoo.21323.