Student 1 Student 1 Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 29 April 2017 An act of environmental unity Paper waste is an issue that has been dealt with a lot but yet lacks the motivation and importance that is needed to achieve certain goals of its control. It is critical issue because as the population grows, the amount of paper waste increases. deterioration is happening at alarming rates. This is why the social concern of the importance of recycling specifically paper recycling should be explained and accepted in our society. Paper recycling has been an overused topic yet no significant improvements on the promotion of it have been achieved. important for non-engaged people who are not aware of the concern to become involved. The importance of paper recycling should be emphasized for three main reasons, paper waste can only be controlled with the help of both big companies and local households, easy to perform and maintain a recycling program and because paper recycling can promote environmental stability. Stakeholders are people or a group who have an interest or concern in something such as a business or ongoing issue. To reduce the amount of paper waste, Stakeholders such as The waste management company focus on promoting recycle programs for both big companies as well as in local communities (7). It is crucial for everyone, not just stakeholders, to participate and adopt the position that I am taking because it is essential that the amount of paper waste should be minimized through recycling. By using or joining larger companies that participate in paper waste management, one can participate and be engaged in the promotion of paper recycling. As a regular person you can create your own recycling plan within your household and Student 2 if you want to stop there then you can go ahead and contact local companies that can work with your local community to promote recycling. In the book called Environmental Impacts of waste paper recycling by Virtanen Y and Nilsson S, they explain the research that was performed in Europe which investigated the entire production and disposal process of paper recycling. This book helps put in perspective the different approaches to paper recycling and the effects it has to the environment. (3) There many well-known companies that participate in offering paper recycled products in order to help our environment. As shown in the Charmin sustainability page than 95% of Charmin inner cores and paperboard packaging are made of recycled fiber and 84% are made of post-consumer recycled (Charmin Web) This demonstrates that companies are working hard to achieve a better tomorrow. That even a regular person can help and get involved with the issue just by buying special products like Charmin that come from recycled products and can be recycled. Another company that is trying to establish paper recycling within their company is a Stakeholder named Neenah Paper This stakeholder is a paper selling company that works with big companies like office depot that require the purchasing of paper products. This mission is to the Responsible Production, Use, and Sustainability of (Neenah Web) Neenah Paper argues that even though many believe that if we turned everything to digital then our paper waste would reduce but in their website they explain their argument called (Neenah Web Home) in which they show that If we handle paper products in the right way and dispose of them properly then their be much of a difference from switching between paper and digital means. Regardless, of their argument both stakeholder such as Neenah and Charmin maintain their stance of promoting paper recycling through the use of their own recycled products. Student 3 Many organizations exist that deal with maintain the green environment and the importance of paper recycling. As a person that is interested but not yet involved the best way is to start just by joining a group of people that share the same passion. For example, this non-profit organization called Green America deals with creating a balance between people, environment and businesses in order to utilize but yet protect the environment as much as possible. (Green America About Web) The second reason mentioned of why paper recycling is an important issue and one should become involved was that something easy to do that why not do it. In a journal called paper recycling: effects of prompts, raffles, and by. Pati, R they discuss how they were studying college behaviors regarding paper recycling. Research was conducted in which they performed a contest within a two housing building within the university to see which building would recycle more and the winner would receive a prize. But the catch here was there was a different set of rules for each for example for Building 1 they had easy access to paper recycling buckets and a person would come in every week to pick up recycled products. Building 2 on the other hand had to create their own system of paper recycling and when they were done they had to transport it to a local facility (Pati 3). The findings were that both buildings had pretty much recycled the same amount of paper waste. Pati then discussed that as long as they work together and they see the involvement of other students then paper recycling would be done (Pati 6). The overall message is that in order to conduct paper recycling their just need to be the willingness to do it. easy to create your own bucket and just start recycling in your own household. And if this article is right own how behave then if one begins the process of paper recycling then maybe the community will then become involved in it to. It all begins with you. Student 4 If none of the above reasons have inspired you to get involved with paper recycling think about where you live and the surroundings, it be nice to maintain or improve the environment in which one lives in? Paper recycling has proved to promote environmental stability. So why should one recycle? As discussed in the OK website is an effective way to conserve our resources, minimize waste and protect our (OK Web Home) When one goes outside and sees the green trees just imagine if all of that just disappeared, well that will soon be our future due to the extensive use of trees. We cut down thousands of trees on a daily basis just to keep up with the never ending demand for paper. If we conducted more paper recycling, then we could re-use material that is still good another time. Paper recycling allow us to strain our forests lands and we could maintain a decent environment. Regardless of whether it is a stakeholder or not, everyone should be contributing to promoting paper recycling in their everyday life. The world should act as a community and work together to resolve the issue of excess paper waste through paper recycling because our earth live and prosper forever if we keep up with how we are handling our waste products now. Paper recycling is not hard to start, you can work with other companies or organizations to help develop a recycling plan and recycling promotes for a better future all together so why not become involved in something that you have not noticed maybe but are already involved in a way. (W.C 1,244 ) Student 5 Work Cited Page 1. Witmer, Jill F., and E. Scott Geller. Facilitating paper recycling: effects of prompts, raffles, and  Journal of Applied Behavior Analysis 9.3 (1976): 315-22. Web. 2. Pati, R., P. Vrat, and P. Kumar. A goal programming model for paper recycling  Omega 36.3 (2008): 405-17. Web. 3. Virtanen, , and Sten Nilsson. Environmental impacts of waste paper recycling. London: Earthscan, 1993. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. 4. Charmin Toilet Paper & FlushableWipes  Charmin Toilet Paper & Flushable Wipes Sustainability. N.p., n.d. Web. 02 Apr. 2017. 5. Green America - About  Green America: Growing the Green Economy for People and the Planet. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 May 2017. 6. Neenah Green  Neenah Green Certifications for Recycled Paper Neenah Paper. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. 7.  About Waste Management, Practices, Ethics, Leadership and History. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 April. 2017. <https://www.wm.com/about/index.jsp>. 8. Pivnenko, Kostyantyn, et al. Waste Paper for Recycling: Overview and Identification of Potentially Critical  2015. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx? Direct=true&db=edsagr&AN=edsagr.US201600276251&site=eds-live