Student 1 Student Instructor Lewis ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Join the Fight to Protect Youth from Depression The American Foundation for Suicide Prevention found that 25 million Americans suffer from depression each year and over 50 percent of the people who commit suicide suffer from major depression. Research has shown that depression often starts as early as preschool (Dallas, par. 3). Youth today need to understand the feelings of depression and know what steps should be taken in relieving the feelings of inadequacy, feeling of not being loved, and most importantly suicidal thoughts. They are faced with many adverse challenges that their parent may not comprehend. Electronic devices, social media, and online gaming have consumed this generation of children. Although technology has lighted the path to many great things, children who are not careful with such technology could indefinitely damage their fellow social life. Depression does not only come from technological advances, it can also be genetically passed down or the child may live in a stressful and unloving environment. Because the youth are the future, it is important that careful action is taken early in life that children understand how to deal with depression by having schools implement programs that teach youth the damages of depression, praising children for good works, and showing kindness at all times. Depression can derive from many different sources; some children suffer a major loss of a loved one; while others seem to make any friends. Feelings of depression are nothing new to this generation, early reports of depression can be found numerous times in biblical characters like King Solomon who believed he suffered from an evil spirit and dark moods which later Student 2 resulted in King Solomon taking his own life. (Gilbert 22). Gilbert also stated that unlike many other illnesses today, depression has been recognized and described in one form or another for over two millennia (Gilbert 22). That alone is a key indicator that depression is not a simple problem among the people of this world. Depression also cannot be viewed as an illness that only those who are financially challenged deals with. There are those who have been very successful in life and suffered from major depression since childhood, namely Robin Williams, who spent much of his life bringing smiles to those around him. The issue of depression is important because those who suffer and make drastic actions which in turn can truly effect and provides an unsafe environment to those around them. Drastic actions made by individuals who suffer from depression is one of the major reasons everyone needs to be aware of the signs of depression in our youth. Attempts have been made to help children in school deal with depression. There are social workers, and counselors who are available to speak with children in a private setting. However, this is not always the most effective route to take with children. Some children are mentally abused by their peers at school, they are afraid to tell their family or teacher. They fear that telling on the ones that bully them will only make matters worse. On the other hand, having a private session with a counselor has been very effective for some youth. It provides them with the one-on-one time and attention they may desperately be seeking (Worth). Since some students are afraid to speak with a counselor or oblivious to the fact that they are even suffering from depression. A solution for this would be for schools to implement programs that teach about what depression is, how to know the signs, and what can be done to remedy such feelings of unhappiness. Implementing courses in schools for youth will provide the necessary knowledge to overcome feelings of depression. Most who suffer from depression plain and simply will not tell Student 3 anyone. Due to its sensitive nature, children feel they need to deal with it on their own. Gilbert argues that depressed children often do not simply grow out of it, nor should depression be seen as part of normal development (Gilbert 64). Though not publicly stated, depressed children or even adults are less fun to be with and have greater difficulties with peer relationships. Also, depression is a family matter and a depression affects everyone in the household. As mentioned by Bennet and Branco, depression, if left untreated, can become the cornerstone upon which every relationship in the family is built (Bennet and Branco). Children need direction at a young age from a responsible adult. Even those that have parents that suffer from depression, such as Sammi. Sammi is an individual who suffered from depression at a young age and also had a mother who suffered from depression. Sammi found herself surrounded by friends and family who she later found was also suffering from different types of depression (Sammi). Her good friend committed suicide and her sister was hospitalized for anorexia. These incidents caused Sammi to blame herself for not noticing their struggles and bears the burden (Sammi). Not receiving help right away, Sammi eventually tried to end her own life as well. She felt as if she had no purpose and that everyone else around her would benefit from her absence. Sammi mentioned after seeing the effect suicide had on everyone around me, I myself tried to end my own life. I truly believed that I had no purpose, that everyone would benefit from it... For a long time I kept suffering in silence no one truly new the extent of pain I was in, I want to ask for help, I felt (Sammi). Eventually, Sammi opened up to her mother about her pains and she began the road to recovery (Sammi). Like Sammi, many people that suffer from depression do not tell anyone. It is important to recognize the signs and be there for those who are suffering. Many times, in life, it is the smallest things that make the biggest difference. Student 4 and am proud of are simple gestures that make a big difference to children. Teachers have many opportunities to show children how well they are doing. Youth need to know they are doing well, especially if they are suffering from depression. By implementing courses that teach young children about the effects of depression and ways to deal with depression, a happier, healthier environment will be created for everyone and schools will be a safer place for children. Parents will stress less and the affects will continue onward. This general rule applies to everyone, act now and be a part of a great new generation of friendly gestures, happy thoughts, and loving friends and family. Best part of all, absolutely free to be supportive and help someone suffering from depression. Oft times, simply being there and talking to someone who suffers from depression will make the difference needed to help them feel better about themselves. All in all, children must learn the signs of depression early and how they can deal with it in a healthier manner. Children are the future, now is the time to teach them the path to a depression free life through programs in school, time with the family, and being there when they are in need. Teachers, make an effort to show students they are cared about and praise them for their good works. Youth need to feel uplifted on a regular basis and reminded how important they are. So many losses and pain are caused due to those who chose to end their life due to depression and the feeling that no one would even care. Talk with children, teach them good virtues, and be an example to those all around. wait until it is too late. Be there for those who are here now. So many suffer in silence and most times find out when it is too late. Lastly, take time to be there for children. They are precious and eager for friends, family, and love. By taking these simple steps and being there for those who suffer from depression, everyone will benefit with happier workplaces, safer schools, and safer communities. (WC: 1338) Student 5 Works Cited Bennett, Shoshana and Nelson Branco. of the New Harbinger Publications. 06 Jan. 2014. https://ebookcentral-proquest- com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/lib/usf/reader.action?docID=1674074. Accessed 16 Jan. 2017. Dallas, Mary Elizabeth. Depression can start as young as preschool, study  CBS News. CBS Interactive, 06 Aug. 2014. http://www.cbsnews.com/news/depression-can-start-as young-as-preschool-study-finds/. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. Gilbert, Paul. Depression, The Evolution of Powerlessness. Jan. 2014. http://www.tandfebooks.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/doi/view/10.4324/9781315831336. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. Hammen, Constance L. Depression Runs in Families : The Social Context of Risk and Resilience in Children of Depressed Mothers. New York : Springer-Verlag, c1991., 1991. Series in psychopathology. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=c t00847a&AN=usflc.022052384&site=eds-live. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017 Sammi. Personal Stories. https://www.beyondblue.org.au/connect-with-others/personal-stories/story/sammi. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017 Suicide Facts and Figures - Overnight  American Foundation for Suicide Prevention. https://www.theovernight.org/?fuseaction=cms.page&id=1034. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. Worth, Tammy. 12 Nondrug Remedies for  Health.com. http://www.health.com/health/gallery/0,,20526272,00.html, 21 Sept. 2011. 16 Student 6 Apr. 2017.