Brautigam 1 Ryan Brautigam Ms. Lay ENC 1102 23 February 2017 How do you feel? The group Black Lives Matter was created in 2012 after the Trayvon murder (Goldthree 1). Their purpose of creating the group was to create awareness throughout the nation about the lives of the black community and share the problems that they deal with on a daily basis. The mission of the group Black Lives Matter is for a world where black lives are no longer systematically and intentionally targeted for demise. They affirm their contributions to this society, their humanity, and their resilience in the face of deadly oppression 1). They have created awareness by various ways such as holding protest or making banners or flyers to show what the group is about and what the viewer can do to make a difference. To reach out to all different kinds of people, all of the visual techniques that are used by the group such as flyers or banners they all contain some form of rhetorical devices such as Pathos, Logos, Ethos, Kairos. By using these devices, they make the viewer think emotionally, Logically, Ethically, and timelessness. When trying to persuade someone of the view of another these 4 rhetorical devices are a key factor to making it be an effective visual. Brautigam 2 Pathos is the appeal to your emotions as done through the images one and two. This is done by choosing emotional strong topics and relying on that to persuade the viewer. One of the rhetorical devices that you see a lot through the commercials that are shown on TV. For example, when you need the commercial with the sad dogs and then in the back ground you hear a song playing. The creator of the commercial is relying on you to feel bad for the dogs in hope of by the end of the commercial you will donate money to the organization. Just like in the commercial the Black Lives Matter group has banners that are filled with pathos to make the viewer feel bad and join and support the organization. As seen in image 2, they have added victims of major cases of black people treated unfairly and at the bottom each victim the creator has added a hashtag with their names signifying that they were once a large trending topic on the internet. The picture that they have added were not of the victims being happy, they picked pictures of the victims being sad. Between the sad images making the viewer in a mood and the hashtags bringing back the feeling of when the viewer and others in society felt when it was a hot topic. This image effectively captures the pathos aspect of the viewer. For the second image, they capture pathos a different way than the first image. The creator has made sure to show the protesters faces and show how they are feeling. Most of the people faces that are shown, the viewer can see the passion on their face. The passion is seen through the way they are chanting for the cause they all believe in. With this aspect of the image it makes you feeling bad that these people that are fighting so hard in efforts to make their voice heard. Leaving the viewer feeling useless and like they should do something about the matter instead of just sitting there just doing nothing. As Pathos is a major part in Brautigam 3 persuading the viewer of the view, the other rhetorical appeals must be used to complement pathos to make the visual that much more effective. Another rhetorical appeal is that is used in the images Ethos this is shown through the images by adding of well known victims of unfair rights against black people. In both images, you see examples of this rhetorical device. In the first image the people in the protest are holding large signs that have as well as the face of Trayvon Martin, a famous victim of a crime that he was profiled for being black(Travon 1), the reason the whole group was created. By showing both of these aspects of the image, many know about the group also many know about the Trayvon Martin case adding that these people and this banner is credible. Much like the first image the second images has pictures of 3 people that were victims of unfair rights. The 3 men were Philando castile, Alton Sterling, Delrawn Small. What was significant and one of the reason the stories blew up like they did, was that Philando castile and Alton Sterling were both killed by a police officer and they happened less than a day apart. After both stories came out, many people started riots and chants. Whereas, Delrawn Small did not get as much publicity as the other victims because it was a road rage incident with and off- duty police officer and at the time of his death he had been drinking (Bates 1). According to Khalil Gibran Muhammad, a professor of race and public policy says media has a bad habit of reporting through the lens of the police instead of the victim immediately after an (Bates 1). Having these stories that people know or if not, can look up by typing the hashtag in to any social media and find more information it shows the view that this group supports the victims regardless what any one will say. Brautigam 4 Another rhetorical device that these images use, which is important to add to obtain their goal, is to get people to join and support the group and that is best done when an image has a Kairos aspect in it. In the second image, they have chosen to add the text in white on a black back ground. The reason for this would be to stand out to the viewer of what the group does and what they are about. Also, it shows the picture with the victims with the victims of unfair rights. This show the viewer that there is people dying over the problem that they are fighting. While in the first image, the passion seen through the faces of the people in the protest shows the viewer that the protesters are already fighting for the group and they are not all black people throughout the banner there is all different kinds of people at the protest shown in the banner implying that anyone can join and support that group as soon as they want. The reason that Kairos is so important in persuade a group a people through an image is because it make the viewer want to act right away. In conclusion, these rhetoric devices are important for making an image change the minds of the viewer and create a feeling of guilt and compassion in result making them want to help and support Black Lives Matter. Both images are a very powerful symbol that speaks more words than the ones just written on the banner. The creator of these images placed everything and chose the colors that he/she thought would best stand out to the viewer to look most appealing and persuasive. The Black Lives Matters group just wants to have a world where black people are no longer target because the color of their skin as stated in their mission statement. The best way to go about solving this issue and coming to a solution with the rest of society, is to create awareness about the issue as well as what the group is about, in effort for people to get behind the group with their support. If Black Lives Matters can get enough people Brautigam 5 to support and get behind them on what they believe they could change the stereotype that society has on the black community. The rhetorical devices were meant to reach out to all different kinds of people. This is the reason these pictures are so powerful for whoever views them. The group makes these images so powerful so each viewer feels something toward the past and future victims and want to do play a role in fixing the issue by supporting Black Live Matters. Brautigam 6 Appendix Brautigam 7 Work Cited Bates, Karen Grigsby. Who Is Delrawn Small? Why Some Police Shootings Get Little Media  NPR. NPR, 26 July 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Goldthree, Reena N., and Aimee Bahng. #Blacklivesmatter And Feminist Pedagogy: Teaching A Movement  Radical Teacher 106 (2016): 20-28. Education Source. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Travon Martin  CNN. Cable News Network, 28 Feb. 2017. Web. 10 Mar. 2017.