Gurgues 1 Adel Gurgues Mariama Changamire English composition 2 April 27 th, 2017 Project 3 intermediate draft College sports have gone a long way since it was first introduced in the mid-19th century. Coming from a time where it was hard to fill up stadiums to generating billions of dollars and becoming one of most successful programs. Not only has the business aspect of college sports evolved throughout the centuries but so has the players. Players have come a long way with not only the way they play the sport but the way they carry themselves outside the sport. In the recent years, in the prime of college sports, a very controversial question has come been on the uprising and whether college athletes should be paid for playing college sports? I believe that college athletes should be paid for college sports due to the fact that not only do they risk their lives playing sports but they also generate the entire fanbase which is what generates most of the money for the NCAA. College football and basketball have become one the United States most popular television programs in the last decade. As things get more popular and time in the spotlight is increased, questions about morals and ethics come up. A controversial question that has been constantly asked in the last decade is whether college athletes should be paid. There are both Gurgues 2 pros and cons for paying college athletes. When evaluating the pros over the cons it is obvious that the pros completely outweigh the cons. There are multiple pros for paying college athletes and one of the main pros is that college football around the country would not only increase in popularity but also increase in competitive nature. If kids at a young age knew they could make hundreds of thousands of dollars at such a young age, it would increase the level of play in football around the country. With the increase in play and competitiveness highly likely that the number of fans would increase which would ultimately make the NCAA more money (College student journal). There are multiple reasons why college athletes should be paid but there are three core reasons. Not only does the level of play and revenue increase around the country, but they should be paid off the risk factor alone. College football is one of the most dangerous jobs a person can do. College football players are seven times more likely to get hurt then a normal person (NCAA). This statistic is on the NCAA website but they choose not to do anything about it. If college athletes were to get paid the level of medical attention that is given to college athletes off the field would increase. Universities spends millions of dollars on medical programs for college athletes when on the field that they forget more injures are happening off the field then on the field. Paying college athletes would decrease the amount of injuries off the field as they are more inclined to stay safe to perform their job. People who have their income and jobs on the line are tenant to stay safe to feed their family and live their daily lives. The third reason why college athletes should be paid, is for the simple fact that they are performing a job. People know if they are doing something for someone else and other peoples Gurgues 3 enjoyment, that they better be compensated for the work that they do. The simple moral of paying someone for a job has been in human nature if currency has become a thing. Why should someone that is risking their life and performing a job not being compensated for the enjoyment of other people. Ethics and morals can become a very touchy topic as every has different views. Gurgues 4 Works cited Football  The British Medical Journal 1.2258 (1904): 853-54. Web. Patterson, Tiffany. Should College Athletes Be  SmartAsset. N.p., 03 Feb. 2017. Web. 27 Apr. 2017. Terry J, J. Knapp, Roger K, and Charles Rasmussen. What College Athletes Say about Intercollegiate  Academic One File. College Student Journal, n.d. Web. 27th Apr. 2017.