Caroline Jeczalik Professor Aranda March 22, 2017 ENC 1102 Immigration in the United States Immigration has become a very popular topic over the years. The National Council of La Raza is a hispanic organization that helps immigrants from all over the world adjust to the changes they face when they arrive to this country. This organizations goal is to the opportunity to achieve the American The two images presented from this association, display the goal of improving the opportunity to achieve the American Dream through ethos, logos and pathos. Although image A and image B are two separate images with slightly different rhetorical appeals they work together to convey the same goal. Image A, has past president Barack Obama at the podium giving a speech at The National Council of La event. In the background there is a large sign in the background that displays the organizations name with their colors incorporated on the sign (red and white). This image is displaying the rhetorical appeals of ethos and logos. According the literary Devices, is the way of appealing to the audience by showing credibility and ethical Devices). This image is displaying ethos by incorporating an authority figure (Barack Obama). When placing an authority figure in an image, it gives the impression of importance and credibility. By placing Barack Obama in the picture, the organization is displayed as a credible and achieved organization. Having the organizations title in the back round gives credibility and authority. According to Literary Devices, logos is an appeal to logic (Literary Devices). When looking at image A, past president Obama is giving a speech at the NCLR event. It would be logical for Barack Obama to give a speech at this event because of his job affiliation. As the president, he is constantly working on many things to help this country. Immigration being one of the top priorities, the president has to impose many rules, regulations and programs for immigrants. This authorial figure is logical for this picture because he is the figure that is in charge and controlling this country. Having Barack Obama at an event is very excellent and accomplishing. This ties into the organizations goal in the opportunity to achieve the American Many dream of meeting the president on day. However, when someone meets the president they are receiving an award or an accomplishment from him. Having Barack Obama at the event is symbolizing accomplishment and success. This organization wants the audience to understand that an individual can reach their goals by incorporating Barack Obama. Image B shows a young hispanic boy looking at the audience in a neutral look with the words our children become tomorrows with the organizations colors (red and white). When looking at this image, one instantly want to help the young boy achieve his dreams. Its logical to help a younger kid because it targets the audiences emotions. This is an example of logos and pathos. According to Literary Devices, pathos is appeal to the emotions of an audience. (Literary Emotion often come from many different things. This organization incorporated a young child into this image to trigger the audiences emotions. The sentence on the image our children become tomorrows works hand on hand with the young child in the image. After reading the sentence a person would like to help the child because thats a normal human beings instinct. This image is telling the audience that helping the children of today will change the future. The organization wants the audience to understand that we are all once young. As we grow up we shape this country, wether were American, Australian, African or asian. It matter who you are, everyone has an impact in the world. This image ties into the organizations goal. By having the opportunity to achieve the American dream it all starts when your young. In this country today individuals need years of schooling in order to maintain a stable income. By starting off on the right foot steps young, it gives individuals a higher and faster opportunity to reach the Although the two images are different, they both of them convey the same message which is to the opportunity to achieve the American Both of the images use rhetorical appeals to grab the audiences attention as well as state the message/goal. Both of the images target the rhetorical appeal of logos. This organization carefully choses certain techniques to grab the audiences attention. In image A, its logical to grab the audiences attention by implementing an authority figure such as Barack Obama. In image B, the organization targeted the audiences emotion by incorporating a young child into an ad. Its logical people are going to respond or even consider helping a younger child then someone older. Both of these images implement the rhetorical appeal of logos to grab the readers attention to the images. In both of the pictures they add the organization colors to show credibility and authority. Its also logical to incorporate the designated colors into the organizations pictures. The goal of this organization to the opportunity to achieve the American Image B, shows how kids are the future. As previously stated, education is the key to success in this country. In order to get a good job in this generation you need a college degree. Image B shows how the readers need to help the younger children so that one day the younger generation can be something greater and bigger then previous generation. In order to do that we need more innovation which implied immigrants. Image A, shows how far this organization has come along. Both images combine together to show the goal. Although image A and image B are two separate images with slightly different rhetorical appeals they work together to convey the same goal. The goal is the opportunity to achieve the American Ethos, logos and pathos are implemented into the images to grab the audiences attention and display the goal of the organization. The National Council of La Raza is an organization that works hard for immigrants to achieve their goals so that someday they can achieve the American dream. Image A Image B Work Cited Page Pathos Examples and  Literary Devices. N.p., 30 Oct. 2015. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. <http://www.literarydevices.com/pathos/>. Logos Examples and  Literary Devices. N.p., 30 Oct. 2015. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. <http://www.literarydevices.com/logos/>. Ethos Examples and  Literary Devices. N.p., 30 Oct. 2015. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. <http://www.literarydevices.com/ethos/>. Shoichet, Catherine E. Obama: need a dance on immigration  CNN. Cable News Network, 25 July 2011. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. <http:// www.cnn.com/2011/POLITICS/07/25/ obama.la.raza/>. Nclr. Do you believe we should help our children become leaders? Sign if you Agree -->http://t.co/9SsT5LrG7r pic.twitter.com/  Twitter. Twitter, 18 July 2014. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. <https://twitter.com/NCLR/status/490249373175906304>.