Anoos !1 Matthew Anoos Instructor Rouisse ENC 1102 30 April 2017 Start Caring About Marijuana prohibition causes far more problems than it solves, and results in the needless arrest of hundreds of thousands of otherwise law abiding citizens each (NORML). According to a CNN poll conducted in 2016 one in eight U.S adults have stated that they smoke and 43% of people have admitted to smoking marijuana once in their life. Marijuana can be a very polarizing subject to talk about because every associates it with a negative connotation. The majority of people view it as how the government views marijuana; the government views marijuana as a class 1 drug. Class 1 drugs are drugs that have a potential to be abused, no medical use, and can inflict a lot of damage to someone. Other drugs in this category include: Heroin, LSD, and cocaine. The fact that marijuana is in this group is almost comical because of the misconception that the government has over marijuana. There is a severe threat to the future if the government keeps marijuana illegal at the federal level, so the people who do not use marijuana have to join protests if they want to protect loved ones who do use marijuana. The threat to the future is as simple as the government preventing citizens with medical disabilities their right to medication that can ease their pain. A nonprofit organization called NORML (National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws) has the goal to educate the public on different polices that has to deal with marijuana. This is important because with all the misconceptions there are with marijuana it is Anoos !2 important to educate the public from a trustworthy and reliable source. For example the misconception that marijuana has no medical properties is wrong. Medical marijuana can actually help with alleviating multiple medical conditions. There was one case where a girl severed multiple seizures a day and the only way they would stop is if she took a concentrated amount of THC (CNN). Unfortunately the state that she lived in did not legalize marijuana. Her entire family had to move to a different state just so that they could get the medication legally. If the government would legalize marijuana at the federal level this problem would not have occurred. This relates to NORML because they have a blog in which stories about these cases are constantly being posted so that they can bring awareness to these cases so that the world can see how the government is treating its citizens (Marijuana Laws). Another issue is that class 1 drugs state that marijuana can be abused even though there has been zero reported cases of people overdosing on marijuana. (Huffington post) Since marijuana is illegal at the federal level it is technically illegal in the entire United States. Even though it can be legal at the state level if a federal agent were to catch someone with marijuana in a state that has marijuana legal the person can still go to jail. This confusion can lead to many problems but federal law always trumps state law. If marijuana were legal at the federal level then the government could control and monetize from it. In 2015 Colorado stated that the state had totaled nearly one billion dollars from marijuana sales (Money). If the entire country were to begin selling marijuana the government could tax the product and generate a large income that could be used in a productive way. The government would also be able to stop having to spend money on the DEA which would reduce the spending and they could focus their efforts one more pressing matters. Anoos !3 One reason that people who do not use marijuana should care about it is because most likely they know someone that does use marijuana. It could be a friend, family member, or coworker, but most likely someone in their life uses marijuana. They might not know about it because it is viewed with such negativity in our society. If they were to be caught with marijuana then they could go to jail for up to 5 years, depending on the amount of marijuana that they get caught with. 5 years of someones life is a lot to take away for a drug that has many medical properties. Another reason that people should help the fight towards legalizing marijuana at the federal level is because the government is spending hundreds of thousands of tax payers dollars on trying to incarcerate people who are using marijuana. If the government were to legalize marijuana then they could focus their efforts into drugs that actually cause harm to individuals. The government could also be generating a lot of revenue by legalizing marijuana at a federal level. It is simple to help join the fight towards legalizing marijuana. There are plenty of peaceful protests that people can join in order to get the attention of lawmakers in congress. Donations to trustworthy organizations are another way that can truly help make a difference. This is because these organizations are nonprofit and with more money they will be able to have the resources necessary in order to create events to help spread information about the positive outcomes that comes with legalizing marijuana. Another important way that people can truly make a difference is to write to the local congressman to get them to vote for marijuana to be legalized. Individuals often forget that the people are the ones who elected the congressmen/ women. They are in power because the people put them in power and their job is to represent the people. If change is to occur then writing to the congressmen and women for change, that is Anoos !4 wanted as a whole can be easily achieved. At the current rate their is a shift towards the opinion of marijuana, it is finally becoming more accepted in society. It is the federal government who does not recognize the difference between medical and recreational use marijuana, which makes it illegal at the federal level (Safe access now). In conclusion, marijuana has many medical properties to it that can be very useful to people. For example the girl who had multiple seizures a day was lucky enough to have parents that could afford moving their entire family to a state where medical marijuana was legal. Unfortunately, there are families who do not have this luxury. There are some families who have to just deal with the situation that is handed to them because it would be too expensive to move and find a new job elsewhere. Also if change is going to occur what is needed from the people who do not use marijuana, is that they need to join peaceful protests and ban together and talk to their local representative. If they threaten their job by saying they will vote for someone else who is pro marijuana then the representative will have no choice but to vote to legalize marijuana. With all these reasons on how marijuana can be a positive influence towards society hopefully it encourages a few people to talk to their local representative have the decision changed so that marijuana is legal at a federal level. With more people who are willing to stand up for something that is clearly wrong it should only be a few more years until marijuana will be legalized at the federal level. Anoos !5 Works Cited And the state took in $53 million in tax revenue as a result. Recreational pot delivers $53 million in tax revenue to  CNNMoney. Cable News Network, n.d. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. Working to Reform Marijuana  The National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. Young, Saundra. Marijuana stops severe  CNN. Cable News Network, 07 Aug. 2013. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. Chen, Aria. 1 in 8 US Adults Says They Smoke Marijuana, Poll  CNN. Cable News Network, 8 Aug. 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Streakl, Justin. Working to Reform Marijuana  The National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws. NORML Foundation, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.