Student 1 Student Dr. Jamie Thornton ENC 1102 30 April 2017 Striving for Gender Equality in the Military For most of human history, women have traditionally been kept away from combat positions in the military. To this day women are still prohibited from applying for combat positions and being eligible for military drafting in many countries, although this is slowly changing in the first world. The United States in particular have been reluctant to open combat positions to women. In a country that prides itself on equality for all, this poses an even more compelling case of injustice. Prohibiting women from pursing combat positions is a clear case of discrimination; women should be allowed to apply for such positions without fear of a bias selection protocol once they meet the same requirements as their male counterparts. Combat positions should be open to women because the selection process will determine who is fit to serve and who is not as there are no grounds to exclude women other than their sex; the exclusion of women prevents a host of people who can potentially contribute and excel in this field from doing so. In order to fully understand this predicament, it is important to define what a entails. The military is split up into a multitude of branches, each focusing on a different sector, the Air Force, Army, Coast Guard, Marine Corps, and Navy. Within these sectors there are a variety of positions that military personnel may apply to. A combat position is one of these positions in which a soldier is required to face enemy forces in active combat. They are required to carry heavy loads of equipment for long distances without rest, therefore they need strength and stamina. One of their major requirements is that they are able to engage in Student 2 heavy conflict, such are hand to hand or gunfire combat. Combat positions are held in high regard and are placed under a very diligent selection process to keep up the quality of their personnel and the effectivity of the ability to enforce their will. Women have long been considered the physically weaker sex in many cultures, therefore they have been kept away from positions or occupations that require a lot of physical exertion. However this is in fact a great form of discrimination, the mass generalization of an entire group of people based on an or stereotype that is not characteristic of all the members in the group; effectively discouraging the merit of the individuals. This prevents women who are physically capable and willing to serve in these positions from doing so, blocking their entry to an entire field of careers in the military. It also creates a vacuum that will need to be filled by men, some of whom may not be as capable as some women who desire the same position, which proves the foundation of a grave gender bias. It should be noted at this point that women have always been part of the military in some way or another, and have historically been able to make good contributions to all sectors, except this one. They have contributed through manufacturing, communications, etc. For example, during world war two, most eligible and able men were sent off to fight, or to train to fight. However, the war lasted for much longer than expected and resources were soon running low. In order to keep supplies to the front lines going, the military pleaded with women to join their forces and help with the manufacturing and factory work needed to make not only food stock, but ammunitions and such (Graf 47). They proved a good workforce that was as diligent and effective as men, that when the war ended their experiences is what spare headed the first wave feminist movement. Student 3 Many however, believe that helping in these aspects; factory and manufacturing work, should be the extent of contribution. Just because women have succeeded in these sectors when times were tough, does not mean they can succeed in all the sectors on the military (Fredenburg Web). However, was this not the original approach to them working in the manufacturing sectors to begin with? It has already been reasoned that physical strength differs from person to person, therefore by extension so should skill. This goes back to the fundamental argument that you should judge a person based on their individual merits, not a generalization of whatever group they may belong to. Diversity is always an important step to take in the strengthening of any system. Women can offer a unique perspective to these fields, a fresh outlook and approach to problems and missions that are part of the job. This could potentially be a very beneficial step in the field, as it has proven to be before with allowing African-Americans to become full-fledged members to the military Black Pioneers at the U.S. Military ). However, going beyond that, opening up these jobs will certainly improve the competency of the field as there will be more applicants and more competition. Therefore the ones chosen from this larger group will definitely be the best among them, whether it be a man or woman. It has been proven time and time again that when a field is opened to more diversity there is a boom in innovation and production. Groups like the Service Action Network, SWAN, advocate on behalf of women in the military. They take part in the conversation by fighting for the accessibility of female hygiene products, the prevention and confrontation with sexual assault, and the accessibility of military programs to women. They are also a stakeholder in the fight for women in combat positions in the military. Their argument is generally that women have in the past, and are capable of, making Student 4 important contributions to the military. They point out that many women in the military would like to apply for combat positions, but it was not made available to them. Therefore the military has a great resource of soldiers that they are not taking advantage of. These arguments certainly hold some weight in the discussion. There are no shortage of examples where women have been discriminated against unfairly in the military, despite their ongoing contributions (Lemmon). Although people who are not part of the military, or who do not have a loved one in the military, rarely find reason to delve into military politics. It is a fight that affects all of us. This gender bias is one of the last remnants of systematic sexism in the workforce, made even more relevant in a male dominated military context. The military is a resource that was made to fight for the whole of the nation, and should therefore represent that nation and uphold their beliefs. The military is directly controlled by the government, and in a democratic society like the United States the input of the people have great influence in creating changes in such places. There are many ways to provide aid to this growing force for gender equality in the military. After the recent inauguration of President Trump, many female veterans and supporting groups took to the streets out of fair for recalls in military gender equality policies. Marches occur whenever there is a threat to liberation and you can keep updated and partake in these marches, the last of which was April 15th. This is a great demonstration of the numbers and support liberation has earned and have greatly swayed many politicians. Taking up these actions can greatly help in the fight for gender equality in the military, which would be a benefit to us all. Student 5 Works Cited Black Pioneers at the U.S. Military  The Journal of Blacks in Higher Education 39 (2003): 12. Web. English, Allan. How the military can support military, Veteran, and family health  Journal of Military, Veteran and Family Health1.2 (2015): 81-82. Web. Fredenburg, Mike. Putting Women in Combat Is an Even Worse Idea Than  National Review. N.p., 15 July 2015. Web. Graf, Mercedes. On Two Fronts: American Nurses Who Served in the Spanish-American War and the First World  Minerva Journal of Women and War 1.2 (2007): 47-62. Web. Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs, eds. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. E-text. Lemmon, Gayle Tzemach. TED: Ideas worth spreading. TED Talks, May 2015. Web. 01 Apr. 2017. Service: When Women Come Marching Home. Dir. Marcia Rock. 2011. DVD. TEDxTalks. YouTube. TEDxHarvardLawSchool, 02 May 2014. Web. 02 Apr. 2017. Women in War. Prod. Diana Meehan, Pat Mitchell, and Mary Muldoon. Filmakers Library, 1991. DVD. Wootton, J. Book Review: Women in Army: Gender and Equality in the Early Salvation  Feminist Theology 14.1 (2005): 151-52. Web. Vaara, Jani P., Jarmo Viskari, Heikki and Matti Santtila. Perceptions and Attitudes of Female Soldiers Toward Physical Performance and Fitness Standards in  Military Medicine 181.10 (2016): 1218-223. Web.