Laverde 1 Valentina Laverde Ms. Heiser ENC 1102.068 23 April 2017 Understanding Feminism in Modern World Feminism is defined as belief that men and women should have equal rights and opportunities. It is the theory of the political, economic and social equality of the It has flourished into a movement that has come a long way since it first emerged, tackling issues involving gender inequality and moving forward in rights. Evolving as the decades have gone by, progress has been made in what started as a strive for suffrage to spreading awareness of the purpose of the movement and addressing issues that currently surface in news and media. Becoming a movement that has touched cultures all over the world and has become a global phenomenon. It is a movement that can also be misinterpreted and frowned upon in some countries, different beliefs and approaches to gender equality clash with the different perspectives that exist in modern world. Understanding that gender equality within the feminist movement pertains to both genders and all cultures is important to clearly see the direction feminism is moving towards. Acting based on individual beliefs and knowledge is just as important as understanding the motives behind feminism and what it truly represents and seeks to accomplish. Oftentimes the significance and purpose of a movement such as feminism can be misinterpreted, taking on definitions and ideas that blur the objectives and goals it pursues. Feminism is a movement that tries to unite both genders to achieve equality, not inhibit one as Laverde 2 the other tries to overpower it. This misunderstanding of imbalance between the two genders can lead to a stigma attached to those who identify themselves as feminist. That women who are feminists are ultimately trying to invert the roles of inequality in the direction of men. This is not the case though, feminists want help from their male counterparts, only then can they overcome another barrier. Identifying as a feminist does not mean that it is a choice given only to women, because men can be feminist too. Recent events that took place on January 22, 2017, show both men and women of all ages united at the March on Washington, that took place not only in Washington but different countries and cities around the world (Stein et al.). A man attending the march by the name of John Fisher said care who you are, women impact your life, and no reason why they have the same rights as pointing out that women and men can accomplish things together (Stein et al.). This march left an impression and signified a major strive in gender equality where it was clearly indicated that men and women from different countries can come together to achieve gender equality. Throughout the world, different cultures give rise to different beliefs and perspectives to issues that have become prominent in society. Gender equality and the approaches that people take vary among different countries; issues tend to be geared toward the culture a country or society possesses. Gender is a social construction that can be understood as the culturally defined ways of acting as a male or female within a culture, which demonstrates how feminism is interpreted differently across cultures (Conley 275-317). Some cultures embrace the feminist movement, but some are against the idea of gender equality, punishing or rejecting anyone who actively supports gender equality or any other feminist approach. (Radke and Hornsey 863). Feminisms presence in other cultures and its acceptance influences how issues are addressed and Laverde 3 what important matters should come equal pay, violence against women, or choice over body. A values or beliefs directly influence how women are treated within a society. The principles of a religion within a culture sometimes segregate men and women during worship or what is work is referred to as a job (Bartkowski and Shah 176). Understanding that culture influences the core issues that are addressed by the feminist movement in different countries is important to comprehend that gender inequality is an ongoing issue that takes on various forms. Beliefs and customs should be understood and respected in any country before any judgement is made or action is taken. Once its become clear what feminism truly stands for and what its goal is in modern world, can misinterpretations be avoided and actions be taken. Understanding that feminism signifies unity between men and women of all cultures to solve global issues that are gender equality related and are not is the first step in activism. With knowledge of the intentions and overall background, engaging in actual activities supporting the issue is the next step, not only to promote and spread awareness of the cause but to share the knowledge with unaware members of a society. This can be done through more than just interaction and communication with others, but by joining a campaign such as campaign created by the United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women (UN Women) to address gender inequality as a issue and that it is not just a Joining the campaign is not a hard step to take, by going on the website, there are resources where advocates can take the pledge to participate in the campaign. HeForShe has available for people to participate in the campaign that suggest different ways to engage in the cause By choosing one Laverde 4 of the options in the kits such as volunteering at a domestic abuse center, activism and awareness of the movement grows with the help of both genders working together in any culture to help the feminist movement take another step forward. rights incorporate a very large spectrum of beliefs and issues that are established within the foundation of the feminist movement. With such variety comes large numbers that strengthen and expand the impact the feminist movement has addressing issues with both men and women united (Moses 760). important to understand that gender equality is a global issue that can only be conquered through partnership of both genders, even with the strides that have been made there is still more that needs to be accomplished. The more people that are aware within our society from every culture, the more issues are addressed; society has been socialized into the gender roles that exist in our society and time to teach younger generations what gender equality and feminism signify. With an increase in the number of people learning about feminism, the more the movement grows and tackles the obstacles that hinder it from spreading. The history of feminism shows triumphs, but there is still a gap between men and women that needs to be closed. Compared to the past it is smaller through the collective actions that have occurred, but the work is not finished. This work must be done while respecting the different beliefs and perspectives that exist in modern world, uniting under a common goal that can push forward gender equality. Activism has become more that just participating in the feminist movement, it means understanding and it takes unity and cooperation to achieve the goals of any movement. Laverde 5 Works Cited Bartkowski, John P., and Sarah Shah. Religion and gender  and inequality in America: Research and theory on role in (2014): 173-194. Conley, Dalton. May Ask Yourself: An Introduction to Thinking Like a 4th ed., W.W.Norton, New York, NY, 2015, pp. Watson Gender Equality Is Your Issue www.unwomen.org/en/news/stories/2014/9/emma-watson-gender-equality-is-your-issue- too. Accessed 3 Apr 2017. Moses, Claire Goldberg. in a on Writing the History of  no. 3, 2012, p. 757. ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx ?direct=true&db=edsglr&AN=edsgcl.315068197&site=eds-live. www.heforshe.org/en/our-mission. Accessed 3 Apr. 2017. Radke, Helena R. M., et al. Barriers to Women Engaging in Collective Action to Overcome  American no. 9, 2016, p. 863. ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx ?direct=true&db=edsgao&AN=edsgcl.480567316&site=eds-live. Stein, Perry, et al. marches: More than one million protesters vow to resist President Washington WP Company, 22 Jan. 2017, www.washingtonpost.com/local/womens-march-on-washington-a-sea-of-pink-hatted-prot Accessed 3 Apr. 2017.