Hnin 1 Myat Noe Hnin Dori Davis ENC 1102 17 April 2017 Awareness of Internet Privacy According to the Javelin Strategy & Research, 12.6 million U.S. adults- 5.6% of U.S. adults were victims of identity theft in 2012 which are mostly their social accounts (Hotspot Shield). By looking at it, some of the internet users are careless with managing their personal information and activities online. Because of people carelessly managing online accounts, the hackers are trying to steal the private information easily. According to a report from Carolyn Duffy, in February 2006 reported from Network World, Jason Fortuny, who is the network website developer from Seattle Web, posed as a submissive woman seeking sex on Craigslist to see how many responses and comments that he would get in a day. After doing that research, he received 178 responses including full e-mail addresses, telephone numbers, photos and names of men who answered that advertisement. Then Jason Fortuny published every single response without censoring all personal information to Encyclopedia Dramatic website. After the incident, the media and the men who knew they were scammed started identifying Jason Fortuny. In May 2009, Fortuny was sued in Illinois court for spamming their information and in the end, he received $75,000 default judgement (Network World 2). By looking at that incident, people should be aware of their private information and not giving their personal information recklessly. Some people think it is not much of a big problem and they try to neglect it. However, this is not a problem that will go away just by doing nothing and it will lead to a bigger problem if ignored. Therefore, people should try to fix it first instead of staying away from it. There are many Hnin 2 ways people can do it. The first thing is to educate themselves so that they can protect themselves by preventing the hackers from stealing their private information. When they have knowledge, things will become clearer for them not to do such things such as exposing their private data. Not only they can protect themselves but also, they can educate other people to do the same thing. Knowledge is a powerful thing and it can create a society that is powerful enough to protect anything. The second one is to rely on service tools that EPIC (Electronic Privacy Information Center) has created in order to protect their information. By using their program, people can safely store their private data without being stolen by the hackers. EPIC is a public interest research center established in 1994, Washington DC. It focuses on public privacy protection and to protect privacy data in the information ages. EPIC also makes a lot of privacy researches to show that a information is very important and it can be very dangerous when it is in wrong hands. So, it is their job to defend it from thefts. EPIC plays a leading role in developing consumer privacy and protects rights (EPIC/ Consumer privacy project). Their goal is to ensure that Federal Trade Commission and Federal Communications Commission help protect the privacy of internet users. They provide a lot of services that people can use to let them protect their information. First, they have EPIC mailing list which is used only to mail the EPIC Alert and to send notices about EPIC activities (EPIC Mailing List). They also have a bookstore where there are books which explain about safety of internet privacy and educational purposes for prevention which you can go and participate to increase your knowledge. One of the famous things happened on protecting the internet privacy was an online payment. These kinds of information are limited to processing payments and shipping publications (EPIC bookstore). The misconception of EPIC is that some people do not Hnin 3 trust the EPIC since almost everything is hackable. However, there are no people who got hacked while using an EPIC related website (EPIC bookstore). Fortunately, there are some ways and guidelines to protect online private information. These ways are not going to have a complete control over the person who is always spying every personal information on the internet. An August 2000 Pew Internet & American Life report showed that users prefer the ability to obtain redress for privacy violations (EPIC/Public opinion on privacy). 94% of internet users thought that privacy violators should be disciplined for stealing other people private property (EPIC/ Public opinion on privacy). But there are certainly devices which can reduce the risks of being hacked. First one is about installing the latest antivirus software on devices. An antivirus software is required for the computer device to protect from stealing personal data. But keep in mind that antivirus purpose is to protect only the device not internet browsing connection. Since, antivirus software cannot protect computer browsing section and internet communications. Secondly, when antivirus cannot solve the whole thing by itself, when VPN kicks in. Using a personal VPN (Virtual Private Network) is best thing to protect browsing section and internet communications. According to Hotspot Shield website, VPN secures the web sessions by creating a secure tunnel on the internet between the VPN server and the device (Hotspot Shield). Using VPN technology, the IP address is hidden by replacing other IP address. Then, the user will appear as anonymous online and it will prevent hackers by making them unable to spy on any information. VPN also protects private information and other information such as account passwords, credit card information and banking information from tracking the government and hackers. Thirdly, people should be careful about sharing on social media such as Facebook and other social apps. In hotspot shield website, the entire Facebook business model is based on leveraging personal information for advertising and marketing Hnin 4 purposes (Hotspot Shield). Since most of the account thefts are based on social media, people should not trust easily when sharing information especially on social media. Lastly, there are tracking cookies of code that websites attach to the computer storage information about online activities. So, they are needed to block or remove from browsers on a regular basis. To conclude, no matter how people say they do not trust the internet, they still need to use it. The issue is that people in the area need to understand about being hacked can cause them a lot of problems and they should find a way to figure out how to fix it before it gets out of hand in the future. EPIC also provided their tools to protect internet private information such as helping through their mails and reading from their books. Moreover, they still must protect their information from other when using the internet. In order to use the internet independently, it would be better for an educated person who has knowledge about the internet private information and ability to protect their own information than a person who does not care about his internet privacy with zero knowledge about the internet. Hnin 5 Works Cited Epic.org. 2015, Web. 17 April 2017. Consumer Privacy Epic.org. N.p. Web. 17 April 2017. Epic.org. N.p, Web. 17 April 2017. Opinion on Epic.org. N.p, Web. 17 April 2017. Ultimate Guide to Protecting Your Privacy & Identity Hotspot Shield. 2012, Web. 17 April 2017.