Mogollon 1 Alida Mogollon Angelica Aranda ENC1102.032 March 01 st , 2017 CAMY Against Alcohol Exposure It is human nature to fight for rights. This has resulted an everlasting struggle to determine the rights of the younger generation. One of the issues that is often discussed is the drinking age in the United States. There are many organizations that advocate for the drinking age to be lowered. These organizations also argue that lowering the drinking age would prompt better drinking culture in the long run. The Center on Alcohol Marketing and Youth (CAMY), however, argues that the problem is not the age at which adolescents are allowed to drink, but the exposure which they receive at a young age. CAMY is an organization that focuses specifically on the exposure that adolescents have to alcohol in the media and through other sources, with the objective of reducing alcohol-related issues in younger generations. Through visual rhetoric, they emphasize that youth exposure to alcohol is what causes dangerous drinking habits. They prompt the audience, adults and more specifically parents, to stop purchasing alcohol that markets on youth. The two selected images demonstrate position against alcohol marketing. The first image shows a girl casually lying in her room, a common activity for girls all over America. The first image focuses on the effects that alcohol has on young females. The use of the color pink and the word appeals to pathos, a rhetorical device that can be used to help the audience connect with the image (Lee, McKee and McIntyre, 37). Although the image is specifically referencing the effects of alcohol on women, this ad is not just targeted for women. Mogollon 2 Women viewing this can benefit from learning the effects that alcohol consumption has on them and how often women and girls are affected by alcohol. As can be seen in image one, 1 in 8 women binge drink, and 1 in 5 high school girls participate in binge drinking. The amount of binge drinking reported by females is significantly higher than that reported males. And, while there has been no change in female binge drinking patterns, the number of males binge drinking has decreased since 2010. Girls are generally portrayed as the more vulnerable gender, so it can be argued that CAMY is also prompting the men who view this ad to help women. The first image also appeals to ethos, which attests to the credibility of the creator, in this case, CAMY (McKee and McIntyre, 27). One of the ways in which they do this is by borrowing credibility from Johns Hopkins University. CAMY is an organization founded at the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health and, because Johns Hopkins is such a renowned university, the credibility of the information on the advertisements is increased. There are also lots of statistics in the first image, which appeals to logos, as it supplies evidence to claims (Lane, McKee, McIntyre, 32). These statistics provide an actual number of girls and women who are being negatively affected by alcohol, and the effects that alcohol can have on them in both the short and long term. CAMY is a strong believer in which supports their belief that their research will help reduce alcohol exposure. They believe this will happen because their research will persuade others to collaborate to their cause, which focuses on reshaping alcohol marketing. The second image, much like the first, appeals to pathos, ethos, and logos. When observing the image closely, the large circle in the middle almost resembles a movie reel with a large, red symbol going through it. This movie reel references the place where children and adolescents are being exposed to alcohol, in movies and television. Through this appeal to Mogollon 3 pathos, the image is targeting parents, and it is making them realize that the innocent movies and television shows that they are showing their children have negative messages. The big symbol running through the image also appeals to pathos, by making it very evident that this is something that needs to be stopped. Image two appeals to both ethos and logos in very similar ways as image one. Again, the Johns Hopkins University logo is written along with the CAMY logo, as it establishes credibility for CAMY. Image two also shows the number of times that an alcohol advertisement was played in channels available to adolescents in a three year time period, which support the credibility of this organization while also appealing to logos, as it provides evidence for all of claims. As previously mentioned, CAMY is an organization that was created initially to research and reduce youth exposure to alcohol. CAMY now includes research and public health practices across what they call the for preventing problems with alcohol, which include availability, alcohol marketing, and alcohol Ultimately, their goal is to reduce the number of juveniles who are not only drinking, but who are drinking to an unhealthy level. To accomplish this, they campaign and they invest into research to support their claims. Most their research has included monitoring and measuring youth exposure to alcohol marketing, which is shown in both images, as many of the statistics included are specifically about said exposure. Their goal is not only to raise awareness for this exposure problem to adults, especially adults with children, but they have taken concrete steps to help decrease alcohol advertisement. Image two, for example, urges a initiative, in which programs would be placed on a list for which alcohol advertisers could not purchase advertisement. This would help prevent the creation of a drinking culture in little children. Children would grow up with Mogollon 4 healthier drinking habits so that, even if children were drinking underage, the binge drinking culture would not be as heightened as it with adolescents. Through images demonstrating the daily exposure that children and adolescents get through ordinary sources, the Center on Alcohol Marketing and Youth was able to successfully argue that this exposure needs to be stopped, or at the very least reduced. They efficiently argue that the excessive advertisement that alcohol companies place on movies and television shows for children and adolescents is creating an unhealthy drinking culture for them. A culture in which binge drinking is normal and in which youth are placing their lives in danger. Effectively reducing the alcohol exposure in the media would result in both short term and long term health benefits. Because of this, CAMY urges for parents to not only be aware, but they yearn for a change in advertising. Mogollon 5 Mogollon 6 Mogollon 7 Sources Center on Alcohol Marketing and Youth . CAMY. October 2015. February 2017. <http://www.camy.org/resources/infographics/alcohol-advertising-on-cable-tv-q4- 2015/>. Center on Alcohol Marketing and Youth . CAMY. 2015. February 2017. < http://www.camy.org/resources/infographics/girls-women-and-alcohol/>. Lane, Emily; McKee, Jessica; McIntyre Megan. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 32. E-text. Lee, Kendra Gayle; McKee, Jessica; McIntyre, Megan. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 37. E-text. McKee, Jessica; McIntyre, Megan. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 27. E-text.