Gharbi 1 Mohamed Gharbi Mrs. Hannah Lay ENC 1102 047 24 February 2017 Women in Our Society Since the beginning of humanity, women were usually living in an environment full of humiliation and injustice. They were always treated as slaves or even worse, doing hard jobs like cleaning, taking care of the family, and giving birth, starting from the Greek and the Roman age and ending up with the United States in the 19 th and the early 20 th century. Then, women voice started to be heard: They began to fight for their rights like education, labor, and suffrage. As a result, some associations started to take place in order to protect women from any kind of discrimination that can be exercised against them for different reasons. One of the newest and most active ones that are concerned about such topics, is Ultraviolet. Ultraviolet is a feminist organization that was established in 2012 and fights against sexism, discrimination, and for rights. Their objective is to protect women from any kind of discrimination that is based on their sex, religion, race, etc. They also believe that they should enlarge the circle of rights that a woman has and make her reserve a bigger seat in the society During their five-year experience, Ultraviolet tackled many critical and sensitive subjects about the injustice the female part of the society is facing, and the two most important ones are incarnated in two flyers the organization made and in which they covered the four elements of the rhetorical appeals to promote them: the first image shows statistics about women in prison, their significant presence, and the different kind of injustice and humiliation they are living in. The second flyer Gharbi 2 is about the wage gap between men and women, and even between the races of the female sex. There is a big connection between the two images: despite all the rights that they enjoy, and even though they became very active in our society, women are still living the same situation their predecessors had. Starting with the flyer, it is pointing at a very critical and sensitive issue in the American society and that is women in prison and the situation they are living in. This phenomenon is taking a significant place and spreading rapidly. According to the image, the number of women that live behind the bars has dramatically increased to more than eight hundred percent compared to the numbers from 1977. Through the flyer, Ultraviolet is trying to share awareness and knowledge about this important topic and enlarge their community in order to make the prison a place of justice. As a result, when making it, the association tried to cover most of the elements of the rhetorical appeals for sake of being more convincing: First, speaking about the first element which is ethos, it is one of the elements of the rhetorical appeal in which the writer persuades the reader by his own (Jessica McKee & Megan McIntyre, 25). Ultraviolet is a new association founded in 2012, includes more than 700,000 members, and lead more than thirty campaigns about protecting women Additionally, their partnerships with Colorofchange.org, which is founded in 2005, make the flyer more convincing since it has more than ten years of experience and volunteer work in this field. Similarly, Pathos, which is the appeal to emotion (Jessica McKee & Megan McIntyre, 35), played an important role in making this objective clear and obvious: the use of a background picture of a shackled black woman with her eyes down giving a sense of humiliation and held by a white policewoman is kind of shocking. Furthermore, Ultraviolet used some intense words like sexual assault, child abuse, domestic violence, and giving birth shackled, Gharbi 3 usually shake the feelings. In the same way, there is a comparison made between races and how black women are more likely to go to jail. This comparison draws an old image of the United States between the 19 th and the 20 th century, when the African American were treated unfairly and horribly, and this picture is always scary. Speaking about Legos, consistency and the clarity of an argument as well as the logic of evidence and (Jessica McKee & Megan McIntyre, 30), the picture includes many numbers, statistics, and data about every aspect of the subject: the number of women behind the bars that is dramatically increasing to reach 832 percent more than in 1977. Additionally, this flyer shows very surprising stats: 3 out of 4 imprisoned women are black, 1 in 25 women gives birth in prison, 75% are survivors of domestic violence, and 82% are child abuse survivors. All these data should make the government and the society ask many questions. Moving on to the flyer, it tackles one of the most important subjects for women and that is the wage gap between them and men. Wage gap is a camouflaged way of sexism and discrimination against the female gender and not a lot of actions have been taken to protect them. As a result, Ultraviolet started to make their moves and created this image based on the elements of the rhetorical appeals to shed more lights on this problem. First, they used their reputation and experience as a way to cover ethos: As mentioned in the first flyer, despite the fact that Ultraviolet is a new organization established in 2012, during these five years, they organized more than thirty campaigns and membered more than 700,000 persons between men and women Their experience shows their sincerity and their seriousness about the subject and give them the credibility and the trustworthiness in the eye of the society. Second, Pathos. Using a picture of an African American woman and making a comparison between the Gharbi 4 races while talking about discrimination make the topic more sensitive and oblige the audience to turn their heads toward this phenomenon. Third, Logos. Similar to the first image, Ultraviolet provided their audience with some relevant and detailed statistics about the subject, and stated the wage gap between white and African American women and also between white and Hispanic women, in some states ranked based on the gap wideness: Today in the United States, women make $0.77 for every dollar a man makes, and African American women make an average of $0.49 for every dollar a man get, and Hispanic women make an average of $0.42. To conclude, according to the flyer, if the gap were closed, women would make $10.622 more every year. Each of these two flyers speaks about a different subject related to women: The first one is about the humiliating situation that a big portion of the female society is living in prison. The second one adapted the subject of the wage gap between men and women, and also between the races of the female society. Despite this difference, there are a lot of similarities: First, both of them are from the same organization which is Ultraviolet. Ultraviolet has conducted many successful campaigns against different issues, such as the one against Susan G. Komen Foundation: in February 2012, this association made a decision to stop their sponsorship for breast cancer screening. As a reaction, Ultraviolet succeeded to collect one million signatures for a petition and send it to the foundation, which retrieved their decision and reinitiated their funds (Naili,). Another example is the campaign against a rapper called Rick Ross after offending women in one of his songs by saying that men should drug them and sex without their (Vega and McKinley Jr). The association has also forced Reebok to stop their sponsorship for the rapper for the reason that he is a bad influence for the youth (Vega and McKinley Jr). These two campaigns and many others make Ultraviolet more trustworthy and Gharbi 5 build a very good reputation nationally and globally. The second similarity between the two flyers is the rhetorical appeals: in both images, the association used the same style in each of the elements and it is a very effective and successful way to promote their campaigns and activities. However, despite the similarities and differences, these two images complete each other: from all perspectives, Ultraviolet tried to cover and mention all the difficulties and the humiliating situations that women are living in. This mission is the connection between them and the principle that the association is standing on: Women are the half of the society. Depriving them from their rights and treating them the wrong way, do not only harm them individually but also harm the whole society, including men, and hurt even the country economically, socially, and politically. It is time to stand against discrimination and avoid any racial, religious, and sexual barriers in order to improve the society and the individuals. Ultraviolet tackled two important subjects about women in the two image presented. In the first flyer, they talked about women in prison and the conditions they are living in. In the second one, they talked about the wage gap between men and women, and even between white, African Americans, and Hispanic women. Ultraviolet succeeded in making its voice heard by the society and bring attention, not only because the two subjects were critical and sensitive, but also because they knew how to use the rhetorical appeal which played a very important role: in both images, the association used three important elements: ethos, logos, and pathos in order to persuade the audience and provoke their thinking: Their credibility, the relevant data provided, and the images and the words used were enough to bring the attention of the society and make them ask questions. Gharbi 6 Appendix: Flyer 1: Gharbi 7 Flyer 2: Gharbi 8 Works Cited. Ultraviolet, https://weareultraviolet.org/about-us/. Accessed 26 February 2017. McKee, Jessica, Megan McIntyre. Rhetoric Matters. University of South Florida, 2016. Naili, Hajer. Blazes Trail of Social-Media Womensenews.org http://womensenews.org/2013/06/ultraviolet-blazes-trail-social-media triumph/#.VBgPUv4ju1E. Accessed 26 February 2017. Vega, Tanzina and McKinley Jr, James. Media, Pushing Reebok To Drop a New York Times. http://www.nytimes.com/2013/04/13/arts/music/reebok-drops-rick- Accessed 26 February 2017.