Student 1 Student Dr Thornton ENC 1102 26 April 2017 Pennies: Zinc Pests The Penny Debate is an on-going issue in the United States (News). Many have tried to cease the production of pennies, but all were thwarted by either congressmen or lobbyists. Now, pennies have very little use in the real world. Vending machines do not accept pennies, and nothing is bought with a single penny (Abolish the Penny). Pennies are only good for wishing fountains, as they do not have much of a use elsewhere. Why still produce pennies if they have little value? There are many positives in eliminating the penny, such as saving some of the US Mint funding. Pennies should be eliminated because of their loss of face value, high production costs, and the consumer inconvenience. A penny is worth one cent, even today. However, almost everything has become more expensive and pennies have lost their value. Nothing is purchasable with a single penny. Before, there was another coin titled the Half Cent. This, as the name implies, was worth half of a cent. Eventually, prices of goods went up as storeowners began raising prices. The Half Cent Coin began to lose its own face value. The United States eliminated the Half Cent Coin within the Coinage Act of 1857. If something lost its face value, it made sense to eliminate something worth 1/200 th of a US Dollar (It Makes Also, the Half Cent Coin lost its face value due to the constant price changes (It Makes Today, the Half Cent Coin is simply an artifact. There were no disastrous results that came from eliminating the Half Cent Coin. Children today do not even know of the Half Cent Coin. This shows that the penny can be eliminated. Because Student 2 the penny has an identical state as the Half Cent Coin once did, there should be no negative results of eliminating the penny. Not only had the penny lost its face value, but it is also costing the United States Mint millions of dollars. According to Citizens to Retire the Penny, it costs roughly 1.7 cents to produce a single penny (What Can You Buy with a Penny?). An article in the Wall Street Journal reassures this statement with Brian R. Merrick stating: costs more than worth to mint it and is nothing but a nuisance to everyone but the copper-mining Time to Abolish the Penny and Nickel.). Because the penny costs twice as much of its value to produce, the United States Mint is losing money in something that cannot be used in general. Logically, this does not produce any benefit if the public cannot use something that the United States Mint produces. Citizens to Retire the Penny has found that the United States Mint used $132 million to produce less than $50 million worth of pennies (What Can You Buy with a Penny?). That is a major loss in funding that could be used in something more beneficial such as education. The United States Mint should cease production of pennies to minimize the loss of funding. Pennies are simply a waste of time. Imagine someone is buying something that is valued at $8.98. It is not common for people to have pennies on hand. People tend to just pay to the nearest dollar, in this case $9. Because of this, one would say the since you would only receive 2 pennies as change. According to Glenys Roberts, one side of this great currency divide is the Federation of Small Businesses, which claims shopkeepers hate the penny. They say it clutters up tills and forces staff to make unnecessary trips to bank bags of low-value coins (Should We ABOLISH the Although this article mainly speaks about England, the quote can be applied to the United States. Storeowners have to make similar trips to the bank for pennies. Everyone knows you cannot buy anything with a penny (Enough of This Chump Student 3 Change: Abolish the Penny!). Even in situations where one does have pennies, the clerk still needs to count them, wasting a few seconds of potential profit. If there are multiple cash transactions a day that use pennies, those few seconds add up quickly. People do not even carry pennies. People tend to just throw them on the ground and forget about them. Likewise, people who see pennies on the ground do not even bother picking them up. This shows how people generally feel about pennies. In 2007, ABC 7 did a little study on how people feel about pennies. A reporter from ABC 7 decided to see how many people would stop and pick up a penny if they found one. The reporter threw about 150 pennies on the ground. After about 25 minutes, not a single penny was picked up (A lack of pennies for your thoughts). This indirectly shows that people generally feel the penny is useless. Because of this, some people take advantage and use this feeling out of spite. There are a few instances of people paying a hefty ticket or bill entirely in pennies. The organization who originally issued the ticket or bill had to sit down and count every single penny (UNCC student pays $110 parking fine in pennies). This process took hours and required at least two people to make the time go by. This proves that pennies cause such an inconvenience and should be taken away. Pennies cause too much inconvenience for the public. It is important to become involved within this issue. If pennies are eliminated, the United States Mint could save money, and no one would have to deal with the frustration pennies cause. There were bills proposed to eliminate the penny, but they were all shut down by lobbyists or congressmen (Anti-penny, pro-rounding bill introduced in Congress.). If pennies continue to exist, the United States would remain the same as it is right now. The United States Mint would continue to lose funds. Storeowners would continue to restock their registers with useless pennies. There is a way to abolish the penny. Citizens can reach out to their congressional representatives and voice their proposals to consider Student 4 abolishing the penny. People who are actively engaged or not engaged can still communicate with people. If enough representatives consider abolishing the penny, then they would have to discuss it in Congress once again. Any discussion in congress is important. Congressmen would have to discuss about the penny again, if enough influence is presented. If there is so much support for the penny to be abolished, then Congress will have to propose another bill to abolish the penny. Abolishing the penny is possible, it only requires support. Pennies should be abolished. They waste time at the registers, and they waste Mint funding. In a world without pennies, the United States Mint could put the $132 million spent to other uses, such as education or homelessness. Store clerks would not have to count pennies at the register or even see them at all. People would use the phrase the much less. Anyone can take a stand and speak to a local congress representative about abolishing the penny. Pennies are zinc pests that create more problems, and it is time the United States did something about it. (WC: 1206) Student 5 Works Cited Gore, Jeff. It Makes  Citizens to Retire the U.S. Penny - It Makes . Citizens to Retire the U.S. Penny, Apr.-May 2013. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Gore, Jeff. Can You Buy with a Citizens to Retire the U.S. Penny, Sept. 2013, www.retirethepenny.org/. Howard, Maxwell. lack of pennies for your A Lack of Pennies for your Thoughts, 26 Feb. 2016, pennieslackof.blogspot.com/2016/02/maxwell-howard-professor- russell.html. Accessed 15 Apr. 2017. Time to Abolish the Penny and  Wall Street Journal (Online), 27 July 2015, p. 1. EBSCOhost,ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct =true&db=ibh&AN=108557413&site=eds-live. Michael Schramm, Special for USA TODAY. UNCC student pays $110 parking fine in  USA Today. Gannett Satellite Information Network, 10 July 2015. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/nation- now/2015/07/08/university-of-north-carolina-charlotte-parking-tickets-pennies/29873667  The Penny Debate TIME For Kids. TIME For Kids, 08 Feb. 2013. Web. 26 Apr. 2017. Safire, William. Abolish the  The New York Times, 2004. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ed sgao&AN=edsgcl.117521815&site=eds-live. Student 6 Safire, William. Enough of This Chump Change: Abolish the  New York Times Upfront, no. 1, 2004, p. 27. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=e sgaoAN=edsgcl.121646403&site=eds-live. We ABOLISH the Penny? Fiddly, Virtually Worthless and Weigh Down Your Pockets. Now a Radical Idea Is Gaining  Daily Mail (London, England), 2012. EBSCOhost,cezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct =true&db=edsgbe&AN=edsgcl.287355246&site=eds-live. Zappone, Christian. Anti-penny, pro-rounding bill introduced in  CNNMoney. Cable News Network, 18 July 2006. Web. 26 Apr. 2017.