Student 1 Student Professor Stephanie Derisi ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Privatization: The Battle for Profit or Well-Being Veterans from the U.S military, being both those who are retired and are currently serving, receive health care benefits for their service to the country. Though their benefits seem to be top-notch, there are actually several downfalls which have created the controversy of privatization. Privatizing veteran healthcare would mean that their care is not funded by the government, but rather private investors instead. One of the biggest reasons stakeholders have argued for privatization is because of an incident in Phoenix, Arizona in which over 300 veterans died because the wait times for the were too long. Privatization is opposed by many stakeholders such as The American Legion, Disabled American Veterans, and VoteVets.org because they believe it will hurt the veterans in the long-run. It is important for non-engaged stakeholders to become involved and adopt this position as well because privatization profits from injuries, Veterans themselves are against it, and they receive better care at government funded Veterans give their time to defend the U.S.A but are constantly short-changed with benefits regardless of their service. The American Legion is a non-profit organization created in 1919 that serves to support Veterans Affairs. This stakeholder has argued against privatization because they do not believe that it is the solution to fixing the This argument has been occurring for years and each Student 2 time The Legion is able to counter it and prove why should continue to exist. This organization has been able to improve the poor healthcare situation on own without resorting to privatization. According to the website in an article against privatization, were the first to call for the resignation of VA Secretary Eric demonstrating their effort to improve the situation without private addition(Barnett). Since the replacement of this Secretary, have improved and veterans are almost always able to be seen in 10 days or less. The Legion has countless articles on their web page that urges against private health care because they are an organization made of Veterans and are able to speak for the majority. There are several other stakeholders involved in this issue that fight to make privatization a real option. The Concerned Veterans for America are an organization that wants to improve the Veteran health care system. In doing so, they believe that privatizing will decrease the amount of issues that arise when Veterans try to receive care. The biggest issue the CVA finds is that are still waiting too long for and thus the option to go to another doctor will reduce the wait times and in turn, the amount of deaths as a result of waiting (CVA Memo). Veterans, however, earn health care for their service and should not have to worry about paying extra money to go to the doctor. This stakeholder has received a lot of criticism because their reasons for privatization do not make sense in conjunction with improving lives. Stakeholders that are for privatization describe the issue and solution as though it is only about the Veterans, but the truth behind it, is that the organizations funding the private sectors will benefit tremendously from any injuries they care for. receive mandatory federal funding of $103.6 billion a year (Budget). This money, along with the allotted discretionary budget money is used to fund and improve According to Tom Cohen of CNN news, if privatization occurs, the federal funding budget for Veteran health care will raise to $450 billion Student 3 by 2034. This is due to the cost of hiring and maintaining private doctors to treat Veterans. Although the budget will increase, Veterans will still have to pay for services from doctors which means that the organizations funding privatization will actually be making money in return. The motives of these companies are then questionable because they should not be making Veterans pay for health care that they earn from serving in the military. There are stakeholders from both ends of the spectrum arguing their opinion on privatization, but most do not stop to ask what actual Veterans want. Veterans want the ability to schedule an appointment and be met in less than 30 days. It may seem as though private health care will open up more opportunities to be seen, but forcing Veterans to constantly choose private doctors will result in closing, and fewer options in all. A YouTube video from Disabled American Veterans explains that private doctors will often not accept Veteran health care plans leaving these patients with only unqualified doctors to choose ( Putting Choice in Context). Regardless of the continued promise of positive outcomes, overall, percent [of oppose turning VA health care into a system of private sector (Augustine). If the group of people being affected by the decision have made it clear that they prefer to keep their then privatization should no longer be a discussion. One of the most important reasons privatization should not occur is because are geared toward military related injuries. VA nurses and doctors are specially trained to handle Veterans as their illnesses are often a result of their time in the service. The American Legion found that are at least 30% more efficient than private sectors in treating Veterans (Should the Veterans Healthcare System be Privatized?). Thus, no matter how many more options they may provide, private care facilities will not be able to treat veterans efficiently. Student 4 The battle for privatization has been ongoing for years but there is one angle with more support. Veterans should not have private healthcare because it leads to higher cost, majority of veterans do not want it, and are better trained. Veterans have taken the time to serve their country, but the country has not taken the time to serve them correctly. With combined efforts, privatization will no longer be suggested and Veterans will have top-notch healthcare for the future. In order to support veterans as well as their stakeholders, the petition against privatization from votevets.org needs to be signed. Veterans are dying by the hundreds, and all it takes to stop it is getting involved. Student 5 Works Cited Augustine, Garry J. Op Ed: Vets Do Not Want the VA  The Military Advantage Blog. N.p., 24 Dec. 2016. Web. 31 Mar. 2017. <https://militaryadvantage.military.com/2016/04/veterans-do-not-want-the-va- privatized/>.. Barnett, National Commander Dale. Privatizing VA is not the  The American Legion. The American Legion, 21 July 2016. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. <https://www.legion.org/magazine/233418/privatizing-va-not-answer>. Budget, Office Of. Office of  Annual Budget Submission - Office of Budget. N.p., 12 Sept. 2008. Web. 28 Apr. 2017. <https://www.va.gov/budget/products.asp>. CVA Memo: Why We Need The For Our Heroes In The 21st Century  Concerned Veterans for America. Concerned Veterans for America, n.d. Web. 04 Mar. 2017. <https://cv4a.org/press-release/va-reform-needed/>. Lee, Coleman. Privatizing Health Care The  Privatizing Health Care The Cure Cognoscenti. N.p., 24 Jan. 2017. Web. 02 Apr. 2017. <http://www.wbur.org/cognoscenti/2017/01/24/privatizing-va-health-care-coleman- nee>. Military and Veterans Health Care Should Not Be Part of any National Health Care Bill, Says the American  Science Letter, 2009. EBSCOhost, <ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=e dsgao&AN=edsgcl.204749252&site=eds-live.> PR, Newswire. AFGE: Inside the Koch Plot to Sell out Health  PR Newswire US, 14 Apr. 2016. EBSCOhost, Student 6 ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=b wh&AN=201604141808PR.NEWS.USPR.DC72234&site=eds-live. Putting  in  YouTube. N.p., 04 Jan. 2017. Web. 01 Apr. 2017. <https://youtu.be/BNQVxMjP7Dw>. Should the Veterans Health Care System be  The New York Times. The New York Times, 28 June 2016. Web. 04 Mar. 2017. <http://www.nytimes.com/roomfordebate/2016/06/28/should-the-veterans-health-care- system-be-privatized>.