Theodoropoulos 1 Stefanie Theodoropoulos Professor Rouisse ENC 1102.060 30 April 2017 The Non-GMO Challenge In society, people are often concerned if what they are consuming is truly organic. The problem is, food is now being genetically modified to improve the yield of products. GMOs (genetically modified organisms) have taken over the food industry like a global epidemic. As per the Institute for Responsible Technology, a GMO is the result of a laboratory process in which genes from the DNA of one species are extracted and artificially forced into the genes of an unrelated plant or animal (GMO Education). This can cause a person many health complications in the future if the GMOs are consumed frequently and over a long period of time. There are not many experiments or tests to prove that they directly cause harm to a health. But through the experiments and tests that have been given, there is a correspondence. Especially between GMOs and negative effects, growing body of evidence connects GMOs with health problems, environmental damage and violation of and (GMO FAQ). Given this fact, people should be more aware and conscious about what they are choosing to put into their bodies. An influential organization who is against the use of GMOs is the Non-GMO Project. The Non-GMO Project has many resources to help educate people on genetically modified products, including the Non-GMO challenge. New and coming college students should take action by pledging to do the Non-GMO challenge and using the resources that the Non-GMO project has provided them so that they can become more educated on this subject and use this knowledge to live a healthy GMO-free life. Theodoropoulos 2 Genetic modification is involved in many of the foods that people ingest every single day, knowingly or not. Most of the time, genetically modified foods are not even properly labeled and because of this, it is virtually impossible to know if it is a GMO or not. Most foods that we eat daily are genetically modified because can be found in as much as 80% of conventional processed food in the United (GMO FAQ). In order for a product to be labeled as Non-GMO verified, it has to pass a standards test to see if it is at high risk, low risk, or no risk of being genetically modified. If they are at no risk, they can then be sent out and labeled as Non-GMO. Today, Non-GMO Project Standard considers animal-derived products such as meat, dairy, eggs and honey to be high risk due to the prevalence of GMOs in animal feed. Cloned animals and their progeny are considered to be GMOs under the standard, as are the products of synthetic (What is GMO?). Because of this, it is really hard to find actual natural-made foods in the technologically advanced world we live in today. This stresses the importance of labeling these foods correctly. The goal should be that if an unexperienced shopper comes into the grocery story, their eye is automatically caught by the label on the foods that states that it is Non-GMO. The only problem is that new, unexperienced shoppers do not really care and know about what a food being genetically modified really means. This includes new college students who are on their own for the first time and do not have their parents to help them with food and diet choices. People need to be aware that engineering is not needed for good (GMO FAQ). Some kind of education system needs to be implemented in our society in order for our population to make better choices and maintain good health. This is why the Non-GMO project has come up with a lifestyle site designated for people who want to learn more about a life non-GMO. Their goal is to help drive public awareness and to teach people to Theodoropoulos 3 for the that is, the Non-GMO label (Community). In this website, they have a way to get involved, called The Non-GMO Challenge. The Non-GMO Challenge is month- long celebration that gives shoppers, brands, and retailers the opportunity to make meaningful non-GMO commitments. First launched in 2012, the Challenge serves as a powerful way to support a safer and more transparent food system while celebrating Earth Month in  (Challenge) . New coming college students should participate in this challenge for a month to help train them on making healthy choices that are also non-GMO. This will not only help them in making msart food choices, but it will also make them influence others to do the same. These college students should also look into the Non-GMO blog that helps to provide recipes and help with food choices. They can learn how to make certain dishes and also things to eat by themselves. This will give them some kind of structure and be helpful to meal plan. Meal planning would be a great help and slowly teach the newcomer the world of food preparation. The Non-GMO blog also gives new updates and important information about the non- GMO world.New upcoming college students can also stay connected by using the Non-GMO different hashtags like #NonGMOProject, #GoNonGMO, and #LookfortheButterfly. They can also tag them in the pictures they post of the food that they made using the blog or recipies. The Non-GMO Project has also downloadable educational tools to inform, empower and help spread awareness about (Education). Overall, there are many resources that can be found about being non-GMO. They just need to be looked for. New coming college students should put themselves in a forward direction by taking the pledge to be non-GMO and using the resources available on the Non-GMO website in order to educate themselves more on things that are genetically modified. These resources including the Challenge and Blog can help better shape the lives of these fresh Theodoropoulos 4 new shoppers and help them transition into adulthood more smoothly. They should take the pledge of non-GMO to make a difference in their lives now, so that they wont have to deal with the consequences in the future. Every time they shop, they should for the and promote their own healthy lifestyle. Word Count: 1217 Theodoropoulos 5 Works Cited  Living Non-GMO : The Non-GMO Project. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Apr. 2017.  Living Non-GMO : The Non-GMO Project. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. GMO  Institute for Responsible Technology. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. GMO  Living Non-GMO : The Non-GMO Project. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. MOST TRUSTED  Non-GMO Project. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. What Is  Non-GMO Project. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Apr. 2017.