Harb !1 Karem Harb ENC 1102 Professor Aranda 22 March 2017 Project 2 Final Draft Students for Fair Admissions is a non-profit organization that fights racial preference in the university admissions process. Certain universities have quotas to admit students of different races to keep the student body diverse. This creates a problem in which two students, Asian and Black, with equal merit are considered for admission, but the Black student would be chosen because of affirmative action policies and racial quotas for universities. Students for Fair Admissions (SFFA) provides legal support for students that face this issue. This organization combats organizations such as the NAACP who support affirmative action policies such as racial quotas for universities. They believe that such policies give students of certain races advantages that equally qualified students do not have. The SFFA have litigated major cases with regard to the issue of racial preference in the university admissions process. Two images from SFFA are featured below. The goals of the SFFA are only partially represented by the images since the images only address unfair denial of admission of Asian-American students. Their main goal is to end all racial preference in university admissions by giving legal support to victims of racial preference in the admissions process. The effectiveness of the images is apparent with careful examination. Harb !2 The goals of SFFA are to end all racial preference in the university admissions process and as shown in the images below, Asian American students are addressed as victims of the problem of racial preference. The goals of SFFA as stated on the website are: to support and participate in litigation that will restore the original principles of our civil rights movement: A race and ethnicity should not be factors that either harm or help that student to gain admission to a competitive (SFFA.org). In the two images, both students are Asian-American. Asian-American students that need legal support after being unfairly denied admission to a university are part of the focus of the organization since their main goal is the end all racial preference in the admissions process. Their goal, as previously stated, is to end the preference in the admissions process of certain students because of their race. Their goal is not only to defend Asian-American students when denied admission to a certain university due to race, but students of any race. While the selected images only cover part of the goals, they are still effective in representing part of the goals. The audience that the images appeal to are students that were denied admission to a university due to preference of a different student of a different race. The images appeal especially to Asian-American students since the students in the images are Asian-American. The image about Harvard University shows a young Asian- American female clutching onto a book and with a troubled look of her face. This is an appeal to pathos, which is an appeal to the emotions (myreviewers.usf.edu). The look of concern shows that students like her feel wronged due to the unfair denial of admission to the university they worked so hard to be admitted to. The clutching of the book symbolizes the seriousness that many hard-working students take towards to being a part of the Harvard University student body. Harb !3 In the second image, Asian-American male student is shown also with concerned look. He looks forward with uncertainty, which also appeals to the emotions of the viewer. This allows the viewer to feel the concern in their expressions and relate to the concern shown in the faces of the students in the images. That would cause a student going though a similar situation to take action and ask the SFFA for help or to at the very least, donate the organization so that they can continue working towards ending racial preference in the university admissions process. Other ways in which the images are effective include the design of their images. The image pertaining to Harvard University is strikingly similar to the Harvard University website. The color scheme is very similar which makes the image seem satirical of the actual Harvard website. This further persuades the audience of the message that they should take legal action against the unfair admissions process of Harvard. In 2014, SFFA took legal action against Harvard in the court case SFFA v. Harvard University. In this case, Harvard was accused of setting quotas for the amount of Asian-American students they would grant admission to each year. Harb !4 Harb !5 Works Cited Blum, Edward. Annual Report for  (n.d.): n. pag. http://samv91khoyt2i553a2t1s05i- wpengine.netdna-ssl.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/08/2016-08-16-2016-Year-End- Review.pdf. Web. 4 Mar. 2017. Students for Fair  Students for Fair Admissions. N.p., n.d. Web. 04 Mar. 2017. https://studentsforfairadmissions.org/about/ http://myreviewers.usf.edu/etext/rhetoricreallymatters#page=20&zoom=auto,-203,654