Billy Harris Mariama Changamire ENC 1102 Project 3 Intermediate Draft 20 April 2017 Whether or whether not to legalize marijuana for medicinal purposes has been a topic debated in the United States for years. I believe it is time to legalize medical marijuana nationwide for use in medicine and there should also be less constricting policies on its research. The common stigma associated with Marijuana is that many believe it to be a gateway drug and a way to eventually ruin your life; well a UCLA study conducted by Donald P. Tashkin, M.D found no correlation between medical marijuana use and lung cancer. Believe it or not cannabis and hemp have been used in eastern medicine practices for thousands of years, being referenced by Chinese Emperor Shen Nung, who is considered to be the Father of Eastern Medicine. (ProCon.org) use of cannabis for purposes of healing predates recorded history. The earliest written reference is found in the 15th century BC Chinese Pharmacopeia, the (ProCon.org) Believe it or not, Marijuana, in its natural form, is one of the safest therapeutically active substances known and there has never been a recorded overdose. For centuries in the United States, marijuana was used for medicinal purposes and was a great pain reliever. That all ended abruptly in 1937, when the U.S. passed the first federal law against cannabis, despite the objections of the American Medical Association (AMA). Dr. William C. Woodward. So, why is this topic even important? Well, because Medical marijuana treatment could provide therapeutic benefits to over 687 million cases of ailments or diseases such as Syndrome in the United States; and the longer the United States waits to provide patients with the proper medicine they need, the longer they and even more will suffer. Multiple studies have found that marijuana holds sufficient medicinal properties that can be vital in treating certain ailments such as Syndrome and Glaucoma. Cannabis is a fundamental treatment for thousands of patients nationwide who are suffering from any of dozens of different ailments. Syndrome, which is a disorder of the central nervous system that affects movement, often creating very uncomfortable tremors of the body. These tremors, or episodes can last several minutes and can be very uncomfortable, oftentimes they even can result in self-harm. Cannabis is a vital use of medicine that has been studied and shows evidence that states it can improve the symptoms of Syndrome. The quicker cannabis is legalized and medically prescribed, less and less people will have to suffer. One of the frontrunners in the fight to legalize medical marijuana is The Americans for Safe Access (ASA). According to their website, mission of Americans for Safe Access is to ensure safe and legal access to Cannabis (Marijuana) for therapeutic use and (ASA.org). One of the main sources, the Institute of Medicine, stated back in 1990 that cannabis is a safe and effective medicine, patients should have access, and the government should expand avenues for research and drug Another great pro of legalizing marijuana for its medicinal purposes would be the immense boost of economy. Through the legalization of Marijuana $8.7 billion dollars would be generated by state and federal tax per year (procon.org). The first year that marijuana was legalized in Colorado weed created 18,005 full-time jobs and added about $2.4 billion to the (thinkprogress.org) According to Business Insider, is the sixth largest economy, only outpaced by the US (as a whole), China, Japan, Germany, and the UK. The Golden economic output for 2015 came in at $2.46 In 2018, looking at an additional $1.5 billion flooding into the marijuana market. That number swells to just shy of $3 billion in 2019, and nearly $4 billion by 2020, based on the latest report from New Frontier Data and ArcView Market (businessinsider). In a country that is heavily in debt, and in dire need of an economy boost, marijuana could be a vital resource that the government could easily openly supply while still maintaining certain regulations. Currently, Marijuana is legal for medicinal purposes in 28 states, but that number is rising higher every year, but only because more and more people are discovering the medicinal uses it processes. Anyone can help fight for the legalization of medical marijuana. Anything helps, such as spreading awareness and voting locally which are both great places to start. Certain organizations, such as the Americans for Safe Access and NORML, even offers membership clubs to which one can sign up for and receive monthly pamphlets with information about medical marijuana and what is recently happening in the fight to legalize it. Marijuana, in its natural form, is one of the safest therapeutically active substances known and there has never been a recorded overdose, so why does it have more strict regulations than alcohol, which is responsible for killing roughly 10,000 people in 2015 by car wrecks alone from driving under the influence. The use of marijuana in medicinal treatments could provide therapeutic benefits to over 687 million cases of ailments or diseases such as Syndrome in the United States; and the longer the United States waits to provide patients with the proper medicine they need, the longer they and even more will suffer. Multiple studies have found that marijuana holds sufficient medicinal properties that can be vital in treating certain ailments such as Syndrome and Glaucoma. These are just some of the many reasons it is time to legalize medical marijuana nationwide for use in medicine and there should also be less constricting policies on its research. Works Cited 28 Legal Medical Marijuana States and DC - Medical Marijuana -  Should marijuana be a medical option? N.p., n.d. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. Believe in  National Parkinson Foundation. N.p., n.d. Web. 14 Apr. 2017.  PharmaCyte Biotech, Inc. N.p., n.d. Web. 02 Feb. 2017. Drunk  III. N.p., n.d. Web. 20 Apr. 2017. Gilbert, Ben. California just legalized marijuana, and going to have a huge impact on the  Business Insider. Business Insider, 09 Nov. 2016. Web. 20 Apr. 2017. Historical Timeline - Medical Marijuana -  Should marijuana be a medical option? N.p.,n.d. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. How many people can get health benefits from Cannabis? Medical Marijuana  Medical Marijuana, Inc. (OTC: MJNA). N.p., 28 Feb. 2017. Web. 20 Apr. 2017. Pyke, Alan. $2.4 billion impact in Colorado is a lesson for 5 states considering  ThinkProgress. ThinkProgress, 28 Oct. 2016. Web. 20 Apr. 2017. RidewithLarry. Medical Marijuana and Part 3 of  YouTube. YouTube, 21 Nov. 2016. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. Scientific History of Medical  Americans for Safe Access. N.p., n.d. Web. 02 Feb. 2017. What the Science  Americans for Safe Access. N.p., n.d. Web. 02 Feb. 2017.