Al-Rawahi 1 Muatasim Al-Rawahi Mark J Nusspickel Project 3 April 09, 2017 Banning Firearms in United States of America The second amendment gives Americans the right to own a firearm for self-defense rea- sons. But that was in a time where communication was limited, so was the police departments around the nation. But it is not the case anymore where with a click of a button or a phone call, police officer can be at your doorstep to provide the protection that you need. For the safety of Americans and for the sake of the innocent souls that have been lost because of guns, it the time to consider if this should be a law anymore? Due to increased amount of violence, increas- ing amount of mass shooting and other means of protection, firearms should led be banned. Taking into consideration that some people think that guns should be banned, however other people might not share the same point of view. Many believe that citizens whom are re- sponsible should have the right to arm themselves with guns against any situation that require them to, or recreation reasons such as hunting, or shooting on the target and most importantly the Second Amendment of the United States Constitution protects individual gun ownership. How does it feel when the headlines that you see are about mass shooting? Does it feel like owning a gun makes you feel safe anymore? Maybe once upon a time, but not everyone is going to use guns the way you are willing to use it, there are a lot of people that enjoy brining pain to others or even for hate reasons, and that is who we need to stop. At the end, looking at the facts banning guns will only benefit the American society in terms that there will be no gun crimes. Al-Rawahi 2 There is genuine misconception that fighting fire with fire seems to be the only way to deal with this problem, but that is not the case all the time because the problem is guns and not the fight itself. Because beside rape, there are different kind of violence that is associated with gun that women face, domestic violence is one of them especially, violence that is associated with gun. From all the inmate partner murder that happened, more than half of them involved guns. Arkadi Gerney and Chelsea Parsons states that to FBI data, between 2003 and 2012, 54.8 percent of women murdered in an intimate partner context were killed with a (10). Study has shown that guns are responsible for murder, robbery and aggravated assault that is happening around the country. According to nij.gov, collected by the FBI show that firearms were used in 68 percent of murders, 41 percent of robbery offenses and 21 percent of aggravated as- saults (Par. 1) other violence that is caused by gun is suicide, as it is also associated for the thousands of suicides that is happening in America every year. According to bradyc- ampaign.org, are 20,000 gun suicides in the U.S. every year, more than 50 every single having guns that is easy to access is bad, as it proves that it is one of the great gun violence causes in United States of America. Having guns to protect yourself as the solution is not the right answer because studies have shown that more people are dying for unjustifiable reasons than justifiable. According to ocrcc.org, study found that for every justifiable homicide with a gun, there are another 32 criminal homicides with a (Par. 3) That shows you that although guns can help you in some situation, the damage that is happening because of firearms has more cons than pros, and in if guns were illegal, the victims of justifiable homicide could have been injured and not dead if the accused person use lethal weapons. Not everyone is responsible with the firearms that they own, but many are. However, that does not mean that accidents do not occur, according to Al-Rawahi 3 bradycampaign.org day on average, 55 people kill themselves with a firearm, and 46 peo- ple are shot or killed in an accident with a (Par. 1) This shows us that accident do happen and it happens a lot even when people are being careful. Banning guns will prevent things like this to happen. It is unfortunate to see that mass shooting is on the top of the headline every now and then. A lot of events that occurred in the last five years could have been avoided if the suspects did not have the chance to access to any kind of firearms. It seems that shooters happen to have the same technique with every mass shooting, as the suspect goes into any place that is crowded with innocent people and starts firing their weapon. Here is few of the mass shooting that hap- pened in the last five years. Firstly, a guy walks into a movie theater in Colorado and starts open- ing fire to the people he sees in his way, killing and injuring more than 80 people. According to cnn.com Theater shooting in Aurora, Colorado Twelve people were killed and 70 in- (Par.1) Secondly, the case that happened inside the Charleston church, and what happened was a white guy walks into a black church and killed nine individuals including a senior pastor. Finally, one of the most tragic shooting that happened in United States history. A man walks into a gay nightclub in Orlando, killing more than 50 people with cold blood and 53 others were in- jured. According to nytimes.com an assault rifle and a pistol, and carried out the worst mass shooting in United States history, leaving 50 people dead and 53 (Par. 1) All these events have one thing in common, guns. An event like this is not going to stop as long as guns are available to anyone and everyone. An event like this is why firearms should be banned. Even though the second amendment states that Americans are allowed to own guns it does not Al-Rawahi 4 mean that we should not change the law, not because what it is doing every single day to Ameri- can citizen, but in the homer of all the innocent lives that left the house to have a good time with friends and family and ended up dead. Human beings have been trying to protect themselves from any kind of harm that they may face since the beginning of time. And the means of protection have been changing over time by the developing of the weapons itself. If you ask individuals who own guns of their reason to have one in their position, a lot of them will respond with protection, either to protect themselves if someone broke into their house or if something happened to them while they are in the streets. But there is other means of protection instead of firearms that not only will keep you save, but no one must die. People get very protective when it comes to their assets, and what is more valuable to protect than their house? Having a dog can help attack any intruder or alarm you when asleep for you to take an action, of course that is not the ultimate solution because not everybody wants to own a dog, instead they can put a security system. Nowadays, security companies are trying to do their best to be number one in the market, having a good security system will not only make you feel safe, but will automatically inform the police department to be at your house as soon as possible. Furthermore, you cannot react to every physical threat that you face in your life with bullets, adding to that you cannot carry a gun with you to most of the places that you go to, but there are a lot other convenient techniques that you can use instead of guns, something that is not lethal yet it keeps you out of way, such as paper spray, tactical pen, collapsible batons, stun gun or pocket knives. Although most of them are not as deadly as firearms, it is strong enough to keep criminals away from you without having to kill anyone. Looking at the situations that have been going on for the past 30 years it is clear that the violent rates associated with guns are increasing in a very scary way, people want to carry guns Al-Rawahi 5 for their own protection and rapes are usually associated with gun. You can clearly see why fire- arms should be banned in in the United States of America. Banning guns does not have to mean that Americans will have no access to guns at all in America. Instead, providing gun range where guns are available for people to use. Furthermore, available guns in hunting sights for people to rent and use only in the hunting areas. However, the ban should mean that no one is allowed to carry or own any kind of lethal weapons for any reasons and if was caught with one should be charged for breaking the law. For those who feel that they need to be protected for any kind of reason can look at the alternative solutions that can provide security and feel safe and it is strong enough to keep harm away from them but not leather enough to take life. Al-Rawahi 6 Work Cited 1980 Sexual Assault Statistics. Denver, CO: Denver Police Dept., 1983. Web. Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun  About Gun Violence Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence. N.p., n.d. Web. 18 Apr. 2017. Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun  The Truth About Suicide & Guns Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. Colorado Theater Shooting Fast  CNN. Cable News Network, 04 July 2016. Web. 18 Apr. 2017. Gerney, Arkadi, and Chelsea Parsons. Under the  Nature 495.7442 (2013): 409. Web. Guns & Rape Prevention: A Dangerous  Orange County Rape Crisis Center. N.p., n.d. Web. 08 Apr. 2017. Gun  National Institute of Justice. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. Lizette Alvarez and Richard. Orlando Gunman Attacks Gay Nightclub, Leaving 50  The New York Times. The New York Times, 12 June 2016. Web. 18 Apr. 2017.