Hebert 1 Raina Hebert Professor Mariama M. Changamire ENC 1102 Sec. 105 April 20, 2017 Teaching Adolescents Sex Education In the beginning of the 1960s sex education was first introduced to U.S. schools. During this time a wave of controversy began on the topic of sex education throughout America. This was because parents were not comfortable with the idea of their child partaking in sexual activity. But, sex is a natural part of human nature so important to inform adolescents on sex education. Sex education is especially important for adolescents because an effective method for avoiding STDs and unwanted pregnancies. Some parents feel abstinence education is the best method for avoiding risks, but that is not always realistic. Hormones, biological influences, and teenagers need to rebel makes abstinence hard to effectively engrave in every mind. Sex education is important because you want to help form your mindset on sex in a mature developed manner. As a result of sex education, studies have shown that it does not encourage sexual intercourse, but instead it reduces frequency of intercourse. This is beneficial for parents to note because common misconceptions tend to make parents feel uncomfortable to bring up the topic of sex education around their children, therefore harming their intelligence on the topic. The goal of sex education is to help young people build a foundation as they mature into sexually healthy adults and to provide accurate information and insight on Hebert 2 human sexuality. Parents should sit down and have a talk with their adolescents to teach the importance of sex education regardless if they know their child is having sex or not. Sex education is very important for adolescents because it contains information on human sexuality, including risk-reduction strategies and this helps young people take the necessary steps to protect their health. Sex education should be performed to assist an individual into making healthy decisions to adopt healthy sexual behaviors. Sex education is very effective and research has shown who received comprehensive sex education were 50 percent less likely to experience This is very important because parents want their children to live their childhood and not to fall victim to unwanted pregnancy. Adolescents have a right to be taught sexual health information for their protection and knowledge and parents should support this. When parents support informing their children on sex education information the child feels more comfortable to open up and achieve information. Although sex education a contentious issue fuelling much controversial this is mostly due to the fact parents are reluctant to teach their child about sex education. This could be because parents feel comfortable with the topic, but in actuality an about sexual matters depends on how parents are at discussing sex This means parents should strive to make their children feel comfortable enough to talk about sex education without judgement and unnecessary opinions. Abstinence only education includes the social, psychological, and health gains to be realized by abstaining from sexual (advocatesforyouth.org) Abstinence education is often sought after by many parents, and seen as the most effective way to avoid negative risks Hebert 3 from sex. There is a common misconception abstinence education will stop their teens from having sex. In fact, this is not true because states have evaluated the impact of their abstinence-only-until-marriage programs. None has been shown to reduce teen sexual (advocatesforyouth.org). Teaching abstinence education is ineffective in changing any of the behaviors that were examined including the rate of vaginal sex, number of sexual partners, and condom (advocatesfroyouth.org). This research shows more important to educate your child on the risks of sex rather than telling them to abstain from sex completely. Parents want to ignore the fact that naturally and sexual interest are observable in children, the reorganization of the hormonal, anatomic, and neuropsychological substrates of sex during early adolescence is This shows that natural feelings adolescents feel are uncontrollable, important to realize this to educate your child successfully without questioning or assuming their sexual actions. Parents should approach their child in an accepting and open minded way, this way they will be more accepting of the information rather than just telling them to stop having sex at all. Parents need to talk to their child and inform them on the importance of sex education. It is crucial to teach children the facts about their bodies, sex, and relationships. Children want to feel comfortable enough to talk to their parents when sex education is brought up. Parents are one of the most important influences on a decisions about sex and relationships (healthfinder.org). important to stay away from using phrases like you having or do you and your girlfriend or boyfriend These phrases cause children to tense up and they are more reluctant to listen to what the parent says. The children will feel like their parents are accusing them and will just tell them not to have sex at all. Parents need to allow their child Hebert 4 to have free expression without them feeling like they will be in trouble if they ask a question or ask for advice in a situation. Instead, parents should talk to their child about sex education, what sex education is, how sex education works, and ensure them they are available if they need guidance. You can easily gather that information from research from sex organizations, or talking to a professional guidance counselor. It is especially important for children to hear this information from their parents. It is also important to talking to children openly and listening carefully to what they have to say, and not dismissing their opinions is very important. It has been shown that who talk with their parents about sex are more likely to put off having sex until they are (healthfinder.org) which shows that a child will wait until they are more mature to take on the responsibilities of sex. important for parents to talk to their children about sex education giving them effective imformation on how to deal with it in a healthy way. When parents sit down and talk to their child it makes them feel like they actively make decisions that are likely to support their sexual health and (Abbott). Sitting down and talking with children is very comfortable with them when you allow them to be honest. Learning to refrain from accusations and unnecessary comments is very important to get them to open up to you. If parents feel comfortable enough to sit with their child they can always ask the school if they provide sex education classes. Talk to the school board and ask if they have any sex educators available. important that not only your child is receiving the sex education they need, but their peers are too. Look to organizations like the Advocates for Youth and SIECUS for more professional information and search how you can get involved. It is important that parents take action and Hebert 5 find ways to have a talk with their children or find organizations to help them teach their children proper ways of the healthy sexual education. Works Cited N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Mar. 2017. Christopher Donoghue, Consuelo Bonillas, Jeniffer Moreno, Omara Cardoza, Melissa Cheung. (2017) Young perceptions of advice about sexual risk taking. Education 17:1, pages 73-85. Fortenberry, J. Dennis. Puberty and Adolescent  and U.S. National Library of Medicine, July 2013. Web. 20 Apr. 2017. Keeley Abbott, Sonja J. Ellis, Rachel Abbott. (2016) got a lack of family an examination of how teachers formulate and justify their approach to teaching sex and relationships education. 16:6, pages 678-691. Sex  N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Mar. 2017.