Al Oraimi 1 Safa Al Oraimi ENC 1101 Mark J Nusspickel 30 April 2017 Word count (1000 without the outline) Environment sustainability and business succeed I. Introduction Nowadays, the idea of using environment sustainability has taken a wider range by most companies. Sustainability is one of way that helps business to development and country development. There are many people like the idea of using environmental sustainability but some people are rejecting this idea. Thus, the advantages of start include environment sustainability are Increase productivity and reduce costs, recycling and make the place healthy. However, there are many reasons for people reject such as they see it is hared to change, they think it not make any different and people thought will get less economically. In order to become more profitable and sake the environment more companies should take part in environment sustainably practices. II. Counterargument: There are many reasons why business does not invest in sustainability include the following some of them are The presence of too many metrics that are used to measure sustainability which are too confusing, this makes it harder to even tackle them up (Willared 2012). This also makes sustainability so hard to measure as they often affect people and the society at large at the macro level and their Al Oraimi 2 organizational implications as we see are unclear hence firms choose not to use it. Also, another factor is that government has several tools at their disposal such as taxes, regulations, and markets which at the end we see encourages; business to make sure that it steward environmental resources. This are not well applied hence moves on and makes the owners of an organization not to follow sustainability. Owners also do not encourage sustainability because it does not fit neatly into the business case; this is because the current decision making in the financial sector does not fully capture the value of sustainability-related investments in the community or even business (Pamela Laughland 2011).Owners of business do not accept sustainability because the managers whom they employ have problems in management and decision making and at the end; we see that a lot of companies have difficulty in discriminating between the most important opportunities and threats on the horizon which they face III Subtopic1: It offers transportation alternatives, especially around the given neighborhood. you still think bikes are for kids or competitive young people in tight pants. But adults are increasingly enjoying this childhood taste of freedom. Safe places to ride increase bicycling. And bike facilities increase your cool factor for attracting young 2012). IIV Subtopic 2: Helps in neighborhood solar, energy conservation as scale energy projects now are seeing to become more feasible. IIIV Subtopic 3: Starting off a community garden. Conclusion: Al Oraimi 3 1- Summary of the reason why people against using Environment sustainability and other reject this idea, and the benefits of using sustainability. Al Oraimi 4 Business sustainability is the process through which firms manage their financial, social and even environmental risks, obligations and opportunities. This moves on and encounters accounting for environmental and social impacts of the given business (Pamela Laughland 2011). Owners see that sustainable business go on and create economic value, healthy ecosystems and even strong relationship within communities in which they lie. Although firms, which do not invest in sustainability, are no worse off financially than that invests owners see this is the reason why owner business do not use environmental sustainability. They do this because their employees, customers and even investors are happier and more committed when they are not investing there. In order to become more profitable and help sustain the environment, more companies should take part in sustainability practices. Some of the reasons why businesses do not invest in sustainability include the presence of too many metrics that are used to measure sustainability which are too confusing, this makes it harder to even tackle them up (Willard, 2012). This also makes sustainability difficult to measure as they often affect people and the society at large at the macro level and their organizational implications as we see are unclear hence firms choose not to use it. Also, another factor is that government has several tools at their disposal such as taxes, regulations, and markets which at the end we see encourages; business to make sure that it steward environmental resources. This are not well applied hence moves on and makes the owners of an organization not to follow sustainability. Owners also do not encourage sustainability because it does not fit neatly into the business case; this is because the current decision making in the financial sector does not fully capture the value of sustainability-related investments in the community or even Al Oraimi 5 business (Ralph 2014). Owners of business do not accept sustainability because the managers whom they employ have problems in management and decision making and at the end; we see that a lot of companies have difficulty in discriminating between the most important opportunities and threats on the horizon which they face. The other reason why business owners do not advocate for sustainability is that the there is no common set of rules for sourcing up sustainability in the business sector and even the community in general. Although businesses owners may have their own for not apply environmental sustainability ultimately they are ignoring the countless associate benefits. Business owners do not use sustainability it has some benefits to the business and the public in general. One of the benefits is that it offers transportation alternatives, especially around the given neighborhood. This is done through developing a community by making it walkable at the end. This at the end results in cost minimizing the damage, which can be caused by cars, and advised to use a public transit system in making sure that they manage environmental sustainability. This is done through making sure to increase ridership, cleanliness, relativity and even convenience of buses or even cars service that is very helpful (Fischler 2013). Fischler explains that if companies apply environmental sustainability people get a lot of benefits for health and environment. Another benefit for using environment sustainability is that it helps in neighborhood solar, energy conservation as scale energy projects now are seeing to become more feasible. This is more applicable in areas where state laws are favorable. Owners need to ask for a smart grid so that we can generate electricity and sell it back to the utility but even while doing that a few communities might want to go for the big project. In this, there is a wealth of information available. Environmental sustainability Al Oraimi 6 has gone to the extent of helping people to come up with new means of generating power such as the use of biogas and many other things. This has led in improving the living standards of the general society and at the end the economy of the state in general is being raised up. Also, new means of energy conversation has being put in place during this process. In addition, the best example of companies that use solar energy is Walmart. The goal of using solar energy is to help customers to save money also to save the environment(Stacey 2013). Stacey encourages companies to use environmental sustainability in their work because it has many advantages. Starting off a community garden is also another benefit of environmental sustainability. This is because of the negative impact of transportation on the environmental sustainability as many people are getting on the bandwagon about the presence of food which is locally grown. The presence of the local food movement is a small but worthy contribution which uses less energy and is environmental sustainability. We again see that from environmental and security standpoints, this is quite important for communities to even start considering how they could provide more food locally. Again people see that the implications of deciding to start a community garden which is decorative, entertaining, building the community and it is also practical in the real sense (Miller 2017). This is because people know the source of food grown and if you go to the extent and start suffering from community poverty this benefit is great environmental sustainability activity. In conclusion, owners business should use environmental sustainability because it is important and helps in many parts of the world. People have come to the extent of seeing that environmental sustainability is important in the transport sector. This is Al Oraimi 7 because it reduces pollution and congestion as people re advised to use public means of transport. This has also given the way forward for new energy alternatives which have been able to help the community. Finally, through environmental sustainability, we have the creation of community gardens which helps in educating people on the important of food which is of high importance in the health of health of human being. Al Oraimi 8 Works Cited Bansal, Pamela Laughland & Tima. The Top Ten Reasons Why Businesses More Sustainable by Pamela Laughland & Tima Bansal on  IBooks. Publisher: Richard Ivey School of Business Foundation, 01 Jan. 2011. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Fischler, Franz editor, editor Schmidpeter, and Christina editor Weidinger. Sustainable Entrepreneurship : Business Success through Sustainability. Heidelberg: Springer, 2013. Print. Miller, Kathy. Success for the Long Run: Sustainable Companies Are the  Environmental Leader. N.p., 30 July 2012. Web. 02 Apr. 2017. Ralph, Meredith, and Wendy Stubbs. Integrating Environmental Sustainability into  Higher Education 67.1 (2014): 71-90. Print. Stacey, Eric G, Jane Turville, Regina Hauser, and Karl-Henrik A Passion for Sustainability. Gresham, OR: Landfall Productions Inc, 2013. Willard, Bob. The new sustainability advantage: seven business case benefits of a triple bottom line. Gabriola Island, B.C. New Society Publishers, 2012. Print.