Maycock 1 Natale Maycock Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 30 April 2017 Rethink the Penny In this day and age, saving pennies and cutting back seems to be every favorite hobby; some even seem to be professionals. Those same pennies that they seem to be grabbing at, are the same things that are silently putting us in an economical whirl wind. Everyday, the US mints pennies that are worth one cent, for 1.7 cents (Ingraham). This means that the US penny is operating on a 70% deficit. Considering that The United States Reserve mints on average, 1,040 pennies a minute, which equates to 30 million pennies a day, making the penny responsible for 2/3 of all the coins produced in the United States, according to Laura Bruce of Brankrate. There have been propositions to look at the materials that go into the penny, and adjust it to fix our current economic needs; there have also been propositions to eliminate the penny entirely from circulation. The current method of production used for the American penny should be altered because it negatively affects every person utilizing the current system, as well as the economy, and the copper sales market. The composition of the penny has been changed many times in our American history, but currently a penny produced today, contains 97.6 percent zinc and only 2.4 percent copper, according to the US Treasury Department. Copper, the outermost layer of the coin, is not only the least represented, but also the most expensive. According to data collected by NASDAQ, the pricing trend of copper has been on a steady rise in the past two years. This rise in cost of copper may be the reasoning behind the deficit in the cost of production of the coin. But there have been Maycock 2 calls for the main component of the penny, copper, to be replaced. Robert Pike, a professor at The College of William and Mary, has proposed materials such as entirely steel or zinc coins, he has even extended to non-metallic materials such as ceramics and plastics as a core to be cover by a thin metal plating (Wolchover). Switching over to a material such as steel would drastically reduce the price of production of the penny, switching to a material that can be manufactured in large batches, such as ceramics and military grade plastics could lower the cost even further. One aspect of a system with new materials that is constantly over looked is the operation of machines that rely on the weight of coins to register their value. Machines such as soda machines, and snack vending machines that weigh the coin upon entry would have to have their hardware changed, or their systems re-calibrated to accept the new coin (Wolchover) It is then further proposed by Dr. Pike that pennies and nickels literally become loose change if they contain metals or ceramics with lower densities than zinc they might not register in Even though there have been calls to action by President Barrack Obama in his 2012 budget, which outlined plans to investigate new penny and nickel production methods; there have been other calls to action, by people that are willing to take more aggressive action. Citizens to Retire the U.S. Penny is an organization that wants to educate Americans on the benefits of taking the penny out of circulation by presenting them with the fact of the penny. Facts like the cost deficits caused by the production of pennies is enough to help the federal budget with as much as $100 million. As well as the long list of countries that have done away with their smallest denomination of currency; the closest example being our northern Canadian neighbors who have done away with their penny within the last 2 years because of the production deficit it caused their federal budget (Mint). Since their smallest denomination is now the nickel, Maycock 3 they have adopted a rounding system for cash transaction, while leaving their credit and debit transaction unaffected. Members of Citizens to Retire the US Penny are bypassing a change in production, and looking straight to an elimination system like this. On their website, they provide anyone a template letter to be sent to local, state, and federal policy makers, encouraging them to support the elimination of the penny. In the letter, they recall past instances of the United States eliminating coins that no longer held their value. The driving force behind the message is the fact that over 30 years ago, the Unites States military ceased the use of pennies in their overseas bases, stating, the military deemed the coins too heavy and not cost-effective to ship, the same logic could be used in the (Gore) Phasing out the penny like other countries have done as easy as it sounds. Eliminating the smallest currency comes with its own ups and downs, literally. Canada had to universally adopt a rounding system put forth by its Treasury Department. The system states that firstly, transaction being tendered in debit or credit cards would be unaffected by the rounding system, it next states that totals equating to $1.01 or $1.02 and $1.06 or $1.07 would be rounded down to $1.00 and $1.05 respectively; while $1.03 or $1.04 and $1.08 or $1.09 would round up respectively to $1.05 and $1.10 (Mint). Looking at the system, the rounding could affect budgets either negatively or positively. In hindsight, when looking at the evidence, one should come to the conclusion that something needs to be done with the current penny system here in The United States. There is not a way that the country should continue operating with the penny at such a high rate of inflation. The call for a penny reform is now, whether it be from the views of those like Dr. Robert Pike and President Obama who desire for the penny to be re-engineered with different materials while keeping its American heritage; or it be from the views of those associated with Maycock 4 Citizens to Retire the American Penny, who want for the penny to be taken out of circulation and a rounding system be utilized. The United States would have a better chance of operating more effectively once our penny problem is resolved. (WC: 1310) Maycock 5 Work Cited Ingraham, Christopher. It Cost 1.7 Cents to Make a Penny This Year, and 8 Cents to Make a  The Washington Post. WP Company, 15 Dec. 2014. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Bruce, Laura. Penny  Bankrate.com. N.p., 17 June 2003. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Latest Copper Price &  NASDAQ.com. N.p., 2017. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.  U.S. Department of the Treasury. N.p., 4 Jan. 2011. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Wolchover, Natalie. How to Make the Penny Worth 1 Cent  Live Science. N.p., 16 Feb. 2012. Web. 26 Mar. 2017. Phasing Out the  Phasing out the Penny. Royal Canadian Mint, n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Gore, Jeff. Take Action  Citizens to Retire the US Penny. N.p., Mar. 2004. Web. 1 May 2017