Turaniczo 1 Elisha Turaniczo Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 28 May 2017 Raising Awareness and Ending Eating Disorders The issue that comes with young women seeing a lot of advertisements for their favorite companies showing models that have been photoshopped to look like what society labels as and These companies also sell product that has derogatory things on them that itemize women that buy the product. Men that have a young woman in their lives that they care for yes, that means fathers and older brothers take a stand against the use of such things and raise awareness with protests. Something needs to be done to save the young women of America from the jaws of the advertisement companies breaking down their self-esteem and leading them to have eating disorders. Action needs to be taken on such matters to bring a change that can help not only the girls of this world, but make the lives of the ones they love easier as well. There is a problem that has been around for far too long, the girls of America are in danger of suffering from low self-esteem and dealing with eating disorders, so fathers, brothers, and boyfriends to take action to help that special girl in their lives less susceptible to the harmful grasp of multimedia morphing their brains to see unreal things as Think about it-some of the photoshopping has been so botched that it is noticeable to even the non-detail oriented people. For example, Secret released a promotional image of two of their models back in August of 2016, there were viewers that pointed out the photoshop fail. (Refinery29) Keep in mind that if a little girl was to look at the same image she would not look at it and see anything wrong, to her the model just looks thin. It is quite simple when to Turaniczo 2 think about it not only would getting rid of photoshopping keep companies from getting negative attention because of poor photoshop editing, but they could also save the lives and self- esteems of thousands of girls nationwide. Young girls are growing up today with so many different things that have an impact on how they look at ourselves. There is an image of what or is meant to be. Seeing all the beautiful Secret models looking so tall, skinny, and having perfect tans and completely flawless skin makes a girl think that that is what she needs to look like to be perfect. There have been many studies done that result in statistics of young girls that are affected by eating disorders. A research study had been taken and the results came out that to fifty-seven percent of adolescent girls engage in crash dieting, fasting, self-induced vomiting, diet pills, or use of to lose weight. Another study found that American elementary school girls who read magazines, sixty-nine percent say that pictures influence their concept of ideal body shape. Forty-seven percent say that the pictures make them want to lose (Martin, 2010). With it is pretty clear that images within magazines with unrealistic bodies on women has an effect on girls of all ages, even as young as elementary school. So, as fathers, older brothers, and boyfriends of girls growing up today with different things that have an impact on your life like social media, advertisements and simply a visit to the mall, are you really going to just sit back and watch them destroy themselves to become what they think is perfect and beautiful? Men need to stand up for that special girl that is in their lives, whether it be daughter, sister, or girlfriend. It can start as simply as starting a petition to rid the advertising world of photoshop permanently to show young girls all over America that even models have flaws and they as perfect as all the photoshopping has made them seem. Raise awareness for girls around the world that they are beautiful and perfect Turaniczo 3 in their own ways, join the alliance of #aerieREAL, take your daughter to shop at American Eagle instead of Secret, they support feeling beautiful naturally. Aerie has partnered up with the National Eating Disorder Association (NEDA) to promote body positivity and bring an end to eating disorders. There are many different kinds of events and online sources that offer opportunities for donations to help the people who are in treatment centers, and hotlines for those who do not know what to do to help themselves. (Alliance for Eating Disorders) There are many other things that a person can do to raise awareness about eating disorders, but to raise awareness one must first be knowledgeable about the topic. One of the main things to keep in mind is that can lead to prevention and early diagnosis and There are many types of eating disorders but the main ones that most people suffer from are anorexia, which is when the person suffering just stops eating and starves themselves. The second common disorder is bulimia, which is when someone participates in self-induced vomiting. The final common eating disorder is binge-eating, which is the opposite of the other two, people lose control of their eating and become obese which brings upon other medical conditions that could end up being fatal to their health. There are many things to learn about eating disorders, one last thing that is worthy of mentioning is that eating disorders usually coexist with other conditions. Some of the other conditions that eating disorders come with are issues with disorders, substance abuse, or That is important to know because not only is a victim of an eating disorder suffering from the disorder, but they are dealing with deeper issues that can become more of a danger over time. There are many simple ways to become involved in different campaigns to work to raise body positivity and lower the risks of eating disorders. There are little things that can be done, like simply giving the reminder that the daughter, sister, or girlfriend is beautiful, or by taking Turaniczo 4 them shopping places that do not use photo shop on the models that show off their product. There are hundreds of campaigns that have been created to help raise awareness of body positivity. Every girl all around the world deserves to feel beautiful and perfect in their own skin. Fathers, brothers, and boyfriends, stand up for the girls of America. It does not have to start big, it simply starts right at home, make that special girl in feel good about herself. If she is suffering from self-confidence issues, or from an eating disorder, help her in any way. The start to a new era begins with the men, start with a protest that fights the idea of photoshopping to make the models look good, by not supporting the companies that use photo shop to edit their models. Companies such as Aerie that do not photo shop their models helps not only the major companies realize that something needs to change, but also helps young girls realize that they can be beautiful in the way that they are. Turaniczo 5 Work Cited Eating Disorder Education and  Eating Disorder Hope. EatingDisorderHope.com, Hope for an Eating Disorder, 29 June 2012. Web. 28 May 2017. Hickson, Ally, Fashion Stores Secret, and Photo: John Parra/WireImage. Another Alleged Photoshop Fail In A Secret  Victorias Secret Photo Alleged Photoshop Fail. N.p., 07 Aug. 2016. Web. 28 Apr. 2017. Individuals The Be Real  Be Real The Campaign for Body Confidence. Dove, n.d. Web. 28 Apr. 2017. Learn More About NEDA Walks Across the  National Eating Disorders Association. Rosewood, Center for Discovery, McCallum Place, Eating Recovery Center, n.d. Web. 28 Apr. 2017. Ways To  The Alliance for Eating Disorder Awareness. Oliver-Pyatt Centers, Veritas Collaborative, Centers for Discovery, The Renfrew Center, 2013. Web. 28 May 2017.