Student 1 Student Dr. Jamie Thornton ENC 1102 30 April 2017 Homelessness: A Call to Action Many people in the world live day-to-day, fortunate enough to have electronics, food and many resources. Is it likely that these individuals think about the homeless every day? Despite how many people have the advantage of living privileged with resources, the issue of homelessness is a serious issue and it was estimated that 100 million people were homeless, as of 2005 Homelessness Although there may be several issues concerning homelessness, one of the most important that needs to be confronted is the treatment and care for homeless individuals (Barker 1). Treatment for the homeless is prevalent, but more individuals should become more involved because there are many homeless people that remain without care or services National Alliance to End ). Homelessness should be reduced through the use of services for the homeless because it will ensure their wellbeing, reduce homelessness worldwide, and give the homeless care that they cannot provide for themselves. Homelessness has been prevalent around the world for many centuries, and has been an issue for as long as it has been around. In the 1640s, homelessness was even seen as a or character flaw, in the United States (Fischer 1). Despite this concerning historical fact, homelessness has become more complex due to differing reasons regarding why and how people become homeless. Homelessness and treatment for the homeless has been an issue for a long time, and is still a public concern up to now (Barker 1). The accumulation of the number of Student 2 homeless people is becoming more prevalent in the world, especially the United States, and that is why services for the homeless need to be acted upon (Fischer 2). Despite how popular services and volunteering are towards the issue of homelessness, many believe that homelessness should be reduced through the use of government law changes. The Tampa Hillsborough Homeless Initiative supports this view because they believe that it helps the homeless from a larger level, resulting in more effectiveness Hillsborough Homeless This is not true because services are better and more effective towards treating homelessness due to the fact that it helps the homeless on a smaller, more personal level Homeless Services in Los ). Services for the homeless need to be more prevalent for several reasons. Giving and volunteering services for the homeless help to overall reduce the number of homeless people in the United States, as well as the world. The services will, in return, take homeless individuals off the streets, and will help care for them and ensure their wellbeing (Brown 5). As well as reducing the number of homeless people living in the world, providing services for them is important because many of them are unable to care for themselves. Homeless people are often stuck in the situation of being homeless, which is difficult for them to provide and care for themselves. Surveys have shown that 74% of homeless people live off of $2 a day, therefore are unable to attain many life necessities Homelessness Also, providing care and services for the homeless help give them a push to be able to provide and take care of themselves on their own. According to Service Integration to Reduce Homelessness in Los Angeles County: Multiple Stakeholder , services for the homeless in Los Angeles County has helped half of the homeless community to go out and work to provide for themselves (Guerrero, et al. 45). Student 3 Homelessness has affected many people worldwide, specifically those in a public service announcement, by RaisingtheRoofCanada, where homeless people read harsh tweets targeted towards the homeless. An individual who was greatly impacted by homelessness was a man named Kubby, who was homeless for 47 years. In the video, he read a tweet that said that homeless people should so people would want to help them; this affected him greatly, making him shed several tears people read mean Many homeless people would be able to relate to Kubby and would want people to care for them, just like he would. This also shows how much people, who are not homeless, have the ability to affect the lives of the homeless and how much of an impact they have. Instead of hurting the homeless with harsh words, people need to care for the homeless and provide services in order to help them onto their feet and off the streets National Alliance to End ). There are many ways for people to join the fight to reduce homelessness through volunteering and providing services for the homeless. Through the Weingart Center, people can aid the homeless by providing help with services and programs, such as volunteering in health centers and developmental programs Homeless Services in Los ). By volunteering and assisting the homeless directly, those helping contribute to the local cause of homelessness, as well as the national and global level of homelessness. Any act of helping towards the issue is important because it cannot be done by only one more people who can help, the better the issue will be resolved. If one is not able to get involved with the Weingart Center, there are many non-profit organizations that help towards caring for the homeless (Barker 1). Homelessness is a serious issue that is evident throughout the world and the United States. Services and care need to be provided for the homeless for several reasons. Services and care should be acted upon to overall reduce the number of homeless people in the world, help Student 4 ensure their wellbeing, and provide care for homeless people who are unable to care for themselves. Although there are people out in the world that already care and provide services for the homeless, homelessness still remains evident and serious. By getting involved through services and care, the issue can be focused on greatly and homelessness can help to be reduced worldwide. (WC: 1,203) Despite how popular services and volunteering are towards the issue of homelessness, many believe that homelessness should be reduced through the use of government law changes. The Tampa Hillsborough Homeless Initiative supports this view because they believe that homelessness should be reduced this way, for it helps from a larger level Hillsborough Homeless This is not true because services are better and more effective for the homeless due to the fact that it helps them on a smaller, more personal level Homeless Services in Los Angeles is a serious issue that is evident throughout the world and the United States. Services and care need to be provided for the homeless for several reasons. Services and care should be acted upon help to overall reduce the number of homeless people in the world, help care for them and their livelihood and ensure their wellbeing, and provide care for homeless people who are unable to care for themselves. Although there are people out in the world that already care and provide services for the homeless, homelessness still remains evident and serious. By getting involved through services and care, the issue can be focused on greatly and homeless can help to be reduced worldwide. Student 5 Works Cited Barker, Lesley. Why Is Homelessness a  People of Our Everyday Life. Our Everyday Life, 04 Apr. 2017. Web. 25 Apr. 2017. Brown, Molly. Opening More Doors to End Homelessness Through a Shared Housing  Psychiatric Services 67.10 (2016): 1161. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Fischer, Robert. The History of Homelessness in America 1640s to  Downtown Congregations to End Homelessness. N.p., 17 Mar. 2014. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Global Homelessness  Homeless World Cup. N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Mar. 2017. Guerrero, Erick G., et al. Service Integration to Reduce Homelessness in Los Angeles County: Multiple Stakeholder  Human Service Organizations Management, Leadership & Governance 38.1 (2014): 44-54. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Health Care and Homelessness: Foundation  Health Affairs 35.3 (2016): 544-45. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. people read mean RaisingtheRoofCanada. YouTube. YouTube, 16 Mar. 2015. Web. 02 Apr. 2017. <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0BXxxfc4aYc>. Homeless Services in Los  Weingart Center for the Homeless. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. National Alliance to End  National Alliance to End Homelessness. N.p., n.d. Web. 02 Apr. 2017. Hillsborough Homeless THHI. N.p., 2017. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <http://thhi.org/>.