Joseph 1 Torhi Joseph Drugan Sensei ENC 1102. 085 17 April 2017 Project 3 Intermediate Draft Calmer Days The flaw of the human design is that most important organ, the brain, is its most fragile. The fragility is due to its susceptibility to damage from not only physical impact, but to damage from chemical imbalances as well. While both types of damage are debilitating, the damage due to chemical imbalances is particularly dangerous, as changes occurring go largely undetected. These imbalances arise through a variety of reasons, one of which is due to an inability to properly deal with stress. Stress is an inevitable part of life that, when perceived by the brain, provides a guide to an actions. Some may use stress positively, to help them perform better, while others crumble when faced with it Others use drugs to deal with stress, and this alters their brain chemistry in an unnatural and unsustainable fashion. College students are amongst the most stressed group of individuals, as they have different sources of stress, including homework, homesickness, and a lack of funds (Reifman). Unfortunately, because of a lack of education on stress management, students choose to relieve stress through partying and substance abuse. This can be effective for a moment, but leads to longstanding problems. By participating in a daily meditation regimen, college students will be able to alleviate their stresses and anxieties, and this will culminate in them being more focused and successful in school and in future careers. Joseph 2 Stress is difficult to define as it is a broad feature of life that can guide an individual in both a positive and negative manner. Most college students feel stressed when faced with an exam, and this encourages them to study so that they can perform well, and get a good grade. This is a form of positive stress called eustress, and it is healthy for an individual, as it enables them to optimize their performance On the other hand, another student may feel so stressed about the same exam that they freeze when taking it, and are struck by a complete inability to perform, even having prepared for the exam. This is a form of stress known as distress, and occurs when an individual is incapable of managing their stress Being unable to manage stress is a scary thought as it leads to a series of problems that may seem insurmountable. According to The American Institute of Stress, stress mismanagement can lead to fatigue, feeling nervous, irritability and anger, and these lead to an overall disruption of the immune system. The website further states that the most common causes of stress are being overworked, financial instability, and poor health While these statistics were obtained from studies on an older, working group, they can also be used to explain why college students are a highly-stressed group as well. College students find themselves in a situation where the stress they are under is heightened by the fact that they are in an important transitory period. Firstly, some students travel miles away from the comfort of their home, and for many, this is a daunting experience. With this comes the pressures of having to create new relationships, and the worries of being accepted into new social circles. Being on their own also means that college students must begin making their own decisions, and because of this, they are faced with a constant revision of their career path. This is due to the nature of the college experience, where students begin to explore new interests. They must then go through the stressful process of choosing new careers that Joseph 3 satisfy the expectations they set for themselves, and that match the expectations of their families. In an article exploring stress among college students, Social Psychology professor Alan Reifman reports that incoming college students show levels of poor emotional (Reifman). The higher workload of college is the principle reason why emotional health is so low. The article further states that students who have jobs are even more stressed than the average student, as they have to balance finances with performing well in school. The result of this is presented by a study conducted by the University of Houston, where it was found that percent of the college students with mental-health issues drop (Shelton). Having understood the different types of stress and why college students are among the most stressed groups, it is important to explore the different means of alleviating stress. This is important because being able to manage stress is vital to being able to use that stress in optimizing performance in school and in future careers. The most popular means of stress relief, especially among college students, is partying, and partying in college is often paired with the consumption of alcohol and other drugs. This means of relieving stress has been popularized widely by many movies which depict college-aged students engaging in wild binges of partying and alcohol consumption, all in a bid to tell a fascinating and humorous story. In fact, partying has become so engrained in college culture, that articles have been published ranking schools on how frequent and exciting the partying is. Kassidi Andres, the author of an article describing the benefits of partying while in school, lists reasons such as being able to make new friends, feeling free, and creating stories with friends (Andres). These benefits would sound appealing to any young college student, especially as they are among the main reasons college students feel stressed in the first place. The problem, however, is that the author does not consider the cost of Joseph 4 partying, and she assumes the partying would be a sufficient form of stress relief for all personality types. Instead of partying, college students should adopt a daily meditation regimen rather than partake in alcohol abuse, as it is cheaper and easier to accomplish. Meditation can be described as a period of thoughtful thoughtlessness. It is a period where an individual sits still for a period of time, completely immersed in their surroundings, and completely non-judgmental of any thoughts that flow through their mind. Many of the benefits explained in Kassidi article can be obtained through meditation, but without the pitfalls of consuming alcohol. Alcohol use has been shown to destroy an brain cells, whereas meditation has been shown in an MRI study conducted by Harvard University researchers to increase grey-matter density in the hippocampus, known to be important for learning and memory, and in structures associated with self-awareness, compassion, and (Walia). Meditation, similar to alcohol, can help put a mind at ease, but it does not deteriorate the brain like alcohol. Instead, it increases the part of the brain important for altruism and wellness. Another feature of meditation is that its benefits can be seen in both folks who are extroverted, and others who are introverted. This is important to note because people who have an introverted personality may feel more stressed by the prospects of going to a party, whereas they can participate in a meditative practice without having to interact with a large crowd of people. Dr. Amit Ray, a philosopher who has authored multiple books on yoga and meditation, said that you want to conquer the anxieties of life, live in the moment, live in the Meditation Many of the anxieties that folks suffer are due to the uncertainties of the future. By meditating regularly, one is able to focus on the immediate, and not feel threatened by the prospect of future failures. This is especially vital for college students, who are in a Joseph 5 stressful, transitory period of life, where the importance of being successful in school and in future careers overshadows everything, even their mental health. Fortunately, developing a daily meditation regimen is easily accomplished, as it can be done at almost any time of day, for any period of time. Furthermore, there are phone applications available that guide can guide a prospective meditator through the process of meditation. This makes meditating accomplishable any time a student has a phone and free time. Despite the stress placed on physical fitness, mental health is just as important. Every student should meditate if they want to achieve the mental stability necessary to perform well in school, and in their future careers. Joseph 6 Works Cited Andres, Kassidi. The Benefits to  Odyssey. Odyssey Media Group, 12 July 2016. Web. 11 Apr. 2017. Giovanni. 200 Meditation Quotes for Practice and Daily  Live and Dare. N.p., 30 May 2016. Web. 18 Apr. 2017. Reifman, Alan. Stress in College  Psychology Today. Sussex Publishers, 1 Oct. 2011. Web. 11 Apr. 2017. Shelton, Christopher. Sixty-four percent of college students with mental-health issues drop  The Daily Cougar. N.p., 18 Dec. 2012. Web. 18 Apr. 2017. Stress  The American Institute of Stress. N.p., 04 Jan. 2017. Web. 11 Apr. 2017. Walia, Arjun. Harvard Study Unveils What Meditation Literally Does to The  Collective Evolution. N.p., 19 Dec. 2014. Web. 11 Apr. 2017.