Alex Rhoads Drugan ENC 1102-085 18 April 2017 Project 3 Intermediate Draft Down With the Redskins Not many individuals are readily aware of the struggles that Native Americans face throughout their daily lives. Beginning at a young age, Native American children are susceptible to like poverty, drug abuse, alcoholism, domestic violence and even suicide (Culp- Ressler 3). These trends are crippling enough as it is, and the added pressure of discrimination from organizations like the Redskins offers no relief. Native Americans have been abused for far too long, now is the time to tackle the disrespect from organizations that use toxic names and logos. Some administrations have begun to curb the use of the racist representations but the Redskins have refused to comply with Native American requests. The general public needs to be educated and involved in what causes the pain that Native Americans endure, as well as influence the offending parties to make a transition. The Washington Redskins have been represented by an offensive term and logo for eighty years and Native Americans have been crippled by the effects for far too long. The racial slur had quite benign origins long before it was recognized as a derogatory and dehumanizing term (King 17). Years ago the term was not recognized as a racial slur, exposing the disregard for respect of Indians. Dating back to the Native Americans were a burdened group. At this point in time, the name was not under much scrutiny, due to the name supposedly honoring Native American coach William Dietz (Rasul 4). Native Americans have historically been unsupported in society. Young Indians experience the highest levels of negative impact overall. Unfortunately, because of constant neglect from many outlets young Native Americans reportedly experience post-traumatic stress disorder at virtually the exact rate as service members returning from the Iraq and Afghanistan wars. They are also twice as likely to perish before the age of twenty-four versus any other race (Culp-Ressler 2). One of the worst issues that Native Americans encounter is psychological impairments that stem from organizations like the Redskins that use harmful depictions. Extensive research has shown that there is a strong correlation between the teams and the rate of alcohol related deaths and suicide among Native Americans (Rasul 12). Adversely, the trends continue, psychologists pursued the history of Native American caricatures to the when there was a clear diversion of Indians and the rest of American society. Due to Native Americans being forbidden to leave their reservations, society ridiculed Native Americans without being penalized by any political or financial backlash (Rasul 13). The second-class citizen treatment is no longer acceptable and society needs to comply with that mindset. The final example of psychological issues is a direct result of prejudice against Native Americans which is invariable with the impression on the aforementioned oppressed groups, affirmed by Indians having the highest rates of suicide in the United States. As a matter of fact, the American Psychological Association has acknowledged this detriment towards Native Americans, and in 2005, supported the banning of all Native American mascots supporting sports teams (Rasul 14). This example sheds light on the issues but needs more support. Native Americans have struggled with these issues for far too long and the general public needs to be engaged in the issues. Surprisingly, a study conducted by the Washington Post exposes the Redskins downfall, a sixteen-question quiz uncovered that readers had difficulty deciphering between statements defending the confederate flag and statements about the name of the Washington football team (Wise 9). This research shows how blindly offensive the term has been for a long time. Redskins owner Daniel Snyder may be the worst offender of taking advantage of Native Americans. Snyder created a foundation for Native American support that contributed $3.7 million in its first year, the foundation donated items like vans, computers, and coats to more than twenty tribes (Cox 1). Although this may sound very philanthropic, Snyder takes advantage of people by distracting them with new amenities and funds. Some tribes refuse to accept any funds from the Redskins because they do not believe foundation is charitable, they are aware that it is a fraud to promote the Redskins and give the name a positive companionship (Wise 13). Indian National Rodeo Finals vice president Bo Vocu further explains this type of situation. is because, as you know, the resources you are offering are not truly philanthropic -- they come with the expectation that we will support the racial slur that continues to promote your associated professional football (Wise 16). Bo Vocu is saying that his organization will no longer accept money from Snyder because he is just paying off Native Americans in order to continue the use of the racist term that is the Redskins. Keeping with Daniel Snyder, he refuses to even consider a name change but insists that the name honors Native Americans. Snyder has accumulated such an immense fortune that he could give every Indian in the United States $400 and remain a multimillionaire (Cox 9). This is an eye-opening statistic, but is sickening that he made all his fortune from a team that is represented by a racist name and logo. The time of standing by and watching is over and people need to take action to assist the Native Americans. The Redskins need to take a page out of the Cleveland Indians book, and begin to limit the use of the derogatory name and logo. The Cleveland Indians have been represented by Chief Wahoo for a very long time, but in recent years they have started phasing out the use of Chief Wahoo. 2014, the Indians again made a change, announcing that going forward, the team would use a red block C as its new primary logo. The move came after a few years of quietly deemphasizing Chief Wahoo on uniforms and at stadium, Progressive (Tayler 4). The team has taken this issue seriously and has eliminated the use of Wahoo at their newest spring training location as well as their visiting batting helmets, which now feature the older block style C (Tayler 4). The Indians have begun correcting their racist representation and the Redskins need to follow suit. Native Americans cannot win this fight alone, the general public and sports fans need to realize the pain that some of these representations cause. People can help out by offering contributions to like Native American Heritage Association and the First Nations Development Institute. These organizations offer different types of services to Native Americans like provide food, water, living essentials as well as scholarships. Donations from the general public can help Native Americans and reduce the stronghold that Daniel Snyder has on the community. The general public needs to be informed and involved in what causes the pain that Native Americans endure, as well as convince the guilty organizations to make a transition. The racist representation by the Redskins needs to be tackled as soon as possible. The background information has been explained and some of the statistics uncovered are shocking and disgusting. There are plenty of reasons to have a vested interest in the topic and many have been discussed in order to shed as much light on the situation as possible. Finally, the general public has been informed of other organizations that have made a difference, and there are ways for people to get involved in order to sack the issue that is the Washington Redskins. Works Cited Cox, John Woodrow. Redskins foundation gave $3.7 million to more than 20 tribes, the team  The Washington Post. WP Company, 15 Jan. 2016. Web. 15 Feb. 2017. Culp-Ressler, Tara. The Shocking Rates of Violence And Abuse Facing Native American  ThinkProgress. ThinkProgress, 18 Nov. 2014. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. King, Richard C. Looking Back to a Future  Reflections on the Symposium on Racist Stereotypes in American Sport at the National Museum of the American Indian 2nd ser. 31 (2014): n. pag. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. Rasul, Hammad . FOURTH AND LONG: THE TIME IS NOW FOR THE TO PUNT THE  University of Maryland Law Journal of Race, Religion, Gender and Class (2014): n. pag. Thomson Reuters Westlaw. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Tayler, Jon. Time for Indians, MLB to get rid of ridiculous and offensive Chief  Sports Illustrated . N.p., 26 Oct. 2016. Web. 15 Feb. 2017. Wise, Mike. The Undefeated senior writer. Daniel Snyder see that the future is  ESPN. ESPN Internet Ventures, 24 Sept. 2015. Web. 02 Apr. 2017.