Seymour1 Meagan Seymour Karen Hanson ENC1102 4/16/17 Genetically Modified? Multiple times a day we put the trust of our health and our health in hands of companies who we know very little about. Every time you sit down for dinner, or snack on your daily bag of Doritos or your favorite midnight bite of Blue Bell ice-cream, do you really know what putting into your body, or the potential effects that come along with it? About 70 to 80% of processed food we buy in grocery stores contain genetically modified organisms (Labelize it!). America is evolving into a society where it increasingly is aware of the nutritional value of foods consumed. Most college students are shopping, eating, and spending on a budget and often feel they afford the healthy alternatives. However healthy options are not always expensive, and what is the price you are willing to put on your life? Food that contains genetically modified organisms pose a life risking illness. As consumers who put trust into the products we are buying we deserve to know everything that goes into it and we deserve to be educated on the issues and be aware of any risks or harms. What are Doctor Mae-Wan Ho, known for her work on the physics of organisms and sustainable systems describes Genetic engineering of plants started in the mid when it was thought the genome was a constant and stationary, and that characteristics of an organism are hardwired in their genome, geneticists discovered that it is Seymour2 remarkably dynamic and and constantly interacting with its environment. This determines which genes are prominent in the plant, creating a larger, better tasting harvest. It was also found the genetic material itself could influence the next generation (Ban GMOs Now). Advancements such as these in the agriculture world, guaranteeing a successful harvest that vulnerable to pests can be hard to resist. However having advancements that create a plant that is resistant to essentially any predator, or disease, we know what harm it could bring to those who consume such a high quantity of it on a daily basis. Genetically modified organisms were made so that we could produce enough produce for our entire population, so you might be asking, can something that is supposed to be bettering our lives have a negative There have not been many published, basic research that would indicate that genetically modified plants created an elevated risk to the environment and human or animal health. However, 2006 marks the point Thomas Marek Cuhra found a few water fleas that would change this belief (Biology Fortified). The Philippines was the first site of effect, in a small village close to a field of Bt corn, a genetically modified strand of corn produced by Monsanto. There was an outbreak of disease that terrorized the village. This horrific event was believed to be caused by inhaling the Bt pesticides. Biofortified, an organization concerned for the publics health, believes there was not, and is still not an adequate amount of testing and labializing done on these plants to be feeding them to the public, or even farming them in a populated area, without informing of the risk. Do you know the pesticides that are being used around your community, and their harm? Teaching the public about these health risks could better prepare them for potential risks, and even fighting for their right to be able to know more about this topic. However with very little of the public actually knowledgeable about these concerns there is very little that can, and will be done. It was a community to make an impact. Seymour3 To put an end to the harm of others, and being fed chemicals right under our noses there are extremely easy steps to put an end to it. Being aware is the first step in any movement. Without knowing of these potential harms everyone would continue to consume billions a year and put their health on the line. Simply by spreading the word you can already help put this movement in motion! To put those who are concerned with labeling, the Food and Drug Administration states help developers of foods derived from GE plants comply with their obligations under the FD&C Act and FDA regulations, the Agency encourages them to participate in a voluntary consultation process with FDA prior to commercial distribution. The goal of the voluntary premarket consultation process is to ensure that any safety or other regulatory issues associated with food from the new plant variety are resolved prior to commercial However these are all voluntary, not mandatory. Big businesses who already have a standing feel the need to do voluntary things for the FDA so we know what is in their products. We need to make a change. Changes need to be made in the government that make these labeling voluntary, but mandatory. By being an active citizen and getting in contact with your congress men, attending protests, and signing petitions to make your voice known. A good way to make a change, even if not on a big scale, is to cut out all GMO products from your house hold, not supporting a company, even if just your family not supporting that product it makes an impact. All of these steps towards making this change will make an impact in your life, as well as future generations to come. How do you feel knowing that everyday a company is willing to not tell you what is in the product you are buying from them? A product you are buying, trusting in them to provide quality material. Not only are they willing to not tell you, but our government is not doing much to stop them from doing it. why it is so important to be active in this issue. Buy voicing Seymour4 your opinions to senate, in the streets at protesting, or even in the smallest ways, by not buying products who label the use of in their products. Knowing what we put into our bodies is a right that each and every one of us deserves. Works Cited Fraiture, Marie Alice. How Can We Better Detect Unauthorized GMOs in Food and Feed  Science Direct. Science Direct, 24 Mar. 207. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Seymour5 Fraiture, Marie-Alice, Philippe Herman, Marc De Loose, Debode How Can We Better Detect Unauthorized GMOs in Food and Feed In Trends in Biotechnology 14. Apr. 2017 Heggdal, and Liv Langberg. Norway Became an Anti-GMO Biology Fortified, https://www.biofortified.org/2016/10/norway-became-anti-gmo- powerhouse/. 8 Oct. 2016 The Institute of Science in Society. Ban Now. Science in Society Archive. Dr.Mae-Wan Ho, 08 June 2008. Web. 27 Apr. 2017. Mayne, Susan. Regulatory Program for Foods Derived from Genetically Engineered  U.S. Food & Drug and Administration. FDA, 21 Oct. 2008. Web. 27 Apr. 2017. <https://www.fda.gov/newsevents/testimony/ucm468833.htm> GMO Lableing: Ben & Labelize It! Ben & Jerrys n.d. Web 14. Apr. 2017