Student 1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 30 April 2017 A GMO-Free World Genetically Modified Organisms (GMOs) are plants, animals, microorganism, or any other organism whose genetic makeup has been altered using recombinant DNA methods (What is GMO?). There has been a very minimal amount of testing done in regards to GMOs and their safety, so there is no way to tell what will happen in the future, whether it be short term or long term. GMOs are being consumed by people every day and they have no idea that they are putting their life at risk (Mather 46). The production of GMOs should not be allowed because of negative effects it can partake in the environment, economy, and human health. GMOs can have serious harmful effects on the environment. Anything that is newly introduced to an environment has the potential to effect the food chain by harming organisms who play a very important role in the ecosystem. If these genetically modified organisms end up in any ecosystem, it is very probable that they could become an invasive species that could disturb the food chain, which in turn, could lead to an influx of predators in that ecosystem. The use of GMOs can also have unintended effects in the environment, such as impacting non-target species. According to Emily Glass, author of The Environmental Impacts of GMOs, are hugely important in the pollination of many food crops, but are unfortunately extremely endangered by modern agricultural techniques, such as GM (Glass 2013). This means that even though bees are a vital species in the environment in regards to the pollination of crops, genetically modified crops are killing the bees through the toxins that are being added to plants Student 2 and released into the air. This in turn will not allow the bees to pollinate the crops. This would be an example of how GMOs can unintentionally impact non-target species. Another environmental effect that can result from the use of GMOs is toxic residue left in the soil from genetically modified crops. When toxic residue is left in the soil, the soil becomes dry and void of all nutrients, generally essential to the growing process (Glass 2013). This would mean that the soil is inept and would not be able to produce the crops that it is supposed to. Monsanto, a multinational agricultural biotechnology corporation created a certain herbicide called Roundup. Roundup contains Glyphosate, a very toxic herbicide used in many of crops such as, wheat, oats, corn, and cotton (Wilkerson 2016). According to Robin Mather, widespread use of glyphosate ... can significantly increase the severity of various plant diseases, impair plant defense to pathogens and disease, and immobilize soil and plant nutrients, rendering them unavailable for plant (Mather 45). Genetically modified foods and organisms can also create problems in an economic aspect. Because a lot of food is genetically modified, small time farmers are very likely to go out of business or bankrupt due to Monsanto. As a result of these farmers going out of business, an increase in unemployment would occur. Most small farmers or firms would not be able to compete with Monsanto, therefore, Monsanto has monopolistic power and has complete control of the market allowing them to charge whatever price they want to consumers (Lo 2013). In regards to production and sales of genetically modified foods, some people would say the food production increases so more money should be made. However, economist Michael Duffy of Iowa State University found that herbicide tolerant GM soy actually lost more money per acre than non-GM soy (Frompovich 2010). Farmers are very upset about the economics of growing and producing GM foods. Farmers in the U.S. were promised great profits from Asgrow Student 3 Roundup Ready soybeans, but in actuality the farmers ended up losing $92 million, that comes out to be a loss of roughly $1.31 per acre (Frompovich 2010). Genetically modified foods can also effect the economy through health problems and medical bills. According to George Billing, GMO medical cost on US citizens alone is about $1 (Billing 4). After accounting for all extraneous factors such as inflation, Billing found from the time that GMOs were introduced into the American diet in 1996 to 2013 that the U.S. would be paying an additional 1 trillion worth of health bills per year just from genetically modified organisms and crops. Genetically modified food can be dangerous to human health. Everyday humans are consuming GMOs, not knowing the risks they are putting themselves in. People do not know about this issue because no one is telling them. Krystele B. Blanchard, author of The Hazards of GMOs states studies suggesting that genetically modified organisms are harmful to human health, and concludes that Congress and the FDA are failing to fulfill their duty to the public by refusing to enact mandatory labeling laws for GM (Blanchard 134). The FDA is responsible for ensuring the safety of all food products in the American market. There is very little testing being done to determine the effects of GMOs but some of the tests that are being done include animal feeding studies. Animal feeding studies are studies done to test the safety of GMO crops. The American Academy of Environmental Medicine evaluated an animal feeding study and concluded that there is a causal relationship between GM feed and disorders. Stated in the film Seeds of Death, directed by Gary Null, foods pose a serious health risk in the areas of toxicology, allergy and immune function, reproductive health, and metabolic, physiologic and genetic (Null, Seeds of Death). What this means is that genetically Student 4 modified foods, foods that are being consumed right now, can cause serious health problems which can lead to death. A common type of pesticide that is used is called Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt), most commonly found in corn. Bt is designed to lethally break open the stomach of the insect upon consumption. Bt was introduced into the diets of many Americans in the and when the doctors found out about the pesticide Bt and what it is designed to do they said Bt may explain the increase in gastrointestinal problems they are witnessing (Smith, Genetic Roulette). When people started to worry about this issue, the EPA assured everyone not to worry about Bt toxins because it would only effect insects, not humans. However, a study done in February of 2012 showed that the EPA was wrong, Bt does in fact, break open little pores in human cells, which could lead to the same outcome of the insects (Smith, Genetic Roulette). The practice of producing and consuming genetically modified foods should not be permitted due to economic problems, harmful effects it can produce in the environment, and very severe human health issues. A GMO-free world can help save the not only human health, but also the environment and the economy. Some ways to take actions and help end the production of genetically modified foods and organisms is to join any organization or donate to any organization that supports the discontinuation of GMOs. Donating to organizations will help fund events that will help spread awareness of this issue. Eliminating the practice of GMOs will be hard, but it can and will be done with the help of humans themselves. (WC: 1,208) Student 5 Works Cited Billing, George. Global Economic Impact of  Academia.edu - Share research. N.p., n.d. Web. 11 Apr. 2017. Blanchard, Krystele B. The Hazards of Gmos: Scientific Reasons Why They Should Be Regulated, Political Reasons Why They Are Not, and Legal Answers to What Should Be  Regent University Law Review, no. 1, 2014, p. 133. Frompovich, Catherine J. Economic Issues Surrounding Genetically Modified  Infowars. N.p., 23 June 2010. Web. 11 Apr. 2017. Genetic Roulette: The Gamble of our Lives. Dir. Jeffery Smith. Perf. Lisa Oz, Robert Bernhoft, Myrto Ashe. The Clearance Lab. 2012. Web Glass, Emily . The Environmental Impact of  One Green Planet. N.p., 2 Aug. 2013. Web. 11 Apr. 2017. Lo, Puck. Monsanto Bullies Small Farmers Over Planting Harvested GMO  CorpWatch : Monsanto Bullies Small Farmers Over Planting Harvested GMO Seeds. N.p., 24 Mar. 2013. Web. 28 Apr. 2017. Mather, Robin. The Threats from Genetically Modified Foods: Demand for Regulation and Labeling of GM Products Is Growing as Evidence of Dangerous Side Effects  Mother Earth News, no. 251, 2012 Seeds of Death: Unveiling the Lies of GMOs. Dir. Gary Null and Richard Polonetsky. Perf. Mike Adams, Michael Antoniou, Joe Bakan. Gary Null & Associates, Cinema Arts Centre, 2012. Web What is  Non-GMO Project. N.p., n.d. Web. 13 Apr. 2017. Student 6 Wilkerson, Jordan. Why Roundup Ready Crops Have Lost their  Science in the News. N.p., 12 May 2016. Web. 28 Apr. 2017.