Student 1 Student Dr.Thornton ENC 1102 30 April 2017 Arts for the Future Art is everywhere. Art is in the books people read, the music people listen to, the movies and TV shows people watch, and the paintings that are hung on walls inside or even outside of buildings. From generation to generation, all skin colors, all religions, all genders, and all types of cultures have shaped the country that people live in today essentially through the arts. The arts are an essential learning platform that opens the mind to new ways of thinking and allows a person to be themselves. The arts have been taught in schools for a countless number of years. Students begin to be involved in some form of art at such young ages and as early as pre-school. With time, people change, values change, and beliefs change as well. Nowadays, the arts are becoming less and less apparent within the curriculum taught in schools year after year. As Lisa Kudrow states in the PBS special Arts & the Mind: Arts in Education, cuts and increased emphasis on test results means that the arts are being marginalized in public schools across the United This needs to be put to a stop. The arts are a powerful tool for young adults and people of all ages. Art provides people with a creative way of speaking and thinking that helps with not only academic success but social success as well. Creative thinking is not just used by artists and art advocates but according to a blog written on Edutopia by (high school art and technology teacher in Philadelphia) by Mary Beth Hertz, from software engineers and aerospace technicians to biotechnical engineers, professional mathematicians, and laboratory scientists knows that building great things and solving real problems requires a measure of Student 2 The arts are a large part of the country that people live in today and its removal from the curriculum would be devastating. Art is essential in the academic environment. According to The Arts Action Fund, students with an arts rich education have better grade point averages, score better on standardized tests in reading and math, and also have lower dropout rates. Several advocates of keeping the arts in school say the same thing. The Americans for the Arts, the Arts Education Partnership, as well as The Center for Arts Education all concur with the claims made by The Arts Action Fund. All of these claims made by The Arts Action Fund can be backed up with data collected through research and through testing. Whisman and Hixson conducted a test on a large group of students. They wanted to know what would happen if high school students gained more than the single art credit required to graduate. They tested the association between extra arts participation and academic performance. analysis confirmed the existence of the association [between arts participation and academic by showing that the odds of achieving mathematics and reading/language arts proficiency and of meeting or exceeding the ACT PLAN national average score rose by amassing more than the minimum high school requirement of a single arts (Whisman and Hixson). With the data collected by Whisman and Hixson, the claim made by the Arts Action Fund that students with an arts rich education have better grade point averages as well as better scores on standardized tests in reading and math can be backed up. That still leaves one claim yet to be acknowledged, lower dropout rates. Per Kristen Paglia in the PBS special Arts & the Mind: Arts in Education, shows that one of the only things that keeps kids in school is engagement in arts and The claim made by Kristen Paglia alone is not enough to back up the claim made by The Arts Action Fund. Data is still needed to verify that. Data is exactly what Marcia Rosal has. Student 3 Rosal conducted a study on 50 ninth grade students from two ninth grade English classes at an urban public high school. With the study came clear results. addition to the significant changes in attitude towards school, family, and self, none of the 50 students dropped out or failed the ninth (Rosal). With the data provided by the study conducted by Rosal, the claim made by the Arts Action Fund that students with an arts rich education have lower dropout rates can be backed up as well. Such claims can be backed up by research that show that student involvement in the arts lead to a higher ability to learn, achieve, and succeed. While much of the debate as to why the arts should remain within school curriculums country wide has to do with its relation to academic success, there has to be another argument. As stated by Hetland and Winner, educators should never allow the arts to be justified wholly or even primarily in terms of what the arts can do for mathematics or reading. The arts must be justified in terms of what the arts can teach that no other subject can The impact of what the arts can do for students that no other subject can is vividly apparent in the Ted Talk done by Dr. Linda F. Nathan. Linda Nathan was a teacher of over 30 years and is also the founder of the Boston Arts Academy. The arts give students the opportunity to stand for something. It allows them to deliver a message through a vice that without art would not be feasible. Nathan tells a story about a former student named Raul. Raul was a drummer who was assigned a senior project and he chose to drum with a homeless shelter. While explaining his choice to the review panel he was asked, is it for you about Raul responded with the following quote, a drummer, and when you drum you lie. Drumming comes from the heart, drumming is my soul. When I drum, at peace, and I want to do something in the homeless community that will give those men the same uncle was homeless, lived in the shelter Raul would be drumming for, and was his first teacher. Student 4 Raul was able to impact a community that a blind eye is usually turned to through his passion. The arts can transform lives. If the arts are removed from the curriculum, opportunities such as the one that Raul received will not be possible. The incoming generations are the future of the country and should all be given the opportunity to impact others just like Raul did. Budget cuts within the school system are affecting the arts programs country-wide. Students who have been involved in the arts have proven to have higher academic success, and lower dropout rates. Students involved in the arts are given the ability to find a self-purpose. Data, research, and personal experience show that the arts have a direct positive influence on academic success and personal well-being. Without the arts, the country may get dumber and dumber. Since the arts have begun to become marginalized, test scores averages have declined and dropout rates have increased. The marginalization of the arts must come to a stop before it is too late. By joining organizations like the Arts Action Fund, people all over the country can make a difference. With the help of the people, the future generations of the country can have a better and brighter future. (W.C. 1236) Student 5 Works Cited Americans for the Arts Action Fund. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Arts & the Mind: Arts in Education. Perf. Lisa Kudrow. PBS, n.d. Youtube. 30 Sept. 2012. Web. 2 Apr. 2017. Hertz, Mary Beth. Full STEAM Ahead: Why Arts Are Essential in a STEM  Blog post. Edutopia. N.p., 1 Feb. 2016. Web. 2 Apr. 2017. Lois Hetland & Ellen Winner (2001) The Arts and Academic Achievement: What the Evidence Shows, Arts Education Policy Review, 102:5, 3-6, DOI: 10.1080/10632910109600008 Nathan, Linda F. Why Art  Ted. April. 2013. Lecture National Arts Education Public Awareness  National Arts Education Public Awareness Campaign. N.p., n.d. Web. 02 Apr. 2017. Rosal, ML, et al. Keeping Students in School: An Art Therapy Program to Benefit Ninth-Grade  Art Therapy: Journal of the American Art Therapy Association, vol. 14, no. 1, Mar. 1997, pp. 30-36. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx ?direct=true&db=cin20&AN=107033717&site=eds-live. Whisman S. A., Hixson N. K. (2012). A cohort study of arts participation and academic performance. Charleston, WV: West Virginia Department of Education, Division of Curriculum and Instructional Services, Office of Research.