Wang 1 Jialin Wang Kristen Rouisse: ENC 1102 04/30/2017 The Problem of Tobacco Smoking Due to the fact that smoking is a dangerous addiction, all people regardless of their age and gender should quit this harmful habit. Hundreds of chemicals are present in tobacco smoke. These harmful elements increase the likelihood of developing cancer in humans. Tobacco smoke in enclosed spaces exposes non-smokers to harmful effects. Millions of children across the world breathe polluted air mostly because of being surrounded by smoking adults. Therefore, the task of top priority for policymakers should become the establishment of smoke-free environments. In this case, restaurant and bars owners will be able to save money, reduce risk of fire, and avoid significant insurance costs. Cigarette smoking harms every person regardless of his/her age, gender, and race, adversely affecting vital body organs, causing serious diseases, and reducing health in general; therefore, because of smoking problem is a dangerous addiction, healthcare providers and other concerned parties call legislators, public workers, and policymakers to act radically in this regard, so that quitting such bad habit as smoking significantly lowers risk for illnesses and adds years to life. In distant past, individuals could buy cigarettes and smoke anywhere. Advertisements for this product were commonplace. Nowadays, people become more aware about adverse effects of cigarettes on passive and active smokers, as well as dire consequences for those who do not quit this bad habit. Owing to efforts undertaken by concerned parties, smoking has become restricted in public places. Moreover, the laws do not allow advertising cigarettes Wang 2 in mass media. Smoking causes heart disease, emphysema, and various types of cancer that can reduce life by almost ten years. Moreover, this adverse habit costs a smoker thousands of dollars annually (Pillappa 70). Individuals cannot quit smoking because of developed addiction. However, the body may repair itself as soon as a person quits smoking. It can occur at any age and bring long-term, positive benefits, including the lowered risk of developing various diseases and improved health. However, individuals continue to ignore that facts and continue smoking damaging their health. The effects of smoking are severe, and if a person starts, he/she will find it hard to stop. Researchers have not revealed any physical reasons why people begin to smoke. The human body does not need tobacco in contrast to the needs for food, sleep, and water. Numerous chemicals in cigarettes such as cyanide and nicotine are poisons that can kill a person in high doses. As a result, the body is forced to defend itself in case of poisoning. First-time smokers may feel pain and sickness when they try tobacco. The immune system tends to protect the body from diseases and infection, but smoking compromises this process. Therefore, there is a great likelihood that a smoker will develop respiratory infections, autoimmune diseases, rheumatoid arthritis, and disease. Smoking plays a crucial role in triggering flare-ups of illness signs and increasing risk for rheumatoid arthritis and diabetes. The more cigarettes people smoke, the higher the risk for serious diseases. Tobacco smoking is bad for eyes and other organs. It significantly increases a risk for the optic nerve damages, cataract, and macular degeneration. In the course of time, smoking can cause blindness, damage blood vessels, and change blood chemistry. By inhaling smoke, cells react to chemicals. As a result, blood pressure and heart rate increase; blood vessels narrow and thicken. Cigarettes contain hundreds of adverse chemicals, and some of them can cause cancer (Heady). In addition to affecting the entire body, tobacco smoking is a leading Wang 3 risk factor for developing rectum, colon, lungs, bladder, stomach, liver, pancreas, esophagus, kidney, and other types of cancer. Heavy smoking can also cause leukemia. It is often argued that secondhand smoke and active smoking share similar risks and pose the same threat to the human body and vital organs. Therefore, passive smoking increases risks of developing poor health conditions like active smokers have. It is more likely that a non-smoker will get lung cancer by inhaling tobacco smoke. Children, infants, and young people significantly suffer from secondhand smoke, its effects, and dire consequences. Their vulnerability only increases risks of developing diseases. A child with smoking parents is exposed to persistent cough, meningitis, and chest infections. In case if a young person has asthma, his/her symptoms may worsen. There is also the increased likelihood of infant death and ear infection. The consequences of tobacco poisoning become evident over time. Long-time smokers face health problems including stroke, heart disease, and emphysema. Those, who lead a healthy style, do not face them. When young people start smoking, they do not take into account negative consequences that they may encounter with in adult life. Unfortunately, it can become too late to reverse the process, when individuals get sick because of their bad habit. Heavy smokers often develop psoriasis as skin significantly damages from tobacco smoke; it is hard to treat this condition quickly and without implications. Smoking people may also suffer from pneumonia and bronchitis. Most of these serious illnesses limit ability to be active and lead a normal life. Consequences can be fatal. In the USA, smoking takes one of five lives (Brumbaugh). Other adverse effects of tobacco poisoning include yellow teeth, wrinkles, loss of bone density. In the course of time, adult and older people suffer from osteoporosis, and, as a result, bones can eventually break in advanced age. Unlike those individuals, who lead a healthy lifestyle, non-smokers are more active than smokers. The main reason lies in lung power that is absent in smoking people. Females, who Wang 4 smoke, face fertility issues; and sexual health is also deteriorated. Young females taking birth pills or undergoing hormonal therapy may also face serious health issues, including heart attacks. The consequences of smoking become visible over time, but long- term challenges are not the only hazard that smoking poses to individuals. Nicotine and other toxins quickly affect human body; at a young age, teen smokers have bad-smelling hair, clothes, and bad breath. Their sports performance is reduced as well; therefore, smoking youth and adults cannot compete with nonsmokers on an equal manner as physical effects of tobacco smoking harms athletic performance. Smokers face breath shortness, reduced circulation, rapid heartbeat, great risk of injuries, slow healing time, and increased risk of illnesses. Nowadays, tobacco companies continue producing cigarettes spending billions of dollars annually. According to Boogs, almost 292 billion cigarettes were produced in the United States of America in 2011 (29). Fortunately, due to the fact that public awareness has increased in the U.S. communities in recent years, their efforts have helped to ban smoking in public places and provide options for those individuals, who want to quit smoking. Over ten times more American citizens have prematurely died from smoking than have died in the wars waged by the country in The National Cancer Institute has estimated that if a smoker quits his/her bad habit by the age of 30, he/she will significantly reduce the likelihood of smoking-related death- by almost 90% in The risk of death decreases by almost 50%, if a man or woman quits at 50 years old in Therefore, the task of top priority for politicians, community, legislators, and policymakers is to persuade smokers to quit their bad habit, and start leading a healthy lifestyle. Only in this case, the astonishing numbers of tobacco-related deaths will be reduced. Due to the fact that smoking affects way of life, healthcare providers and other concerned parties call legislators, public workers, and policymakers to act radically in this Wang 5 regard. The competent bodies are required to develop necessary programs and legislative initiatives to encourage all people regardless of their age, gender, and race to quit smoking, conduct regular exercises, eat healthy food, and lead an active way of life. Physicians and other healthcare providers find paying for cessation measures much cheaper than paying for the treatment of smoking-caused diseases. Medical costs and deaths can be preventable only in case if programs do enough to address tobacco smoking issue. To conclude, cigarette smoking poses a significant danger to health and produce adverse effects if individuals do not quit their bad habit. Long-time smokers face health problems than those, who lead a healthy style. Health conditions include stroke, heart disease, various types of cancers, and emphysema. Non-smokers usually live longer than smokers. Millions of deaths can be prevented if Americans reconsider their habits and start leading a healthy lifestyle. Tobacco manufacturers spend billions of dollars on the production and advertisement of cigarettes. Instead, this money could be spent on the fulfillment of socio-economic and healthcare initiatives. Wang 6 Works Cited Boggs, Carl. Drugs, Power, and Politics: Narco Wars, Big Pharma, and the Subversion of Democracy. Routledge, 2016. Brumbaugh, Chad. on the Cigarettes vs. Alcohol. CreateSpace Independent Publishing Platform, 2011. Heady, Denise. In Cigarette Smoke? Name Your City of Hope, https://www.cityofhope.org/blog/cigarette-smoke-ingredients. Accessed 14 Apr. 2017. Pillappa, Prakash. Civic Sense. Excel Books, 2012. in Public Health, 2017, http://www.publichealth.org/public- awareness/smoking-in-america/