Student 1 Student Dr. Jamie Thornton ENC 1102 16 April, 2017 The Silent Revolution Most part of the population does not take a particular interest on the source of the electricity that powers their home. However, since there are many environmental consequences involved with this subject, people should try to know more about it. The first thing everyone should understand is there are some stakeholders involved in it, in the wind energy example, four of them are really important and should be cited: Companies, non-profit organizations, government, and population. About this, many companies were created and developed with the idea of using renewable energy instead of fossil fuels, Terra-Gen is one of these companies and its focus is on wind power (terra- gen.com 2017). By the other side, non-profit organizations defend a better regulation on these kind of energy production. American Bird Conservancy is one of these organizations, they agree with the idea that wind power is better than fossil fuels, but they also try to show the bad consequences to the population and reduce as maximum as possible (American Bird Conservancy 2017). Use the wind as a source of energy is important and the government should be the connection between the non-profit organizations and the population because it will provide information to make people engaged in this important matter. Before talk about solutions and consequences, is really important to have a historic background and know how these wind farms work. The wind energy has been used by humans since the seventh century in boats or to mix products in agriculture, but the use of wind energy to produce electric energy is much more recent comparing to the others kinds of use(Breeze 142). Student 2 The first wind farm, built in 1981, was located in Denmark being able to produces 55kW, the technology used at this time was a result of partnership between Denmark and Dutch government. Since the creation of the first wind farm, many others were created and wind power is being used more and more all over the world; nowadays it is responsible for the production of more than 4% of the energy produced in the world. The biggest wind farm in the world is the Alta Wind Energy Centre located in California with an operational capacity of 1,020MW and operated by Terra-Gen Power (Lilley 17). The generation of electric energy by wind energy is a result of a series of transformations. The primary energy is the kinetic energy of the wind, used to rotate a metal windmill made of blades. These turbines blades are connected with an electric generator converting the kinetic energy to electric energy. So, after that, all turbines are connected by cables to the distribution center where the energy is distributed to the population (Breeze 150). As you can see analyzing all the process, there are no use of fossil fuels, what makes it a renewable source of energy. But, what people does not see is how many birds die because of these blades (Katzner 82). The majority of the population has a general idea that just because these blades are not fast it does not kill birds. What people does not know is that these wind farms are located in places where are strong wind currents, so if there are wind current, there are also migratory birds using it to fly and only the impact between the birds in a high speed and the blades made of metal is enough to kill them (Beston 112). Having considered how wind energy is converted in electric energy, it is also reasonable to look at how the production of wind energy and the construction of wind farms affect people life in different levels for good and bad. In a short run affect mainly the population that lives closer to the wind farms, creating new jobs, and making money to the city and to the region 27). A research made in Brazil estimates that more than one thousand jobs is created for every Student 3 500MW produced representing a lot of jobs for not developed area (Terciote 5). By the other side, the death of birds also makes bad for the agriculture in these places because birds are the main responsible for the process of carry pollen to the plants (Dreschler 53). In a long run, the consequences are even bigger and affect the whole world. Most of the consequences of the wind power generation is immeasurable because it reduces the ozone layer depletion. With this reduce in ozone depletion many others good consequences happen, for example the diminish of acid rains, establish of earth and ocean temperature, level of the sea (Beston 129). But, even in a long-run, there are bad consequences and is hard to realize that. The killing of birds in a large amount and in the different places of the world can bring a reduce in bird diversity, putting some animals in a danger of being extinct. As a result of that, birds will not carry pollen from places to different places and many genetic variation of plants will not happen, so a lot of biodiversity will be lost because of that (Dreschler 59). As a result of these consequences, government should analyze both bad and good effects of energy production before accept any investments in this area, considering their main goal that is make the life of people as better as possible. In addition to that, they also need to make a more engaged population in the wind energy problem. As usual, when something need to be changed in a population, short run and long run attitudes can be done, but when is an environmental problem, both kind of attitudes should be taken (Moller 15). Looking for fast results, the government should make use of informational advertising, providing information via television commercials, radio announcements and road billboards. But for a long run, the answer for this problem is education and the government should make use of mandatory classes and motivate programs like research in these areas, to make people study and innovate on renewable energy field (Moller 19). With all of this information, people will start to understand how it works and will start to answer to it in Student 4 different ways. People should start look forward and vote on politicians that support the creation and regulation of the renewable energy farms. Not only the politician that support the renewable energy, but the one who is able to analyze the consequences of this investments in economic level and also on environmental level 80). After these consequences are calculated the politician should also find ways to reduce the bad consequences. Besides that, with the incentive in education and research the ways to reduce the bad consequences will come naturally and that is why both kind of investments is important to solve this problem (Cole 16). To conclude, wind power is obviously a great step for the future comparing against fossil fuels looking to all the good effects of it, but is not the final step in the energy production because not all consequences are good. However, if there are bad consequences like death of birds, there are space for improvement, such improvement will come only if people are engaged to that and really realize that how bad is environmental consequences for the future of earth. The government has a big importance in these process once he is responsible to make people engaged, and the unique way to make this, being the connection between population and information, bringing information thought different ways, in a short and a long run for people. (WC: 1247) Student 5 Works Cited ABC (American Bird Conservancy). N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Beston, Julie A., and James E. Diffendorfer. Prioritizing Avian Species for Their Risk of Population-level Consequences from Wind Energy  Public Library of Science, 10 Mar. 2016. Web. 02 Apr. 2017. Breeze, Paul. Wind Power Generation by Paul Breeze - Read  Elsevier, 2016. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Cole, Scott G. Wind Power Compensation Is Not for the Birds: An Opinion from an Environmental  Restoration Ecology. Blackwell Publishing Ltd, 16 Feb. 2011. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. and Gyula Zilahy. Cooperation between Business and Non-governmental Organizations to Promote Sustainable  Journal of Cleaner Production, 21 Sept. 2012. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Katzner, Todd; Et Al. Golden Eagle Fatalities and the Continental-scale Consequences of Local Wind-energy  National Wind Watch. Wiley Subscription Services, Inc., 29 Sept. 2016. Web. 02 Apr. 2017. Lilley, Meredith B., and Jeremy Firestone. Wind Power, Wildlife, and the Migratory Bird Treaty Act: A Way  Environmental Law, 2008. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Student 6 Moller, Bernd. Continuous Spatial Modelling to Analyse Planning and Economic Consequences of Offshore Wind  Elsevier Ltd, 23 Apr. 2014. Web. 02 Apr. 2017. Terciote, Ricardo. Energia E O Meio  Unicamp, 12 July 2015. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Terra-Gen. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017.