Torres 1 Carlos Torres Prof. William Drugan ENC 1102 19 April 2017 Project 3 Intermediate Draft Is Technology the Enemy? The true value of education is often lost when new technology is introduced in schools, especially with younger generations. While many campuses across the country continue to transfer their learning techniques to completely digital ways, countless problems arise that can be detrimental to a education in the future. As technology plays one of the most significant roles in education in society, it is crucial that a line is drawn when deciding which methods to use for certain age groups. The overuse of technology in schools has begun distracting children from school and transforming them into tech-crazed animals. One of the main reasons why technology is destroying education is because it is distracting students from what is being taught to them. This can be an issue for children in elementary and middle school because it is easier for them to get sidetracked while using websites for homework and schoolwork. Each year, students are given more and more opportunities to do homework and use online resources. Eventually, this leads to high school and college which can be take almost all online. According to the article or Distracting: Tablet Computer Use in Rhonda McEwen and Adam explain that learning using tablet computers, cognitive overload can arise from presenting intrinsic content across both words and pictures that it cannot be effectively integrated into working memory due to the splitting of presenting incidental Torres 2 extraneous content in one format that diverts attention away from the intrinsic content presented in another (10) Most of the new technology is simply just a toy for students, rather than it being used as a tool to guide them throughout the year. As 95% of teenagers spend time online daily whether it be for educational or social purposes, the countless hours of surfing the web turn into a bad habit that barricades their educational process. Personal health has become a major aspect of consideration when it comes to the use of technology. Child obesity is on the rise, and technology may be to blame. Pediatricians say that severe obesity is increasing in younger people, and although one many can choose the right diet, lack of exercise is what many people find themselves a victim of. When children have 5 or more classes to do work online for, the hours behind the computer will add up. With studies showing children having over 8 hours of homework per night, it is almost impossible for students to remain active with the right amount of exercise each day. Technology that includes cars, television, computers and mobile devices, the amount of time we spend sedentary increases and our time in physical activity drops. As mentioned in The article Measures: Digital Technologies and the Governance of Child Karisa Butler-Wall mentions that contemporary assault on obesity involves a tactical shift away from pathologizing fatness toward a mode of preemptive health that deploys new technologies of risk management to expand the reach of control over all bodies, operating on virtual futures to modulate populations in Not only can the overuse of technology affect weight, it can also cause problems with vision. As mentioned before, the countless hours in front of digital screens add up, and eventually can lead to computer vision syndrome, which can cause irritation and eye damage. Most importantly, classrooms should not be completely changed to being electronic because it will take away from the education. Students will no longer be motivated to Torres 3 do their own work and will simply reply on copying each work for the entire year. One thing that already occurs now with online classes is cheating and plagiarizing of internet sources. Again, instead of learning, researching, and retaining information, all students need is Google and they will be set for the rest of the year. About 15 years ago when computers and technology were not too common in schools, students had no problem using textbooks and other databases to find their information. This type of learning technique can still be saved as long as parents view what is going on. Patricia A. Hutton opens her article Student Cheating and What Educators Can do About with a very simple sentence, by students is an (171) This has become a mainstream, and it seems to not be encouraging schools to stick to a more old-fashioned way of learning. One issue that many schools face all across the country deals with their budget. As new technology in introduced, it can be a bigger investment but it will be worth it in the end. By switching in the electronic direction, there will have to be no more spending insane amounts of money on books, worksheets, and supplies. Normally, students have no say in this, but if they are informed on how they can be receiving a better education, the schools may have to reconsider. On the contrary, there are countless things that technology has allowed us to do in the past few decades. It has helped the education system create new ways for students to learn and connect with others from around the world. Technology has allowed to send people to space, use GPS, and even work our day to day lives from the comfort of our own homes. New advancements in technology has helped children with disabilities pursue an education they may have never thought was possible. Except, the one thing that no amount of new technology will ever do is provide the experience of learning that of an old fashioned textbook and chalkboard. Torres 4 Overall, the use of technology in education has as many pros as it does cons, but it is the effect it has on students that really matters. New inventions are introduced every single day, and it is sometimes hard to say no to innovation. As for education, it is the one thing that should be left alone for the time being because it is the foundation for the future generation. Technology may be destroying the youth afterall. Torres 5 Works Cited Butler-Wall, Karisa. Measures: Digital Technologies and the Governance of Child Studies Quarterly, vol. 43, no. 1/2, 2015, pp. www.jstor.org/stable/43958490. Hutton, Patricia A. Student Cheating and What Educators Can Do about College Teaching, vol. 54, no. 1, 2006, pp. www.jstor.org/stable/27559254. Rhonda N. McEwen, and Adam K. or Distracting: Tablet Computer Use in Journal of Educational Technology & Society, vol. 18, no. 4, 2015, pp. www.jstor.org/stable/jeductechsoci.18.4.9.