Curley 1 Eileen Curley Mark Nusspickel Composition I 9 April 2017 Standardized Testing in Education Controversy regarding the use of standardized testing has been around since they were first implemented in the educational system. Testing has been around since the but the use of standardized tests has changed a great deal since then, especially in recent years. In 2002, the passing of the No Child Left Behind Act attracted national attention to the creation and execution of standardized tests. This law requires students to be assessed on a national level, identifying their strength and weaknesses to reform the educational system. Almost every student in the U.S is impacted by these high-stake tests. Standardized tests were once used to compare schools and sort students into the appropriate grade level, now these tools have become a burden on every education. Testing has reshaped education putting more emphasis on test scores than proficiency of course material. After the passing of the NCLB Act, research indicates that standardized testing negatively impacts the creative atmosphere that all learning environments should foster and should be replace with an assessment tool that encompasses all parts of a education. The debate on standardized testing in the educational system is on the rise, many administrators have very mixed opinions about their usage. There people stand behind are high- stake tests, advertising them as the most reliable source of student assessment. Administrators also advocate for standardized testing, because they believe it is the cheapest form of student Curley 2 evaluation. Elia, a New York education commissioner and the president of the University of the State of New York says, believe in rigorous assessment that challenges students to show that on track to meet high (Elia 36). While testing may be a rigorous form of assessment, it takes away crucial parts of the learning process. Reformatting the way students are assessed in schools will not limit the standards they are expected to uphold, but will hopefully encourage them to apply original ideas to their work. Since the passing of the NCLB act, the increase of testing has skyrocketed, but there has not been any data to support that student achievement in the U.S has rose. What data supports is the exact opposite, in 2002 the US was ranked 18 th in the world in Math by PISA, the Programme for International Student Assessment, in 2009 we place 31 st (Walker 25). This data proves that students are not benefitting by standardized testing, and they are not helping them achieve the standards set forth my education administrators. As a country, the US is falling behind in all areas of education and if testing is not helping students advance we are wasting valuable classroom time on test preparation. Education needs to focus on methods of learning that improve our math, science, and reading skills. The U.S is recognized as a country filled with all forms of diversity. Many students do not know English as their first language but are still expected to take the same standardized tests as English speakers. In an article written by Dr. Wagner, he critiques Kate book Learners Left Behind: Standardized Testing as a Language Wagner is a professor in the Education Department at Temple University and is against the use of standardized testing to measure student success. Standardized tests have high stakes in the U.S, not only are they used to meet the requirements set forth by the NCLB act, but they are also used in many states as exit exams to receive high school diplomas. Meaning students who struggle Curley 3 with test taking but understand and have mastered the course material are being punished for low test scores, and students who know English as a second language are put at an even greater disadvantage. English language learners are expected to succeed on the same tests as English speakers before they have even mastered the language. Wagner writes describes how the need to pass the English Language Arts Regents has led schools and teachers to change the way they teach English language learners. Teaching to the test has essentially become the curriculum for ESL classes, rather than pedagogically sound practices that result in second language (Wagner 2). Proving, that the education has put greater emphasis on test scores than actual mastery of a subject. Classrooms have been reworked so that curriculum is based around test preparation rather than long-term knowledge acquisition. Tests preparation is putting all education at a disadvantage. Creativity is increasingly being recognized as an important part of education. Standardized testing unfortunately does not access creativity in students. In an article written by Catherine Dishke-Honzel, the coordinator of research and learning support at Huron University College. Hondzel interviewed teachers and asked how their classroom and teaching have been effected by test preparation. Many teachers agreed that to prepare for high-stake tests was to cut valuable learning material from their curriculum. Teachers also indicated that there was no way to recognize creativity and different learning styles in testing. The difficulty lies when teachers try and find a balance between preparation for standardized testing while creating an environment that promotes creative thinking along the way. This is a valuable skill needed in work force which is driven by original ideas and innovative thinking. Education researcher Dr. Gerald W. Bracey explains important qualities that tests fail to measure critical thinking, resilience, motivation, persistence, curiosity, endurance, reliability, Curley 4 enthusiasm, empathy, self-awareness, self-discipline, leadership, civicmindedness, courage, compassion, resourcefulness, sense of beauty, sense of wonder, honest (Bracey 11). All qualities that are needed to be successful U.S jobs. Research has proved that as a nation we have outgrown standardized testing. Today, our success is ingrained in our ability to think in new ways. Testing does not measure the qualities that has helped our country succeed and that continues to help us excel. Standardized testing does not measure success and limits the classroom environment in many ways. Testing should be replaced with an alternative method that showcases the strengths of each individual student. Education is in need of a tool that encompasses the one part of our education that is crucial to succeed in work force: creativity. Curley 5 Works Cited Camacho, Dawn, and Vickie Cook. Testing: Does It Measure Student Preparation for College & Online Submission (2007): ERIC. Web. 18 Feb. 2017. Dishke-Honzel, Catharine. To Whom? Teacher Reflections On The Relationship Between Creativity And Standardized Testing in Critical Education 5.3 (2014): 1-16/ Education Source. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. LEVIN-EPSTEIN M. TESTING IN FLUX. (cover Principal Leadership 16.3(2015):34-38. Education Source. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. National Council of Churches Committee on Public Education and Literacy, Ten Moral Concerns in the Implementation of the No Child Left Behind Act. Web. 25 June. 2011. Sternberg, Robert J. Phi Delta Kappan 98.4 (2016): 66-71. Education Full Text: (H.W. Wilson). Web. 4 Feb. 2017. Wagner, Elvis. Of English Learners Left Behind: Standardized Testing As Language International Journal Of Bilingual Education and Bilingualism 12.6 (2009): 721-725. Walker, Tim. PISA 2009: U.S. Students in the Middle of the Web. Dec. 7, 2010 Strauss, Valerie. The Myths of Standardized Washington Post. Web. Apr. 15, 2011