Shephard 1 Victoria Shephard Professor Davis ENC 1102 30 April 2017 A Call to Action: Legalize Recreational Marijuana Marijuana has a multitude of names, including weed, herb, pot, grass, bud, ganja, Mary Jane, and other slang (NIDA). Whatever you call it, the debate over whether or not marijuana should be legalized in the United States is a very important discussion within the country right now. The decision that we make as a country concerning this issue will affect so many people, including people who do not personally feel the need for marijuana to be legal. And while it feels as if everybody has an opinion about it, there are some that feel completely indifferent towards the case. Those who are content to sit and wait to see what happens need to start taking initiative and getting involved in the discussion so that they can help finally make a definite decision. Because of this, it is important to make sure that everyone gets educated about what marijuana is and how good it would be for the country if it was legal. Everyone should know what its effects are, who needs marijuana, and how to make it legal in the United States. First, every stakeholder should know exactly what marijuana is, and all the ways that it can affect the body. Marijuana is a naturally growing plant that contains over 500 chemicals, including the psychoactive chemical delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol, better known as THC. It can be ingested in a number of ways, including smoking, putting it in food, pill-form, and even lotions and creams. Currently, many people in the country believe that marijuana can only be used by lazy people to get high and do nothing useful, but this could not be farther from the truth. Marijuana does have its negative side, but all drugs have positive and negative effects, Shephard 2 including the legal drugs that we already allow in the United States. Some of negative effects include blocking memory formation, impaired balance, an increased risk of depression, anxiety, and very rarely hallucinations (Welsh, Spector, Astaiza). There are no drugs on this planet that have absolutely no negative effects on the user (drugwatch). Most clinical drugs prescribed daily cause depression and in extreme cases, death. While marijuana can cause most of the same negative effects as these drugs, the positives that make the other drugs legal are the same for marijuana. The THC found in marijuana can prevent epileptic seizures for up to 10 hours at a time (ASPET). A study from 2010 found that people suffering from inflammatory bowel diseases could be cured with the use of chemicals in marijuana such as THC and cannabidiol (Welsh, Spector, Astaiza). It has also been found that the chemical cannabidiol can stop cancer from spreading in patients and stop the progression of disease. These are a few of the positive effects that have been found through the research of a few programs. If marijuana was legal, not only would all of these patients be able to get help, but there would be more scientists that could research all of the affects that marijuana has on the body. The next question someone who does not know much about this topic might ask is in what ways will the legalization of marijuana change the country? The widespread use of marijuana by patients with various illnesses that can be easily treated with marijuana will be the first big change. That means that people who cannot be helped by any of the current legal drugs and people that are taking dangerous cocktails of legal drugs will be able to spend less money and time on treatment and more time getting better and getting back to their lives. Police officers will also get more time to spend on other arrests of more threatening people. In 2010, police officers made one marijuana arrest every thirty-seven seconds, and most of those arrests were for small amounts of marijuana, not large quantity busts (ACLU). That time could have been spent Shephard 3 catching some of the more serious and harmful criminals rather than non-violent and non- threatening marijuana possessors. The jails that these so called will go to will also be less crowded if marijuana was made legal in our country. In a report from the American Civil Liberties Union and the Human Rights Watch, law enforcement agencies made 564,641 arrests for the possession of marijuana in 2015, but 505,681 arrests for all violent crimes including rape and murder (NYTimes). That is 13.6 percent more people arrested for possessing marijuana than for harming others intentionally. All of those people should not be in jail, using tax payer money to spend time with real violent criminals. On top of all this, marijuana would be able to be federally regulated so it would make the more widespread marijuana more safe. In order to legalize marijuana so that the United States can make all of these positive changes, we need to make sure that all of the stereotypes about marijuana users are debunked. Everybody, even unengaged stakeholders, think of the same image when someone thinks of a They think of a teenager or an unemployed adult that is really stupid and lazy. While these people do exist, they do not make up the majority of marijuana users. War veterans that suffer from PTSD, cancer patients that need as much help as they can get, and regular everyday people who have steady jobs and trouble relaxing are the people who need for marijuana to be legal. They are all around us, and even if someone personally might not need it, they do. There are plenty of ways to take action and help fight to make marijuana legal. Anyone can email or call their state representatives and make sure that they know how important it is that we make marijuana legal. There are also many, many organizations on both the local and national levels that anyone can join. NORML, Marijuana Policy Project, Cannabis Law Reform, and Veterans for Medical Cannabis Access are just a few organization s that are doing their best Shephard 4 to fight for the legalization of marijuana. Local newspaper and radio stations are also extremely good places to reach out to and engage all of the non-engaged stakeholders in your community. We need to get every single person talking about marijuana, because the legalization of it will affect the whole nation, not just those who use or strongly dislike the use of marijuana. This is a very important topic that involves everyone, and we need to make sure that the United States is talking about it until we solve this issue. We will make marijuana legal for all of those who need it, and make sure that it is safe as possible for the entire country. We need to end this discussion by making sure that everyone gets involved. Shephard 5 Works Cited Wallace, Melisa J., Robert E. Blair, Katherine W. Falenski, Billy R. Martin, and Robert J. DeLorenzo. The Endogenous Cannabinoid System Regulates Seizure Frequency and Duration in a Model of Temporal Lobe  Journal of Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics. American Society for Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics, 01 Oct. 2003. Web. ACLU. Marijuana Arrests by the  American Civil Liberties Union. Web. Williams, Timothy. Marijuana Arrests Outnumber Those for Violent Crimes, Study  The New York Times. The New York Times, 12 Oct. 2016. Web. Lachapelle, Tara and Molla, Rani. Pot of  Bloomberg.com. Bloomberg, 20 Apr. 2016. Imgur.com/gallery/lu1tG Altieri, Erik. 7 Simple Ways YOU Can Help Legalize  NORML, 31 Oct. 2012. National Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA). What is  NIDA, 2002.