Osorio 1 Nicolas Osorio Dorinda Davis Composition II April 16, 2017 Head in the Game: Should College Athletes Be Paid Like Professional Athletes? Professional student athletes? think, on They pay for your room and board, they pay for your education, but to their knowledge, there to play This is a quote by the professional NFL cornerback and former student athlete Richard Sherman (Volk). His past experience is the reality for many current student athletes. Sherman expresses his thoughts on the free education student athletes obtain based on his educational experience at Stanford. Throughout the past decade, the rigorous training conditions student athletes have experienced managed to complicate the necessary time management college athletes need to succeed in both athletics and academics. Annually, athletic departments of numerous academic institutions within the U.S gather together to participate in several tournaments the National Collegiate Athletic Association offers. Student-athletes are enlisted in these competitions in order to have the opportunity of becoming professional athletes. Even though these different competitions produce elevated amounts of money through advertising student-athletes, the competitors do not gain any profit. Although student athletes gain many benefits through their athletic connection to their university, the advantages are still outweighed by the fact that they receive no monetary benefit for their hard work. The NCAA gains a significant profit from these athletes yet refuses to fund them. Osorio 2 Every year, several events provide profit to the NCAA through the advertising of different athletic programs academic institutions offer. One of the largest events is March Madness, which stands for the period of time in March where the NCAA college basketball tournament begins to finalize. Recently, the NCAA made 14.2 billion dollars off a contract where CBS sports acquired all the rights to telecast March Madness for 14 years. Furthermore, the different competitions held by the NCAA provide athletic departments with subsidy of 8.8 million (Hoffer). These are just two of the examples that display the mentioned corruption in the system. Student athletes spend around 20 hours on practice a week and have one day off. College hard work is displayed by providing their best performance in the games that are telecasted. While the NCAA gains full profit, the main characters of the event do not earn anything. Another factor that affects the collegiate athletes is the amount of money they receive from a scholarship. For example, average athletic scholarship is about which represents around three fourths of what an average annual tuition is Student-athletes must complete 20 percent of their major every year and with practice time there is no space for a part time job. These statistics display the need of a different kind of aid that could be provided from the NCAA. Even though student-athletes receive an annual scholarship to become part of the athletic community, they are required to meet certain academic standards. Standards that most student- athletes do not meet due to the amount of time that is consumed by practice. These conditions are inconsiderately set by the NCAA. Eventually, student-athletes meet failure and lose both the scholarship and the spot in the athletic program. In around 39 states within the nation the highest paid public employee is an athletic coach (Gaines). An example is Nick Saban, the highest paid football coach, who coaches at the Osorio 3 University of Alabama. Saban earns an annual salary of 7.09 million dollars a year (Gaines). Jim Harbaugh follows him with an annual salary of 7 million dollars, coaching the University of Michigan (Gaines). Hoffers states that the market for student-athletes has strict compensation restrictions, the market for coaches is relatively (Hoffer). College athletes receive no benefit in any aspect due to the NCAA legislation where it states that no student-athlete will receive any monetary profit from any source, while coaches receive most of the benefit that should be properly split for every member. Insufficient scholarships, lack of time, and profitable performance of student athletes prove the fact that student athletes are in need and deserve more. Several individuals can make a difference by becoming involved. Michelle Obama, the former First Lady, represents a campaign whose purpose is to childhood obesity within a generation, so that children born today will grow up healthier and able to pursue their (Learn The Facts). Because of her evident influence in society, Michelle Obama is the perfect candidate to provide support through the promotion of these student athletes by donating to the National Players Association, whose goal is to provide the means for college athletes to voice their concerns and change NCAA rules (Mission and Goals). Student athletes can promote the Campaign by Michelle Obama by advertising the movement during their games and practices. This will interest college athletes to become involved in the movement and have Michelle campaign donate and inform people of this major issue in society. by Michelle Obama was created in order to decrease the rate of obesity in the United States by helping raise a healthier generation of kids. This campaign provides the necessary resources to inform and help society take action over obesity. An example Osorio 4 is the plan that is displayed on their website. This plan consists on informing the audience of the necessary amount of exercise that is needed in order to become a healthy individual. It also discusses the ways and places where one can be active. This program encourages families around the entire nation to become part of this community to overcome the several cases of obesity in the United States. While student-athletes require a group that informs society of their college hardships. The campaign demands the call to be active and make a change. Academic Institution around the United States can engage student athletes to advertise the mission statement This will engage numerous kids to believe in a life where exercising can benefit your future. On the other hand, Michelle Obama will influence the necessary sources in order to inform society with the reality of the corruption in the system on athletic departments. The term student-athlete, stands for an individual who prioritizes his scholar conditions followed by his condition as an athlete. Despite the value the NCAA has in the role of student athletes lives, this value is overshadowed by unfair treatment. With coaches being paid millions of dollars and institutions making huge profits, it seems unreasonable that athletes receive no compensation for the hard work that is making the programs successful. Student-athletes should earn an annual salary that compensates the work and the time that they invested in the program. Michelle Obama and her campaign create a new opportunity for student athletes to bring attention to this ongoing issue. Osorio 5 Work Cited Gaines, Cork. The Highest-paid Public Employee in 39 US States Is Either a Football or Basketball  Business Insider. Business Insider, 22 Sept. 2016. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. Hoffer, Adam and Jared A. Pincin. The Effects of Revenue Changes on NCAA Athletic  Journal of Sport & Social Issues, vol. 40, no. 1, Feb. 2016, pp. 82-102. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=sph &AN=112017404&site=eds-live.  Blog post. National Archives and Records Administration. National Archives and Records Administration, n.d. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. Mission &  More About NCPA. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. Lynn. 7 Things You Need to Know About Sports  U.S. News & World Report. U.S. News & World Report, 22 June 2010. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. Volk, Pete. Seahawks Slam  SBNation.com. SBNation.com, 30 Jan. 2015. Web. 17 Apr. 2017.