Caruso 1 Paige Caruso ENC 1101 Mark Nusspickel 4/30/17 Persuasive Essay Outline I. Introduction/thesis: In this day and age, technology plays a huge part in everyday activities. Not only are adults being affected by the new and fascinating technology however, children are being subjected to it as well. There is an increased use of computers at elementary schools in addition to abundant learning that is being done through some form of technological media. Children are exposed to screens from the day they enter this world now, children have televisions in their rooms, handheld toys that are by theirs sides (i.e. Leapfrog), and an increased trend of children under ten receiving all access to smartphones or tablets. Without direction from an adult the learning done on a technological toy in either school or at home is doomed. Some people believe technology is better done as a solo activity. However, due to the amount of information out there, the fact technology based toys take away from learning, and overall happiness; learning is greatly improved when an authoritative figure is present and interacting. II. Opposing Viewpoint: A. Lots of different resources available online. learning can provide a vast array of learning opportunities including online videos, interactive simulations, Internet information, and content (Edwards 28) Caruso 2 B. Same resources are available online. C. Effects of Integrating Social Learning Environment with Online III. Technology based toys take away from learning opportunities. A. When a child or adolescent uses a technology based toy they are so focused on the toy itself they do not pay attention to what is being learned, nor will they take what they learn and practice it. B. They have all the resources in front of them and available. C. If they are not told how to find a resource they cannot use it. D. problem is that there is too much technology compared to the amount of (Slutsky 20) IV. There is a lot of technology out there that needs to be instructed. A. Technology is so prevalent these days that kids are growing up and being exposed to need things, they need a parent to teacher to help them operate them in a way that will be the most beneficial. B. Since they are being exposed to it earlier they will learn to adapt and become more independent. C. Children interpret things in all different ways and if we leave them to figure it out they may come to the wrong conclusion. Caruso 3 D. the same time, these new technologies, and their increasing place in day-to-day lives, make the traditional portrait of desktop classroom technology seem increasingly (Eisenberg 32) V. The need of facilitators is obvious. A. When learning or doing activities online children need structure of some kind. B. The online activities have instructions. C. Even though they have instructions if a parent or teacher is involved the child will gather more information and retain it. D. learned more from using technology when adults provided them with a safe climate, encouraged them to participate in conversation, involved them in establishing the goals of the activity, and maintained their interaction with the adults and with the (Ching- Ting, 96) E. The Effects of Teacher Facilitation on The Social Interactions of Young Children During Computer  Written by Lau did a study on facilitators and came up with same result. VI. Conclusion: A. Summary of main points or reasons Need facilitators. Technology needs to be instructed. Technology toys take away from learning opportunities. Caruso 4 B. While the rapid progression of technology seems like a fantastic idea, research has shown that the impact of technology on children while learning is greatly improved when an authoritative figure is present and interacting. C. We need to make sure we take a part in our online learning to create a more beneficial outcome. Caruso 5 Technology and children In this day and age, technology plays a huge part in everyday activities. Not only are adults being affected by the new and fascinating technology however, children are being subjected to it as well. There is an increased use of computers at elementary schools in addition to abundant learning that is being done through some form of technological media. Children are exposed to screens from the day they enter this world now, children have televisions in their rooms, handheld toys that are by theirs sides (i.e. Leapfrog), and an increased trend of children under ten receiving all access to smartphones or tablets. Without direction from an adult the learning done on a technological toy in either school or at home is doomed. Some people believe technology is better done as a solo activity. However, due to the amount of information out there, the fact technology based toys take away from learning, and overall happiness; learning is greatly improved when an authoritative figure is present and interacting. Learning based technology is a fairly new thing in schools and is starting younger and younger. As in every new thing there are two sides that do not see eye to eye. A group of people out there are completely for solo online activities and learning. They believe it instills a sense of independence and that children can explore all the resources out there by themselves. An article written by Edwards, of Middle School Students: Learning Online Compared to Face to Explains how so many online resources will help children and adolescence gain more knowledge. learning can provide a vast array of learning opportunities including online videos, interactive simulations, internet information, and content (Edwards, 28) While the opposing view and idea is relevant and holds strong the same information is out there if an authoritative figure is around. The resources do not simply change because there is a parent Caruso 6 or teacher giving instruction, the information and resources may be even more helpful because the facilitator can explain things a little more and pair activities to the information online. If you have ever seen a child or even an adult use a phone, tablet or computer you have witnessed how engrossed in technology someone can become. However, we ask a child to focus on one single task while being presented with numerous other distractors. When a child or adolescent uses a technology based toy to learn they become so focused on the toy itself that they do not pay attention to what is being learned, nor will they take what they learn and practice it. In the article, Playing with Technology: Is It All  written by Slutsky, Ruslan, Mindy Slutsky, and Lori M. Shelter, they discuss just this problem. The fact that children have all of these resources in front of them but will use hardly any of them unless instructed. All the available knowledge is out there but only tiny bits will be grasped by children and adolescence due to the other distracting agents that come along with technology. Slutsky announces, problem is that there is too much technology compared to the amount of (Slutsky, 20), by saying all of this he means we are expecting children to sit in front of a computer and learn all of this information but we do not ask them to act it out in the real world, which is when learning is done the most. Technology is so prevalent in this day and age that kids are growing up and being exposed to new things earlier and earlier. They still need a parent or teacher to help them operate all of this information in a way that will be the most beneficial. All of this information is good and useful, except if children do not know how to navigate the endless supply of information. A research paper was done describing how technology is changing in the forms it comes to us in, the same time, these new technologies, and their increasing place in day-to-day lives, make the traditional portrait of desktop classroom technology seem increasingly Caruso 7 (Eisenberg, 32), Eisenberg understands and announces that we have to be open on where information is coming from in these different forms of technology, and that this gives us even more reason to help children navigate these new forms. The opposing side brings up the point that letting the children and adolescence find all of the information helps to make them more independent however, the internet is a big place and a child interprets things in different ways which may not end beneficially and we do not want them to come to a wrong conclusion when left on their own. Facilitators were invented as an idea for a reason that is still and even more prevalent with technology based learning today. Children thrive when given structure and still need that structure when using technology, a child gathers more beneficial information when a parent or teacher is present and interacting. Even though most online activities have instructions that are clear to children, information retention skyrockets when a facilitator is involved. In a study done by Ching Ting results were found proving this point, learned more from using technology when adults provided them with a safe climate, encouraged them to participate in conversation, involved them in establishing the goals of the activity, and maintained their interaction with the adults and with the (Ching-Ting, 96). Further research done by Lau in The Effects of Teacher Facilitation on The Social Interactions of Young Children During Computer , reiterates this main point that teachers and parents are needed alongside learning. Children need the structure that comes along with facilitators and what they bring to the table; without direction from an adult the learning done on a technological toy in either school or at home is doomed. Some people believe technology is better done as a solo activity. However, due to the amount of information out there, the fact technology based toys take away from learning, Caruso 8 and overall happiness; learning is greatly improved when an authoritative figure is present and interacting. The key idea is that we need to take a part in our online learning to make sure that the outcome is as beneficial as possible. Caruso 9 Works Cited Ching-Ting, Hsin, Li Ming-Chaun, and Tsai Chin-Chung. The Influence of Young Use of Technology on Their Learning: A  Journal of Educational Technology & Society 17.4 (2014): 85-99. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. Edwards, Clayton and Audrey Rule. Attitudes of Middle School Students: Learning Online Compared to Face to  Journal of Computers in Mathematics and Science Teaching, no. 1, 2013, p. 49. Education source. Web. 2 April. 2017. Eisenberg, Michael. Educational Technology,  New Directions for Youth Development 2010.128 (2010): 25-33. Academic Search Premier. Web. 4 Feb. 2017. Lau, Cynthia, et al. The Effects of Teacher Facilitation on The Social Interactions of Young Children During Computer  Topics in Early Childhood Special Education 25.4 (2005): 208. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 4 Feb. 2017. Raspopovic, Miroslava1, et al. The Effects of Integrating Social Learning Environment with Online  International Review of Research in Open & Distance Learning, vol. 18, no. 1, Feb. 2017, pp. 141-159. Education Source. Web. 2 April. 2017. Slutsky, Ruslan, Mindy Slutsky, and Lori M. Shelter. Playing with Technology: Is It All  Dimensions of Early Childhood 42.3 (2014): 18-23. Education Source. Web. 30 Jan. 2017.