Bissette 1 Kylee Bissette ENC 1102-085 Professor Drugan 19 April 2017 Project 3 written Draft Addictions and Preventions Addiction is an unfortunate disease that more than twenty million Americans over the age of twelve currently battle (Addiction Statistics). Most people who suffer from an addiction do not get the treatment they need. An addiction is not normally something that can be combatted alone, but the addict needs to recover for him or herself first and use his or her support system as motivation. The Tampa Bay area has several addictions rehab centers, counseling places, and other places where one can find help. One organization in particular is called DACCO. This acronym stands for Drug Abuse Comprehensive Coordinating Office. DACCO is a drugs and alcohol prevention, intervention, and treatment center. Addiction is serious and is something that can be treated with time, motivation, and hard work. There is more than one way to be addicted to a drug. There are physical and psychological addictions. To be physically addicted to a drug, the biological state in which the body adapts to the presence of a drug so that drug no longer has the same effect, which is also known as tolerance (Addiction). According to Psychology Today, addictions is described as a that results when a person ingests a engages in an can be pleasurable, but the continuation of which becomes compulsive and interferes with ordinary responsibilities and concerns, such as work, Bissette 2 relationships, or (Addiction). A lot of the time, the addict is unaware that he or she has a problem. There are an incredible amount of warning signs that a person is an addict. Some include, but are not limited to; loss of control, neglecting activities they used to enjoy to get drunk or high, risk taking, relationship issues, physical appearance changes, tolerance goes up, get withdrawals, and continues use despite negative consequences. Withdrawals happen when a person becomes dependent upon a drug and they stop using it. Withdrawals can include fever like symptoms such as nausea or vomiting, shaking, sweating, irritability, headaches, trembling, loss of appetite, insomnia, and fatigue (Wilcox). Addictions can be hereditary. If someone in your family is an addict, you, yourself are more likely to become an addict. Stressors in a life are also pushing factors to the start of an addiction. Such stressors can include a divorce or loss of job. A lot of people know at least one person with a problem in addictions, whether it is a family member, friend, or acquaintance. An addiction can ruin a life and tear families apart. Alcohol is the most common substance abused; this may be due to its legality. Alcoholism is also the most untreated addiction. There are so many lives that could be changed for the better if people would just receive help. Getting help is not a bad thing. There is a negative connotation towards rehab, but it actually takes an incredible amount of strength for someone to enter rehab. There are several types of rehab as well. There is in-patient rehab where the patients stay on the campus for a certain amount of time and graduate from the recovery program. Sometimes the length of stay is a fixed stay and sometimes it is up to the client or doctors on when the person in recovery is ready to go home. There is also outpatient rehab. In outpatient rehab the Bissette 3 person still lives at home, but commutes to the rehab facility for his or her appointments. In rehab if the addict is currently using, he or she goes through detox, which is the most difficult part of the recovery. In detox the addict goes through the withdrawals from the substance and can make the person literally want to die. This is why so many addicts get clean, because they handle detox. Detox can last one to four weeks, depending upon what the person was using and for how long. Addicts who are in the recovery process need as much support as they can get. The support comes from family, friends, and really anyone in the life. Fighting an addiction is one of the hardest things a person will ever encounter, but it is possible to overcome. DACCO is a facility located in Florida that helps combat addictions. Its main campus is located in Tampa and has been open since 1973. Their mission statement is is working for a drug-free community: one person, one family at a (Dacco). If someone is struggling with an addiction they can contact DACCO and go through their treatment program. Their team is filled with compassionate and caring professionals who want to see their clients succeed. Their goals are to help the client maintain a substance free life, as well as maintain healthy relationships and empower them. DACCO is open Monday through Friday. Walk-in medical evaluations are available Monday through Friday at 8am and 11am. The beginning of the treatment program starts by figuring out where the addiction stems from and learning how the substance use has affected the life and their life. Each patient is given an individualized treatment plan. DACCO even provides councilors for the family of the addict in recovery. DACCO is partnered with Watch your BAC and Be the Wall. Watch your BAC is offered on school campuses to learn about the effects of binge drinking and Bissette 4 its consequences it could have. Be the Wall is a social marketing campaign designed for parents to support and talk to their children about alcohol use. The advice given by DACCO with Be the Wall is, a parent, guardian, grandparent, relative you have to the between kids and alcohol. Be firm, be clear, be consistent, be the (Dacco). The Be the Wall program helps prevent binge drinking with minors. Parents might think that their children listening to them when they give their lectures, but when they repeatedly give the same one, the kids will listen and they will hear them. The kids whose parents gave them the alcohol and drugs talk will hear their parents in the back of their minds and be more cautious when it comes to experimentation. Be the Wall guides parents in their talks with their kids. It also guides them on how they should be with alcohol in the house, such as locking it away and now making it easy access for their curious teenage minds. There are several ways to get involved in helping combat addictions and prevention of alcohol and drug abuse. The prevention side of addictions all stems from the parenting and education people receive from early on. To conclude, an addiction is certainly treatable and is encouraged to get treated. Addiction affects every aspect of a life and it is senseless to not get treated. If you or someone you know has a problem, help is available with open arms. If the addict surrounds themselves with supportive people and truly wants to better their life, there is a high success rate. It is okay to ask for help and get professional help. In fact, professional help is highly encouraged and is quite courageous. If someone you know is struggling, reach out and help that person get their life on track today. Bissette 5 Works Cited  Psychology Today. Sussex Publishers, n.d. Web. 18 Apr. 2017. <https://www.psychologytoday.com/basics/addiction>. Addiction Statistics - Facts on Drug and Alcohol  Addiction Center. N.p., n.d. Web. 18 Apr. 2017. <https://www.addictioncenter.com/addiction/addiction- statistics/>. Dacco. Our Mission and Vision Drug Abuse Comprehensive Coordinating Office. N.p., n.d. Web. 18 Apr. 2017. <http://www.dacco.org/ABOUTUS/OurMissionandVision.aspx>. Wilcox, Stephen. Signs and  National Council on Alcoholism and Drug Dependence. N.p., n.d. Web. 18 Apr. 2017. <https://www.ncadd.org/about- addiction/signs-and-symptoms/signs-and-symptoms>.