Bojanic 1 Ella Bojanic Professor Drugan ENC 1102 19 April 2017 Project 3 Intermediate Draft The Dilemma From the dinner table all the way up to the White House, the food industry pervades in American culture. One large and particularly controversial part of the food industry, is genetically modified organisms, or GMOs. Genetically modified foods are in 80% of US processed foods, revealing their significance to consumers and agricultural production. However, only 26% of US consumers believe that they have eaten genetically modified foods (Rutgers State University). Evidently, many individuals do not have a comprehensive understanding of GMOs, their effects, and the science behind them. This is particularly troubling since they have such a huge presence in grocery stores, the environment, and the economy. The less consumers know about GMOs, the less they are aware of their negative effects, which expands over more than one area in American society. However, through education, consumers can learn more about GMOs and their harmful effects, eventually moving towards more organic products, while also demanding them to be labeled. Perhaps one of the biggest impact GMOs have are on the environment. Although some agricultural companies argue that genetically modified are more sustainable, research refutes this claim. According to a study done by research professor Charles Benbrook, use increased by an estimated 183 million kgs (404 million pounds), or about since GMO crops were introduced into agriculture (Benbrook). Not only does GMO farming increase pesticide use, Bojanic 2 it also increases monoculture farming, which destroys biodiversity. Monoculture refers to the cultivation of a single crop on a large area of land. According to the USDA 2015 Crop Production summary, a total of 80.7 million acres of US soil is allocated to corn production, with an average of 20.4 tons yielded per acre (USDA) A total of 88% of this corn is genetically modified (USDA). Although abundant, this mass production of crops causes serious threats to biodiversity, soil, and the crops themselves. Because so much of one crop is planted over acres of land, the soil becomes depleted of its natural nutrients. In addition, this massive industrial agriculture relies on big machinery, pesticides, and fertilizers in order to thrive. All these things expel harmful chemicals and fossil fuels into the air and soil, threatening the life around it (Pesticide Action Network). Monocrops are also susceptible to pests and insects. Even if the crops are genetically modified to resist pests, an organism can become resistant to the crop, putting the whole entire harvest at stake. In order to increase production, GMOs have been created to resist pests, thrive in a variety of weather conditions, and grow faster. While this seems positive, it only expands the industrial agriculture industry, posing serious long term threats to the environment. Another concern regarding genetically modified organisms is their impact on the economy. GMOs are typically associated with big biotech companies such as Monsanto, who creates and patents GMO seeds. There are six big GMO corporations that control both the seed market and pesticides. These include Monsanto, Dupont, Dow Chemical Company, Syngenta, Bayer, and BASF. 4 of these 6 companies control 60% of the seed market, 70% of the soybean market, and 80% of the corn market (Pesticide Action Network). Clearly, these GMO companies have monopolized the food industry, threatening all other small farming businesses. While these companies are independent, they control many farmers with their patent on GMO seeds. Farmers Bojanic 3 who purchase GMO seeds are obligated to pay licensing fees, sign contracts, and abide by the rules, which include how long the farmers can grow the crop for. In order to escape patent infringement, farmers are typically pressured into rebuying the seeds each year, limiting liability (Katiree). Yet, there are still some issues that occur. Contamination is a big one, even if the contamination happens unintentionally. For instance, if a natural agent like wind happens to relocate a GMO seed to another neighboring farm, that farmer is at risk for being sued if he/she has not paid for that seed. This phenomenon is known as seed piracy, or the unauthorized use of GMO seeds (). In many cases, seed piracy criminalizes farmers and puts them in financial risk. However, this also pressures small farmers to purchase GMO seeds in order to gain security from corporate companies. In addition, since GMO seeds have been created, seed prices have increased exponentially. From 1996 until now, prices of soy seeds increased by 325%, and GMO cotton has increased by 516% (Katirre). This strategy makes it extremely difficult for small farms to survive without debt, and paves the road to total corporatism in agriculture. Evidently, the private sector that controls GMOs creates a great imbalance in the economy. Perhaps the most direct and uncertain effect GMOs have is on human health. Because GMO seeds are patented, independent studies must gain permission and access from companies to research on their seed. However, those studies are constrained to research restrictions placed by the company who owns the seed. The longest independent study on GMOs lasted two years and was conducted by French molecular biologist Gilles-Eric Seralini. In his study, he tested the long term effects of GM maize on Sprague-Dawley breed rats, the same rats Monsanto utilized in their 90-day study on GM foods. The study found that the rats started developing tumors around 4-7 months in, only increasing in time. Female rats became more susceptible to tumors, specifically mammary tumors, or tumors found in the breasts. In male rats, livers and kidneys Bojanic 4 were more affected, with deaths mostly due to liver and kidney disease. (Seralini) When this peer reviewed study captured attention, an abundance of backlash and animosity wavered within the agriculture community, sparking much criticism. This study clearly suggests that scientists and researchers should take active measures to investigate the long term effects on GM foods. However, because the FDA does not require independent testing on GM crops, and research requires company permission, the uncertainty on GMO health effects will progress a while longer. Despite GMOs harmful effects, consumers can actively take measures to avoid them. One of the biggest ways to reduce spending on GM foods, is to buy organic and natural alternatives. Through approved methods, organic foods are free from chemicals like pesticides and fertilizers, as well as GMOs. In order to lower costs, organic produce can be bought in season and with coupons. Consumers can check for the organic or Non-GMO project label to verify that the products are free from genetic alteration. In addition, there are a variety of food apps that allow consumers to scan the product barcode and notify them of all the harmful and GMO ingredients in the item. Another good way to get involved, is for consumers to demand for GMOs to be labeled. Currently, a total of 64 countries label GMOs, the US excluded (Right to Know Center). Yet this fact can change, as more and more consumers are concerned for their health. Consumers can contact their local representative and share their concerns, as well as participate in protests and petitions. With unison, consumers and organizations can influence legislation to take steps towards GMO labeling. Although GMOs are a large aspect of our food and culture, consumers should opt for healthier and more sustainable options. It is through their active engagement that real change can Bojanic 5 ensue. Not only can their voices transform how GM foods are labeled, but they can also influence the imbalanced corporate industry. Much work and effort still remains, but with majority cooperation, our nation can develop into a brighter future. Works Cited Benbrook, Charles M. Impacts of genetically engineered crops on pesticide use in the U.S. -- the first sixteen  Environmental Sciences Europe 24.1 (2012): 24. Web. https://www.usda.gov/nass/PUBS/TODAYRPT/cropan16.pdf http://www.miaminewtimes.com/restaurants/how-monsanto-is-terrifying-the-farming-world- 6392824 Bojanic 6 http://www.justlabelit.org/right-to-know-center/labeling-around-the-world/ http://www.panna.org/key-issues/gmos-pesticides-profit https://www.geneticliteracyproject.org/2015/11/13/10-studies-proving-gmos-are-harmful-not-if- science-matters/ http://news.rutgers.edu/research-news/most-americans-pay-little-attention-genetically-modified- foods-survey-says/20131101#.WPgbJrSaD-Y