Daniel Garcia 4/28/2017 ENC1101 Professor Nusspickel Garcia 1 Persuasive Essay Outline I. In order to protect future graduates, there should be more leeway when repaying loans. II. Many argue that it is the duty of the student to pay back all the loans they had borrowed, which is stated in the documents that you sign before receiving the loans. It is our responsibility as students to abide by the rules, and follow the guidelines that are stated in the documents we sign. According to It is also important to realize the amount one chooses to take out and spend, and how much they expect to earn when starting out in that field. A. It is our duty as students to payback our loans no matter the situation we happen to be in after graduation. B. Although paying back loans is important, and our duty as students. The time allotted to students to pay back loans should be slightly increased due to how competitive, and difficult it is to find jobs within our fields. Garcia 2 III. Finding work straight out of graduation is a difficult process and only few get lucky enough to find work on time, and begin repaying student loans. Given a six grace period before starting to pay back loans is difficult for those who intend to find work in their intended major. A. Giving graduates six months to start paying back loans is unfair. Finding work thousands of other graduates are fighting to get is difficult and very competitive and expecting graduates to pay back these loans in just 6 time is unfair, and should be extended to at least one year. B. Giving students one year would be beneficial to graduates and would cause less complications. Graduates would at least have found a source of income within that time frame, and would have a good amount of time to balance out their budgets and can prepare for future monthly payments they would need to make. C. A great example would be an article which explains how one in ten qualified nurses have yet found a nursing job after six months in fact 10 percent are unemployed. D. By increasing the allotted time to one year individuals who graduate have more of a chance to find a job and prepare themselves to make these monthly payments that are required of them. IV. Giving a relaxed timeline can give graduations more prep time to prepare for monthly payments that are expected of them. A. As a graduate finding jobs in our intended major is difficult as stated previously. It is our goal to find jobs that are relevant to our major but sometimes this is not the case, but by Garcia 3 giving a grace period of a year, graduates will be able to make important decisions such as finding a job in a new area to be able to bring income. B. Competition is fierce when finding a job in your field. As a graduate it is important to realize that many other graduates are after the same job which makes it less likely for any one graduate to get the job. Since options are limited and many graduates with the same degree are fighting for a position, it is likely that you may not be able to get the job you want, and by giving ourselves a year we can determine that we are not making progress and can find another job to be able to start making income to pay for our loans. C. On debate website 75% agree with giving graduates leeway to pay back loans. A majority say that it is our duty as students to pay back our loans. However, receiving an extended timeline would greatly help those who are struggling with finding a job. V. Conclusion A. It is our duty as students to pay back these loans we have borrowed, however an extension to our time to pay back the loans would help graduates immensely. B. By providing more leeway to paying back loans, graduates have a chance to achieve their goals of working in their intended major. C. Allowing an extra six months to repay our student loans would come a long way. Garcia 4 Persuasive Essay: Student Loan Time Extension Student loan debt has been a problem for the longest time. Graduates are finding it difficult to repay the loans within six months of graduating. Extending the allotted time to pay back loans by six months would make it easier to transition into the real world, and finding a reasonable continuous source of income to start paying off our student debts. Many argue that students should not make the financial commitment and sign the documents when applying for loans or financial aid. That it is our duty as students to pay back the loans we received in the time frame we have been given. Although it is our obligation to pay back loans, receiving a longer time frame would greatly help graduates. The many people who are opposed to giving graduates leeway fail to understand the difficulty in finding a job that pertains to the major one graduates with. It is a very competitive world, and graduates are constantly fighting for a position that is relevant to what they studied. Time is a factor when looking for work, it is not something that can be easily obtained. Adjusting to the real world, and finding a continuous source of income takes time. In order to protect the financial future of college graduates there should be more options available when repaying loans. Paying back loans is our responsibility as students. Many argue that the time allotted is a reasonable amount of time. That signing the papers to receive the loans and understanding the guidelines is something we should take very seriously. According this person who is opposed to giving graduates leeway for paying back loans; loan is a legally binding agreement and students should be required to honor (Debate.org 1). Although paying back loans is important, giving an extended time frame would help graduates make important decisions such as continuing to look for work in their area of study or settle for another job to start paying back Garcia 5 what they owe, and make a living. According to Nadler fail to match loans taken with potential career (Nadler 1). This has been a big reason as to why students have the debt they have. Borrowing money to go to school is almost a necessity because of how much tuition costs, however after graduating, finding a job is not as easy as it seems even though you have a degree showing you are knowledgeable in that particular field of study. Graduates have suffered for years paying off their loans. hard enough having to pay back tens of thousands of dollars in student debt, but to have to start paying that amount in only six time after graduation is extremely difficult and stressful. College is stressful enough especially when you are trying to compete with other students to make better grades. Extending this grace period by another six months would at least give graduates enough time to adjust, and prepare accordingly. Making important decisions that will alter your life takes time, and planning. A perfect example would be buying a home, or finding a new place to live. Many graduates understand the basics of becoming an adult, like how to pay bills, and live on their own. Giving graduates only six months is not enough time to make life changing decisions. There are times when graduates even find a job that has anything to do with their field of studies because of how scarce positions are in their area, or because they make the cut. Instances like these occur, and since graduates are only given six months they have to move onto plan B and find a completely new job that just requires a degree. By giving one time many graduates would be able to search for their dream jobs, and have more time to plan and decide whether plan B should be an option. Finding a good job typically takes time, getting interviews making hundreds of phone calls, making long drives to meet with companies that are not located in your state. This process can take a tremendous amount of time, and a considerable amount of Garcia 6 planning. Giving a graduate a year would help to eliminate that pressure they feel when they are up against the wall with time, and cause them to make fewer mistakes. Finding jobs within six months can be very difficult. Students go to school all across America to study what they are passionate about, and what they see themselves doing after graduation. However, many people realize how difficult that really is. Imagine a student goes to school to become an accountant, this said student goes to school take the courses they need, and graduates. Everything seems fine until this student realizes how many other people are graduating with that very same degree. It is difficult to land a job when there are thousands of others fighting to find a job in the same exact field. Six months seem like enough time, especially when graduates are fighting with thousands of other people who want that same opportunity as them. A perfect example would be the qualified nurses who could not find a job within six months. According to Bill and Agnew than one in ten newly qualified nurses are not in health service jobs six months after (Bill Agnew 1). Basically even though a student has the degree it mean jobs are easily and quickly accessible. Giving a longer time frame would help graduates at least find a job that has relevance to their field of study, and find a continuous source of income. It is our duty as students to pay back these loans we have borrowed, however the time given to graduates is unreasonable and needs to be changed to a more realistic time frame such as one year. By providing more leeway to paying back loans, graduates have a chance to achieve their goals of working in their intended major. Allowing an extra six months to repay our student loans would, help graduates adjust to living in the real world, and have time to make important life decisions. As you can see the support I have presented shows that the time currently given to Garcia 7 graduates is such a short and unreasonable amount especially when you see what needs to be done after graduation. Garcia 8 Work Cited Doult, Bill and Thelma Agnew. Hundreds Fail to Find a Nursing Job Six Months After  Nursing Standard, no. 21, 2006, p. 5. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu Nadler, Mark. Helping New Grads Understand Student Loan Repayment Options Can Aid Retirement Planning  23.11 (2009): 51-52. AgeLine. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Should There Be More Leeway for Students Who Are in Debt Because of Student  Debate.org. N.p., n.d. Web. 02 Apr. 2017. Rose, Clarence C. Overcoming The Obstacles Student Debt Presents To The Ability To Buy A  Journal Of Financial Service Professionals 70.5 (2016): 72-80. Business Source Premier. Web. 1 Feb. 2017. Sullivan, James, and Melissa Towell. Student Loans: What You Need To Know Before  Journal Of Accountancy 223.1 (2017): 49-52. Business Source Premier. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Wilson, Robin. A Lifetime Of Student Debt? Not  The Chronicle Of Higher Education 37 (2009): Academic OneFile. Web. 5 Feb. 2017.