Student 1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 14 April 2017 Depression Victimizing the Elderly The number one health disorder in the world is depression. It is estimated that it affects more than 300 million people worldwide, but just in the United States alone, more than 16 million people are affected by it annually (Depression World Health Organization.). Depression can affect anyone of any age group; this can range from a child as young as 12 years old to adults in their last moments of their life. Middle aged people are at the highest risk for developing this mental illness (Depression). Depression is a medical condition that causes an individual to feel unhappy, isolate themselves, and lose interest in daily activities (Center of Disease Control). There are other symptoms for depression, but these are the most prevalent characteristics. Although there have been many campaigns, such as the Mental Health Reform which was signed by the former president Barack Obama to bring awareness to mental illness, the public still does not acknowledge the severity of mental disorders (Mental Health Reform Legislation). A problem with depression amongst the age group of 49 through 54 years old is that many of the individuals are uneducated on the issue. People among this age group should adopt a position against depression because they are the ones who have a greater risk for developing depression; however, many do not want to because there is a negative stigma associated with depression. People feel ashamed of their depression and often isolate themselves which prevents them from seeking the appropriate treatment option. Educating this group on depression should occur Student 2 because it will allow them to get the proper treatment, be able to help those who show signs of it, and raise awareness around their community. Psychotherapy is collaborative treatment based on the relationship between an individual and a (Understanding Psychotherapy and How It Works). Although psychotherapy requires the individual to be committed to regularly visit their therapist, the payout is immaculate. This treatment option is more advantageous than antidepressants because the individual will obtain skills to overcome daily obstacles (French). Even when they stop going to visit their therapist, the individual can use the skills they were taught unlike that of antidepressants. If patients were to stop taking their medication, they will have a higher chance for relapse. Cognitive behavior therapy is a kind of psychotherapy that on identification of distorted perception that the patient may have... changing these perceptions, and discovering new patterns of action and (Depression). A study was conducted by Lydia R. M French on a group of people who were taking a cognitive behavior therapy session for several weeks (French). She wanted to see if the people still used the skills they learned from their session after they stopped going to the sessions. They were asked several questions that would determine their depression. At the end of the study, it was discovered that the people still used the techniques they learned from the therapy sessions (French). This demonstrates how effective psychotherapy is long-term. Another reason why psychotherapy is a much better treatment than antidepressants is that it does not pose any side effects that can harm the individual. Common side effects that antidepressants produce are headaches, vomiting and nausea. The odds of getting a headache is 16.8 percent when taking antidepressants (Anderson). However, this is not the case when it comes to the non-engaged group because they are prone for heart and lung Student 3 issues if they take antidepressants (Depression). Therefore, psychotherapy is much more effective and is a safer treatment option for the non-engaged group. While depression affects all age groups, people that are between the ages of 49 through 54 have the highest chance to develop it. Depression also increases the chances for suicide attempts or suicidal thoughts to occur. is the third leading-cause of death related injury in elderly (Depression). Andrew Solomon is a well-known writer who became a victim of depression and he tells his experience of depression in a Ted Talks video. He discusses how losing interest in almost everything and want to do any of the things previously wanted to (4 TED Talks on Overcoming Depression). What he stated in that video is an example of one of the signs of depression where an individual does not want to do anything anymore. Men have the highest chance of committing suicide (Depression). Mr. Solomon was on the verge of committing suicide because he no longer could bare the mental toll that depression was inflicting on him. The only reason why he did not go along with it is because to hurt other (4 TED Talks on Overcoming Depression). Mr. Solomon provides a first-hand experience with depression and how it affected him on a daily basis. For him to share this intimate experience with a group of individuals shows how serious this disorder is and should not be overlooked. In the end of his Ted Talks conference, he found out that the more he talked to people about depression, the more those people wanted to tell their stories (4 TED Talks on Overcoming Depression). Though the audience was not talking to a professional about their depression, they were able to talk to someone about their issues. This suggests that communication with an individual can help reduce their depression. If the non-engaged stakeholder is unable to talk to a therapist for any reason, they can talk to love ones or friends about their depression which could possibly improve their mental health. Student 4 After providing information about depression and who it affects, the non-engaged stakeholder should care about this matter because they are at the highest risk for depression. It is important to educate this group on this mental illness. Some ineffective solutions that have been offered in the past or could be assumed is that as people age, their attitudes become associated with negative connotations. Therefore, when someone sees these traits in older people, they often overlook them and do not consider them to have depression. Failing to confront this problem or not acknowledging that the person has developed depression may result in the individual to grow suicidal thoughts, self-inflict harm, or worse - attempt to commit suicide. A way to prevent this problem is for the non-engaged group to seek help, without any hesitation, from loved or friends. Once this is done, they should consider going to see a medical professional, such as a psychotherapist. The newly engaged stakeholder can show their support for the position by telling those people that there is no shame in admitting they have depression. There is nothing wrong with getting help from someone who wants to see one in a better mental state; in this case, a psychotherapist. The stakeholder can also spread awareness in their community by hosting informative events about depression in their community center. Psychotherapy provides the most effective treatment to those between the ages of 49 through 54 because it allows those individuals to obtain the necessary skills to overcome the daily obstacles without the need of antidepressant medications. The evidence provided in the paper offers both qualitative and quantitative data. The quantitative data cannot be argued false, thus supporting the stance that psychotherapy is advantageous for the overall health of the individuals. The qualitative information from Mr. Solomon offers an insight of how depression affects a person. People should not overlook individuals who show distinct signs of depression, even though there is a social stigma that older people have the worst tempers compared to other Student 5 age groups. Assist those individuals by contacting a psychotherapist. Though depression is a serious matter, the right therapist and support from people can help overcome it. (WC1211) Student 6 Work Cited Anderson, Heather D., et al. Pharmacotherapy: Rates of 5 Common Antidepressant Side Effects among New Adult and Adolescent Cases of Depression: A Retrospective US Claims  Clinical Therapeutics, vol. 34, 01 Jan. 2012, pp. 113-123. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.clinthera.2011.11.024. Bret R. Rutherford, M.D., author, et al. Patient Expectancy as a Mediator of Placebo Effects in Antidepressant Clinical  American Journal of Psychiatry, no. 2, 2017, p. 135. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1176/appi.ajp.2016.16020225. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 23 Jan. 2017. Web. 04 Mar. 2017. <https://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/campaign/tips/diseases/depression-anxiety.html>.  University of Maryland Medical Center. N.p., n.d. Web. 02 Apr. 2017.  World Health Organization. World Health Organization, n.d. Web. 30 Apr. 2017 de Roten, Yves, et al. Research Paper: Efficacy of an Adjunctive Brief Psychodynamic Psychotherapy to Usual Inpatient Treatment of Depression: Results of a Randomized Controlled  Journal of Affective Disorders, vol. 209, 01 Feb. 2017, pp. 105-113. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.jad.2016.11.013. French, Lydia R. M., et al. Long Term Use of Cognitive Behavioural Skills to Manage Their Depression: A Qualitative  Behavioural & Cognitive Psychotherapy, vol. 45, no. 1, Jan. 2017, pp. 46-57. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1017/S1352465816000382 Mental Health Reform Legislation (S. 2680/H.R.  Mental Health America. N.p., 14 Dec. 2016. Web. 30 Apr. 2017 Student 7 Ted. 4 TED Talks on overcoming  Overcoming depression Playlist TED.com. N.p., n.d. Web. 02 Apr. 2017. Understanding Psychotherapy and How It  American Psychological Association. American Psychological Association, n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.