Shelby Merrell Merrell 1 Karen Hanson ENC 1102 4/13/17 Advocate for STEAM Education The fast-growing topic of STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics) has taken storm across the country, and has sparked an interest in many parents into what their children are really learning in the classroom. Having the current education in process, students are enveloped in a curriculum focused on able thrive in a modern STEM (US Department of Education) Shifting this focus, it surely pushes students into these fields of study, which are a necessity for a society to function and become innovative, such professions like doctors, engineers, and chemists. However, where are the arts incorporated in this equation? This is the flaw found in the current program, with our students not receiving a well-rounded education and not being shown the possibility of a future dedicated to the arts and design aspect so necessary for others to perform their duties. Through the empowerment of parents and teachers everywhere, this issue can be resolved, and we can guarantee a rounded education for every child. Currently, the curriculum being taught in schools focuses on the aspects seen in our current need in our economy and deemed important by societal standards that every child must learn to be successful, which are the topics of math and science. A child falling behind in reading deemed nearly as frightening as a young child missing topics in mathematics. For those pushing to incorporate the arts and for those currently pushing for the current protocol, both can agree that the diversity of students in these courses is a priority. Per the US Department of Education, race, zip code, or socioeconomic status should never determine their STEM Along with the inclusivity need for all students, a hope for students even with disabilities is in the works, with the workings of the which stands for Universal Design Shelby Merrell Merrell 2 Karen Hanson ENC 1102 4/13/17 of Learning. (Morin) Bringing this learning adaptability into the classroom would help students with disadvantages to learning, but have a special interest in a topic of science or design, making it much more accessible. This could greatly enrich the learning capacities of many students, like those with autism or dyslexia. Having these be developed will one day be brought into the classroom to create equality for all students. The goal of having the incorporation for more girls into the STEM and STEAM (Science, Technology, Engineering, Arts and Design, and Mathematics Education) initiative greatly increases the equality of the current execution of the curriculum, showing the expanding interest for more women to be into fields such as these. As the STEAM movement grows, it is supported by teachers, researchers, policy makers, students, and and shows promise in being brought into the future. Now how do we change the current path on? Through communication alone, involvement in a education is consistently found to be positively associated with a academic (Parental Involvement) If you have a child of your own, simply scheduling a conference with the teacher or teachers they have could be the first step to your success and tapping into their full potential. Ask what is being taught in the classroom, and how they incorporate arts and design into the curriculum. See if the child has the options to learn in a way that brings these ideas to the table, and are easily accessible to them, such as If you feel the curriculum for the bettering of your own student or for the benefit of others, perhaps try contacting the district superintendent and discussing this with them, or even emailing them so they have complete information and easier access to you and your child. Want an even bigger platform to show support for the idea of an overall STEAM Education? Consider contacting your state representative to discuss the current laws in place for education and where Shelby Merrell Merrell 3 Karen Hanson ENC 1102 4/13/17 the goals are held and the possibility of STEAM education coming into play. Hearing a concern towards education and the wave of new bills being passed and being taken into consideration by everyone could give the representative a sense of purpose, knowing the actions being taken are directly affecting students. With contact comes direct acknowledgment of the standard held by parents everywhere, and brings to light the issue of our students missing out on countless possibilities to earn a head start their future. Having this information being drawn to front page news for some, the time is now to act for the possibility every child has for the success of their life. By bringing the incorporation of STEAM standards and ideals being placed into schools and being a part of normal life, students have the option of choosing what they want to dedicate themselves to in their lives and can hopefully change the world with their drive and determination. wait for the change to happen on its own, make the change for children everywhere, and give them all the chances they deserve. Shelby Merrell Merrell 4 Karen Hanson ENC 1102 4/13/17 Works Cited  STEM to STEAM. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 Morin, Amanda. Understanding Universal Design for Learning: What It Is and How It . Understood.org. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Technology, Engineering and Math: Education for Global U.S. Department of Education. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Topor, David R., Susan P. Keane, Terri L. Shelton, and Susan D. Calkins. Parent involvement and student academic performance: A multiple mediational  Journal of prevention & intervention in the community. U.S. National Library of Medicine, 2010. Web. 13 Apr. 2017.