Bora 1 Marcel Bora Professor Drugan ENC 1102.085 18 April 2017 Project 3 Intermediate Draft No More Cages A problem that not many people know about is the plight of animals in zoos. The entertainment value of zoos relies on the trapping and caging of wild animals and very few people know what actually happens behind the scenes. The animals are subject to abuse in many places and the zoos that do not abuse the animals still keep them in cages that are extremely different from their natural habitats, whether it be in size or the fact that there are iron bars. For the better treatment of these animals, zoos should not be allowed to capture new animals from the wild and should have a strict set of rules to follow for the habitats of those animals that cannot live in the wild. The first recorded zoos were in the Holy Roman Empire in the 8 th century. These animals in the zoos were kept in dismal conditions and most died because the did not know how to take care of the animals. The first zoo created for scientific purposes was in 1828 in London, England but it would not be until 1907 in Stellingen, Germany when zoos actually started to adjust the habitats to match the natural environments of their In Ester article she states that, was the first to use moats instead of bars, and matched the enclosures closer to the natural (The History of Zoos). This step was over 100 years ago and since then, not much has changed. The creation of safari parks was a step in the right direction as it creates an open area that allows the animals to roam but there are not Bora 2 many of these zoos. Conservation efforts in zoos began during the (M The Evolution of Zoos) and have been a huge help but are rarely the primary goal of a zoo. All in all, zoos are mainly just a source of entertainment for humans. Many zoo owners care for the animals that are under their care. For example, elephants walk at least 30 miles every day and live in large social groups but many zoos fail to facilitate these simple needs and as such, the lifespan of elephants in zoos is much shorter than that in the wild (Curit Why Elephants Belong In Zoos). This is only one example of animals in zoos that are suffering because we humans are using them for entertainment. To put it into perspective, animals being put into zoos and fake habitats is like putting an innocent person in jail with poor food and no way out. The hunting of animals to sell to zoos also damages environments and ecosystems around the world and this could create problems for humans. What should be done is to completely get rid of all zoos and to use the funds that they generate to help conservation efforts. This cannot be full done though so the second best option is to allow zoos to remain open but to have them follow strict guidelines. These guidelines would include a larger habitat, better food, and better treatment. This would help the animals feel as if they are in the wild and live longer healthier lives. The zoos could agree to this because the nicer and happier the animals look, the more willing people are to pay entry to see those animals. The zoos would also need to stop buying and supporting the hunting of animals to catch and bring to zoos. This is a horrible practice and it stops once the poachers have no one to sell to. The zoos should focus more on helping animals that cannot live in the wild and to breed endangered animals to release to the wild. In conclusion, I think that zoos should follow a morestrict set of guidelines if they want to stay open because as of right now, the animals are suffering more than they should and it is Bora 3 just wasting lives. We let humans get treated like this so why do we let other living beings like animals get treated like this. Please just contribute to an animal rights group near you to try and change the perspectives on zoos. Bora 4 Works Cited Curit, Rachel. Why Elephants Belong in  One Green Planet. N.p., n.d. Web. 19 Apr. 2017. <http://www.onegreenplanet.org/animalsandnature/why-elephants-dont- belong-in-zoos/> M, Stephanie. The Evolution of  Lady of the Zoos. N.p., 15 June 2013. Web. 19 Apr. 2017. <https://ladyofthezoos.com/2013/06/15/the-evolution-of-zoos/>. Suson, Esther Elizabeth. The History of  Hankering for History. N.p., 28 Dec. 2016. Web. 18 Apr. 2017. <http://hankeringforhistory.com/history-of-zoos/>.