Mingxuan Xie William Drugan ENC1102.085S17 19 April, 2017 Project 3 Intermediate Draft The Energy Renovation in History In the history, during people finish evolution and until to today high technology ages, the energy always is the most important to society developing. Something is affirmatory, that the society developing cannot ignore the energy developing. However, after the 20 th century, the people finish the Second Industrial Revolution, some scientist makes the research, the main idea about the energy shortage; because for since 20 th century, the fossil energy become the most popular energy source, such as petroleum, coal and nature gas. For industrialize society developing, people need more energy, and quantity demanded increase every day. As coping strategy, the scientist will calculate the fossil energy surplus in the earth, and make an estimate. So, the energy will become empty, it is really? So, let the time back to before century, since the people just finish the evolution from forest. Everybody knows, that the largest different between people and animal, because for people understand how use the tools. At the early year, the people can use the stone tools which are use of knapped, so this age named Paleolithic. According to the archaeological findings, in China, the scientist found the historical remains named Lantian, in the same strata as and close to the Lantian Man fossils, animal fossils and stone artifacts were found, such as treated pebbles and flakes. Because for this, the scientist infer that Lantian Man can control the fire. As the earliest human fossil in East Asia, the Lantian Man can use the fire; it is the earliest energy used record in East Asia. As the time to the Year One, the fire energy is popular energy in society, basically that more family understands how to make fire, in that time, the fire energy become popular because for the energy source is easy to find, someone only found the dry woods from the mountain or outdoor. But this time, the human society is developing to Feudal society, the social production need reformation, so the craftsman invent the water wheel, the water wheel build near the river, depend on water flow, to finish the grinding grain and irrigate field job. In ancient China, at 2 nd BC, the water wheel is use in more production field, one of the most intriguing applications was for iron casting, according to an ancient text, and in 31 AD the engineer Tu Shih a water-powered reciprocator for the casting of agricultural smelters and casters were instructed to use the rushing of water to operate their (Hansen). In China, the water wheel invented, makes a huge influence about the product, this also is early stage energy revolution; although the water wheel also found in ancient Greek, but the product still depend on slave and donkey-powered mills, this phenomenon until the Silk Road was open up, it was changed. After long time past, the society come to 18 th century, at England, Britain, an engineer finish the job to the improve the steam engine, this engineer named James Watt, he improved on 1712 steam engine with his Watt steam engine in 1781. Because improve, the steam engine becomes the unprecedented energy revolution. The steam engine same as a catalytic agent, more new invented be found by people, such as steam train, steamship, spinning jenny, and machine tool, the industry developed with top speed, the people society arrived the age of machine, and become to the industry revolution. This time, the main energy source change to steam, instead of the water, fire and animal power. Same time, in 1752, Ben Franklin conducted his experiment with a kite, a key, and a storm, this is first time that people found the principle of electricity; after one century, the scientist named Faraday, who found the electromagnetic induction; this is an important found during Industry Revolution (Atkinson). Since industry revolution, the petroleum and coal become the most important energy source, because for they can use in generate electricity, and as fuel to the vehicle. However, when the scientist found that the fossil energy is unrenewable resources, the people begin to think about the new energy; if the oil and coal become empty, the modern civilization developing will stagnate. During World War Two, the United States made the first nuclear bomb in the world, and test explosion in Nevada. In 1949, the Soviet Union finishes the first nuclear bomb. Although the nuclear weapon as a powerful weapon, make the people fear about this, but the scientist think that the nuclear can as a new energy source, and it can replace the oil and coal. Finally, in 1954, June 27, the first nuclear power plant opens in Soviet, Obninsk (Long). The nuclear use in generate electricity is important symbol that people use the nuclear in peace field, the world, during Cold War, come to the age of nuclear. The nuclear power station opening, it is really decrease the pressure about the oil and coal demand. However, the good impression to the nuclear energy stop in 1986, in USSR, Pripyat, the Chernobyl disaster has occurred, the nuclear radiation destroy this city, and make the pollution to the world. If you know the Chernobyl disaster, everyone should know the Fukushima. In 2011, Japan, a serious earthquake attack Fukushima, the earthquake also caused serious tidal wave, the wave make the Fukushima nuclear power station destroy, until today, the Japanese government still have not a good plan to solve the radioactive contamination in Fukushima. Two disaster cause the people have doubt to the safety about the nuclear power, it also make people start renew the energy. Today, more motor company start to found the new energy motor vehicle, the most famous company is Tesla, they ensure every auto is use electric as energy source, and replace the petrol. More country start builds the new energy power station; depend on this, to solve the power supply; such as wind power station, and solar power station, although in 20 th century, some technology about them was found, but it real receive attention in 21 st century. So, with the technology developing, the energy source also developing, although more new energy technology is immature, but before 200 years, more people also think the steam engine is immature. The new energy will found and replace old one, the problem about energy always be solved. Work Cited Tony Long, June 27, 1954: First Nuclear Power Plant Opens, Wired, June 27 2012, Web, April 19 2017. Nancy Atkinson, Who Discovered Electricity?, Universe Today, December 23 2015, Web, April 19 2017. Roger D. Hansen, Water Wheels. WaterHistory.Org, Web April 19 2017. Daniel Trump, Importance of the Michael Faraday Invention of the Electric Motor. Web, April 19 2017.