Trisha ! 1 Trisha Trisha Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 30 April 2017 Protection of Abused Animals Animals have been abused by humans for various purposes be it testing chemicals or food, clothes etc. Many people think that this is completely normal as it happens on a regular and large scale (Cavalieri). What people tend to forget is the pain and suffering that animals go through when they are taken to the slaughterhouses to get slaughtered for needs. Since these animals cannot speak, people never realise what pain they go through (Scully). PETA, an American Animal Rights Organisation which is established in Virginia and is headed by Ingrid Newkirk, takes care of all the animals that have suffered or abused by humans and have been through a lot of pain. PETA has a motto to stop the use of animals for all the purposes because they believe are not ours to eat, wear, experiment on, use for entertainment, or abuse in (PETA). Like this organization, the paper is trying to draw the attention of the non- engaged stakeholders like men in order to take their help and spread awareness among people. People should stop the use of animals, for any purposes and works towards raising awareness to end this problem with the help of campaigns and advertisements. Due to the conditions of these abused animals, men should work on convincing the women in their lives to use products that are not made from animals so that the mistreatment comes to an end. Trisha ! 2 There are many reasons why individuals abuse animals. Animal cruelty covers a wide range of actions. Learning about animal abuse also reveals the behavior of any abusers. Animal cruelty is often broken down into two main categories: active and passive, also denoted to as commission and omission, respectively. People first started thinking about the integrity and cruelty to animals in 1714. It was not pet owners who first wanted to change the usage of animals, it was the people who worked with agricultural procedures. The first humane society for the avoidance of cruelty to animals was founded in London in 1824. Great Britain started the animal welfare movement in 1835 with the passage of an act to and amend the several laws relating to the cruelty and improper treatment of (Guither, 2). In 1911 Parliament passed the Protection of Animals Act which says it is wrong for people to cause animals suffering. The Protection of Animals in Europe led to the change to protect animals in the United States. The first Humane Societies formed in the United States started in the nineteenth century. The first group was started in 1866 the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (ASPCA). It started an animal shelter and an animal control program. Some groups that followed were the American Humane Association (AHA) in 1877, the Anti- Cruelty Society in 1899, and the Humane Society of the United States (HSUS) in 1954. The Animal Welfare act was passed in 1966 and has since then been modified. Today in California, if a person is guilty of cruelty to animals they can be charged at most $20,000 in fines and up to a year in prison (Guither, 2). Women who use products like clothes, bags etc. made by animal skins and cosmetics that are tested on animals do not realise the pain and suffering that these animals go through. The problem starts with when they are brought in the slaughter houses. These animals are not kept in Trisha ! 3 proper conditions, in the slaughter houses. These are put in small cages and small spaces, all squashed up one upon the other. Some of these animals even suffer from permanent disfiguration as they are not kept in proper spaces. After this, these animals are taken in the slaughter houses and are killed in the most inhumane way possible (Nandini). They are mistreated and are forced in machines where they are killed and skinned alive. That pain is indescribable. People who use products made of animals often do not realise all this. It could be probably because these people are not made aware of animal abuse that well or are lied to by the producers (Abigail). Men should care because these products like clothes, cosmetics are used by women who are in some way or the other related to them as mothers, sisters, wives or girlfriends etc. and if men take the initiative and try to stop women or at least make them aware of the fact that the products they use, harm and give pain to animals, will help organizations like PETA a lot in saving these animals. These animals are connected to the non-engaged stakeholders as these animals are used in labs to test chemical for medicines and cosmetics which are used by women and children unknowingly. If men get enlightened on these issues they will make others (women and children) aware of these issues and help PETA and other organizations stop or at least reduce the use of animals for these purposes. Men should care as animal cruelty is not right. Ill-treating anything is wrong and it should stop. There are many ways that the new non-engaging stakeholders (men) can show their support for the position that they have in the paper. Many things can be done in order to show their support towards the non-use of animal based products like cosmetics and clothes. These men can help organizations spread awareness amongst women to reduce the use of cosmetics Trisha ! 4 which use animals and try to use more animal friendly cosmetics, this way they would not even hurt animals and also they would be able to use cosmetics. Using natural products which are not using any animal products in them are more reliable and are better for skin as well. Men can donate to these organizations like PETA, Mercy for animals etc. and help them fundraise as well. These men can protest with these organizations, which would help animals in multiple ways as people would eventually stop the use of products made by animals. Their protests will also help the organizations as they would be like helping hands of these organizations. Some of these men could also form organizations against animal cruelty and help all the abused animals, by keeping them in the shelters created by them or taking them to the shelters formed by organizations like PETA. To change the conditions of these animals and to make sure that these animals get their rights, not only organizations but commoners will also have to step in and help organizations make the change. This help would include protests, donations and also formation of new organizations. Most of the people are unaware of all this and hence do not provide much help, but organizations like PETA can help spread awareness and then people can do their work more efficiently in order to help these animals. These animals surely do need help because their conditions are indescribable and the way in which these animals are treated is inhumane. Everyone needs to first reduce and then eventually stop the use of products like clothes, bags or cosmetics made of animal skin. Not only that animal testing for these should also come to an end as the cosmetics used by women are first tested on these animals and then are sold off. All of this should stop because ill-treatment of any living being is not right. Trisha ! 5 Word count: 1224 words. Trisha ! 6 Works Cited Cavalieri, Paola, and Peter Singer. The Death of the Animal: A Dialogue. New York: Columbia University Press, 2009. Discovery eBooks. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Guither, Harold D. Southern Illinois University Press. 1998. Book Mitra, Nandini. Animals Are Persons,  Earth Island Journal, vol. 29, no. 4, Winter2015, pp. 17-26. Perdue, Abigail and Randall Lockwood. Animal Cruelty and Freedom of Speech: When Worlds Collide. Purdue University Press, 2014. New Directions in the Human-animal Bond. Scully, Matthew. A case of compassion: one act of mercy invites us to reflect on the suffering of  National Review 2016: 22. Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.