Reinhardt !1 Morgan Reinhardt Martha Heiser ENC:1102:068 April 5, 2017 Live a Good Life and Die a Good Death Each person is given a life that they can do and accomplish anything; some people have different views of how to live out those days but each person has that decision to make for themselves. Each person should also be given the decision of how to end their life, especially if that person has hit a dead end of decisions to prolong their life. All over the United States people receive stalemate news from their physician. The patient is diagnosed terminally ill with nothing medically to do but ease the pain; they basically are alive in a body that has already decided to die on them. On the other hand, euthanasia gives a patient one more option beside numbing the pain. Euthanasia by definition is the putting to death or allowing to die. Currently in the majority of America, euthanasia is illegal, stranding patients medically with limited options. Legalizing euthanasia nationwide would give terminally ill patient every medical option available allowing them to decide whether they want to live their days out or control when they pass away. It is time that American people change the law on euthanasia nation wide to give the terminally ill patients this freedom. Euthanasia emerged in the nineteenth century, in an attempt to create a new professional technique to guarantee a swift and painless death (Lavis 14). From then on euthanasia was looked at as an alternate death compared to natural death. Presently, euthanasia and medical practices have been advancing but advancements stopped chronic diseases. People Reinhardt !2 continually still have to make (Raus 32). Patients in the majority of the United States only have the choice of passive euthanasia. Passive euthanasia is legal across all of American, it is the act of withdrawing care from a patient. A familiar form of this is a DNR or Do Not Resuscitate order. On the other hand active euthanasia which is administering a lethal dose of medication to painlessly kill a patient, is only legal in parts of America. Active euthanasia involves a lethal dose of medication either ingested or injected followed by a painless coma, deep sleep and then death (Newman).It is important to realize the difference between the two because in states where active euthanasia is illegal the physician is not only held responsible for the death of the patient but also held to legal charges if they proceed with it. In the United States, five states have legalized active euthanasia or physician-assisted suicide, allowing doctors to prescribe lethal doses of medication to terminally ill patients (Newman). The legalization of active euthanasia is followed by many regulations to ensure that each patient is mentally competent and aware of their decision. Oregon was the first state to legalize active euthanasia and set strict standards for the other states that followed. The regulations in active euthanasia law include: a 15 day waiting period, the patient requesting euthanasia on three different occasion two being verbal, life expectancy of six months or less, evaluation by two doctors to confirm patients conditions and the list continues. The process of legalization is so vigorous to complete because using euthanasia is such a serious medical decision (McCarthy 1). Limiting the drug to patients who are terminal and have six months or less to live allows the drug to only be administered to patients who are expected to die anyway. Having a 15 day waiting period and requiring two verbal request ensures that the patient is voluntarily making this medical decision. One of the concerns of legalizing euthanasia Reinhardt !3 is that a patient will be influenced either by a family member or physician to go through with physician-assisted suicide. Although the regulations of this law completely eliminate this concern, having the required verbal request and also requiring that more than one physician is involved with this patient process makes coercing a patient more difficult to achieve. Furthermore, once going through the waiting period and evaluation by multiple doctor the patient must then sign a request for the prescription which is also signed by two cosigners one of which can not be related to the patient in any way (McCarthy 1). These regulation are so meticulous to safeguard the success of legal euthanasia; giving physicians the power to prescribe a lethal medicine to a patient is not something to take lightly. Continuing to focus on Oregon, the state not only gives a good platform but also is the state that has had legal active euthanasia for the longest. As the four other states just recently with in the last couple years pasted their law, Oregon data results reveal interesting outcomes and shut down many concerns with physician-assisted suicide. The typical unsettling outcome that seems to be constant in people against active euthanasia is that the law will get out of hand and giving it to terminal patient will cause a domino effect and eventually it will be accessible to anyone. It is a legitimate issue to be concerned about but data from Oregon gives promising results. According to Dignity in Dying campaign data of Oregon over the seventeen years of legalized active euthanasia, they have had zero cases to extend the law and zero cases of abuse of the law. This is more than satisfactory results of the law passing, it gives reassurance that the law has a good chance if passed of not being abused and getting out of hand to patients who it is administered. I think that the ultimate stigma around physician-assisted suicide is that every terminal patient will take advantage, choosing to ingest the lethal dose of medication. This really Reinhardt !4 the case, as reported by the same organization, Dignity in Dying, only one in five hundred terminal patients chooses to participate in physician-assisted death in The goal of passing the law to legalize active euthanasia is not because everyone agrees with it or because they think every terminal patient should partake in it; the goal is to allow each terminal patient to be given every medical option possible in a time where they feel so helpless. Moral justification of euthanasia and strong emotions toward active euthanasia should be set aside; the law does not affect terminal patients who do not want to engage in physician-assisted suicide. To look at this law without considering values and moral reveals how much the law makes sense. The medical practices in America are only advancing and if there is something medically optional for any patient, to live or die, it should be given as an option to that patient. In the medical field everything about a health is put in plain English and explained to the patient to help the patient understand the condition of their body to then make a decision on how to move forward. part of every medical professional job to make their patient feel in control and for that basis not allowing a comforting medical option leaves a patient stranded. for this very reason that awareness of legal active euthanasia should be initiated. Going to congress, sending in letters to bring awareness of euthanasia to the state level is just the start to making euthanasia legal nationwide. Currently there are only five states with legal active euthanasia; these five states have been stepping stones in eventually legalizing physician- assisted suicide nation wide. Bringing attention to this issue will allow the people of each state to vote toward legalizing active euthanasia. Once awareness is established it only takes one vote to decide for a state and for every state in the primary election the vote should be yes to legalize euthanasia. Reinhardt !5 Works Cited with Dignity with Dignity Act. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Apr. 2017. Lavi, Shai Joshua. The Modern Art of Dying.[Electronic : A History of Euthanasia in the United States. Princeton, N.J. : Princeton University Press, c2005. (Baltimore, Md. : Project MUSE, 2015), 2005. UPCC book collections on Project MUSE EBSCOhost, McCarthy, Euthanasia Lancet, vol. 344, no. 8935, 26 Nov. 1994, p. 1943. EBSCOhost, http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct Newman, Marvin. Our State Must Legalize Physician-assisted Suicide: My Word.OrlandoSentinel.com. N.p., 19 Oct. 2015. Web. 05 Apr. 2017. Raus, Kasper, et al. Is Continuous Sedation at the End of Life an Ethically Preferable Alternative to Physician-Assisted  American Journal of Bioethics, vol. 11, no. 6, June 2011, pp. 32-40. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1080/15265161.2011.577510