Davison 1 Neckodemos Davison Professor William Drugan ENC-1102-085 19 April 2017 Project 3 Intermediate Draft Disarming the World for a Better Future In the 19 th century a man named Charles Darwin developed the theory of Natural Selection. Later this theory was associated with Darwinism, which when translated to economics or society is theory that inherent dynamic forces allow only the fittest persons or organizations to prosper in a competitive environment or (Merriam-Webster). This theory is applied to any competitive environment, especially one involving resources and various nations. The sad truth is that there have been wars in areas like the Middle East and Africa over resources, or differing beliefs, for centuries. Just like the theory states, there will only be one victor in the end for these battles even though the end may not come for millennia. While war seems like the only option to both sides, it is not. Settling conflicts in a peaceful means would benefit not only the warring nations or organizations but also the world. The global population must be shown the details of military spending, be shown how it affects the world they live in, and empowered to convince their nations to redirect military funds elsewhere. The world spends on average 1600 billion U.S. dollars a year on military expenses. These resources go towards weapons manufacturing, military operations, and development of nuclear weapons (Cut Military Spending, Demilitarize). While a defense budget is necessary to Davison 2 provide national security, it is not necessary to be spending 853.6 billion U.S. dollars like the United States (What are the three biggest federal programs?). The amount of money used for nuclear weapon production and research is also astounding. It is estimated that the United States and Russia combined have 14,290 nuclear warheads (World nuclear forces, SPIRI). The warheads from the United States can cost anywhere from 2 million to 270 million U.S. dollars depending on the type of warhead and the delivery system (Union of Concerned Scientists). This is a lot of money that goes towards weapons that will most likely never be fired. The other issue is that if the United States and/or Russia were to exhaust their entire nuclear arsenal onto an enemy, or each other, the world would end in a nuclear holocaust. These numbers may have made sense during a time period such as the Cold War when nuclear war was right around the corner and two of the biggest super powers were in a gridlock, but not at this point in time. Currently no major land wars are occurring and most likely no major land wars will begin anytime soon. The reason for this is that a war involving two definite sides, an altercation in which a nation or group of nations declares war on another, would crash the economy. This is one of the speculations on why stronger countries are providing support for their respective sides in Syria rather than beginning an all-out World War III. Not only would disarming even half of the United and nuclear weapons help prevent future disasters, but it would also free up a substantial amount of funds to be redirected elsewhere. These funds could be directed to various projects to improve living conditions around the world. The resources used for excessive amounts of nuclear, or conventional warfare, weapons would be better used for investments in the health, education, and employment sectors of each governments. Health care around the world would improve with even a slight percentage of the military budgets. The resources could even go towards medical research and Davison 3 accelerate the rate at which mankind cures newly found diseases. The global economy would also benefit from this change. Investing in education departments and increasing the amount of citizens in various nations who attend school, even if just at a high school level, would enlarge the middle class of those nations and boost their economies. The same could be said about investing in employment projects. Lowing unemployment rates in a country make it more efficient and raises its GDP according to Law on economic growth and unemployment (Fuhrmann, Law). Along with improving economies, these resources could also improve the future climate of the planet. New research projects on renewable energy could find the answers the world has been looking for to finally make fossil fuels obsolete. Global warming as a whole would slow down if this were to happen. The stabilization of climates would also cause less conflicts in areas of disagreement such as the Middle East and Africa. Psychologically and physiologically the people of those areas would be less likely to start strife. Psychologically because the higher temperatures caused by global warming cause more irritation and the citizens of those nations to have less patients with their enemies. Physiologically because global warming causes water in the affected areas to evaporate at a quicker rate, which leads to resource scarcity, and eventually fighting. Even though it may seem daunting to think about reducing the entire military spending it is not too difficult to help put all of this into action. Through various organization and actions an everyday citizen can help to make a difference. The Global Campaign on Military Spending is an international campaign that is currently supported by over 100 peace organizations from 35 different countries (Cut Military Spending, Demilitarize). It focuses on the reduction of military spending around the world in hopes to redirect those resources to fund human needs. The campaign aims to create a controversial debate in which its participants and Davison 4 the average citizen can have a voice. There are planed events that are provided through the campaigns website, demilitarize.org, which would allow someone to help the cause. After all, every person counts. If joining the Global Campaign on Military Spending is not ideal then another option would be to work on the issue in private and then to form a national coalition. Before forming the coalition it would be best to have already analyzed the military spending details of the country that said person is located in, to have published the results, and to gather others in the area that feel similarly. It is beneficial for all of humanity and life on Earth for the world to disarm itself and come together. Resources that are being used by countries to figuratively and literally point guns at each other are the key to the longevity of life. Disarming all nations would drastically reduce the chances of nuclear war simply because there would be less of them on the planet. By investing in education and employment programs the economy would skyrocket and allow for research into more ways to harness renewable energy. This revolution in the energy sector could eventually drown out fossil fuels and improve the overall state of the climate and ecosystems. If Darwinism is accurate and only the fittest survive a competitive environment then all of humanity can come together as one species to fix Earth and be the survivors of their own malpractices. One day civilization will make this ascension and breakdown the various borders of politics in order to explore the vast unknown of space. In order for this to happen the world must agree to disarm itself and begin working as a uniform planet. It is unknown how long it may take for this transformation to happen or what events will occur to cause it, but one thing is known. Humankind will either evolve with the times and changes its ways or the species will stay on its hell-bent highway to self-destruction and extinction. Davison 5 Works Cited Cut Military Spending - Fund Human  Global Campaign on Military Spending. N.p., n.d. Web. 18 Apr. 2017.  Merriam-Webster. Merriam-Webster, n.d. Web. 18 Apr. 2017. Fuhrmann, CFA Ryan C. Law: Economic Growth And  Investopedia. N.p., 08 July 2016. Web. 18 Apr. 2017. How Much Does it Cost to Create a Single Nuclear  Union of Concerned Scientists. N.p., n.d. Web. 18 Apr. 2017. What are the three biggest federal  Government Spending Details in $ billion: Federal State Local for 2017 - Charts. N.p., n.d. Web. 18 Apr. 2017. World nuclear  SIPRI. N.p., 2016. Web. 18 Apr. 2017.