Guvercin 1 Melinda Guvercin Professor Drugan ENC 1102.085 18 April 2017 Project 3 Written Argument Intermediate Draft The Fight to Supporting Real Beauty In 1990 the first version of Adobe Photoshop 1.0 was released. The introduction of the Adobe Systems Photoshop rapidly became one of the most popular and profitable applications that supported cool features such as filters, brushes, and 3D text. However since its release Adobe Systems Photoshop has been mainly used for image manipulation. This image manipulation created an enormous appeal to major media and how they could make their advertisement appear more attractive to the general they started using the program religiously. With this newfound program media outlets started falsifying and misrepresenting beauty, which has lead to young females having an increasing amount of anxiety about their physical image. In this way, low self-esteem in preteen has become a raging issue due to the unrealistic beauty representation in magazines, billboards, and commercials. In this way, organizations like The Dove Self- Esteem Project have been made to fight for real beauty in advertising. The Dove Self- Esteem Project showcases real, raw, unphotoshopped beauty research, statistics, and advice on how medias use of Photoshop is directly linked to low self-esteem in young females-- which must come to an end. The Dove mission from the beginning of its invention has to been to have media not have such a strong influence on young preteens self-esteem. Dove has Guvercin 2 made it their goal to help these adolescent girls realize that media uses Photoshop to set unrealistic beauty standards. Anything from in sports teams, walking down the halls of a crowded school, or just sharing their viewpoint in public can give a young girl (Moore) which keeps them from living their life to the fullest. The Dove Self-Esteem Project want to allow media to be another factor contributing to insecurities in this already fragile group of adolescents. For instance, studies show that one in five preteens feel that they are considerably less stunning without a full face of makeup. If that outrageous enough, worldwide only four percent of preteens would consider themselves genuinely beautiful. Something must to be where the Dove Self-Esteem Project comes in. At Dove they have a mission where is a source of confidence, not (Whitlocks). Their goal is ultimately is to show future preteens that their body is beautiful and should be viewed in a favorable manner not swayed by what media outlets define as attractive. Since the year of 2004, the Dove Self-Esteem Project has researched the subject of media portrayal and its direct correlation to preteens low self-esteem. With this research has come some heartbreaking statistics. It has been proven that approximately sixty percent of young girls are so concerned with the way they look that they out of important (Burrows). Moreover, these researches have also come up with the gut wrenching data that one in five girls under the age of thirteen would consider plastic surgery already even though they fully developed. 112,670 preteens in Canada alone will quit soccer this year because so unhappy with their current body types. In addition 50,405 girls in the United States will quit swimming because they feel poorly about themselves in their swimwear. The most atrocious fact of them all is that seven in Guvercin 3 ten young girls under the age of thirteen will stop themselves from eating this year to look like their favorite celebrity or models in magazines. With data like the ones collected from the Dove Self-Esteem team a wonder how media outlets can still get away with the amount of Photoshop that they use since it causes so much emotional trauma within these growing kids. A crucial point that the Dove Self-Esteem Project tries to reiterate throughout their real beauty advertisements is that adults often forget how life altering everything feels growing up. This often times becomes a problem when mentors try to speak to a younger generation and their words completely get lost in translation so they often miss the mark on helping get their point across. Young girls tend to have the same insecurities as their parents or older siblings. an unfortunate truth, but a reality that must also set in for the mentors of a community. By following some of the steps that Dove has laid out it is projected that we can help over million girls over come beauty related but we need your help. For mentors alone, Dove offers downloadable activities, exercises, and resources that explore keys factors that make young females so insecure and ways to prevent them from going into that shame ridden state of mind. The first step to putting a stop to usage is through the simple realization of what it entails daily to be a girl. The second step is that through conversing about body confidence. Sharing personal experiences with first hand body insecurities can make adolescents feel less alone. This step, along with an effective approach may be helpful for them to reach a higher level of esteem. Remember, all know how good it feels to realize not (DoveProject). Guvercin 4 The Dove-Self Esteem Project has made it their goal to help young preteen girls reach the full capacity of self-love against medias unrealistic beauty standards. The campaigns goal to stop the presentation of falsified and manipulated images from the medias advertising tactics often interfere with their expectation versus reality of what a natural body type should look like fully developed. The Dove Campaign is strongly opposed to the use of Photoshop, and other editing software, predominantly due to the effects being so negative on young female perception of themselves. In this way, the Dove Self-Esteem Project has fought back with media outlets by creating their own advertisements which showcases real, raw, unphotoshopped beauty research, statistics, and advice on how medias use of Photoshop is directly linked to low self-esteem in young females. So lets stand together and fight the battle against the use of Photoshop together. Lets stand together in the fight to supporting real beauty. Guvercin 5 Works Cited DoveProject. Dove Self-esteem  YouTube. YouTube. 06 June 2008. Web. 10 Apr. 2017. Burrows, Lili. How to get involved in the Dove Self-Esteem  Doveselfesteem. Unilever. n.d. Web. 10 Apr. 2017. Moore, Isabella. Teaching Resources Dove Confident Me: School Doveselfesteem. Unilever, n.d. Web. 10 Apr. 2017. Whitlocks, Sadie. British women the LOWEST self-esteem in the - with 80% unhappy with the way they  DailyMailOnline. Associated Newspapers, 23 June 2016. Web. 10 Apr. 2017.