C a r d e n a s 1 Christopher Cardenas Professor William Drugan English 1102-085 19 April 2017 Project 3: Composing Multimodal Arguments Essay Are the Tampa Bay Rays in need of Help? Throughout many years now, the Tampa Bay Rays played at Tropicana Field in St. Petersburg, Florida. While having the Rays play in St. Pete was probably not the greatest idea for the owner of the Rays, Stuart Sternberg to consider because looking at it now, the attendance rate at these games are just extremely low and it may have to do with the location site of where the stadium is at now. A lot of push and debate have gone on between the owner of the Rays and the mayor of St. Petersburg, Rick Kriseman, but even after all the talking they had between the two, no final decision has been made yet. Honestly, something had to be done with considering to move the Rays out of St. Pete because first of all they are not creating enough revenue there and even most of the Rays fans who live near St. Pete would love to go to the game, but just a far drive for them due to the poor location site of Tropicana Field. All in all, the Tampa Bay Rays rarely experienced a huge attendance at Tropicana Field in St. Petersburg. The most probable cause of this problem is most likely due to where the stadium is located. With knowing about this situation now, we as fans need to come together and make a change for our Tampa Bay Rays future. C a r d e n a s 2 To begin with educating about the Tampa Bay Rays, they are a Major League Baseball team who play in the American League. So far since the first day the Rays played in St. Petersburg, the attendance rate at Tropicana Field were always considered to be very low and it was kind of embarrassing for the owner and even the Rays fans to see and experience throughout some time. Like one time was at its lowest ever in franchise history for a Yankees game on one Tuesday night, at (Russell). To see this happen at the Trop is ridiculous because with the New York Yankees being their rival team to play against, the stadium should be always packed and sold out, but in this case it for some odd reason. It was probably due to the location of the stadium because I doubt that many people who live near St. Pete who are mostly all fans, would want to drive like an hour and a half or so to the game itself and then head back home with another hour or so with traffic. Another thing about the Rays, attendance can easily be blamed on the location in St. Petersburg, and if the Rays leave the region altogether, the blame will belong with the city for not allowing a wider (Russell). First of all, the mayor of St. Pete needs to let the Rays organization look for a new location outside of St. Pete because by staying in St. Pete do any good for the team itself because they are not receiving enough revenue and attendance at their games. Even if nothing is done to fix this problem, the Rays franchise may consider on leaving the region altogether and this would cause a lot of drama and commotion with the city of St. Pete for not giving the Rays a chance to look for a better future outside of St. Pete. Meanwhile, engaging my audience which is for the Rays fans to hopefully consider on making a change for the better for the Rays organization as a whole. We need to care dearly about our Tampa Bay Rays and not let St. Pete keep our team stuck in a city with barely having no fans to support them. Even mayor of St. Petersburg, Rick Kriseman intends to present city leaders C a r d e n a s 3 with a new, dymanic plan to keep the Tampa Bay Rays in the (Hughes). This may be the most ridiculous decision to be made by the mayor. I know he wants to keep the Rays in St. Pete because he wants his people to stay happy, but if the Rays move then it would hurt the city altogether. The thing is it matter if they are happy or not because the Rays franchise need to find a better spot for the team to succeed in making more money and gaining more popularity in attendance in the long run. The truth may hurt, but its reality and if the team plans to stay in St. Pete after the lease is up in 2027, I honestly think the team will digging a deeper hole in which they would never get out of because the Rays need to find a better future for their franchise and not just rely on staying in some city that doing anything good for them in return. Like there are clear facts that the Rays need to move on to a different location. For example, 18,772 who showed up to watch the Rays take on their archrival, the New York Yankees, come close to filling the 34,078 capacity. One of the biggest games in franchise history, and the Trop was barely (Sickler). As you can see, this is a clear answer of why the Rays need to move out immediately. This is also crazy to see that it was one of the biggest games in franchise history and the stadium even come close to being filled with fans. Even I know the mayor of St. Pete sees this horrific problem perfectly clear, but he still intends to keep the Rays in his city like there is nothing wrong with this. From the standpoint though, there is defiantly a problem here and he wants to fight and make a change for his team, but the ongoing St. Pete Council and mayor just give in to letting their beloved Rays leave their precious city. Furthermore, empowering the Rays fans to take action will be important in making the Tampa Bay Rays a more recognizable team later in the future. Ideally, my call to action for the Rays is for every Ray fan to make a stand against the horrible decision of the mayor keeping the Tampa Bay Rays stay in St. Petersburg. We need to all work together by either doing petitions or C a r d e n a s 4 writing letters to the mayor directly to get the word out that the decision to keep the Rays in St. Pete is a horrible idea for all to consider. be so much easier and better to find a new location for the Rays to play on because with that in mind, they would receive a lot more fans in return and even making the franchise a more profitable organization in the future as well. One statistic about the location of the stadium is location of Tropicana Field in St. Petersburg have prevented the franchise from reaching its full financial and competitive potential. But no concrete plan for the Rays to play elsewhere, in large part of St. Petersburg Mayor, Rick Kriseman has resisted calls to let the team out of its stadium (FoxSports). I completely agree with the location of the Trop in St. Pete is a bad decision because it let the Rays seek their full potential in becoming more a popular organization that willingly needs more attendance at their games. The reality of the Tampa Bay Rays is that one year they were on pace on finishing up the season on a winning record, but still had the lowest average attendance in the American League with 17,909 people showing up. This is the reason I want every Ray fan to understand that is it really worth it for the Rays to stay in a city that gets little to nothing attendance each game? Even with the lease through 2027, groundwork needs to be done, starting very soon. got to figure proper location. At some point in the next few years, got to have it figured (FoxSports). This is important for the possible future for the owner and the fans as well because while figuring out a new location for the Rays to play on soon, it will make everything flow much easier by having a concise plan to follow through towards the future. Mainly, with everything I talked about with the difficulty of the location of the stadium, take action in making a better future for our Tampa Bay Rays once and for all. In conclusion, the Tampa Bay Rays rarely experienced a huge attendance at Tropicana Field in St. Petersburg. The most probable cause of this problem is most likely due to where the C a r d e n a s 5 stadium is located. With knowing about this situation now, we as fans need to come together and make a change for our Tampa Bay Rays future. Also, it could be all figured out and fixed if we all work together as one in making the right choice of helping the Rays find that perfect location where they can finally call their new home a reality. C a r d e n a s 6 Works Cited Page 1. Russell, Daniel. The Rays attendance problem is getting  DRaysBay. http://www.draysbay.com/stadium-saga/2015/5/13/8598073/tampa-bay-rays- attendance-problem-new-york-yankees. Web. 13 May. 2015. Accessed 19 April 2017. 2. Sickler, Michael Van. Attendance remains low as Tampa Bay Rays make dramatic playoff  Tampa Bay Times. http://www.tampabay.com/news/localgovernment/attendance-remains-low-as-tampa-bay- rays-make-dramatic-playoff-push/1193989. Web. 27 Sept. 2011. Accessed 19 April 2017. 3. Hughes, Ryan. Mayor to pitch new plan to keep Tampa Bay Rays in St.  WFLA. http://wfla.com/2017/04/06/mayor-to-pitch-new-plan-to-keep-tampa-bay-rays-in- st-pete/. Web. 6 April. 2017. Accessed 19 April 2017. 4. FoxSports. Rays owner talks future, possible  FoxSports. http://www.foxsports.com/mlb/story/tampa-bay-rays-owner-stuart-sternberg-talks-future- of-franchise-possible-move-evan-longoria-david-price-062213. Web. 22 June. 2013. Accessed 19 April 2017.