Oleksandr Buhaievskyi Ms. Ashely Tisdale ENC 1101 February 5. 2017 Public opinion in USSR Different generations of people have significantly separate meanings about socialism and USSR in general, younger generation view socialism as historical period of time and strong governmental control under the people, while older generations had experienced it and they look at socialism as an uncompleted governmental system, that become broken because of lazy people. Young generations have seen socialism fractionally and partially it was dictator administration, people follow European or American style of clothing, they have businesses and travel to other countries, that were not in Soviet Union. Every citizen of USSR had same salary, same living condition, expect people in government. Middle generations of people who lived in Socialism, seen USSR inside and when it broke up in 1991, they were charged another people for it. Example: Bus Driver, worked for Mining he would have been pouring diesel from the tank of his bus to some landing, and was manually changing millage on bus speedometer, to make illusion of him working, when he People with different degree, have big choice for work, they had same salary. While Manager spend five years in University, after graduation he got same salary as cleaner in hotel. This governmental system perfect and led beginning of corruption, after broke up USSR. According to different generations and authors, USSR got different types of development and International relationship improvement, where scientist made international studies on different literature and books, evolutions have also increased risk for broke up and future of capitalism. How different was public opinion on socialism, according to young and middle generations? Johannes F. Linn, (Dis)integration matters: The Soviet Collapse The Brookings institution, (2004), 1-25, Academic search, February 1. (2017) This article talking about unexpected collapse in Soviet Union between 1989 and 1991, economic and political empire was destroyed. Economic decrease was huge, it had influence most of people from USSR. By the time most of countries started recovery process, for sustainable future. The article has that support hypothesis of fragmentally end, but is also quick to place a blame for such important historical event. This collapse, gave opportunity for countries, have their own sustainability and strong recovery, where interests would be focused on trades and transactions to have own labor, knowledge and capital . This article explains the reasons of collapse in economy of USSR, and brings evidences about fragmental broke up. Economical decrease had impacted everyone, people were doing all type of jobs to get money, mostly nation were worked on government. Economic impact, made people do crimes and corruption, stealing food, rubbing grocery stores at night. When countries started recovery process, most people still were lived in past times and understand new governmental system, that were made for different counties and regions. The fragmental collapse could have happened, but is might be a blame for such event. End of USSR gave opportunity for countries and millions of people have different jobs and choose their own way. It was first step for independent sustainability and strong recovery of countries: Ukraine and Bulgaria, start of having own labor and own businesses, that brings millions to government. Countries started have own knowledge: National language, universities, scientific facilities that are making technology and medicine. Universities started educate students with own history of the country, that was not always optional in USSR. Countries started work on creation of own capital for stable future and sustainability in general, first modern banks got open, government create more jobs, more taxes for vast income. Smart people opened businesses and started accumulation of capital, that gives them sustainable future today. Tatyana Volodina, Teaching history in Russia after the Collapse of the USSR, Society for History Education, (2005), 179-188, vol-38, February 1 (2017) This article talks about dramatic conflicts in USSR during the past decade, ideological changes, that had impact on teaching of history and practical education in Russia. In one of the problems of ideological symbol, is difference between school for rich and poor students, national identity started play role on schools, people were marked differently from American or European. Changes were on economical market and on government, socialism collapse and people got opportunity to have own businesses and be independent. National identity started play a critical role in facilities for rich and poor people. This article show the conflict that happened during the last decade and explains ideological changes, that happened on government and labor market. Countries got a President and Ministers, big changes on police and educational system, including changing a way of teaching history. After broke up in USSR, labor market got low prices, while most of businesses just got started. National identity was playing big role at that time, because it was entry for work and good relationship in University. For personal independence, some people opened own companies or businesses, to increase income in family capital and rise economy of country, because of taxes. Poor people got less opportunity in job market than rich, while rich people were using to grab better job or piece of cake. Rich and poor people were treated differently, but both were working on personal independence, by visiting universities and by working on specific jobs. Laetitia Atlani, Social change and HIV in former USSR: the making of new epidemic, Social Science & Medicine, (2000), 1547-1556, vol-50, Feb 12, 2017 . This article written about social changes in USSR, describes the development of Soviet Union countries and talks about drug culture. It have economical, socio-political roots of culture, unpublished documents, notes and studies about growing a drug users and epidemic development. The evidences show that drug users population growing in numbers, 1990 was main factor, for the beginning of HIV. Commercial, Sex-Industries were growing, while rapid changes in sexual norms and behavior may affect current situation. Crises in Socio-Political and Economical markets, were created that effecting spread of HIV in region. This article talks about Socio-political changes in Soviet Union, developing of countries that were part of USSR and problem with drug stream at that time. The problem for drug and HIV spread were on social roots, close-door clubs, night bars and free sex. Evidences show that people increase using of drugs and the number growing in region between 1990 and 1999. Since 1990, USSR get a lot of sex and drug industry, that had changed countries streets forever. People started do illegal businesses that led spreading of corruption, prostitution and risky situations. Rat-People were invite non-injecting population to become potential drug user or part of illegal business. A lot of people got involved into because conditions on economic market were horrible and broke up of USSR made situation darker. People were working legally and illegally everywhere, to make little cash for family, but even with money it be easy get some food or groceries. Economical condition created a some women started do prostitutions and sale drugs, while man did not use protection, this significantly helped HIV spread around the region. Marina M. Lebedeva, International Relation Studies in USSR/Russia: Is the Russian national school of IR studies?, Global Society,(2010),263-278,Feb 12,2017. This article talks about international relationships and development in Soviet Union/Russia, after second world war until present time. Most of Soviet studies were combined: Leninism-Marxism and realism, realism was pre-dominating. International relationships were very important for Soviet Union, time around was influence practice and study of IR. Author have realized the barriers for building national school of International Relationship, and studied them. Article show, how political changes let USSR/Russia improve their international relationships studies and improve relationship in general. International Relationship Studies have transformed journals, magazines and influenced most of Universities inside and around Moscow. This article written about international relational ship studies and changes in USSR, after second world war until today. Studies were based on old Lenin-Maxims platform, that did not know the capitalism , while most of countries around Soviet Union were prefer capitalism instead of communism. International studies were very important, because firstly is going to influence country inside. For international studies were given practice and a lot of time, political changes gave more firewood to the burn. New studies had changed old magazines and journals to new colorful journal print with international studies news and articles. Universities got new classes and majors for students, while libraries got tones of new books and articles about international relationship. Professors have started tech international literature, that started include non-only USSR or post poetry. Most famous poetries today were illegal at Soviet Union, because it was propaganda against Soviet and system in general.