Jiwani 1 Rizwan Jiwani Martha Heiser ENC 1102.068 22 April 2017 The Final Frontier, Lost in Space Ever since the start of the space race in the mid nineteen fifties, a number of government agencies, private companies and other organizations have been uncovering a vast amount of knowledge on the observable universe. In some cases, knowledge means power. So, understanding the universe gives humanity the power to expand beyond what was previously thought to be the physical limit. Currently the limit is having men walk the moon and rovers scavenging the surface of Mars (NASA.gov). Increasing budget will help to expand these limits leading to humans discovering more about the universe. But, currently there are speculations as to whether or not the United States federal government should continue funding their government space agency, NASA, at all. Some people think that it is a waste of time, effort and resources to explore space. Nevertheless, with continual effort in the realm of space exploration, who knows what the new physical boundaries could be. It is entirely possible that with the acquiring of infinite knowledge, there may be no boundaries at all. In terms of the United States, they gain knowledge about space through the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. NASA was created in the late nineteen fifties by president Dwight D. Eisenhower as a response to the Soviet Union being the first to launch a satellite into space. America has never looked back since then. In a little less than sixty years of existence, they have accomplished so many amazing and diverse feats: having a dozen Jiwani 2 individuals go to the moon, launching a reusable space shuttle that flew more than 130 successful missions or sending a rover to gather information from the surface of Mars (NASA.gov). As NASA continues their research, they are accomplishing ever more extravagant feats. So if Americans want to continue to accomplish even more seemingly impossible tasks, they should get together and convince the government to continue funding NASA. It is important for the federal government to continue funding NASA; they have solved so many mysteries of the universe and dug up even more mysteries that are just itching to be figured out. A recent example is that, NASA has found a group of seven terrestrial planets forty lightyears away from earth that they are calling TRAPPIST-1 (Northon). This cluster of planets is orbiting a dwarf star and NASA claims that three of the planets may be suitable for human life. If the government had stopped funding NASA a while back, TRAPPIST-1 would have never been discovered. Mother Earth is currently in turmoil. It may be on a sad and irreversible death spiral due to events like overpopulation and global warming. Therefore, it is important that the Federal Government continues funding NASA. If the trend of funding NASA is continued, one day, humanity may be able to expand and live on other habitable rocks in outer space. One advocate of eventually leaving planet Earth to find more places to inhabit is the world renowned British astrophysicist, Stephen Hawking. Hawking on Why We Should Go Into Space for 50th Anniversary lecture series at George Washington University, April 21, (nss.org). He said that the situation is similar to that of Europe before 1492, the year when Columbus sailed the ocean blue. might well have argued that it was a waste of money to send Columbus on a wild goose chase. Yet the discovery of the New World made a profound difference to the (nss.org). He compares discovery of the new world to the potential discoveries of new, habitable, areas by space programs. He further explains that the Jiwani 3 exploration of space is not a short-term solution to solve problems, but a long-term strategy for preserving the longevity of the human race. Stephen Hawking is not the only person who wants the continuity of space exploration. Another advocate of exploring space and increasing federal budget is an American astrophysicist named Neil deGrasse Tyson. He wants the United States President to say, need to double budget [because will transform the economy into one that will lead the world once again rather than trail the world as we are inevitably going to be doing over the next (NPR). Tyson believes continually exploring space can bring America power, fame and economic prosperity. It is true that Hawking has a more globalized view on space exploration and Tyson is only focused on how it will benefit America, however, they both agree that exploring space is worth the money spent doing it. On the topic of money, it was reported that fiscal year budget for 2013 was 17.896 billion dollars (Chapman 13). Some people may argue whether or not infinite knowledge is worth the cost of obtaining it. They proclaim that the money should be used for other things like education or infrastructure. It is agreeable that going to space is not cheap in terms of a single person spending that kind of money, but in the grand scheme of things, it really is not overly expensive for an American federal agency. According to Stephen Hawking has decreased from 0.3% of US GDP in 1970 to 0.12% now. Even if we were to increase the international budget 20 times to make a serious effort to go into space it would only be a small fraction of world (nss.org). If all the world powers got together for the one goal of colonizing space, statements are not farfetched, but entirely logical. There are ways for common people to make the universal exploration of space a possibility. Jiwani 4 It is possible for one single individual to set off a chain reaction that leads to the colonization of new planets in the not so distant future. NASA is a federal agency, so they receive their funding from the annual federal budget passed by the United States Congress. Anyone can write a professional, well written letter to local congressmen. If multiple individuals were to write letters to several local congressmen on this issue of continuing to fund NASA, they will eventually listen. America is the land of the people and if enough people are concerned about an issue, a government of the people for the people and by the people will comply. This is a legitimate way for normal people to try to help raise federal budget back to 0.3% of the US GDP like it was in the Ultimately, giving NASA more money will give them the freedom to go solve the mysteries of space and make even more discoveries to help humanity. Jiwani 5 Works Cited Chapman, Bert. Waste and Duplication in NASA Programs: The Need to Enhance U.S. Space Program  Space Policy 31 (2015): 13-20. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Kishi, Naoko. Management Analysis for the Space  Space Policy (2017): n. pag. Web. 5 Apr. 2017. Northon, Karen. NASA Telescope Reveals Record-Breaking Exoplanet  NASA. NASA, 22 Feb. 2017. Web. 28 Feb. 2017. Why Exploring Space Still  NPR. NPR, 27 Feb. 2012. Web. 10 Apr. 2017. Stephen Hawking: Why We Should Go Into   The National Space Society Vision Is People Living and Working in Space. N.p., n.d. Web. 03 Apr. 2017. What Does NASA  NASA. Ed. Jim Wilson. NASA, 13 Nov. 2015. Web. 25 Jan. 2017.