Rodhouse 1 Nick Rodhouse Professor Theodosiou ENC 1102 04/10/17 Cybersecurity: Are You Protected? Do you provide personal information over the internet? If the answer is yes, then you are already at risk of a cyberattack. The Department of Homeland Security (dhs) protects our internet security, but they do not stop every attack. That why it is smart to have another personal security software on your computer, to prevent these attacks. Personally, I have fallen victim to an attack myself, so think that it cannot happen to you. In 2015, there was 70,000 samples of malware on apple computers alone, which are thought to be the most protected computers on the market. There were another 140 million samples on windows, which goes to say that these threats are real. (Techbeacon.com) If we do not act soon, it is predicted that a total of 4 billion attacks will occur by 2019. (csonline.com) With cyberattacks increasing drastically over the past few years, it is necessary for internet users to use a security software that fits their interest. To better protect yourself visit my website at https://nickrodhouse.wixsite.com/cybersecurtity to find what security program best fits your interest. Our government uses a team of cybersecurity specialists to hunt down threats and protect us from attacks. However, they cannot stop them all. Our government can look through every computer and every file, weather they are a threat or not. Some people believe this to be against our constitutional right of freedom and to be invading our privacy. However even though they have the capability, their hands are far too full stopping cyberterrorists and other threats to worry about you. If you provide personal information on the web, such as your social security number Rodhouse 2 and credit card number, you could have this stolen from you. These attacks are usually either identity theft or false charges. Even businesses can fall victim to an attack and many do. Businesses often have their money laundered out of their bank accounts or have vital information and patented designs stolen. I personally have fallen victim to one of these attacks. I was buying a magazine subscription online and in doing so I gave the company my credit card information, without checking how reliable this company was. A few days later I check my bank account and saw that it was significantly lower than I expected it to be, so I began to investigate my current charges. What I found was that the company I ordered a subscription from charged me three separate times and hit me with 5 different Now I do not know whether those currency fees are legit, but do know that I was not supposed to be charged three times for that one subscription. That day I lost a total of 134.98$ from my bank account, and I was devastated. This issue could have happened to anyone using the internet to purchase anything. A lot of people do not think that they need to worry about cyberattacks. They are either clueless to the fact that they are very much a threat or they think it just will not happen to them. This is because these attacks are a recent thing, that have just started popping up in this past millennium. As you can see from my last paragraph, these really can happen to anyone. If that story did not change your mind, maybe this statistic will to the Identity Theft Resource (ITRC) Data Breach than 29 million records were exposed in 858 publicized breaches across sectors including financial, government, health care and (securityintelligence.com) That is a lot of people falling victim to these attacks. Securityintelligence.com also stated that year, IDG detected 38 percent more cybersecurity incidents than the year which means these incidents are become more and more of an Rodhouse 3 issue. There is a very high chance that you will be, or have been, a victim of one of these crimes. Especially with malware being detected on 70,000 macs and 140 million windows. These attacks are very real We need to stop these attacks, if not today, then as soon as possible. Thomas Mowbray states in his book on cybersecurity that crime is one of the largest and fastest growing categories of With some segments growing 300 percent per he even later goes on to say that are good that your current organization is being attacked right (Mowbary, 3) The best way to prevent these is to increase the security with programs, such as Norton and other antivirus soft wares. Though they are labeled antivirus, they do a lot more than just stop malware. They advertise prevention against viruses and security against cyber-attacks. Norton says that it against viruses, spyware, malware, phishing, trojan horses & other online and that they your identity, personal information & online (buy-static.norton.com) Every computer has some basic security functions, but as you can probably already tell those functions are not enough to stop an attack. Therefore, it is necessary for internet users to use advance security programs to better protect themselves. However, these attacks can come from your phones as well, which cannot support these security soft wares and are far more vulnerable. Therefore, it is recommended to never give sites information about you off your phone. The future holds more and more internet use, thus potential for more attacks. You should improve your security today, rather than sitting around waiting for an attack to happen. Everyone needs a security program that best fits their needs and browsing habits. For example, businesses need far more extensive programs than the average web browser; and small businesses do not need as strong of a program as fortune 500 companies. Also, all these Rodhouse 4 programs are going to cost a different price, and nobody wants to over pay for functions that they may never use. Johnson A Thomas, the author of the book cybersecurity, says is critical to asses and measure the cost of cybersecurity and the range of the (Johnson, 256) in his chapter on the economics of this issue. He goes on to say how you basically do not want to be paying more for security than you can possibly lose. To ensure that you get a program that best fits your needs and interests, I have designed a website to evaluate the best system for you or your business. Visit my website at https://nickrodhouse.wixsite.com/cybersecurtity to find out what program best fits you. If you cannot afford any of these programs, but have some loose change around and want to better the safety, donate to the National Security Agency (NSA) or the DHS to better our nations cybersecurity. If you want to make a difference personally, you could enlist in our armed forces as a cyber monitor and detect these threats from afar and better our security with your own two hands. Our government has cybersecurity programs to protect us from some attacks, however due to the vast number of threats, a lot of these attacks make it through. Our government simply cannot stop them all. Cyberattacks are at an all-time high recently, and you and everyone around you needs protection. Me along with millions of others have fallen victim to an attack. To prevent an attack yourself visit my website to find a program that best fits you, or donate to one of our government agencies like the NSA or DHS. If you feel like making a difference in the cyber-community try enlisting as a cyber monitor and stop threats today. Rodhouse 5 Works Cited Csonline.com. N.p., n.d. Web. 17 Apr. 2017.  TechBeacon. N.p., n.d. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. Johnson, Thomas A. Cybersecurity: Protecting Critical Infrastructures from Cyber Attack and Cyber Warfare. Boca Raton (Fla.): CRC, 2015. Print. Mowbray, Thomas J. Cybersecurity: Managing Systems, Conducting Testing, and Investigating Intr. N.p.: John Wiley & Sons, 2013. Print. SitePoint. Norton by  Norton Security - Our Best Protection for Your Windows PC or Mac. N.p., n.d. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. 20 Eye-Opening Cybercrime  Security Intelligence. N.p., 14 Nov. 2016. Web. 17 Apr. 2017.