1 Elkadi Carina Elkadi ENC 1102-060 Kristen Rouisse February 26, 2017 Silent Victims Child abuse is an issue that people have become more aware of, but unfortunately, being of a problem is not enough to solve it. Children are and have always been silent victims who look to the adults in their lives for guidance and sustenance. When those adults become sources of distress, children find themselves at a dead end. According to child abuse statistics, more than 3.6 million referrals are made to child protection services each year (Childhelp). Though this number is very high, the reality is much worse, as many child abuse cases go unreported. In the United States alone, four to seven children die due to child abuse or neglect each day (Childhelp). If adults were to educate themselves on the different types of child abuse, their effects, and their signs, fewer children would have to continue suffering. Thus, adults should learn about child abuse and its signs so that they may become more able to help abused children and better society and the future of their nation. There are four main types of abuse: physical abuse, sexual abuse, psychological abuse, and neglect. Each type of abuse has different signs and affects futures differently. Physical abuse is defined as any act of aggression that intentionally or unintentionally causes injury. This includes slapping, punching, pinching, hair pulling, and other aggressive acts. Munchausen by Proxy Syndrome, or purposely inducing illness in a child, is also a form of physical abuse. The second type of abuse sexual abuse - is defined as a sexual act that takes 2 Elkadi place between an adult and a child. Sexual abuse also includes acts such as violating privacy and exposing them to sexual acts between adults. The third type of abuse is emotional or psychological abuse, and it is slightly harder to detect and pinpoint. Emotional abuse is defined as attitude, behavior, or failure to act that interferes with a mental health or social (HealthyPlace). Emotional abuse is almost always accompanied by another form abuse. Lastly, child neglect is the most prevalent type of abuse, and it is the hardest to detect. Child neglect is that act of not caring for child. The three different types of neglect are physical, emotional, and educational neglect. Physical neglect is the act of not feeding, clothing, and supervising a child and making sure his or her environment is safe. Emotional neglect is failing to provide emotional support and care for a child. Finally, educational neglect is the failing to enroll a child in school or allowing him or her to miss too much school. As one can tell, there are many different types of child abuse, and though one may feel that there is no way to end child abuse, there is a lot that can be done to change this (HealthyPlace). Some people may still wonder why child abuse is their problem if they are not children and have no children of their own. The fact of the matter is that abused children grow into adults that must become participating members of society, and the effects of child abuse end up holding them back and slowing down progress and development. Child abuse is only the beginning of an endless cycle that leads to more abuse and neglect, raised crime rates, and ill- functioning people. According to Paula Bennet, National Party MP and Minister for Social Development and Employment, abuse can leave people with permanent physical damage and emotional damage, as well as pent up anger and frustration that leads them to repeat their experiences on children in their lives and commit crimes such as robbery, rape, and other illegal acts. Child abuse may seem like a problem that ends with the beginning of adulthood, but this is 3 Elkadi nowhere near the truth. Just like going to war or experiencing any form of severe trauma, child abuse can cause conditions such as PTSD, depression, anxiety, and many others. It is for these reasons and countless others that all of humanity should come together to end crimes that are committed against beings as helpless as children. Adults have the power to end abused suffering and should do all that is possible to do so. All forms of child abuse have telltale signs that will speak even when children are too scared to. Helpguide.org has listed these signs on its website in order to make adults more informed and better able to aid children in need. The signs of physical abuse are easiest to detect, as they are often visible to the eye. Signs include frequent and/or unexplained injuries, always being anxious and flinching easily, and wearing long clothing when it is unnecessary to do so. The signs of emotional abuse include withdrawal, fear, and anxiety, not acting age (too mature or too immature), extremes in behavior, and lack of attachment to caregivers. Signs of sexual abuse are trouble sitting or walking, showing inappropriate interest in sex, seductive behavior, and trying very hard to avoid one specific person. Finally, the signs of neglect include clothing that is dirty or does not fit well, bad hygiene, and being unsupervised or absent from school often. It is important to pay attention to these signs regardless of what may seem or not. Abusers can be anyone from a parent to a mentor to a complete stranger, but the signs of abuse are the same regardless, and people must always keep their eyes and minds open to them. (HelpGuide). The signs of abuse are detectable and the steps to stopping it or intervening are not hard, whether one is protecting a child that is not their own, or even protecting their own child from themselves. Regardless of the situation, there is always something one can do to protect an abused child. If someone notices signs of abuse in a child, he or she may after carefully judging 4 Elkadi the situation, speak to the parents or guardians, as they may be unaware of the consequences of their actions. If this does not appear to be a safe course of action, one can contact the child abuse hotline at 1-800-422-4453. If one finds signs of abuse within themselves, they may call 1-800-4-A-CHILD for help (HelpGuide). Children need good people to be their voices when they cannot use their own. This is why all people must each individually take it upon themselves to be the light that abused children need in their lives and their hope for a brighter future in which they can accomplish their goals and turn their dreams into realities. Though child abuse used to be a very hush-hush topic, this is no longer the case. As times change and people become more open-minded and willing to discuss controversial ideas, they are beginning to understand the reality of child abuse. Child abuse does not stay in childhood, and it does not only affect its victims - it slows down human development and holds back entire communities. For these reasons, it is upon adults to be aware of the sings and types of child abuse and be prepared to take action on behalf of children in need. The first step to solving a problem is understanding it, and once one has understood child abuse, its types and their signs, one can become an agent of change in the community and a source of hope to children who feel they have lost everything. 5 Elkadi Works Cited Bennet, Paula. Why You Should Care About Child  The New Zealand Herald. N.p., 22 Aug. 2010. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Child Abuse  Childhelp. Childhelp, n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. <https://www.childhelp.org/child-abuse-statistics/>. Effects of Child Abuse and  Joyful Heart Foundation. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. <http://www.joyfulheartfoundation.org/learn/child-abuse-neglect/effects-child-abuse-neglect>. Smith, Melinda, M.A., and Jeanne Segal, Ph.D. Child Abuse and  Child Abuse & Neglect: Recognizing the Signs and Making a Difference. HelpGuide, n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. <https://www.helpguide.org/articles/abuse/child-abuse-and-neglect.htm>. Tracy, Natasha. Types of Child  HealthyPlace. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. <http://www.healthyplace.com/abuse/child-abuse-information/types-child-abuse/signs-of-online- sexual-child-abuse>.