Student 1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 27 April 2017 Repeat History and Save Future Generations Before and when The Industrial Revolution began, people were unaware of the consequences that would come in future years by using certain resources for power and energy. Today, problems such as air pollution and environmental waste have been noticed from non- renewable power sources. People are coming to the realization of the consequences that will come if nothing is done to prevent it. Allison Larr, a researcher in public policy and environmental health, states, fuel-burning power plants, which are a major source of carbon emissions that cause climate play a role in forming ozone and particulate (Larr 93). If ozone keeps being created, chances of exposure to humans increases which can induce heart attacks or damage lungs (Larr 94). Problems like this will occur if people lower the percentage of non-renewable resources for energy. Right now, according to the U.S Energy Information Administration (EIA), 90% of the U. energy consumption comes from non- renewable sources such as coal and natural gas (EIA 3). The U. S needs to begin on converting to renewable energies such as solar energy and wind power. Renewable sources such as solar energy should become the highest used source of power because it emits no air pollution or waste and help climate change; save trillions of dollars and become less dependent on other countries; and, can be cost effective if demand increases. Solar energy has the potential to become the most depended on source of electrical power in the world. Benefits such as no air pollution and no environmental waste is created when in use Student 2 are reasons why such a belief exists. Every source of energy in the world does create some type of waste either in its creation or while in use. The difference between solar energy and renewable sources to non-renewable sources is once it is created there will not be any more pollution created. Solar panels take in light from the sun and convert it to energy for personal or regional use which produce any waste only power. Because of this, solar energy production in the U. S has almost quadrupled in the last five years (Weatherhead 19). People are seeing how renewable resources have potential and can help this earth turn around. Not producing waste and air pollution is only one reason people are beginning to see the benefits of this source of power. Converting to a source that does not produce pollution can help with climate change and environmental damage. In research, future projections show, if percentages do not lower with non-renewable source use, then by 2050 there will be an increase in carbon emissions across all regions by 2 micrograms per cubic meter (a 25 percent increase) and by up to 4 micrograms per cubic meter in the Northeast (a 44 percent increase) (Larr 100). Carbon is a greenhouse gas which breaks the ozone layer allowing light to come in and stay in causing temperatures to increase. This will lead to habitats being destroyed, water levels to rise, and the problem would become irreversible. Frederica Perera researched air pollution and climate change and how they can affect the human population. She states fuel combustion inflicts a multitude of serious health and developmental and emits carbon dioxide, a co-pollutant that is a major driver of climate (Perera 141). This explains one of the reasons why non-renewables are the main cause of climate change. By converting to renewable sources, we can prevent climate change and allow future generations to prosper. In the world, researchers and scientists are trying to project what would happen to air pollution rates if the world converted to solar energy. Javier Felipe Andreu did a study on what Student 3 would happen if the city of Velika Gorica in Croatia converted to 100% solar energy. In the study, he found after 25 years on the use of solar energy, there would be a 60% decrease in carbon emissions in that area or 6,140.15 tons per year (Andreu 1058). Therefore, decreasing the rate of ozone depletion and prevent climate change. Zhanna Mingaleva, a professor at Perm State University, researched the possibility of solar energy applications in Russian cities. Based on his research, statistics show that solar energy can be efficient in 75% of cities (Mingaleva 461). There is seen potential with renewable energy sources such as solar energy based on multiple studies and projections. Overall, solar energy and other renewable sources have no pollution or air emissions and can help prevent climate change for a better life for future generations. The United States spends money on oil and coal from other world countries for the population to run smoothly. Because of this, they spend trillions of dollars a year to keep the American work force alive and running (Lovins). Amory Lovins states that the United States converted to renewable resources for electrical power, they would save trillions of (Lovins). Energies such as solar power can help decrease the large debt the United States carries. Also, it can strengthen our national security, removing the tie between middle eastern countries for oil and can help prevent future conflict like war. With solar panels once they are created, needs like maintenance or checks are not necessary. Non-renewables such as nuclear, coal, or oil need people to maintain the facilities to prevent disasters and clean up or move by-products and environmental waste. This maintenance costs money and by removing the work, the country will save money and help boost the economy. In economy, solar panel prices are high because of a lack of technological advancements which would help bring down the price to be affordable for the middle class. The Student 4 Solar Energy Industries Association (SEIA) states that if demand increased then the price for solar panels would decrease causing the industry to grow and technological advancements to occur (SEIA). In the movie Catching the Sun, the main character Van Jones who is a solar installer also says people need to come together like a revolution for change in the power industry to happen (Catching the Sun). In the U. history, there have been countless revolutions where people come together to help a cause they believe and this is what needs to be the next revolution. Solar power and other types of renewable sources have great potential in becoming the future of electrical power generation. Problems like climate change, habitat destruction, air pollution, environmental damage, and many others are going to progressively get worse and become irreversible if nothing is done to stop it. All around the world, there have been revolutions where change was forced upon from people coming together for a cause they believed in. One of the larger examples was the revolution to free African-American slaves and accept them as equals with everyone else. As said before, if demand increased for renewable sources of power, then technological advancements would occur and make prices cheaper and make the technology more efficient. Solar energy emits no air pollution or waste and help climate change, save trillions of dollars and become less dependent on other countries, and can be cost effective. A revolution for change is needed in the U. main source of electrical power would end the future possible problems from occurring and help the economy of America. We need help for change to occur and help future generations live life without any worries or problems. (W.C 1226) Student 5 Work Cited Andreu, Javier Felipe, et al. Evaluation of Integration of Solar Energy into the District Heating System of the City of Velika  Thermal Science, vol. 20, no. 4, Aug. 2016, pp. 1049-1060. EBSCOhost, doi:10.2298/TSCI151106106A. Catching the Sun. Directed by Shalini Kantayya, performances by Jessica Brackman, Leonardo DiCaprio, Megan Gelstein, Anna Getty, and Peter Glatzer, The Film Collaborative, 2015 Larr, Allison S. and Matthew Neidell. Pollution and Climate  Future of Children, vol. 26,no.1,01Mar.2016,pp.93113.EBSCOhost,ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.eb scohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=eric&AN=EJ1101426&site=eds-live. Lovins, Amory. 40-Year Plan for Discovering Renewable Energy TED Talk, March 2012, 53A Chambers Street, New York, NY. Lecture. Mingaleva, Zhanna and Natalia Shpak. Possibilities of Solar Energy Application in Russian  Thermal Science, vol. 19, 2015 Supplement, pp. S457-S466. EBSCOhost, doi:10.2298/TSCI150330087M Perera, Frederica P.1, fpp1@cumc.columbia.edu. Multiple Threats to Child Health from Fossil Fuel Combustion: Impacts of Air Pollution and Climate  Environmental Health Perspectives, vol. 125, no. 2, Feb. 2017, pp. 141-148. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1289/EHP299. Solar Energy Industries  SEIA Solar Energy Industries Association. N.p., 01 Mar. 2017. Web. 02 Mar. 2017. U.S. Energy Facts - Energy Explained, Your Guide To Understanding Energy - Energy Information Administration. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Apr. 2017. Weatherhead, Elizabeth c.1 and Christopher T. M.2 Clark. Solar Renewable  Bulletin of the American Meteorological Society, vol. 98, no. 1, Jan. 2017, pp. Student 6 1922.EBSCOhost,ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib. usf.edu/login.aspx?direct=true&db=gft&AN=120758413&site=eds-live.