Student 1 Student Instructor Thornton ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Dependency on Antidepressants Creates Risk Antidepressants cause strong changes to personalities and moods and they can become dependent upon them to avoid depression, often without fully realizing the magnitude of their dependency. When a person relies on a pill to provide feelings of happiness (non-depression), they often forsake those other factors in their lives that used to bring them happiness (Breggin 115). Depressive disorders are characterized by a sadness or feeling of emptiness that significantly impedes an ability to function (American Psychological Association 155). Major Depressive Disorder (MDD) is perhaps the most severe of the depressive disorders, and it is noteworthy because it presents severe risks of suicide in many cases (APA 167). Such individuals that have MDD are at an increased risk of suicide and also an increased risk of harming others. Though many would argue that antidepressants are beneficial to patients suffering from MDD, the growing dependency on these medications presents the risk of patients causing harm to themselves and their communities when they suddenly cease taking their medication. Depression disorders were first being labeled as melancholia around 460 BC (Ban 7). During those times, depression and other mental disorders were viewed as characteristics of a build up of black bile inside of a patient (Ban 6). Typically this view was that those individuals suffering from this disorder were afflicted with some kind of negative energy or spirit. As our understanding of the human mind has progressed, so has our understanding of the disorders that affect it. Thomas Ban asserts in his article, From Melancholia to Depression, A History of Student 2 Diagnosis and Treatment, that antidepressants have been increasing in use as a solution to controlling depression since the mid 20th century (Ban 6). Even though the continued dependence on antidepressants continues to grow, depression is expected to become the second largest disability in the world by the year 2020 (Ban 6). This is of a major concern for the world as the number of users of antidepressants continues to grow, so does the risk of people resorting to lasting, permanent actions, such as suicide or violence against others if they cease taking their medication. The risk is especially pronounced in pre-adult patients who have not fully matured or stabilized emotionally and can be made much more unstable by biochemical alteration of brain chemistry that runs amuck and 836). Although there are lots of risks associated with antidepressants, there are many supporters of the medications. Supporters of the use of antidepressants claim that antidepressants are a necessary solution to reduce the growing numbers of people identified as suffering from depression. When patients suffering from depression find that an antidepressant does not work for them, their doctors will then prescribe an alternate medication instead. The use of antidepressants have been recorded to be able to stop the progress of depression in some patients, but mainly if those antidepressants are used for extended periods of time. Supporters also assert that since antidepressants are approved by the Food and Drug Administration, the medications must be safe for people to consume. Dr. John Grohol asserts that those patients who are suffering from severe bouts of depression are able to get better after trying several types of antidepressant treatments (1). According to Grohol, by adding a new medication to an existing prescription, one in five patients will show signs of improvement (Grohol 1). While these claims are valid, they tend to avoid discussing the negative side effects such as nausea, vomiting, headaches, etc. that are easily associated with taking antidepressants (Ban 6). Other doctors and researchers have noted that antidepressants can also Student 3 cause harm to their patients. As antidepressants have been in use for the past few decades, researchers are now identifying some of the negative side-effects of such prescription drugs. Sharma et al. performed an extensive literature review and found that in a raw statistical sense, antidepressants double the propensity for violence (2). Since antidepressants affect the brain chemistry of a patient, there are increased instances where a mood can become more violent. Moore, Glenmullen, and Furberg showed that antidepressants increase propensity for violence against self and especially others (4). This level of violence can range from self-harm, suicide and violence against others. Dr. David Rettew has observed cases in which young people given antidepressants had become more violent, thus having to end the medication (1). Rettew is cautious to note that while the use of the antidepressants seemed to have a connection to the increase in violence, it is difficult to assume whether the violence was spurred because the depression was increasing or whether the medication was causing the mood changes (1). What this means is that antidepressants could actually be causing more harm than good to the patients in the long-term. This risk is particularly true for those young members of active duty military service that come back from conflict overseas. The true victim of the depression epidemic are the veterans returning home from war, where there is an increase in suicidal depression in soldiers. Millions of soldiers returning from deployment suffer severe PTSD and MDD and are often prescribed antidepressants. A Administration system without the resources to provide adequate psychological support often has no choice but to prescribe massive doses of antidepressants. The sad truth also is that many veterans are shattered by their combat experiences and will never be fully functional again (Breggin 117). Yet veterans also seem aware that antidepressants treat the effect not the cause, and Student 4 thus may go through periods where they try to decrease dependency on medication. This poses an issue as the number of veterans that commit suicide has grown to an alarming rate. According to the Veterans Affairs Suicide Prevention Program, in 2014 the national average was that 20 veterans committed suicide each day (Veterans Affairs 1). This figure is an important one, especially for the American public, because their heroes are coming back from war and are suffering. People who are suffering from depression are seeing this growing rate of suicide amongst their American heroes and thus can also feel helpless to their own circumstances. If the American society cannot assist its members that have served, then how can they plan to assist its other citizens? It is necessary for the public to become aware of this issue and get involved with organizations that actively assist in the prevention of such travesties. Concerned individuals can contribute to organizations such as Stop Soldier Suicide, through monetary donations or by volunteering their time (StopSoldierSuicide.org). Organizations such as this provide the resources needed such as a support group and counseling over extended periods of time, assisting in the recovery of the soldier. According to their website, this particular organization establishes a connection with the patient and researches the needs of the patient (StopSoldierSuicide.org). They find the resources in the local area that can most benefit the patient, and help them by setting goals that overcome their depression. Their approach is more related to combining multiple types of therapy at once, using both the medications of the antidepressants along with cognitive behavior therapy. This type of solution proves to be more effective in getting people to cope with their depression. Concerned individuals can start with those members in their own family first. By identifying those who are suffering from depression, concerned stakeholders can then seek out these organizations to get them assistance. The sooner assistance can be given to these members, Student 5 the safer everyone in that community becomes. The growing use of antidepressant drugs are creating a risk for those patients that are dependent on them for their feelings of happiness. Antidepressant psychotropic drugs are a key tool that psychologists need to help victims of depressive disorders, especially Major Depressive Disorder. Antidepressant psychotropic drugs should not be outlawed, and do not simplistically cause suicide or violence, but they can be a significant contributing factor, and this risk must be minimized (Gibbons 1047). Protocols to limit suicide and mass violence in patients who suddenly stop using antidepressants are needed. All people who are a part of the community should be engaged in actively trying to provide support and assistance to veterans suffering from Major Depression Disorder. Society can help quash this epidemic of depression and come up with long term solutions to MDD and PTSD, as opposed to relying heavily on the short-term effects of antidepressants. (WC.1391) Works Cited American Psychiatric Association. Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders: DSM-V. 5th ed., American Psychiatric Association, 2013. and Suicide in Journal of Paediatrics & Child Health, vol. 50, no. 10, Oct. 2014, pp. 836-37. Bachtold, Daniel. Allegations Derail Inquiry into Dark Student 6 Science, vol. 300, no 5616, 2003, p. 33. Ban, Thomas A., Melancholia to Depression A History of Diagnosis and International Network for the History of Neuropsychopharmacology. 2014. Breggin, Peter R., M.D. Antidepressant-Induced Suicide, Violence, and Mania: Risks for Military  Ethical Human Psychology and Psychiatry, vol. 12, no. 2, 2010, pp. 111-21. Gibbons, Robert D., et al. Relationship between Antidepressants and Suicide Attempts: An Analysis of the Veterans Health Administration Data  The American Journal of Psychiatry, vol. 164, no. 7, 2007, pp. 1044-49. Grohol, John M., Psych Central, 2017, Retrieved from: https://psychcentral.com/disorders/depression/depression-treatment/3/ Moore, Thomas J., Joseph Glenmullen, and Curt D. Furberg. Prescription Drugs Associated with Reports of Violence Towards  PLoS One, vol. 5, no. 12, 2010, 1-6. Rettew, David, and Violence: A Link in Search of a Psychology Today, 2015 Sharma, Tarang, et al. Suicidality and Aggression during Antidepressant Treatment: Systematic Review and Meta-Analyses Based on Clinical Study  British Medical Journal (Online), vol. 352, 2016, pp. 1-10. Stop Soldier Suicide, 2016, Retrieved from: http://stopsoldiersuicide.org/ VA Suicide Prevention Program, About Veteran 2016