Student 1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Do Not Part With The Arts! When people think of the arts, they typically imagine art classes like drawing, painting, and creating sculptures. In reality, the arts are so much more than just that. They can include chorus, band, dance, theatre, and countless other forms of visual and performing arts. In schools, the arts programs cover all of these activities and are in danger of losing funds to support them. Established by congress in 1965, the National Endowment for the Arts (NEA) is an independent federal agency that funds, promotes, and strengthens the creative capacity of our communities by providing all Americans with diverse opportunities for arts participation National Endowment for the  The NEA is the only public or private institution in the United States that provides everyone with equal access to all forms of the arts. The NEA is where all the funding for the arts in schools comes from and without it, there would not be enough money to keep the arts alive. The arts should stay funded in schools because they can help students become prepared for the workforce, they can increase a success in school, and they can help the disadvantaged youth by giving them a sense of worth. As previously mentioned, the NEA was established in 1965 by congress. The goal of starting the NEA was to provide all Americans with equal opportunities to practice and learn about art. Only five years later, trouble had already started. In 1970, the Ryan Act was created. Student 2 This was a state law that got rid of the requirements for elementary school teachers to have art training courses Historical ). This already started to give off the impression that the arts were not as important as core subjects. Three years later in 1973, Proposition 13 stated that school funding was to go from local communities to the state. This forced them to cut programs and hit the arts hard. In 1990, Assembly Speaker Willie Art Education Task Force gave a statement. This statement explained just how important arts education was and why it needed to be taught, and encouraged the Department of Education to bring artists into school to help train teachers Historical ). As the new century turned around, the arts budget was looking good with a budget of about $10 million per year Historical ). Not too much later in 2003, the arts budget was cut by a whopping 90% Historical ). After that big hit, the arts program was never the same. In workforce, skills like communication, collaboration, creativity, and critical thinking are crucial Why Arts Education is ). Art education is something that helps students develop these sorts of life skills. According to the Otis Creative Economy Report, one out of six jobs in Los Angeles County are driven by creative industries Why Arts Education is ). Without the proper art education, students will not have the proper knowledge to thrive in the workforce. On top of preparing students for life outside of school, it also helps students produce better scores while still in school. Arts education can increase test scores in every subject, lower dropout rates, and close the achievement gap throughout different socioeconomic statuses Why Arts Education is ). Dr. Shirley Brice Heath at Stanford University did a study on young people who were engaged in the arts for about three hours a day, three days a week for at least one whole year. Her results showed that these students are three times more likely to win an award for school attendance, four times more likely to be Student 3 recognized for academic achievement, four times more likely to participate in a math and science fair, and four times more likely to win an award for writing an essay or poem Why Arts Education is ). These statistics alone are enough to prove how imperative the arts are to our children. The arts are also capable of increasing a self confidence, self control, conflict resolution, collaboration, empathy, and social tolerance (Ruppert). These benefits are proven to help everyone, not just those who are gifted or talented. Research studies have been done on high risk, disadvantaged children showing that being involved in the arts can improve the quality of life. A study was done on a group of 60, 13 to 17 year old juvenile offenders and at risk children . These children took jazz and hip hop dance classes two times a week for 10 weeks . After this was done, the children explained how they had much more self confidence, tolerance, and persistence because of the dancing they had done (Ruppert). Another study done on boys aged 8 to 19  had similar effects. After learning to play the guitar and putting on a performance for their peers, their confidence and self esteem rose. The results of this study suggested that when children get a chance to perform, they are more likely to overcome their fears and succeed (Ruppert). The issue of making sure the arts stay funded in schools is imperative because if the arts get defunded, it could affect the future of children who are still in school. There is evidence to prove that art education can reduce student dropout rates, raise student attendance, develop better team players, create a love for learning, improve student dignity and student creativity, and prepare students for the workplace (Bryant). In the past, there have been no solutions to this problem, other than completely cutting funding for the arts department completely. This, of Student 4 course, is not an option. Children rely on the arts to learn things that cannot be taught through core subjects. The arts are able to engage areas of the brain that can have positive effects to minds (Bryant). If this problem is not acted upon and the arts department were to get cut, we would be depriving students of their right to learn. In a study done on students of lower socioeconomic statuses, 21% of those students who studied music had better scores in math compared to 11% that did not study music (Bryant). Art is not only something that children enjoy, but they also rely on it to help them excel in school. In order to show how important it is to keep funding the arts in schools, we need to get out and talk to our local congressmen and congresswomen. If we are able to present and tell them about all these facts and more, we will have more than enough information to show why we need to keep funding the arts programs in schools. It will prove to them that the arts program is pivotal to young children. All the statistics and studies that have been done on students who actively participate in arts programs prove that the arts have a huge, positive effect on students. As more and more people become aware of the situation the arts department is in, all those people can reciprocate what has been done by their community and even further inform their local congressmen and congresswomen about the need for arts to be kept in schools. As long as we keep letting people know how vital the arts are to development, then we will be able to completely get rid of even the thought of defunding the arts. The arts are something that goes unnoticed in schools (Davis). It is considered an elective course, but the importance of it is never stressed. Without the teachers who share their knowledge of the arts with their students, the level of success in students would be much lower Why Arts Education Is ). A study was done in 2005 showing the relationship Student 5 between the SAT Reasoning Test and art learning. It showed that students with half a year or less involvement in arts courses can score as many as 38 points lower than those who have four or more years involved with the arts (Ruppert). There is so much evidence to prove that the arts are only beneficial to students, and that information needs to be passed onto congress. No matter what happens, we need to make sure we do not part with the arts! (WC: 1360) Student 6 Works Cited Bryant, Bob. The Importance of Fine Arts  Katy Independent School District . Katy ISD, n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Creativity in Every  L.A. County Arts for All. L.A. County Department of Education, n.d. Web. 23 Feb. 2017. Davis, Jessica Hoffmann. Why our schools need the arts. New York: Teachers College Press, 2010. Historical  California Alliance for Arts Education. N.p., n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. National Arts Policy History  Americans for the Arts. N.p., 15 Oct. 2014. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. National Endowment for the  National Endowment for the Arts. National Endowment for the Arts, n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Ruppert, Sandra S. Critical evidence how the arts benefit student achievement. Washington: National assembly of state arts agencies, 2006. Nassa-arts.org. Web. 9 Apr. 2017. Why Arts Education is  L.A. County Arts for All. L.A. County, n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Student 7