Mahmood 1 Ahmed Mahmood Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Gun Control America is facing problems with gun control, there are 32,000 gun deaths per year in the United (Putting Gun Death Statistics in Perspective). When citizens have the right to bear arms in such a big country, there will be gun deaths for sure. Many people are using guns for the wrong reasons like suicide. average, there are 121 suicides per day and firearms account for almost 50% of all (AFSP). Guns have played a big part of America because it is in the second amendment, there are more guns than there is people in America! (The Washington Post). With that much guns, available in a big country there should be restrictions to getting them so they fall into the wrong hands or people with bad intentions. The gun deaths are also rising every year and becoming worse. Thus, because of how many firearm deaths happening every year in the United States, teenagers should be educated about guns by having programs at schools about it and there should be strict background checks so that there can be less gun deaths and guns fall in the wrong hands. There are many families in America that have at least one member that owns a gun in the house. What most people do not realize is how just having the gun in the house can affect a family member. America 8 out of 10 firearm suicides are committed with a gun belonging to a family (The Brady Campaign). People use guns for the wrong reasons and one of these reasons is suicide. Almost half the deaths from firearm are because of suicide, every year there is 21,334 number of deaths from firearm suicides (Centers for Mahmood 2 Disease Control and Prevention). have a suicide rate of (AFSP), also suicide is the second most common cause of death for Americans between 15 and 34, according to the centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Most Gun deaths here in America are most likely to be a suicide death. When guns are in the house, they can make suicide easy and deadly because they have to wait to plan it, they can just take the gun and do it. suicides in the united states is not a new problem. Even in the 1980s and 1990s, when violent crime rates were much higher, gun suicides were still a more common cause of death than gun murders. But in recent years, as the gun homicide rate has flattened out, the gun suicide rate appears to be ticking back up (The New York Times). Gun deaths can happen because guns can get in the hands of the wrong people or with bad intentions. Each year almost 100,000 Americans get shot, and 32,000 of them die. 40 percent of firearm purchases originate from private sellers from gun shows, online or unlicensed firearms dealers that require a background check on (USN). This makes it easier for anyone with a previous criminal or mental record can buy a gun. A convicted felon can purchase a gun online without going through any sort background check. In addition, someone who is suicidal can easily buy a gun from a private seller. This is evident in the shooting that took place at Fort Lauderdale airport where Esteban Santiago had his gun in his bag and shot it at other travelers. Esteban had a military background and was in war before, used to be a member of the Alaska Army National Guard but was (CNN). People like Esteban with mental issues should not be able to carry a gun because of their past or else mass shootings will happen and there will be deaths. Fortunately, there are a few ways to reduce the number of gun deaths and keep them away from people with bad intentions. That can be done without even infringing rights. One of the ways to reduce gun deaths and violence is to expand background checks to anyone that wants to buy a gun. Having strict background checks can help ensure that guns Mahmood 3 are in the hands of mentally unstable people or felons with past criminal records. With strict background checks it be easy for anyone to buy a gun. Having background checks will not only not prevent people from having the right to bear arms but also, will reduce gun violence at the same time. Background checks are put so that guns are kept away from people with bad intentions and not to stop people from having their right to bear arms. Background checks are helpful because they prevented more than two million convicted felons and other prohibited purchasers from buying (Coalition to Stop Gun Violence). This will increase the safety and security of the people because background checks will be able to identify if a potential harmful individual wants to buy a gun. A way people can have background checks is by signing a petition to demand background checks on all gun sales. If that occurs, criminals and dangerous people will less likely be able to get a gun in America. Another way to reduce the number of deaths happening from guns is to have gun education and avoidance programs be taught in schools. There is a firearm in about half of the American households. There have been shootings in a series of schools in recent years and one of them is first grade boy brought to school a gun he found at home and shot his 6-year-old classmate in Mount Morris (Time). A good program to have in schools is the which is done by the National Rifle Association. This program teaches the kids to Touch. Leave the Area. Tell an (NRA). By having similar programs in schools, kids and teenagers will have a better understanding of guns and the dangers of them. This way they will know what to do and how to act when they see a gun. These programs should be held by school administrators with a help of law enforcement. Programs in schools will stop accidents from happening and it will keep the kids and teenagers safe. Eddie the Eagle program has free funding for schools, that means schools can contact them and place an order for the Eddie Eagle costume and educate the children in schools (NRA). Mahmood 4 Many die every day from gun violence in America and the number of gun deaths is just increasing instead of decreasing. However, it is not too late to try to reduce the gun violence and deaths happening in America. One way is Having strict background checks all over the country for anyone that wants to purchase a gun. This will keep guns away from criminals and dangerous people. To do so, people must sign a petition to have background checks. Another way is to have programs at schools like Eddie Eagle to educate the youth about the dangers of a gun and what they should do when they see one. If this occurs, people will be safer because guns fall in the hands of the wrong people. and educating the youth about gun control will reduce the deaths. Word Count: 1207 Mahmood 5 Works Cited Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun  About Brady Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence. N.p., n.d. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Ingraham, Christopher. There Are Now More Guns than People in the United  The Washington Post. WP Company, 05 Oct. 2015. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Program, Eddie Eagle Eddie Eagle  NRA Explore Eddie Eagle. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Putting Gun Death Statistics in Perspective. N.p., n.d. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Rosenblatt, Roger. The Killing Of  Time. Time Inc., 05 Mar. 2000. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Sanger-Katz, Margot. Gun Deaths Are Mostly  The New York Times. The New York Times, 08 Oct. 2015. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Suicide and Self-Inflicted  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 17 Mar. 2017. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Shoichet, Catherine E. Fort Lauderdale Airport: 5 Dead, Shooting Suspect Had Gun in Checked  CNN. Cable News Network, 07 Jan. 2017. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Suicide Statistics  AFSP. N.p., n.d. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Universal Background  Coalition to Stop Gun Violence. N.p., n.d. Web. 15 Apr. 2017