Student 1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC1102 30 April 2017 Take Action to Donate the Extra Food to the Hungry Food waste is an issue in many households, corporations, and restaurants. Many people discard food that at some point was fit for human consumption, either because it is spoiled or expired. In the United States, for instance, 38million tons of food went to waste in 2015 and this is happening as even millions of people go hungry or cannot afford a nutritious meal, and 13% of Americans went hungry due to lack of resources (Cannon 183). Much of the food wasted is surplus but wholesome and edible. It could feed many people who go for days without a meal or are literally starving. Corporates and individuals can donate this food to charities to help feed hungry people. Foods that are mostly needed in charities are non-perishables such as canned foods, baby formula, dried fruits and canned vegetables (Rude Food). Saving and donating extra food to the hungry is important because millions of Americans could be provided with nutritious food, and it would also improve the environment. Throughout the world, people from all walks of life go hungry each day, and many do not know where will get their next meal (Cohen 47). This mostly occurs in developing nations which have serious food security issues but can also happen in developed countries (Cohen 48). In a country like the United States, which is considered as to have food security, one out of seven people do not get enough daily nutrients, and many do not have a steady supply of food at all(Cohen 47). According to Cohen Chapman & Burt (p. 46), many homeless people suffer from a lack of food. One of the things that brought the issue of food insecurity into the global is Kevin Student 2 photograph titled the Child and The raised global awareness about food insecurity. In 1993, Carter traveled to Sudan to cover the famine that was affecting the land. He took pictures of the effects that was felt on the villages caused by the famine (Davis 74). In the evening while heading out to the bush, he saw that a toddler had collapsed on the way to a feeding center. While taking the picture, a vulture landed near the child. Since he had been advised not to come into contact with anyone due to disease, he chased the bird away as the toddler struggled to walk to the feeding center. This photograph demonstrate to the world why it is crucial to feed the hungry. Throughout the world, different kinds of people go hungry each day (Cohen 47). It is important for the people who have excess food to come together and ensure that the help feeds these people. Each person is a stakeholder in this action and saving a little food each day can go a long way in ensuring that the people who go days without food have food on their table. The surest, safest and reliable way of donating food is by giving out the food that we do not need to the people who need it the most (Rude Food). In most occasions, people have surplus food in their homes and workplace. Instead of giving out such surplus foods, they remain with the food till it goes bad. Such a loss though not felt by these people is by all standards a loss in the energy that went into producing the food, as well as the source of happiness for another person. It is important that various stakeholders build a love for food and understanding that food should not be wasted especially in cases where people are going hungry each day. Various institutions make donations to ensure that people all over the world do not go hungry. According to Schneider (p. 756), many projects have been undertaken to ensure food security, but due to a lack of compiled data, scientific literature about such projects is rare. Therefore, people should ensure that they save up the food that they need the least to ensure that it feeds the people who need it the most. Student 3 As stated above, the Starving Child and the vulture is a description of current occurrences in the world today (Cannon 186). Through this photograph taken by Carter, the world should sit and discuss food insecurity as a major issue facing the world today (Carter). This picture of the vulture standing nearby for the child to die so that it can feed on them presents the urgency of the matter. It is, therefore, crucial that the world through various institutions such as the United Nations come with specific programs to solve this issue urgently to ensure that the number of people suffering from food insecurity reduces drastically. The urgency of this matter should be felt even by the public. Apart from institutions, the public is other stakeholders in solving this issue. People should care about this issue and set up various projects at a community level to feed the homeless within their neighborhoods. Such acts of kindness and charity can improve the stature of the people within their communities. However, people should be careful to avoid any ineffective solutions to this issue, one of these ineffective solutions is the establishment of food storage centers as well as handing out food to the hungry (Schneider 756). They should come up with projects that solve the needs of the homeless around them. A failure to tackle this problem will mean that the environment will be destroyed due to the wasted food and the social conflicts will be more rampant causing a variety of security issues. Lastly, it is crucial that organizations who have the capability to help fight this war join in to ensure that success is achieved (Persons 46). There are different roles to play in this fight. Normal people can join as volunteers to help in the food distribution to the people around them (Sustainable America). Additionally, different institutions and companies can join the cause as intermediary agencies to receive the food donated by individuals and ensure that they manage the process of food donation to ensure its effectiveness (Davis 6). They can also make monetary contributions to aid this cause or make advertisements to sensitize people about this issue Student 4 (Cannon 184). Consequently, institutions such as restaurants come up with feeding programs where they give out any excess food at the end of each day to the homeless and hungry people in the areas where they are located. Together, people can go a long way, and the fight against hunger can be won. In conclusion, it is the responsibility of each person to ensure that they save food and donate any surplus food to the hungry. As can be observed from the evidence presented, this is an urgent matter that requires attention from various stakeholders (Schneider 763). People should strive to ensure that they do not waste any food and that they donate any excess food that they have to charity or organizations dealing with feeding the hungry. Saving and donating excess food protects not only the environment but also helps the starving people. Such an issue helps to maintain social security within certain communities. Therefore, it is the role of everyone within the community to save the excess food that they hardly need so as to help the people who need it the most. (WC: 1233) Student 5 Works Cited Cannon, Mae E. Social Justice Handbook: Small Steps for a Better World. Downers Grove, Ill: IVP Books, 2009, pp. 183-186. Cohen, Barbara E., Nancy Chapman, and Martha R. Burt. Food Sources and Intake of Homeless  Journal of Nutrition Education and Behavior, vol. 24, no. 1, 1992, pp. 45-51, http://www.jneb.org/article/S0022-3182(12)80139-7/abstract. Accessed 7 April. 2017. Davis, C. Food Recovery through Donations as a Response to Food Waste: A Case Study of Two Grocery Stores Participating in a Food Recovery Program in Boulder.2014. Undergraduate Honors Theses. Paper 74 Kevin Carter. Starving Time, 1993, http://100photos.time.com/photos/kevin-carter-starving-child-vulture. Accessed 9 April. 2017. Rude Food. n.p., n.d., http://rudefood.se/index.html. Accessed 7 April. 2017. Schneider, Felicitas. The Evolution of Food Donation with Respect to Waste  Waste Management, vol. 33, no. 3, 2013, pp. 755-63, https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23453166. Accessed 7 April. 2017. Sustainable America. 8 Ways to Take Action on Food Waste. Sustainable America, 2014. Accessed 16 April 2017.