Mendez 1 Monica Mendez Bob Botkin ENC1102 063 9 March 2017 Tuition versus Future Derived from the greek universitas, universities are institutions of higher education and research. They are known for providing undergraduate and post-graduate degrees, the building blocks of a professional career. Because of the fear of limiting their students, the first major universities, like Cambridge and Oxford, did not charge tuition (Glater, 2). But this last long. The privatization of academic institutions changed drastically and the education system that was first proposed by the English, disappeared. The impact of this privatization, is lived today by young, 18-year-old students who want to succeed in their future. Why? Because it placed a price on their education. And should the success of a student have a price? Back in the day, a university degree was something that came along with wealth and power. However the gap between the lower-class and the rich was reduced when the Higher Education Act was implemented in 1965. The HEA, as popularly known, provided financial assistance to students who could not afford an education by themselves through low interest grants and federal loans (Dunnet, 200). But because of this, the cost of tuition has tripled itself, and some scholars believe that this inflation will never stop (Curs, Bradley and Larry, 117). Currently, the cost of an undergraduate degree is limiting the possibility of an education for students. Tuition is the major reason why students want to travel abroad and want to Mendez 2 study away from home; and even though staying at home presents very important economic advantages, it limits the student from having a different and an out-of-the-ordinary education. Researchers argue that the quality of public education is not as high as the level of education someone would receive in a private institution (Groen, 1802). Private universities tend to offer more benefits in the long term, like internships and smaller classes. On the contrary, public schools are extremely big, and even though they are considered to be average educationally, attending a public university provides financial benefits to the student that be ignored. For example, by staying in their home state, students have the advantage of living with family and avoid room and board fees, which can cost at least 40% of their annual university budget (Dunnet, 203). There is also a higher probability that a student will receive financial aid or a government scholarship, if he or she attends a public school (Curs, Bradley and Larry, 121). If students decide to attend a public university in their home state, they only pay a fraction of what they would pay in a private school, and they also apply for In-State tuition and State- Funded Aid. This means, that in the case of needing a student loan, the total amount of debt accumulated will be technically low. Recently graduated students and degree-seeking students are trying to decide the best academic opportunity for them and their decision is going to be greatly influenced by their economic standing and how much scholarship/aid they can receive from the institution they pick or the government, through scholarships or student loans. These two images want to convey the audience how students feel about tuition and the cost for an education, and how this decision, especially if it includes a student loan, is going to impact their future forever. Mendez 3 Something that adds credibility and appeals to logic in this picture is the fact that each of the graduation caps has a different amount. It is commonly known that the amount students get on loans depend completely on their economic and academic standing. Not because all students attend the same university or some are pursuing the same degree, they will have the same amount of debt. This also relies on the fact that some students work and study just to pay for their debt as they are enrolled in classes. All these facts portrayed by the image are a clear example of ethos. Emotion is crucial to engage with the audience and this is why images tend to appeal to it through the rhetorical appeal pathos. The fact that all students are graduating and they all have debt makes the audience feel a bit shocked. It also creates awareness of the responsibilities you might have to take after you graduate to pay your debt. The picture is also taken at an angle that makes the caps look like a gambling table, appealing to the statement that students are gambling their future spending so much money on education. Mendez 4 Graduations are commonly portrayed as the happy/epic conclusion of your 4 years of university. It is interesting how this picture portrays that students actually carry a lot of worries and everything is not perfect during and after graduation. The appeal to time is the clearest in this picture. The fact that after 4 years of education, students owe an incredible amount of money is really eye-opening. It also inspires the audience to act now to try and not be in debt or try to avoid it, in order for them to take control of the future that awaits them after college. Adds credibility to this picture that you can clearly see that the girls protesting are students. This means engaged enough and worried enough about this situation to march and protest about the cost of tuition. One of their posters mentions the referring to tuition inflation, an issue that is documented and confirmed by education scholars. The posters use strong words like and which definitely create an emotional connection with the Mendez 5 audience. As a student, there is hope in becoming successful and happy, and in the image, they are discussing how the price of education is going to their future and limit their dreams. Of course, these are hyperbolized claims, but they capture instantly the attention of the audience and makes them wonder if this is actually true. Something that creates awareness besides the obvious battle against the price of education, is the presence of girls at universities and colleges. Almost every student you can see in this picture is a girl, and this definitely tells the audience that girls are present and willing to stand up for what they believe. This specific picture have a clear or at least explicit example of Kairos, however you can take into consideration that the students are protesting and taking action in order to stop the issue sooner rather than later. Mendez 6 Works Cited Page Curs, Bradley, and Larry D. Singell. An analysis of the application and enrollment processes for in-state and out-of-state students at a large public  Economics of Education Review 21.2 (2002): 111-124. Dunnett, Andrew. Choosing a university: A conjoint analysis of the impact of higher fees on students applying for university in  Tertiary Education and Management 18.3 (2012): 199-220. Glater, Jonathan D. Colleges reduce out-of-state tuition to lure  The New York Times (2008): 2. Groen, Jeffrey A., and Michelle J. White. In-state versus out-of-state students: The divergence of interest between public universities and state  Journal of Public Economics 88.9 (2004): 1793-1814.