Huang 1 Jiayi Huang Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 04/29/2017 Solution to the Unsustainable World Nowadays, energy production is vital to the existence and development of mankind. On the one hand, people cannot imagine their life without energy since they continually use it in every day activity. On the other hand, they more and more pay attention to the economic aspect of energy and think over clean energy industries. The reason is that the common type of energy such as nuclear energy has a negative impact on economy and environment respectively. That is why there is a need to use renewable energy resources to save costs and environment. Thus, because nuclear energy has a negative impact on the environment, citizens and children should work together to promote renewable energy system so that brings a better future to the world. Basically, the contemporary society needs some changes in energy consumption. The world requires new types of energy to be introduced. There are many reasons for that. As the matter of fact, the modern period of human development is sometimes characterized through: energy, economy, and ecology. Energy in this list occupies a special place. It is crucial for the economy and for the environment. The economic capacity of the country and the welfare of the people totally depend on it. Nevertheless, the current type of energy has negative impact on the environment, ecosystems and the biosphere (Vlachogianni and Valavanidis). The most acute environmental problems, namely climate change, acid rain, general pollution is directly or indirectly related to the production or use of energy. Energy causes not only chemical but also other types of pollution, such as heat, aerosol, electromagnetic, radioactive. Without Huang 2 exaggeration, the solution to the energy problem depends on the possibility of solving major environmental problems. Energy is the industry that has been rapidly developing. If the population in the conditions of modern demographic explosion is doubled for 40-50 years, the production and consumption of energy happen every 12-15 years (Randall). At this point, the energy power increases dramatically not only in aggregate terms but also per capita. Currently, energy needs are provided mainly through three types of energy sources: fossil fuels, water and atomic nuclei. Water energy and nuclear energy are used after converting it into electrical energy. At the same time, a significant amount of energy contained in the fossil fuel used in the form of heat, and only part of it turns into electricity. The release of energy from organic fuel is associated with its combustion, and, consequently, with the admission of combustion products into the environment (Vlachogianni, Thomais, and Valavanidis). Today, nuclear power is considered the most popular and all the world totally depends on it. However, the consequences it has for both humankind and environment is quite dramatic. The mentioned facts make people think about new types of energy that will be beneficial for environment. The best solution will be the appliance of renewable kinds of energy. The bright examples of the renewable energy resources are the existing energy sources of sun, wind, sea waves, and the internal heat of the planet. There are many aspect of mowing to the renewable energy resources, namely ecological, global, social, and political. The current energy leads to the inevitable damage of the environment that in its turn causes global, social, and political problems. However, the alternative energy enables to save the environment and ecology as well. That is why many scientists recommend using the most popular alternative energy such as the energy of sun. Its advantages for the humanity will be priceless. Huang 3 According to experts, solar power could be one to cover every conceivable need of mankind in energy for thousands of years (Perkins). That is why this type of energy is free of charge and enables people to get it throughout the year. The amount of them is not high enough but those who managed to complete this task are satisfied. Moreover, they state that it is also possible to increase the efficiency of solar installations several times, and placing them on the roofs of houses and along with them. It will provide home heating, hot water and working appliances, even in temperate latitudes, not to mention the tropics. For industry that requires large expenditures of energy, so the individuals can use kilometer of wastelands and deserts, often laden with powerful solar systems. The total share of solar energy has been and will remain quite modest, at least in the foreseeable future. For billions of years, every second the Sun radiates tremendous energy (The Evolution). About one third of solar radiation that reaches the Earth is reflected and scattered in the interplanetary space. A lot of solar energy goes to heating the atmosphere, oceans and land. Currently, the agricultural industries may benefit from using solar energy for some installation, namely different types of solar greenhouses, a desalination plant, water heaters, and dryers (Shankleman and Martin). This type of energy has become so popular that a lot of work has been done to create solar power plants, solar energy for heating buildings, etc. The Practical appliance gets semiconductor solar batteries that directly convert solar energy into electrical energy. One may admit that the solar energy is endless and people may get as much energy as possible. Moreover, this type of energy is ecologically friendly. Consequently, there is a tremendous need in creating such plants that will be able to provide different kinds of energy not only for domestic use but also for industries. Considering the provided information about the renewable energy, the citizens should consider this proposal. That is to say that nuclear power is great but it spoils the Huang 4 environment. Moreover, the state of the current ecology is not great enough, so in the future it will not improve if the actions are not taken. Consequently, the best solutions will be to invest in new type of energy which is proposed for humans by nature. Basically, it seems quite weird not to take for granted those things that are given. That is why; the shift in the energy type will have positive impact on the economy and ecology of the world. The question whether to invest money in renewable recourses should be even risen after analyzing the benefits of this type of energy. As the matter of fact, not only using renewable energy is good for the environment, but also building faster while generating more power. Take China as an example, added 20.72 GW of wind (4.8 GW output as their capacity factor is only 23 percent) and 28 GW of solar (10.6 GW output), with around 90 percent of their solar installations coming from utilities. New capacity from wind and solar were more than the 5 nuclear plants added in the same year (5.7 GW output) Therefore, one should join Greenpeace organization, a largest independent, non-government/non-profit campaigning environmental organization, to work together and to promote renewable energy system. Taking the facts into consideration, many individuals can donate, conduct propaganda among the people and started installing solar panels at home as well as plants. In conclusion, energy is the driving force of any production. The fact that a person got large quantities of relatively cheap energy contributed to the industrialization and development of society. However, with huge population and production the energy consumption becomes potentially dangerous. The nuclear energy has damaged the state of the environment. Consequently, there is a need to introduce new type of energy. The best solution will be the renewable energy. The investments in this type of energy will improve the state of economy and ecology respectively. The bright example of the renewable energy is solar energy. Its appliance Huang 5 is inevitable since the energy of sun is endless and free. That is why there is a need to use this energy for domestic and industrious use. Join Greenpeace now, promote the use of renewable energy and tell the people around. Do it for the world and future generations! Huang 6 Works Cited Perkins, Nate . Googleonomics. TWIN BOOK, 2005. Randall, Tom. World Energy Hits a Turning Point: Solar Cheaper Than  Bloomberg.com. Bloomberg, 15 Dec. 2016. www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2016-12-15/world-energy-hits-a-turning-point- solar-that-s-cheaper-than-wind. Accessed 13 Apr. 2017 Shankleman, Jess, and Chris Martin. Solar Could Beat Coal to Become the Cheapest Power on  Bloomberg.com. Bloomberg, 02 Jan. 2017. www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2017-01-03/for-cheapest-power-on-earth-look- skyward-as-coal-falls-to-solar. Accessed 13 Apr. 2017. Nuclear  Greenpeace USA Nuclear Delusions Comments. 2011. Web. 13 Apr. 2017. The  The Evolution. Accessed 14 Apr. 2017. Vlachogianni, Thomais, and Athanasios Valavanidis. Energy and Environmental Impact on the Biosphere Energy Flow, Storage and Conversion in Human  American Journal of Educational Research. Science and Education Publishing, 23 Jan. 2013. pubs.sciepub.com/education/1/3/2/. Accessed 13 Apr. 2017. Tom DeRosa. Renewables vs. Nuclear: Do We Need More Nuclear  Pardon Our Interruption. N.p., 28 Apr. 2015. Web. 29 Apr. 2017.