Student 1 Savannah Musser Professor Thornton P3 Final Draft 30 April 2017 Aiding Depression As a nation, we must emphasize on the negative influential aspects caused by depression. To some individuals, depression may not be recognized as a severe mental illness, however, depression takes a large toll on the human brain as well as the body. Depression is a topic of concern because there is a rapid increase, specifically through the last century. On average, million Americans suffer each (G. Smith). This illness, to this day, does not receive sufficient funding, research or acknowledgement. This silent disease is something so vital to be helped. It consumes your mind, body, and daily life. When reviewing the physical, emotional, and financial aspects of depression, we note that these three aspects are the key success in raising awareness of the severity of this mental illness and hopefully, ending the fight against depression. Physical support can be provided to those in need through hug therapy and art therapy. Emotional support can be catered to those in need through social media, mail, or other technology. Financial support can be presented to depressed individuals through non-profit organizations, free services, and organizations that are driven towards fighting depression. Two organizations that focuses mainly on the fight against depression is the Anxiety and Depression Association of America and the Devon Safeguarding Children Board, in which are inspiration to myself, as well as others. These two organizations offer help to those suffering; however, not Student 2 many are aware of this available need. Depression can cause one to disassociate from the world around them. Physicality is a phenomenon that has prevailed throughout human kind in every way. Did you know that hugs are one of the best forms of therapy? Hugs build trust, raises oxytocin levels, strengthen the immune system, happiness, boost self-esteem, relax muscles, reduce stress, and provide positive energy. Hugging therapy has become more popular in the United States of America. Hugs have proven to be very in changing feelings of sadness or loneliness. Physically having presence can provide a feeling of reassurance and joy. Physicality is helpful to people, but can help depression by using objects as well. Music therapy is said to be live changing. Art therapy is successful in its ability to allow people to express what feeling by painting. Stroking brushes through tiny puddles of paint and brushing them onto a surface allows individuals to gain a sense of relief as they are clearing their mind. The use of artwork can create an illusion from everyday life. The mind and hands speak and with the color choices and patterns that an individual utilizes. These simple choices can display an array of emotions. A painting can reflect feelings, thoughts, concerns, and expression of the mind. Interpretations may differ from person to person; depending on their experiences. Throughout our lives, we all have experiences who make us who we are today. Art therapy can be practiced individually, or with a group. In a class with several individuals, a depressed individual may meet others who share similar feelings, even if not similar experiences. The feeling of familiarity and similarity may begin to appear and begin to combat the depression. Through these simple, yet entertaining practices, we acknowledge how easy it is to help someone with depression. If we could provide more funding for instruments to be used at therapy, or maybe even implement private lessons, depression could be fought. Student 3 man has his secret sorrows which the world knows not; and often times, we call a man cold when he is only (Henry Wadsworth Longfellow). This quote is a perfect example of how misunderstood depression can be. Society is extremely uneducated on the severe, long- lasting effects. Emotional support is not only provided in person, but also through technology communication. Technology such as facetime, phone calls, e-mail, Facebook, and other social media allows people all over the world to communicate. When living in world, we see the impact that the internet has made on how fast we can obtain information. Emotional support is provided to depression victims with just the click of a button. Online based organizations such as the ADAA, provide online support whenever need be. Depression requires a lot of emotional support. The information provided by the ADAA online is free and accessible to anyone with an internet connection. Depression and anxiety groups, as well as peer consultation are only a click away. This is so important because the worst emotion for a depressed individual is to be alone. There are many people who do not experience sufficient support, which can lead to even worse depressive behaviors. Depression affects everyone around the depressed individual. The family dynamic changes, as well as the attitudes towards one another. Being attentive to how someone is feeling can impact their life in a positive way. The connection we feel as humans to each other is something so powerful- yet so hidden. Organizations help individuals recover from mental illnesses through financial support. Financial support is the first step in making a change. For some individuals who are not qualified to receive benefits, it can be difficult for them to seek professional help. Learning how to do small things such as fundraise could make the biggest impact on a community. It is vital to consider feelings and emotions, especially for those who are suffering hardships. We all know that supporting your loved ones during this hard time can be financial overwhelming, in addition Student 4 to being emotionally draining. When doing research online, it is easy to see that awards are granted more often than realized. Receiving the proper funding will help to reduce the stress a family will encounter when dealing with depression. Each year, a convention is held by the ADAA for both members, and nonmembers to attend. Depending on the time of purchase, the rates may differ. They range from $229-$624 for members. The nonmember rates vary from $225-$779. This is an example of why being a member of the ADAA is extremely beneficial to you and your loved ones. Not only are you receiving a treatment that will change your life, but you are also entitled to member perks. Having a complimentary subscription to the ADAA magazine will keep you informed on what is happening near you. Understanding where to go to get professional help is pertinent to a successful recovery. Joining the team will lead to more research. The profits are only going to benefit depression in the long run. Funding for these organizations is what can keep them thriving in this tough economically challenging environment. It is not only your emotional obligation to aid a loved one, but a financial one as well. With the use of your dollars, is the only multidisciplinary professional organization in mental health that engages the words leading (Nina F. Rifkind). This statement by Nina is important to remember because it shows that your dollars are going to the right things. The best professionals will lead to the best help. The Devon Safeguarding Children Board is responsible for creating a safe environment for potential situations that can lead to depression. It is better to prevent issues than deal with them later. Their website has information available free to the public as well. Having the availability and convenience of these two organizations leaves almost no excuse to avoid getting help when battling depression. Funding for more organizations like these is extremely important. As a society, must look out for one another. Student 5 Depression is a mental illness that varies from individual to individual. Depression can be a rough time; however, if certain precautions are taken then one could prevent the future risks that many people suffer from every day. Depression can affect work, relationships, physical health, mental health, drug/substance abuse, and daily activities. A statistic is just a number, but when there are lives behind it there is so much more at stake. million are affected by depression. Through physical, emotional, and financial support, depression can be fought back. The first step in becoming a part of this battle is just to do your research. Talk to your friends. Depression is all around us, whether we know it or not. Give an extra hug today, and call someone who you talked to lately. We need to stop being a part of the problem, but a part of the solution instead. (WC:1393) Proposed Source List Student 6 America, M. H. (2014, March 13). Depression. Retrieved January 18, 2017 Bianchi,Renzo, et al. and depression:Label-Related Stigma, Help-seeking and Syndrome Psychiatry Research, vol. 245, 30 Nov. 2016. Boerema, Anke M., et al. of Help-Seeking Behavior in Depression: A Cross- Sectional BMC Psychiatry, vol. 16, 23 Mar. 2016. DBSA. Depression and Bipolar Support Alliance (DBSA), 2 Mar. 2015. Web. 21 Apr. 2017. Service DBSA. Pamela Smith, 7 Jan. 2014. Web. 21 Apr. 2017. Children & Freedom From Fear. N.p., 4 Oct. 2001. Web. 21 Apr. 2017. Recovery Freedom From Fear. N.p., 6 July 2004. Web. 21 Apr. 2017.