Student 1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 16 April 2017 PTSD: The More to Know Although not every person is affected by mental disorders (Bonanno), it is important to know how they can alter a health. Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) is a mental health issue that some people develop after experiencing a life-threatening or traumatic event (PTSD, National). This disorder is not well known, and because of that many victims suffer through their experience with no help. PTSD awareness should occur because of the lack of knowledge professionals and individuals have, the affect it can have on anybody who has been through a traumatic event, and awareness will help find adequate treatments to ease the problem. PTSD, originally called shell shock, was declared a trauma disorder in the (PTSD, National). It was first believed that veterans were the only ones prone to this disorder (PTSD addiction), but any traumatic event: abuse, war, sexual assault, and death can trigger PTSD in individuals (PTSD, National). Information regarding this disorder is scarce due to the lack of evidence in research, but it was determined that neurobiological studies indicated that PTSD is associated with stable cell alterations in the nervous systems (PTSD, National). This means that PTSD is caused by a change in the nervous system that affects the process of normal routines. In the past, psychologists brought PTSD treatments to war and military base locations to help soldiers cope with this disorder (PTSD, National). Although this solution did help veterans, it only specifically targeted one group out of the entire population that can be diagnosed with Student 2 PTSD, with continuous support, awareness and treatment of this disorder can help numerous people. The spread of PTSD awareness is important because there is a lack of knowledge of this disorder within individuals and medical professionals. Since this disorder is relatively new many people do not understand the concept and issues that correspond with PTSD and do not take it seriously. With approximately 10 percent of the population suffering from PTSD at least once in their life (Reasons people), it is considered a mental disorder- just like anxiety and depression- and cannot heal itself. Some symptoms of PTSD include sensitivity and increase of the acoustic- startle eye blink reflex (PTSD, national), sleep abnormalities, flashbacks, lack of interest, and alcohol abuse (Linds). These signs are very important to look for when you are suspecting someone to have PTSD. Furthermore, many victims do not understand what the treatments do or think that they will not help them at all (Reasons people). People with PTSD first start treatments for their symptoms, that could be depression or addiction, and not actually treat the underlying trauma (Reasons people). Since some victims do not know they have PTSD, they believe that treatments are not working, but in reality, they need to address the underlying trauma to fully help this disorder (Reasons people). Adequate treatment, such as psychotherapy-which is the treatment of mental or emotional disorders using psychological techniques that is based on verbal and emotional communication (Psychotherapy)-would help ease the tension and suffering of PTSD. Similarly, professionals, such as social workers, are not educated about the consequences of PTSD (Bechdel). When working on scenes that involve abuse and sexual assault, there can be traumatic experiences for both the children and the social worker. Jennifer Bechdel stated, 15% of social workers who participated in the study met the diagnostic criteria for Student 3 (Bechdel). When experiencing PTSD hands on, professionals should have knowledge on how to handle a victim with the disorder. It is also important to catch the signs for oneself and get help right away. Said by Nancy Smyth impact of living through traumatic events, especially multiple events over the course of a lifetime, can result in a range of behavioral health (Smyth) and that many social workers put themselves into positions that solemnly deal with trauma survivors (Smyth). A field of this extent needs to have awareness of PTSD and know the affects to help countless victims and themselves. The importance of this disorder is severe because it can affect anybody who has ever experienced trauma. A lot of victims do not believe they can get PTSD this disorder was a common illness for war combat and veterans (PTSD, National) so others thought they could not suffer from it as well. From the PTSD perspective article, simple reason is many other people who struggle with post-traumatic stress disorder, she really believe her problem was (Reasons People). Although 10 percent of the population suffers from PTSD, it is not uncommon for victims to refuse to believe they have this severe disorder (Reasons people). It is not unusual that PTSD affects more than a physical behavior, symptoms such as depression and anxiety can lead to a totally different thought process. Additionally, suicide is a huge factor played into the death of PTSD victims. The National Center for PTSD stated, suggest that suicide risk is higher among those who experienced trauma due to the symptoms of (PTSD, National), and that high levels of intrusive memories can predict the relative risk of (PTSD, National). Due to the fact that individuals associate suicide with depression, there is never a proper diagnostic for many people who become victims of suicide. Equally, people who develop suicidal thoughts are Student 4 normally treated for depression and never fully take on the underlying trauma that causes their change in behavior. Finding adequate treatment and research for PTSD is extremely significant to help stop the ongoing suffering for victims. This disorder is hard to diagnose based on the lack of research and knowledge about it. From My Story of Survival: Battling PTSD it took 32 years for this victim to be diagnosed with PTSD. Philips stated, but unbeknownst to them, I was terrorized by an undiagnosed debilitating mental (Philips P.K.), she later stated medication and undergoing behavioral therapy marked the turning point in my regaining control of my (Philips P.K.). Proving that with adequate treatments and diagnoses people who are suffering can heal and continue with their life normally. Through the support and donations of other individuals, researchers can acquire treatments that will benefit everyone suffering from PTSD through therapy and prescription drugs (PTSD, National). The National Center for PTSD, out the two largest psychotherapy and participating in a psychopharmacological clinical (PTSD, National) for PTSD finds new treatments for patients through the help of the community and individuals who also believe this disorder needs to be treated. Arguably, not everyone who experiences traumatic events is affected by PTSD (PTSD addiction). Even if it is not a personal disorder, it could affect the families of others who are suffering. The PTSD alliance stated, suffering from PTSD, it is normal for that person to distance themselves from their loved ones. They feel disconnected from others and lose interest in activities they used to (PTSD addiction). While not having to be concerned for oneself, it is important to spread awareness and help numerous other individuals who are suffering without common knowledge of what could be wrong. Student 5 To Summarize, mental disorders are serious to health and it is important for patients to have adequate knowledge and treatment regarding their disorder. Addressing this social issue will help improve outlook of this disorder and will let victims know this should not be taken lightly. It is important to understand the power PTSD has over patients and how spreading awareness can help improve many lives. With the support of others, we can help spread the knowledge of this disorder and help victims find treatment that is right for them. (WC: 1272) Student 6 Works Cited Bechdel, Jennifer. Do social workers suffer from post traumatic stress disorder  World of Psychology. N.p., 28 Jan. 2007. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. https://psychcentral.com/blog/archives/2007/01/29/do-social-workers-suffer-from-post- traumatic-stress-disorder-too Bonanno, George A. Loss, Trauma, and Human Resilience: Have We Underestimated the Human Capacity to Thrive After Extremely Aversive  American Psychological Association. American Psychological Association, Jan. 2004. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. http://psycnet.apa.org/journals/amp/59/1/20/ Lind, Mackenzie J., et al. Original Article: Relationships between Potentially Traumatic Events, Sleep Disturbances, and Symptoms of PTSD and Alcohol Use Disorder in a Young Adult  Sleep Medicine, 22 Feb. 2017. Web. 01 Apr. 2017. http://eds.b.ebscohost.com/eds/detail/detail?vid=5&sid=d9974a57-3cb6-47fe-a1d3- 3ac980788dcc%40sessionmgr120&hid=126&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWRzLWxpdmU%3d# AN=S1389945717301144&db=edselp. Philips, P.K. My Story of Survival: Battling  My Story of Survival: Battling PTSD Anxiety and Depression Association of America, ADAA. N.p., n.d. Web. 08 Apr. 2017. https://www.adaa.org/living-with-anxiety/personal-stories/my-story-survival-battling- ptsd Encyclopedia. World News Digest. Infobase Learning, n.d. Web. 26 Mar. 2017. http://wnd.infobaselearning.com/recordurl.aspx?wid=98122&nid=17857&umbtype=2 Student 7 PTSD Addiction or Posttraumatic Stress Disorder and  PTSD Alliance. N.p., n.d. Web. 08 Apr. 2017. http://www.ptsdalliance.org/ptsd-and-addiction PTSD, National Center for. PTSD: National Center for  PTSD: National Center for PTSD Home. N.p., 15 Aug. 2013. Web. 25 Mar. 2017. http://www.ptsd.va.gov/ Reasons People Seek PTSD  PTSD Perspectives. N.p., 15 June 2013. Web. 08 Apr. 2017. http://ptsdperspectives.org/reasons-people-dont-seek-ptsd-treatment Smyth, Nancy J. Trauma-Informed Social Work Practice: What Is It and Why Should We  Virtual Connections. N.p., 13 Oct. 2014. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. https://njsmyth.wordpress.com/2013/04/19/trauma-informed-social-work-practice