Ohnmacht 1 Tyler Ohnmacht Theodosiou Enc-1102 4/16/17 Uber: A Look at Reform In busy world, transportation is one of the most important parts of our daily lives. Uber, a ridesharing company that was founded in San Francisco in 2009 attempting to revolutionize the way we get from point A to point B. Although Uber did change the landscape of the transport industry, however even as an established company they consistently show a lack of respect for drivers and other employees. Although Uber is not an inherently evil company, their attitudes, and resulting actions as a company towards their drivers, and users is unacceptable, this can be countered by using alternate modes of transportation, or simply boycotting Uber until they change. Uber is a mobile phone app, that will hail a car to transport you. Uber uses everyday people as independent contractors to transport the users of their app. The drivers use their own personal vehicles to transport their passengers. The company does cover car insurance while the app is active, but it is only low level liability insurance, and there is no insurance for any of the personal items in the vehicle. Uber is more than just drivers though, there is an entire mobile app behind the ride sharing company. This takes app developers, programmers, and other such jobs that are needed for all of silicon valley companies. This are the pieces that make Uber the company they are. Ohnmacht 2 Recently Uber has come under fire for multiple controversies. The first of which is stemming from the company allowing cash to be used as a payment in Brazil instead of credit cards. This led to an increase in burglary with the State Secretariat showing spike in robberies involving Uber drivers since July, when the company started accepting cash payments in the city There have also been at least murders of Uber drivers confirmed by the Brazilian police, however some of the local authorities have reported up to a dozen murders in total. This is a horrendous situation for the drivers, and many of the drivers are asking Uber to repeal the cash payments, but they have yet to make any impactful changes. Uber also implemented a new system that allowed passengers to wait until they had already started their ride to pick a destination, this would lead to drivers picking up passengers, and not knowing where they are going, which would lead to drivers being taken on ridiculously long rides without knowing. If this enough, Ceo was recently recorded by an Uber driver getting into a heated argument about the treatment of the drivers and their wages (Bloomberg). This shows the kind of attitude trickles down into the lower levels of the company and can create a feeling of constant attrition. Although competition in the workplace is not always a bad thing, competition in the workplace has often been described as hostile by employees (New York Times). Some of the biggest missteps made by Uber have been made by their self driving car department, last year Uber moved their self driving car testing to Phoenix after being told by California officials stop the service because it was illegal. . . The company lacked the necessary state permits for autonomous driving, (Christopher This means Uber knowingly operated their self driving cars illegally in the state of California with complete disregard for the law. Twice Uber Self driving cars were involved in accidents, and one Uber self Ohnmacht 3 driving car was even caught running a red light on video. This is Uber putting their customers and other drivers at risk by illegally testing their cars, and then endangering the public when the cars fails. Another current sore on the face of Uber is that they are being sued by Waymo, the company in charge of self driving cars. Waymo is claiming that Anthony Levandowski stole technology from Waymo while starting his own self-driving car company, which he called Otto. Soon after Otto was bought by Uber, who Waymo is accusing of buying Otto because they were so behind in their self driving car development. Levandowski was also accused of recruiting Waymo employees to work for his company (Wired.com). There are documents that seem to support claims that tech was behind. Documents obtained by Recode show that on average self driving autopilot disengaged every one mile, as opposed to the Waymo prototype which disengaged every 1,800 miles. Each of these on their own is enough to show a company as unreliable, but all of these compounding issues at once are faults that a company valued at 69 billion dollars should be making. Nobody deserves to have their hard work stolen by others and then sold illegally. Another of shady tactics is creating a second app, and a tool called which as described in this New York Times article data collected from the Uber app and other techniques to identify and circumvent officials who were trying to clamp down on the ride-hailing service (Mike Uber avoided the police in order to operate in cities where they were outlawed, if the drivers were caught they would face fines for operating a taxi illegally, and because they drivers are independent contractors, and do not have taxi or limousine insurance they often have to pay these fees out of pocket, even though they were only doing their job. This happened even in Miami according to the article by Yanelys Crespo Uber had complete disregard for the licenses and local regulations and simply began Ohnmacht 4 operating in Miami without proper permits (Crespo 96). Many young adults use Uber as a source of income, imagine if your, or your friend got fined hundreds of dollars simply for doing your job, and then your boss told you that you had to pay it on your own. Uber does not even help reduce the number of drunk driving fatalities. In a study by Brad Greenwood in the American Journal of Epidemiology showed there was no association between the deployment of Uber and a reduced number of fatalities across 100 cities in the US (Greenwood). This means that even if you take an Uber you are still at the same risk of being in a fatal accident. Even though Uber advertises having the safest ride on the road they are no safer than a cab, or simply driving yourself. Uber falsly advertisting this kind of safety and lying to consumers is unnaceptable. Overall the question is what can we do to make Uber realize their current practices are unacceptable? The first is to start a petition of all the changes Uber needs to make and to get both consumers and drivers to sign it. If there is a large enough push Uber would be forced to consider changing their ways. Another possible solution is voting with your wallet, although Uber is a large company there are plenty of other ways to get around in major cities such as, a personal vehicle, public transport such as buses or trains, or even other ride sharing apps like Lyft. Public outcries against companies like this also tend to make them respond to issues quicker, the #deleteuber campaign on Twitter after the company supported the Trump travel ban upset consumers so much that CEO stepped down from transportation board to please consumers. Another run of this campaign could force Uber to change, especially since their largest user base is the type of people that are on USF campuses (globalwebindex). This means that it is very possible for every student to make an impact on these issues simply by following these steps. Together we can build a fair and diverse transportation industry. Ohnmacht 5 All in all it is important to remember although Uber is currently on thin ice it does not mean that they change, however it is important that we hold them accountable for their actions. Their lack of respect for drivers, and passengers is concerning. They have allegedly stolen self driving car tech, have used measures to make sure they are able to operate illegally, and have even lead to the deaths of some of their drivers. It is possible to make a change remember to think twice when choosing your transportation service, vote with your wallet, and if you wish to join #deleteUber you can. Together we can make transportation great again. Ohnmacht 6 Works Cited Burgen, Stephen. Bans in Spain and Thailand Add to Woes: Boycotts Come After Those in India and Netherlands: Hi-Tech Taxi Firm Valued at $40Bn After  The Guardian (London, 2014. ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx?direct= Crespo, Yanelys )1. Uber V. Regulation:  Creates a Legal Gray  of Miami Business Law vol. 25, no. 1, Winter2016, pp. 79-110. Davies, Alex. Google Accuses Uber of Stealing Its Self-Driving Car  Conde Nast, 23 Feb. 2017. Web. 08 Apr. 2017. GlobalWebIndex. The Demographics of US  N.p., 2017. Web. 08 Apr. 2017. Isaac, Mike. Inside Aggressive, Unrestrained Workplace  New York The New York Times, 22 Feb. 2017. Web. 08 Apr. 2017. Moore, Daniel. PUC Approves $3.5 Million Settlement with Uber over 2014 Valley Business N.p., 06 Apr. 2017. Web. 08 Apr. 2017. Newcomer, Eric. In Video, Uber CEO Argues With Driver Over Falling Bloomberg, 28 Feb. 2017. Web. 08 Apr. 2017. Newcomer, Eric. In Video, Uber CEO Argues With Driver Over Falling Bloomberg, 28 Feb. 2017. Web. 08 Apr. 2017. Ohnmacht 7 Reuters. Murders and Robberies of Drivers in Brazil Force Uber to Rethink Its Drivers Robbed and Murdered in Brazil Force a Strategy Rethink Fortune, 14 Feb. 2017. Web. 08 Apr. 2017 Ross, Henry. House of Cards: V. Uber Technologies, Inc. And the Viability of Labor Model in  Law no. 3, 2015, p. 1431. ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx?direct=