Frimpong-Manso 1 Kwadwo Frimpong-Manso Karen Hanson ENC 1102 14 April 2017 Ghana Wages Do you have an upcoming appointment or know anyone currently seeking urgent care at a public hospital? In that case, you should be concerned that the Ghana Medical Association (GMA) is ordering all doctors to withdraw their services and embark on a strike action. This decision came after the Fair Wages and Salaries Commission (FWSC) refused to pay the GMA arrears owed them, popularly referred to as Conversion Difference. Conversion Difference was an amount created by the FWSC to pay Employees whose salaries were reduced as a result of the transition from the old salary structure to the new Single Spine Salary Structure (SSSS). Medical doctors were one of those affected; however, they were informed that they entitled to conversion difference. This led to a confrontation and could now lead to a possible strike action. To save millions of lives and prevent the issue from escalating, it is imperative that the wages are paid. In order to ensure this, the citizens of Ghana have to sign the petition and donate to help fund their cause. The Single Spine Salary Structure was developed by the FWSC as part of their efforts to ensure equitable wages among workers in the public sector. It was designed in such a way that it will reduce wages in the early stages, and gradually return to its original amount over time (Avorkpor). To satisfy the difference during this period, it was decided that employees will be paid Conversion Difference every year, until their salaries returned to their original amount Frimpong-Manso 2 For instance, Jack receives $1,000 under the new SSSS. However, under the previous payment structure he used to receive $1,500. To satisfy the difference, Jack will be paid an extra $500 as Conversion Difference, every year until his salary returns to $1,500. The FWSC is however refusing to pay doctors Conversion Difference even though their salaries reduced as a result of the transition (Avorkpor). They claim that, under the old payment system, the basic salary included their overtime bonus and so it would be inappropriate to pay them extra as Conversion Difference They instead proposed a market premium. However, the basis for determining the market premium is inappropriate and account for all of the overtime hours. It is simply unscientific. There are many reasons why Ghanaians should care about a strike action. A fully-fledged strike action by the GMA will have a devastating effect on the lives of many Ghanaians. For example, in 2015, the GMA embarked on a strike action and this led to the loss of many innocent lives. Mr. Asante, when asked in 2015 why he was crying outside a hospital, said brother was transferred to Komfo Anokye from Tamale three days ago but no one has come to treat him aside from some of the Dies After Doctors Failed to Attend to Sadly, this is what ordinary Ghanaians with loved ones at public hospitals will go through if the GMA goes ahead with their plan. The magnitude of the current strike action planned by the GMA could lead to a thousand more stories just like this. People may be healthy at the moment and might assume that this entail them, but as humans, it is important to remember that accidents and emergencies occur all the time. Ghanaians should also be concerned about a strike action because the rising cost of living, and low public wages continues to promote industrial actions in the nation This goes to show that salaries are already not in good conditions and are relatively low compared to other countries, so cutting it back will do Frimpong-Manso 3 more harm than good. It is also important to remember that doctors are humans; they pay bills and have families to take care of, so they should be paid for of their overtime. Just as a strike action has a negative effect on the lives of doctors, it also has a detrimental impact on the economy at large. According to Korey Harlyn, public sector strikes often lead to a rise in the cost of goods and services (2-3). This means that a strike action by the GMA will lead to a rise in the cost of medical services. Economists believe that this could lead to inflation in the long run as the health sector is a vital industry in the economy. Also, strike actions lead to replacement of workers (Karthik 5). Replacement of workers is a situation where people are hired to work in place of a striking labor union. When this happens, the labor union on strike could easily lose their jobs as their services will no more be needed. As patriotic citizens of Ghana, it is our duty to ensure that doctors are paid so that ordinary people do not suffer from all of this. You must keep in mind that your efforts could help improve the nation. Join medical doctors on the 15th of April at the Ghana Independence square for a peaceful march. The march is to raise awareness and further push the demands to the government. Please do not be mistaken. This a strike as the GMA has made arrangements for some doctors to remain behind at hospitals. The GMA has also ordered a petition signing at all hospitals for doctors to be paid. Head to your local clinic and sign this petition for a good cause. The petition will be presented to the FWSC and, if need be, will be used in court. You may be busy and be able to help with the afore mentioned activities, but might still want to help in one way or the other. In that case, you could donate to the GMA to help fund their cause. Remember that doctors be paid during a period of strike. You could help them by simply calling the self-service line on 8100000000 to donate any amount you can. Frimpong-Manso 4 Labor unrest is becoming a persistent issue in Ghana. The unsatisfactory wages is pushing them to embark on a strike action, an action that would have a detrimental impact on the lives of many. Medical doctors play a major role in our everyday lives as humans because emergencies happen all the time. Let us not forget the impact a strike action would have on those currently undergoing urgent treatments at various hospitals, because they could die. services are crucial and so a withdrawal could stunt the overall economics of the nation. This is not a good thing, particularly if your nation is considered as developing. From the day you were born to that day you got a painful headache, these people of honor have always been there for you. All doctors ask of the government now is payment of what is rightfully due to them. Your help will go a long way in helping them achieve this. Frimpong-Manso 5 Works Cited Avorkpo-Takyi, Rebecca. Statement on Strike Ghana Medical Association. http://www.ghanamedicalassociation.org/v3/index.php/2013-03-15-11-35- 36/gma-news/138-press-statement-on-doctors-strike-action. Accessed 29 January 2017. Country Reports -  Ghana Country Monitor, Mar. 2017. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx ?direct=true&db=buh&AN=122029257&site=eds-live. Accessed 15 April 2017. Response to GMA Fair Wages and Salaries Commission. http://fairwages.gov.gh/Slideshow-News/response-by-the-fair-wages-and- salariescommission-to-the-claim-by-the-ghana-medical-association-on-the-payment- ofconversion-difference.html. Accessed 29 January 2017. Harlyn, Korey. Ripple Effect of Union The Park Place Economist. https://www.iwu.edu/economics/PPE07/korey.pdf. Accessed 15 April 2017. Dies After Doctors Failed to Attend to GhanaWeb. http://www.ghanaweb.com/GhanaHomePage/NewsArchive/Man-dies-after-doctors- failed-to-attend-to-him-373842. Accessed 29 April 2017. Rao, Karthik. Impact of Strikes on Current Employment Bureau of Labor Statistics. https://www.bls.gov/opub/mlr/2000/08/technote.pdf. Accessed 15 April 2017.