Student 1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 30 April 2017 The Progression of a Child When Maternal Bonding Is Present Some may believe that a parent who spends too much time with their newborn is obsessed or overly involved in their life (Kaplan). In fact, it is proven by doctors that is essential for a with Your Health is an organization founded by Nemours that promotes healthcare techniques and advice for parents; this site takes on the sometimes-overlooked topic of maternal-infant bonding with Your Bonding with a newborn is one of the most influential moments of his or her life Importance of The goal is to instruct others on the importance of maternal-infant bonding through encouraging them to educate their community on the importance of maternal- infant bonding, support mothers who are going through post-natal depression and bond with their child for health benefits if they are a mother already. At times, the baby is ready to bond before the mother. In the case of the situation, the father may have to step in for a temporary period which may not seem like a big issue however babies react to their mothers more than their fathers with Your It is important that the mother can grasp this concept and put aside any reason that would make her believe she is not needed at this stage. Through maternal-infant bonding a baby can gain psychological abilities and educational strengths quicker than those who were not exposed to a strong maternal bond Importance of Student 2 John Kennel and Marshall Klaus, two pediatricians, published a paper in 1972 on their research done on maternal-infant bonding (Eyer 71). They found that those mothers who spent an extra 16 hours with their newborn demonstrated better maternal skills than those who did not (Eyer 71). The mothers were tapped in an interview a month after giving birth and were ask questions about their caretaking skills (Eyer 72). Not only did these mothers gain from the interaction but follow ups showed that those babies who had the 16 hours of bonding scored better on developmental test; this supports the theory that those who have a strong maternal bond in their childhood do better in academic performance (Eyer 71). For instance, if a child and his or her mother have a strong bond, it is possible the mother is teaching that baby, infant or toddler life skills. When approached by a stranger, those who do not know better will probably talk to them however, if their parent has told them what to do in that situation they will be better prepared. A counter argument brought on by many is that children who are too dependent on their mothers do not develop skills however this is disproved by Kennel and Klaus (Eyer 70). In a similar case, newborn monkeys were given mannequin mothers and clearly showed the researchers that they were aware that that was not their actual mother with Your It was found that the monkeys who were paired with their actual mother better even if the mannequin had material and provided with Your Similarly, babies need his or her mother to be one taking care of them. Like the fur for the monkeys, skin-to-skin is important for newborns because of the oxytocin released between the mother and baby causing happiness with Your The olfactory recognition in the human body can determine when bonding has been successful in creating a satisfactory feeling between the two individuals (Broad). This success increases the importance of social learning in infants which is brought on by their mother through bonding (Broad). Student 3 One of the most renown ways for a mother to bond with her baby tends to be a somewhat controversial topic lately (Kaplan). Kaplan explains that at the Concord Mall, several mothers were breastfeeding outside of a Hollister and were being harassed by the security officers to the point where they were followed throughout the mall (Kaplan). It is a shame that people find the need to confront mothers who breastfeed in public and tell them to stop. No mother should have to feel ashamed by her choice to nurture her loved one in public. Per Nicole M. Else-Que, breastfeeding can facilitate skin-to-skin contact which is one important and large role in the process of maternal-infant bonding (Else-Que 496). In a study done by Mezzacappa and Katin, women who breastfeed were more likely to have lower levels of a negative effect and the two argued that can buffer the effects of through the release of maternal oxytocin (Else-Que 497). This alone can increase the health benefits of the baby especially psychologically. Some other health benefits of breastfeeding include but are not limited to: stronger bones for the mother, weight gain control, better postpartum recovery and a reduction of disease in the baby (Lucia). Breast milk is produced in increments corresponding to a typical growth so they will intake just enough in accordance to their size (Lucia). The release of oxytocin helps the uterus contract back to its normal size and reduces the risk of postpartum hemorrhaging (Lucia). It has been reported that early maternal contact may maternal (Else-Que 497). A major reason to help and support mothers is to prevent them from developing postpartum depression (Klier). Postpartum depression is a disorder developed by mothers after labor who develop a sense of not being needed in their life (Klier). These mothers tend to lose their appetite and develop a feeling of guilt, trouble sleeping and anxiety (Klier). Because of this they are more prone to abandoning their baby (Klier). Student 4 Stakeholders are taking this situation and enlarging it for the public so that everyone is informed on the intensity and importance of maternal-infant bonding. Some stakeholders that have taken a stand on the subject include Parenting, Kids Health and The Texas Department of Family and Protective Services Families + Fresh Bonding with Your , Steinfield). These stakeholders all have similar goals that entail the safety and progression of a baby to and infant and then toddler. Parenting utilizes their site to inform new parents on how to carefully and properly nurture their newborn using anecdotal blogs and medical advice columns Families + Fresh Health provides their audience with health tips for raising a child Bonding with Your ). Sites that target the topic of maternal care should be utilized by the non-engaged stakeholders of society in order to educate them on the importance of this topic. The most efficient way to spread awareness is through education. If one Samaritan learns of the benefits then there is hope that they will confront the next person who shames a breastfeeding mother, who helps a mother overcome her depression, or who seeks help for a child through a department like the Texas Department of Family and Protective Services (Steinfeld). Students studying in the health field should begin to take the time to form or join clubs will the sole purpose of educating the mass. The more publicity these said clubs gain will result in more public safety announcements being heard. Babies need all the help they can get to survive the most critical point in their life. All it takes is one person to spread awareness to the public to get a mass movement going. Think of the changes that could be made. Fewer babies will die due to diseases, they will grow stronger and healthier and go on to become well versed and accomplished additions to the world all due to the strong maternal bonding at the start of their precious lives. (WC: 1,269) Student 5 Works Cited Bonding With Your  KidsHealth. Ed. Larissa Hirsch. The Nemours Foundation, June 2015. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Broad, K.D, et al. Bonding and the Evolution of Mammalian Social Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society of London B: Biological Sciences, The Royal Society, 29 Dec. 2006, rstb.royalsocietypublishing.org/content/361/1476/2199.short. Accessed 2 Apr. 2017. Else-Que, Nicole M. Breastfeeding, Bonding, and the Mother-Infant  Merrill- Palmer Quarterly 49.4 (2003): 495-517. JSTOR Web. 10 Apr. 2017. Eyer, Diane E. SpringerLink, Springer-Verlag, 15 May 1990, link.springer.com/article/10.1007%2FBF02692192?LI=true. Accessed 2 Apr. 2017. Importance of Infant Bonding - UC Davis Medical Center - UC Davis Health The Importance of Infant Bonding - UC Davis Medical Center - UC Davis Health System, UC Davis Health, Public Affairs and Marketing, Kaplan, Robin. Nursing in Public: When Did It Become So  Lactation Matters. Lactation Maers, 26 Jan. 2016. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Klaus, Marshall H. and Kennell, John H. Bonding: The Impact of Early Separation or Loss on Family DigitalGeorgetown Home, DigitalGeorgetown Home, 1 Jan. 1976, repository.library.georgetown.edu/handle/10822/772789. Accessed 2 Apr. 2017. Klier, C. M. Bonding Disorders in Patients with Postnatal Depression: The Student 6 Postpartum Bonding Questionnaire in Clinical SpringerLink, Springer-Verlag, 8 Sept. 2006, link.springer.com/article/10.1007%2Fs00737-006-0150-z?LI=true. Accessed 2 Apr. 2017. Lucia, Carole. 20 Breastfeeding Benefits for Mom and  Fit Pregnancy and Baby. Fit Pregnancy and Baby, 03 Apr. 2017. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Families + Fresh Parenting, Meredith Corporation, www.parenting.com/. Steinfeld, Mary. Department of Family and Protective Services DFPS - Child Abuse and Neglect Investigations, Accessed 24 Feb. 2017.