Student 1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 30 April 2017 What Is Consumed? Going to the grocery store and buying groceries can seem like such typical and harmless task, but consumers may be shocked to find that they know what buying. The fact is that people may be purchasing things like genetically modified organisms without their products letting them know. Genetically modified organisms, or GMOs for short, are created with scientists in a lab forcing synthetic versions of genes based on those from one or more species into the DNA of an unrelated species in order to introduce a new (GMOfreeUSA.org) This may seem like it can be a good thing because it reduces the needs for things like pesticides, but it reality there are some harsh truths. GMOs should be banned in the United because they hurt the health of humans, the stability of the environment, and the knowledge of what consumers purchase. Genetically modified organisms need to be banned in America because they have harmful side effects to health and the environment. Some of the negative effects on humans have been proven or have linked to toxic effects in the kidneys, liver, pancreas and reproductive organs, allergies, gut-related conditions, infertility, birth defects, obesity, tumors, and other illnesses in independent scientific studies on lab (GMOfreeUSA) even crazier about this is that under current American labeling regulations, do not require labeling in North America, preventing potential health liability claims from being traced Student 2 back to GMO producers and food processors. Without mandatory, legally defined labeling there is no traceability, accountability, or (GMOfreeUSA) Other countries from around the world have already taken a viewpoint to begin the recognition of GMOs in their markets. For example, 1998 the European Union ruled that food manufacturers must state on a label when genetically modified ingredients have been used; that genetically modified organism* labeling regulations are now (1999-2000) in effect in the European (American Public Health Association) crazy to think that these actions were taken over fifth teen years ago in Europe and nothing has been modified in the United States. Other countries looked at the studies conducted and saw that although not much was discovered, the results that they did find were not good. The time for change in the USA has come. Countless organizations have expressed their support for the cause, such as the American Public Health Association, who that APHA declare its support that any food product containing genetically modified organisms be so (American Public Health Association) The year 2017 can finally be the year progress is created. Logically, genetically modified organisms need to be boycotted because they hurt the environments which humans need to live. Imagine putting unnatural pesticides into corn in order to prevent insects from eating the crops. This may solve that problem, but now the insects have nothing to eat and thus begin to decrease in population. This hurts the animals that consume the insects and before anyone can change it back, the whole natural food chain collapses upon itself. Scientists ignored this idea until the complete opposite happened. Instead of saving pesticide, scientists found that have lead to a net increase in pesticide use (meaning herbicides plus insecticides) of 404 million pounds, a 7 percent (Philpott) This is because the plants develop resistance to pesticide which means they require even more do get the job done. All of Student 3 this extra spray is stuck with the food all the way through the markets and into shopping carts. This is just another case of how superior organic crops are and how GMOs need to go. Imagine knowing as a parent that the items bought from a so-called family-friendly food company sent kids to a hospital sick from eating genetically modified organisms. Studies show that year 47.8 million people (one in six Americans) are sickened as a result of foodborne illness. Tragically, three thousand die annually and nearly 128,000 are (Center For Food Safety) GMOs have been proven to be a lead cause in this sickness, because the unnatural traits put in crops can lead to unhealthy side effects. The worst part about this epidemic is that children get hit the worst, proven by the quote, all age groups, children under five are most likely to become ill, most likely to be hospitalized, and most likely to die. Those that recover often suffer severe long-term effects, such as kidney failure, chronic arthritis, and brain and nerve (Center For Food Safety) Action must be taken in order to prevent more children from becoming sick. (Center For Food Safety) No citizen deserves to fall sick from the food they consume, especially the youthful ones who even choose what foods they want to eat. The best way to knock out a leading factor of this cause would be resist buying products that contain GMOs, and boycott those that do not identify their presence on the label. The average consumer does not realize just how fragile our environment is, and habitants need to do anything they can to preserve it. According to a study done on organic farming versus GMO farming, the organic farming had many upsides such as reducing the need of using non-renewable resources. (Gomiero) Farming using GMOs led to results including rate of soil loss three times the maximum tolerance value was (Gomiero) The environment of our planet also includes the atmosphere, and again organic farming outclassed GMO farming, of its higher ability to store carbon in the soil, organic agriculture could Student 4 represent a means to improve CO2abatement if adopted on a large (Gomiero) Congress has tried to pass bills to begin the revolution against GMOs, but no progress has yet to be made. If humans do not make the effort now to remove GMO products from our farms, the Earth will continue to suffer and reach a point of no return to save our environment. The most practical way people can get involved on this issue would to first become as educated as possible about genetically modified organisms and which food companies utilize them. New revolutionists can look for countless organizations created to spread the word of the truth. According to GMOfreeUSA, popular companies like and even Scotts all use GMOs without a proper label. (GMOFreeUSA) The next step would be to stop buying those products all together to send a message that consumers want to know in their food. The consumers can replace the goods they normally buy from GMO producers with products grown naturally and label all ingredients inside. The sad truth is that most people think GMO products are better for the Earth and their own health as compared to natural crops. These people do not see the immediate changes occurring to the ecosystem from disruption of food chains and overuse of pesticides. The time to act early has passed, so now it is up to a new generation to change what Americans rely on when they go shopping in a grocery store. People from all different backgrounds and morals have begun to come together to join the revolution. Boycotting genetically modified products will benefit health, and the planet for the generations to come. If change is not made now, who is to say that it ever will? (WC:1219) Student 5 Works Cited American Public Health Association. Support of the Labeling of Genetically Modified  AMERICAN PUBLIC HEALTH ASSOCIATION. American Public Health Association, 2017. Web. 02 Mar. 2017. Center For Food Safety. Protecting Our Food, Farms &  Center for Food Safety. Ludlow Kingsley, n.d. Web. 30 Mar. 2017. Food & Water Watch. Food & Water  Food & Water Watch. N.p., 01 Jan. 1970. Web. 30 Mar. 2017. GMO Free USA. Free GMO Free USA, 2017, Web. Accessed 01 March 2017. Gomiero, Tiziano. Critical Reviews in Plant  Taylor and Francis Online. N.p., n.d. Web. 11 Apr. 2017. Philpott, Tom. How GMOs Unleashed a Pesticide  Mother Jones. Mother Jones, 03 Oct. 2012. Web. 02 Mar. 2017.