Student !1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Why Fine Arts Programs are Important to School Systems and Child Growth A topic which has been a general social issue and concern within the many minds of family, companies, and even students is the removal of fine arts programs in our societies current school system (Mazzei). The problem which really need to be faced in this situation is whether fine arts programs are useful in school systems or not. This point being argued is that school systems should include fine arts programs to their systems as they are important to a student. Fine arts programs are important to school systems and should be protected because they are important to the growth of a student therefore it is important to gain support in this effort for the importance of child growth and development. In order to develop a point in this argument, the background of this argument should first be understood. It is important to understand what the argument is and why it is being argued. Within the current societies school system lies an on going fine art program. Throughout recent years, the dilemma of whether we should keep fine art programs in schools or not has arisen and moreover worked its way up to a more important matter to society. The arguments created on both sides created more difficult consequences to the original take it or leave it dilemma provided. More factors were put into the scenario until the two arguments of keeping fine arts programs in school systems or removing them became a topic of high interest. This dilemma has become this much of a high standard in societal issues due to the dilemma which lies within Student !2 being, are fine arts programs in school systems useful to students or not. There is also the underlying dilemma of whether fine arts programs in school systems cost effective or not. Because of these arguments holding the title back and forth, the general overlaying dilemma is continuing to be at a stand still (Hambeck). In the argument of keeping fine arts programs within school systems provides statements fighting for their cause. The points made through this stakeholder is that, one, through the current fine arts programs within school systems, children and students have grown to develop in a more wholesome manner. though the school recorded growth under Academic Performance Indicator, the pressure to make Adequate Yearly Progress (AYP) has intensified, and a significant percentage of the student body is now enrolled in double English and math (Holcomb). Students and children have gained new forms of discipline as well as new skills and hobbies to help promote a healthy wholesome lifestyle. Artists working in elementary school settings certainly share their passion and expertise with students and teachers and, often, with the greater (Hansley) Arguments of cost efficiency are also made. The initial cost of fine arts programs in school systems, unless budgeted incorrectly, is reported to be able to be made cost efficient enough to be reasonable. Although some counterarguments are made that the whole system is unnecessary therefore the whole cost of it is a waste; factors such as this are not considered within the argument. Now, informed of the dilemma provided, the problem faced is why someone should argue for the fine arts programs to stay in school systems. There are multiple reasons as to why this argument matters, why someone should get involved, and why their involvement is important. This overall issue is important to even someone who claims to be not involved because in the Student !3 end, almost all people will be participants of this choice. This meaning that at some point, the decision to support can make the difference to change and further effect. At some point someone will make a impact and change what the consequences of either situation hold. The end arguments for both this argument and other counter arguments available are that the fine arts programs within schools systems affect the growth of a child and student (Hambeck). This is basically saying that it affects the future. If this is a problem that affects the future of students, it generally affects the whole next generation in this society. This means it will affect what happens next. There have been attempts to change these programs in order to limit the art programs to find a solution; however, these have proven to be ineffective. The art system is made and run the way it should be run, it should not be limited by taking out what the main aspects of the program provide. In the event that this issue has been failed to argue, the future will be impacted , whether it be for good or bad. The outcome of students, without the fine arts program in there schools, is unknown and will remain unknown until further change. The current way students have progressed with the fine arts programs in school systems have shown a positive image on this argument. Students have shown to excel, grow, and become wholesome people as the main stakeholder argues. Now that the dilemma is completely understood, what is there to do? As someone who is nor currently engaged in this predicament, there are many ways to become an involved participant in the argument against the removal of the fine arts programs within school systems. One route which can be taken, which although may be a bit overshadowed can show to be hugely effective, is participating in this argument though social media. With the current society, social media is a citizens number one source of communication, networking, and information sharing. Student !4 Social media sites such as Instagram, Twitter, Facebook, Snapchat, etc, hold value when used in arguments such as these. The use of such tools not only get word out but moreover inform the younger generation, or otherwise known as the directly effected factor in this situation. If social media suit the type of action to be taken, there are always other forms of action. There is sponsorship, community groups, protesting, and so on. The topic can be easily looked into and easily find others who support the argument. Communication with such people can lead to further action taken. A larger scale argument such as this issue can easily be reached in the effort against removing the fine arts program from education systems. There will usually be some way to communicate or reach out until the pattern is repeated the chain recycles. The works and use of a the education programs fine arts system is to teach a student a form of fine arts, give them a skill along with their education, help develop discipline as well as a wholesome student, and create a possible hobby for a student; while at the same time being completely cost efficient (Mazzei). This has been shown through the information provided from the sources cited within the paper. On a last note, there is still left to be considered, what might happen if the education system actually proceeds to remove the fine arts system. What will happen to the system itself? What will happen to the students who experience this program? How will they develop? What will be there overall outcome as students?In the event that the fine arts programs continue to run in education systems, students will continue to grow and progress effectively as well as develop and rise up as wholesome people in and our future. (Word Count:1227) Student !5 Mazzei, Patricia. Fighting Arts Education Budget Cuts in Florida School District Americans for the Arts Action  Fighting Arts Education Budget Cuts in Florida School District Americans for the Arts Action Fund. American for the Arts Action Fund, 24 Mar. 2010. Web. 02 Apr. 2017. < http://www.artsactionfund.org/news/entry/fighting-arts-education-budget cuts-in-f lorida-school-district>. Americans for the  Americaforthearts.org. America for the Arts Action Fund, 09 Oct. 2014. Web. 02 Apr. 2017. < news/celebrity-artists-support-arts-education>. ED Releases New Report on Arts Education in U.S. Public  ED.gov Blog. Home Room, 24 Apr. 2012. Web. 02 Apr. 2017. <https://blog.ed.gov/2012/04/ed-releases-new- report-on-arts-education-in-u-s-public-schools/>. Hambeck, Jill. Arts Programs in Schools Often in Danger of Being  The Washington Times. The Washington Times, 14 Mar. 2016. Web. 02 Apr. 2017. <http:// www.washingtontimes.com/news/2016/mar/14/arts-programs-in-schools-often-in-danger- of-being-/>.