Student 1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 30 April, 2017 Let Them Fight In the first two decades of the current century and millennium a major social and sex based conflict has arisen within our society and military. It is all based around one conflicting factor within the ranks of the military, which is women serving in a combat oriented role. Many women serve in our military and hundreds of other militaries around the world, but unfortunately, they are not allowed to serve in a role or in a M.O.S (Military Occupational Specialty), that could potentially place them directly within combat. This is a conflicting issue because many people who are opposed to the idea of women serving directly in combat simply because their personal views of the ethical issues of women and combat and the physical and mental issues that women will have to endure if they are allowed to engage in combat alongside men. But, with just looking at the evidence that has been made available through multiple experiments inside and outside of the military, there is one factor within this issue that has been proven to be true. Women within the military should be allowed to serve in combat because, women have already proven themselves through real world experiences and tours of duty, the ban on women in combat is discriminatory and outdated, and the integration of women into combat roles and all units has been very successful. The issue that arises with trying to prove a bold statement such as an individual physically or mentally can or cannot complete a task or fulfill a role within an organization, simply because they are a woman, is that there can be no definitive evidence until they are given Student 2 the proper opportunity to prove themselves. Fortunately, female soldiers have been able to do this through combat tours and real world scenarios. One case that has been able to actually prove this is the case of two female Army officers that were able to pass the rigorous selection program for the elite U.S. combat unit known as the Army Rangers. According to the article titled Rangers Should End the Debate About Women in found on Time website, morning, two West Point graduates Captain Kristen Griest and First Lieutenant Shaye Haver will make history as the first women to graduate from the intensely demanding Ranger School. Their remarkable accomplishment is a monumental milestone in the progress of women in the U.S. armed forces and should end the debate about whether women are capable of serving in all combat (Barno and Bensahel, 2015). This program that has been proven to eliminate a large percentage of male soldiers who try to complete it, was not only completed by not one but two female soldiers, which shows that women are capable of carrying the same weight on their shoulders that men are in a combat environment. Another case that has been able to actually prove that women are more than capable of enduring the horrors of war and combat is the case of a Cultural Support Team who according to an article titled at War: Real-Life G.I. which is located on the University of South library database site, August 2011 Kaelin and 19 other elite female soldiers deployed alongside the Army Rangers for a nine-month stint in the combat zones of Afghanistan; one was killed in action, and six were wounded badly enough to be sent home early. Publicly, however, the Army talk about any of (Westfall and McNeil) and, rounded up women and children to search and question. The intelligence Cleveland, Kaelin and the others coaxed from their many men were hiding inside, where explosives were prove lifesaving to the Ranger (Westfall and Student 3 McNeil), which just goes to show, according to the article, that these women not only were capable of taking care of themselves in combat, but through their intelligence gathering, were able to save lives as well. Even with this evidence available, the military has still chosen to enforce the ban on women in combat. This is because, the ban on women in combat is simply discriminatory and is outdated. This is supported by the fact that according to an article found at the Huffington Post, which is titled, on Women in Combat Is Discriminatory, High-Level Military Panel states that, draft report by the Military Leadership Diversity Commission, a group established by Congress in 2009, concludes that the current policy is outdated and discriminatory. Commissioners include 24 senior retired and active-duty members of the military, in addition to leaders in the business community and (Terkel). And goes on to state that, a study by the Defense Department Advisory Committee on Women in the Services (2009) actually found that a majority of focus group participants felt that women serving in combat in Iraq and Afghanistan have had a positive impact on mission (Terkel) and blanket restriction for women limits the ability of commanders in theater to pick the most capable person for the (Terkel). Now although this information has been released, there is still a large amount of opposition based simply off of the fact that many people feel that women are simply not strong enough to endure combat. While according to an article located on the University of South library resources list, titled Repealing the Direct Combat Exclusion Rule: Examining the Ongoing Invisible  against Women  (Prividera and Howard), further examination, the myth unravels. One of the strongest cases for participation in military aviation has been size. Ever since the development of fly-by wire (electronic) systems, physical strength has been a decreasing factor Student 4 for successful piloting and is today a virtual non-issue. Agility, deft of touch, and trainability in maneuvers have reigned supreme for successful combat (Prividera and Howard). This helps to reinforce the claim that the evidence that women are not strong enough to fight, is simply irrelevant, because so much of the fighting that is conducted is based around technology, not strength. Fortunately though, there has been more success recently than ever before in history with integrating women into combat roles and all male units. For example, an article titled Warriors: Female Accession to Ground which is located on the University of South library resources list, and states that talked to a lot of male Marines about it and almost all say that, as long as females pull their weight and do what needs to be done and not create a spectacle of themselves, the guys see the This statement seems to suggest that, in fact, marines do not just see females as equivalent but actually (King). Also, according to an e-text located at the University of South library resources list, U.S. personnel policy found that diversity can enhance the quality of group problem-solving and decision-making, and it broadens the collective array of skills and  (King). These conclusions are supported by a 1993 report by the General Accounting Office, which found that members of gender- integrated units develop brother-sister (Mackenzie). This shows that even a great number of soldiers and marines who will have or have already served next to women, do not see a difference as far as who fills the uniform, as long as that individual is performing on the level that they should be. Whether an individual is personally affected by this issue currently, they should become more involved and take a stance to support the women within our military because, one day they could have a daughter or a sister or even just a female friend that may want to enlist and serve Student 5 their country during war time, and if they did, it is very likely they would want them to have every opportunity that they could possibly be allowed to. This involvement can be accomplished through getting involved politically like when certain bills and motions are presented to congressional hearings which are discussing the integration of women in combat to contact their local senator or congressman and to offer their opinion or support. Or it could be something as simple as just educating those that do not know about the subject and to lend their support in any way to organizations that are stakeholders in supporting these female warriors. Although this issue may appear to be complicated when taking an initial glance at it, what it basically comes down to is if an individual is qualified physically and professionally for a certain position within the military, is it right to deny them that opportunity simply because they were a female? It is simple, they should be given this opportunity, but not because it is some ordained right from god, but simply because they have earned it. Although it seems that women are not where they deserve to be as far as this issue is concerned, they have made more progress than ever before and do not seem to be slowing down with that progress as well. It is the rest of the duty though, to get behind them and support them in their fight, and to help them cross the finish line. (WC: 1540) Student 6 Works Cited Barno, David and Bensahel, Nora. Rangers Should End the Debate About Women in Time Magazine. http://time.com/4004571/female-rangers-should-end-the-debate- about-women-in-combat/ . Accessed: 09 April, 2017. Mackenzie, Megan H. Let Women  Foreign Affairs, vol. 91, no. 6, Nov/Dec2012, pp. 32 -42. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf. .edu/login.aspx?direct=true&db=bah&AN=82763627&site=eds-live. Accessed: 09 April, 2017. Terkel, Amanda. On Women In Combat Is Discriminatory, High-Level Military Panel Huffington Post, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2011/01/14/women-military- Accessed, 09 April, 2017. King, Anthony C. Women Warriors: Female Accession to Ground  Armed Forces & Society (0095327X), vol. 41, no. 2, Apr. 2015, pp. 379-387. EBSCOhost, doi: 10.1177/0095327X14532913. Prividera, Laura C.1 and John W.1 Howard III. Repealing the Direct Combat Exclusion Rule: Examining the Ongoing Invisible  against Women  Women & Language, Vol. 37. no. 1, Spring2014, pp. 115-120. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url= http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=hft&AN=96586096&site Student 7 eds-live. Accessed: 09 April, 2017. Westfall, Sandra Sobieraj and Elizabeth McNeil. Women at War REAL-LIFE GI  People, vol. 83, no. 18, 04 May 2015, pp. http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct =true&db=a2h&AN=102219266&site=eds-live. Accessed: 09 April, 2017.