Peoples 1 Corynn Peoples Professor Theodosieu ENC1102-075 10 April 2017 Plastic Pollution in the Marine Environment If you were to go to a supermarket, chances are that most of the products see on the shelves are within plastic or made up of plastic. With increasing human consumption of disposable plastic products, imagine just how much plastic waste is generated daily. But where exactly does most of it all end up? The ocean receives and accumulates large amounts of plastic waste, resulting in the degradation of the marine environment and extreme loss of marine life. To avoid this, a drastic reduction in the use of disposable plastics needs to be enforced and can only happen if awareness on the issues of plastic waste is brought to consumers like us. By altering how much we use plastic and changing how we dispose of its waste, such as reducing, reusing, and recycling, we can create a healthier and cleaner marine environment. The main reason why plastic is so widely used is because it is versatile; lightweight, inexpensive, and durable. Manufacturing companies tend to use this to their advantage; however, the problem is that most of the plastic being produced is used to make disposable packaging items such as plastic bags and bottles. The underlying drawback with this is that a large percentage of this plastic eventually gets disposed of improperly and finds its way into the oceanic ecosystem. According to Lytle, a study that was conducted at UC Santa National Center for Ecological Analysis and Synthesis found that 8 million metric tons of plastic ends up in our ocean every year (Plastic Pollution). The reality of this matter is that you cannot walk the beach or swim in the ocean without encountering some form of plastic. Once seaborne, Peoples 2 plastic can easily be carried by ocean currents and can contaminate vast areas of the ocean because of its buoyancy (Wabnitz et al, 1). Since plastic does not biodegrade, but rather photodegrades into smaller pieces, a lot of it accumulates in circulating ocean currents called gyres. One of the gyres is known as Great Pacific Ocean Garbage where plastic waste extends 100 feet deep (Sigler, 2). To compare the size of this gyre, imagine the state of Texas being filled entirely with plastic twice. With such a large scale of plastic waste, the ocean is forcefully experiencing detrimental consequences caused by the human consumption of plastic. The most noticeable effect that plastic pollution has on the ocean is shown through the wildlife that call it their home. Globally, least 267 species, including 86% of all sea turtle species, 44% of all seabird species and 43% of all marine mammal species are impacted by plastic waste (Clean Water When marine life encounters plastic debris, they are at high risk of mistaking it for food or becoming entangled in it. To a hungry sea turtle, a plastic bag floating in the open water may be mistaken for a jellyfish. Demonstrated through laboratory experiments, it is shown that green and loggerhead turtles actively target and consume plastic (Wabnitz et al, 2). Seabirds such as the Albatross will mistake plastic that is similar in color to fish and shrimp. Although it will make the animals feel full, it will not provide the required nutrients that they believe they are receiving, resulting in starvation. In an autopsy conducted of a deceased grey whale in 2010, it that its stomach contained a pair of pants and a golf ball, more than 20 plastic bags, small towels, duct tape, and surgical gloves (Clean Water When ingested, plastic can stomach capacity, hinder growth, cause internal injuries, and create intestinal blockage (Sigler, All of this ultimately leads to the death of an unsuspecting animal. Suppose you were eating bottle caps and plastic bags when you thought it Peoples 3 was a salad with croutons and take into consideration of how much this would affect your bodily functions on a day to day basis. Putting this into perspective, the plastic that we throw out eventually comes back to us in time whether we are aware of it or not. Plastic contains a chemical called Bisphenol A, BPA, that bio-accumulates in organisms that ingest it. The concentration of it depends on the organism, is higher in invertebrates than in vertebrates, and can be especially high in species of mollusks and crustaceans (Thompson et al, Humans that eat seafood such as crabs, lobsters, clams, oysters, octopus, and fish are also indirectly ingesting the plastic that the wildlife consumed themselves. The high concentrations of BPA that the organisms then pass on to humans can cause health problems as it is an endocrine disruptor (Nordqvist). In addition to ingestion, animals can also become entangled in plastic such as fishing line, netting, and rings that go around cans and bottles. This can restrict an animal from movement, which can cause starvation, create lacerations that can lead to infections, and suffocation if the animal cannot get to the surface to breathe (Lytle, 2009). Whether it is on accident or out of curiosity, animals are continuously and unknowingly putting themselves in situations that can decrease their quality of life or lead them to death. Pods of endangered humpback whales were spotted heading north with a large quantity of tangled rope attached to them (Wabnitz et al, 2). With endangered species especially, plastic waste escalates the death toll, causing that species to be on the brink of extinction at a faster rate. This can also lead to the ocean lacking in biodiversity which is essential to the function of the marine ecosystem. With all of this in mind, there are many ways that you can help to reduce and even stop plastic waste from entering the ocean. First and foremost, you can reduce the amount of plastic you utilize by purchasing alternatives such as glass and biodegradable products, and by using Peoples 4 reusable shopping bags rather than plastic bags. The amount of plastic pollution can also be reduced by picking up any plastic you see littering your neighborhood or school and disposing of it properly. A lot of communities often host beach clean-ups where you could go with others to the beach and clean up as much as you can within the hours you are there. Plastic products can be reused by giving them a completely different purpose. For example, you can take plastic bottles and turn them into pots to grow small plants out of or create desk organizers for your pens and pencils. Most importantly, you can recycle the plastic that you use. If using plastic is unavoidable, you can create a separate trash bin in your bedroom or kitchen designated just for plastic products that are recyclable. Monthly donations can also be made to organizations like Greenpeace whose goal is to work and promote for a greener environment. To conclude, the increase of plastic pollution in the ocean is a constant concern for the health of the marine environment. To stop the ocean from receiving large amounts of plastic waste that negatively affects wildlife through ingestion and entanglement, immediate action needs to be taken. If less plastic is being purchased because of the harmful effects that its waste has on the environment, companies would manufacture more biodegradable products. The transformation in how the world uses and wastes plastic begins with us. Peoples 5 Works Cited Lytle, Claire Le Guern. the Mermaids Cry: The Great Plastic Plastic Pollution. N.p., Nov. 2009. Web. Nordqvist, Christian. is BPA (bisphenol A)? Is BPA Medical News Today. N.p., n.d. Web. Sigler, Michelle. Effects of Plastic Pollution on Aquatic Wildlife: Current Situations and Future Water Air Soil Pollut 225.2184 (2014): 1-9. Web. Problem of Marine Plastic Clean Water Action. N.p., 20 Apr. 2016. Web. Thompson, Richard C., and Charles J Moore. the Environment and Human Health: Current Consensus and Future Philos Trans R Soc Lond B Biol Sci. 364.1526 (2009): 2153-166. Web. Wabnitz, Collete, and Wallace J Nichols. Pollution: An Ocean Marine Turtle Newsletter 129 (2010): 1-4. Web.