Roger Pan Seth Spencer ENC 1102 30 April 2017 Rights and Fair Treatment The topic of worker minimum wage, conditions, privileges, rights have always been a topic of discussion. This conversion has continuously evolved in shape of the ever-changing life style of society. One of the most important factors that sets this topic aside from many others such as global warming is that personal and much to since in direct correlation to an wealth and comfort. The impact is immediate and much more noticeable considering that the results can cause tremendous change to the individual worker and to their respectful close relations. Every individual has the right to earn a living so why not have proper rights and fair treatment at work? The increase of fair rights and treatment in many jobs will benefit not only the individual, the corporations, but society as well. One may think that the fair rights and treatment of workers are only in certain fields of jobs and in only certain countries. Those countries would be developing third world countries to be exact. However, despite the fact of this being somewhat true, unfair and unequal concepts occur at all types of different workplaces all around the world. The local restaurant that an individual grabs a quick bite of lunch at may be experiencing some issues of unfair treatment to workers by dispersing low wages. The issues of what most people think occur further away from home could actually be closer to the front door than over a few thousand miles away in Africa or Asia. As quoted from my blog site WORKERights, Roger Pan Seth Spencer ENC 1102 30 April 2017 First of all to begin, the unfair and unequal treatment of workers can directly and indirectly impact an individual. When it comes to unfair treatment of any employee, the topic list of possibilities is very broad. Issues could include but not limited to prejudice, racist, and sexist. These issues than therefore could lead to unfair worker wages, benefit packages, labor, and even violence at Individuals should realize the importance of speaking up against unfair treatment of workers. The only way this issue will be resolved is through the dedication and commitment of employees and employers alike. The great helping hand of organizations that stand up with individuals like Jobs with Justice provide the backbone to major leaps of changes between unfairly treated employees and the fellow employees. On the other hand, if workers received equal and fair rights from employers, any employee would be happy to come to work every day performing the task at hand. Of course, the term of equal and fair rights differentiates in some sense between occupations such as receiving benefit packages or not (different class level jobs), however, the same principle applies. Principles such as fair wage, fair treatment to all so that they to be judged by sex, race, or discrimination by any disability they may seem to have. Those disabilities also include not looking better than the other person and not just physical body disabilities. Employees will be much more satisfied in a correct working environment with the right ethics. Individuals tend to reflect inside out. If an employer takes good meaningful care of the employees, the employees will reflect it by the things they do. Roger Pan Seth Spencer ENC 1102 30 April 2017 The increase and betterment of worker rights will greatly benefit the individual. We all heard the saying, you work for something you love, not a job. a Employees choose a certain occupation because they believe it suits them. If they feel that they are appreciated at work and the benefits match the work performance level, under normal instinct, one would want to work, improve, and not leave the corporation. Why? It is unlikely anyone under normal circumstances want to leave a perfect job for another one. According to statics provided by business.time.com, more than half of Americans ranked pay and benefits to reasons why they chose to continue their employment at the current occupation after the highest-ranking reason; I enjoy what I do. The results are 60 and 59 percent respectfully. Treating workers fairly is just as right as providing good customer service. The increase rights of workers include many great benefits to not just the workers but the employers and corporations as well. There is a saying in relativity that happy customers increase the chance of them coming back. However, unhappy crew could lead to the lack of production quality in products and/or decrease in work atmosphere which potentially leads to unhappy guests and those guests in return do not come back for further business. In applied economics, workers are also consumers. An individual that earns, also spends. Would anyone spend money at a place they do not like? Furthermore, in a place of occupation where they are mistreated? The answer is a simple no. This again, is the reason why treating employees fairly is just as rights as providing customer service. Roger Pan Seth Spencer ENC 1102 30 April 2017 Last but not least, the improvement in rights for employees will also improve society as a whole. The society will improve for any country. According to investinganswers.com, the term gross domestic product (GDP) is the broadest quantitative measure of a total economic activity. Economic activity relies on the total number of consumers for different products in different areas of interest computed together and forming the lump sum cash total for the country. GDP will increase when the lifestyles of consumers increase. Lifestyles of consumers will increase if the earned income of the individuals increase. With the increase of incomes, people will tend to spend more on goods which would therefore increase the GDP. There are several different worker activists groups with the sole purpose to improve individual wealth add working environment, Jobs with Justice is an organization with ever growing members on a growing global scale. With over one hundred thousand members and growing daily, JWJ (Jobs with Justice) continues to gain followers from many different occupations to support its cause of fair treatment for employees. According to Jobs with Justice history page, they founded the group in 1987 and have winning campaigns that build power for working (Jobs with Justice History) With more current events occurring around the world, JWJ has organized rallies such as versus President and People verus Andrew In People versus Andrew the people won over the issue that Mr. Puzder who was the CEO of a CKE restaurants was not fit enough to represent the working people. This has shown that when groups of people are able to unite under the same mentality that anything is possible. Roger Pan Seth Spencer ENC 1102 30 April 2017 In conclusion, the topic of fair equal worker rights has been brought up in in many discussions. This topic is much closer to home than other important topics such as global warming. The issue of wages and benefits can directly or indirectly impact all individuals, their loved ones, and acquaintances. Everyone has a goal to have an occupation where they will be comfortable and satisfied. Why not pay attention and start early? Fair rights and treatment should be based on work attributes not physical attributes. Roger Pan Seth Spencer ENC 1102 30 April 2017 Work Cited Jobs with Justice  Jobs with Justice. N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Feb. 2017.  Jobs with Justice Facebook. N.p., n.d. Web. 23 Feb. 2017. Belsky, Gary. Top Reasons Why Americans Stay At Their Jobs (And What It Means For The Presidential  Business.times. N.p., 8 Aug. 2012. Web. 4 Apr. 2017. Gross Domestic  Investinganswers. N.p., n.d. Web. 20 Apr. 2017.