Student 1 Student Dr. Thornton ENC 1102 30 April 2017 Mental Illness Mental Illness is described on the National Alliance on Mental Illness website as condition that affects a thinking, feeling or (NAMI). Though not known by many people, it was measured that 1 in 5 adults in the 43.8 million, or mental illness in a given (NAMI). That means that 20% of people living in the United States suffer from a mental illness. When you think about it, that is a lot of people. But even with many people suffering from this issue, many people still remain unaware of the problem. Mental Illness is something viewed by the public as not so serious. Many people do not really understand what mental illness is and how it can affect those with the issue. Many prefer to remain ignorant and avoid the issue. The lack of effort to fix the issues that surround mental illness should and can be changed because it will improve the stigma, it will create more treatment options, and the public will have a better understanding on the subject matter. The stigma that surrounds mental illness is something that needs to be improved in our society. People who have mental illness are often seen as or Many sufferers are accused of and are not taken seriously (Ilic 22). This stigma started way back in the BCE era. The cultures of ancient Egyptian, Indian, Greek, and Roman often viewed mental illness as a form of religious punishment or demonic possession. Later in the Middle Ages, they viewed mentally ill individuals as possessed Student 2 or in need of religion (Sartorius 72-77). These negative attitudes traveled to the United States, which lead to psychiatric hospitals, where mentally ill people were treated harshly (United For Sight). In these psychiatric hospitals, they used ECT, or electroconvulsive therapy. ECT is something still used today, but before, they were used heavily to treat mental illness. These illness include depression, anxiety, schizophrenia, bipolar disorders, and for homosexuality. They were not really monitored or documented correctly which lead to improper use. Now, they are monitored heavily and done for a limited amount of illness, most specifically, depression. Though it is proven to be effective, it is not effective for long-term issue, but used for short-term relief (Smitt 36). All of this combined created the stigma we have today. With the stigma being so negative, it gives people a reason to ignore the issue. The negativity that surrounds this issue makes those that do not know much about the issue to not educate themselves on the issue. This is something that needs to change. By improving the stigma, more people will educate themselves on the issue and will allow more people to be more accepting. Another issue that needs to resolve is the lack of treatment options available. As of now, treatment options include, psychotherapy, (therapeutic treatment of mental illness provided by a trained mental health professional. Psychotherapy explores thoughts, feelings, and behaviors, and seeks to improve an well being. Examples include: Cognitive Behavioral Therapy), medication, case management, hospitalization, support group, and electroconvulsive therapy (MHA). Though this these options have been proven to be effective in treating mental illness, they do not work for everybody. Also, there may be short or long-term issues that may occur due to some of the options Student 3 available. Most mental illness cases are chronic and long lasting. These treatment options are used to treat the illness and control it, but there is no cure yet (Whitaker 46). Since mental illness is often seen as not a serious illness, it is often pushed to the side. The government spends most of their money on illness such as cancer, HIV (human immunodeficiency virus)/AIDS (acquired immune deficiency syndrome), and other similar chronic illnesses. What they do not realize is the severity of the illness and what this can do to sufferers. By providing more money for research and giving the issue more time, they may be able to find a cure for this illness. The use of technology could help with new treatment option. In an article titled Technology and the Future of Mental Health Treatment, it talks about how technology can help with new advancements in the mental health community. Joshua Gordon states, devices like cell phones, smartphones, and tablets are giving the public, doctors, and researchers new ways to access help, monitor progress, and increase understanding of mental (12). Another serious issue that comes with mental illness is the lack of knowledge the public has on the issue. Many people do not really understand the severity of the issue. Many cannot explain the warning signs of somebody who may be severely depressed and experiencing suicidal thoughts. They cannot explain the differences between different types of mental illness and the symptoms that each sufferer may experience. This lack of knowledge is what allows individuals to ignore the issue. People ignore the issue because they do not see the issue in a different perspective. Not many people are accepting, and it can be seen by the lack of voice in the community. Many people who do not have a mental illness do not put in the effort to understand. This is something that everybody should care about because many people suffer daily because of a mental illness. When Student 4 somebody develops an illness at a very young age, they may experience feelings of being alone and have the sense of nowhere to go. It is time we start to educate everybody on mental illness and how it may affect a person. By educating people on this matter, more people will know the differences between different mental illness and when to spot warning signs. They can help those that need help but do not know where to go. This new information that these individuals gain can be put into use by going out and supporting those that need support. They become less ignorant and instead become more sensitive on the matter. People can show their support on the issue by lobbying the government to increase time on research and money for research to find better treatment options. They can learn different trigger words or actions so they can avoid using those in public. By doing all of this, the lives of these individuals who suffer from a mental illness will become much better. In conclusion, mental illness is something seen in the public as a not so serious illness, but what many do not know is the severity of a mental illness. There are some serious issues that sufferers face today that others do not know about. These issues include the negative stigma that surrounds mental illness, the lack of treatment options available to use, and the lack of knowledge the public has on the issue. If the public were able to educate themselves more on mental illness, they will grasp a better understanding, which will improve the stigma. The stigma will become positive, making it easier for individuals with a mental illness to accept their illness and go out to seek help. This new education will also improve the treatment options. More people will know about the issue and will want to go out and speak on the matter. The increased interest in the public will allow for more time and money to be spent on research. Improving the education will Student 5 improve the lives of those with a mental illness significantly. Bettering this education will spread the awareness more easily. By educating yourself, you may be able to save the life of one who thought their life was not worth saving. (1268) Student 6 Work Cited Gordon, Joshua. Technology and the Future of Mental Health  National Institutes of Health. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, n.d. Web. 26 Mar. 2017. Ilic, Marie. Belittled, Avoided, Ignored, Denied: Assessing Forms and Consequences of Stigma Experiences of People With Mental  Basic and Applied Social Psychology. Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, Jan. 2013. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. National Institutes of Health. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, n.d. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. Sartorius, Norman, and Hugh Schulze. Reducing the Stigma of Mental  Reducing the Stigma of Mental Illness (2005): n. pag. Web. 9 Apr. 2017. Unite For  A Brief History of Mental Illness and the U.S. Mental Health Care System. N.p., n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Whitaker, Robert. Tomy of an Epidemic: Psychiatric Drugs and the Astonishing Rise of Mental Illness in  Ingenta Connect. Springer, 1 Jan. 2005. Web. 26 Mar. 2017.