Mendez 1 Monica Mendez Bob Botkin ENC1102 063 19 April 2017 Is it Worth it? Derived from the greek universitas, universities are institutions of higher education and research. They are known for providing undergraduate and post-graduate degrees, the building blocks of a professional career. Because of the fear of limiting their students, the first major universities, like Cambridge and Oxford, did not charge tuition (Glater, 2). But this last long. The privatization of academic institutions changed drastically and the education system that was first proposed by the English, disappeared. The impact of this privatization, is lived today by young, 18-year-old students who want to succeed in their future. Why? Because it placed a price on their education. And should the success of a student have a price? Back in the day, a university degree was something that came along with wealth and power. However the gap between the lower-class and the rich was reduced when the Higher Education Act was implemented in 1965. The HEA, as popularly known, provided financial assistance to students who could not afford an education by themselves through low interest grants and federal loans (Dunnet, 200). But because of this, the cost of tuition has tripled itself, and some scholars believe that this inflation will never stop (Curs, Bradley and Larry, 117). Mendez 2 Degree-seeking students are trying to decide the best academic opportunity for them and their decision is going to be greatly influenced by their economic standing and how much scholarship/aid they can receive from the institution they pick or the government, through scholarships or student loans. But some students, for the sake of getting an education, take their decision blindly, and forget how can a student loan forever. But first, it is important to acknowledge some student loan facts. Approximately 75% of students that graduated in 2015 have debt. The average graduate borrowed approximately 29,000 dollars for their education; and the total number owed to the American government on student loans has surpassed the 1.2 Trillion Dollar mark, with number growing significantly every year (Avery and Turner, 177). In order to achieve their dreams, students often take the decision to apply to federal loans like FAFSA to pay their education, but if there are any complications in paying these back, the federal government has ways to get their money back (Novak and McKinney). Did you know that the Treasury Offset Program allows the U.S Department of Treasury to take your tax refund and give it directly to the Department of Education to lower the amount of debt a student has. The U.S Department of Treasury is also legally allowed to take up to 15 percent out of your wages. This means they can take money directly out of your monthly paycheck, and if the government considers this way of obtaining the money is not quick enough, they have the legal right of sueing the student for the full amount. And this is just the beginning. Defaulting on any loan will have a negative effect on your credit score. And this will make borrowing money, for a house, a car or even a Mendez 3 business way harder. It can even affect the possibility of obtaining a job or renting an apartment. And there is no safety valve that can get a student out of loan debt. The Bankruptcy Abuse Prevention and Consumer Protection Act, introduced in 2005, states that bankruptcy can not help you even after you have liquefied all of your assets to resolve other debts (Jensen, 485). You will still have to pay your student loans. So, is it really worth it? There are a lot of options to avoid student loans. Attending school in you home state offers a lot of economical advantages. For example, by staying in their home state, students sacrifice their On-Campus experience and decide to stay with their family so that they can avoid room and board fees, which can cost at least 40% of their annual university budget (Dunnet, 203). There is also a higher probability that a student will receive financial aid or a government scholarship, if he or she attends a public school (Curs, Bradley and Larry, 121). If students decide to attend a public university in their home state, they only pay a fraction of what they would pay in a private school, and they also apply for In-State tuition and State-Funded Aid. This means, that in the case of needing a student loan, the total amount of debt accumulated will be technically low. It is important to consider all the possible outcomes before taking a decision as important like taking a student loan, because it can impact how you live and your future forever. So in the end, your future is in your hands. And it starts right now, so start building it. Mendez 4 Works Cited Avery, Christopher, and Sarah Turner. Student loans: Do college students borrow too not  The Journal of Economic Perspectives 26.1 (2012): 165-192. Curs, Bradley, and Larry D. Singell. An analysis of the application and enrollment processes for in-state and out-of-state students at a large public  Economics of Education Review 21.2 (2002): 111-124. Dunnett, Andrew. Choosing a university: A conjoint analysis of the impact of higher fees on students applying for university in  Tertiary Education and Management 18.3 (2012): 199-220. Glater, Jonathan D. Colleges reduce out-of-state tuition to lure  The New York Times (2008): 2. Greene, Laura L. An economic analysis of student loan  Educational Evaluation and Policy Analysis 11.1 (1989): 61-68. Jensen, Susan. A legislative history of the Bankruptcy Abuse Prevention and Consumer Protection Act of  Am. Bankr. LJ 79 (2005): 485. Novak, Heather, and Lyle McKinney. The consequences of leaving money on the table: Examining persistence among students who do not file a  Journal of Student Financial Aid 41.3 (2011): 1. Rendleman, Doug, and Scott Weingart. Collection of Student Loans: A Critical  Wash. & Lee J. Civ. Rts. & Soc. Just. 20 (2013): 215.