Chen 1 Mengshan Chen Kristen Rouisse ENC1102 26 April 2017 Help Reduce Suffering of Individuals with PTSD A study indicates that over 14 million American adults affected by PTSD in any given year (Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder). PTSD, also known as Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder, is a mental health issue that some people develop after experiencing a life-threatening event, such as possible death, serious injury, or sexual violence (PTSD, National Center for). Since PTSD usually occurs in soldiers who come back from the war, the US Department of Veterans Affairs website has a section named PTSD: National Center for PTSD, which can help the public understand this issue scientifically and promote improved the treatment for veterans. The organization believes that PTSD is curable, and veterans who are suffering from this issue are encouraged to ask for help through their website (PTSD, National Center for). However, the experiment indicated that the symptom of PTSD is difficult to cure. People living with PTSD will have sleep problems, physical pain, and flashbacks of battles, exaggerated anxiety and startle  (Schacter Daniel). The symptom may come back even if sufferers complete the whole treatment (PTSD - Curable versus Treatable). Thus, because people living with PTSD may unintentionally bring pain to themselves and their family members, teenagers who understand or experience this disorder should visit these victims, talking with them and helping them to reduce suffering. Chen 2 PTSD sufferers often live with constant pain since the symptom of this disorder can recur. These symptoms can include sleep problems, physical pain, and flashbacks of battles, exaggerated anxiety and startle  (Schacter Daniel). In the article problems and physical pain as moderators of the relationship between PTSD symptoms and aggression in returning authors Adam LaMotte, Casey Taft and Robin Weatherill point out that sleep problems and physical pain are very common for veterans (LaMotte, Taft, Weatherill). From the article named There a Cure for which is reviewed by a board-certified physician, the author Matthew Tull states that treatments for PTSD can reduce and even eliminate many symptoms of  (Tull). However, treatments for PTSD cannot erase memory of those  (Tull). In addition, in the article named - Curable versus the writer also points out that the recovery rate of the disorder is 80%, which is a very high number. Also, The remaining 5%, approximately, will have what is deemed lifetime  (MyPTSD). That means a small group will suffer from symptoms of PTSD throughout their whole lives. They cannot even stop to see their therapists. Of course, these people cannot return to their normal lives anymore as many living with despair about their futures. Therefore, treatment can help sufferers control over their lives from the symptom of PTSD, but it is still possible that these symptoms can recur. There are several reasons that teenagers should care about this issue. First of all, most PTSD sufferers are veterans who come back from the battlefield. They protected the country abroad, so citizens should protect them when they return home. At second, these victims are not rare but it is hard to identify them in the society. Sometimes even though those sufferers know that they are living with PTSD. The author Stephen Goth, in the article, named Young People Should Care About states that times, people who develop PTSD Chen 3 are at a young age, and are unaware of the traumatic damage their brain is enduring. PTSD can form from something as simple as a single event such as divorce, or even the collection of various traumatic occurrences, such as (Goth). Thus, teenagers are living at risk. Perhaps one day, someone around teenagers will suicide or do some horrible things because of the disorder. Therefore, it is their responsibility to learn to prepare for emergency situations in daily life. Moreover, the symptom of PTSD can disturb the normal life of a person. Living with PTSD, relationships, friendships, performance at school, performance in a job, or even something as simple as sleeping will become a difficulty in their daily lives (Goth). In the article Stress the author points out that stress of PTSD can affect all members of the Thus it is a fundamental problem for family relationships (Post- Traumatic Stress Disorder). On the other hand, if there are only a few people who care about PTSD and the sufferer, there may be more victims suicide, or hurt someone else, or live in despair. Teenagers can do some simple things to help PTSD sufferers. At first, they can begin to search materials which are about PTSD or other mental disorders in a library or through the Internet to study the disease. The authors Melinda Smith, M.A. and Lawrence Robinson think that more you know about the symptoms, effects, and treatment options, the better equipped be to help your loved one, understand what he or she is going through, and keep things in (Smith, A., Robinson). After that, teenagers will know the symptom and know the importance to help people living with PTSD. Also, they can visit these victims and try to communicate with them and their family to understand their difficulties. By talking with victims, teenagers can know their cause of disease. Therefore, they can call on or prevent people from doing those things to suffer PTSD. Teenagers can know or even experience the situation which Chen 4 these victims treat themselves or their family members. After doing that, teenagers can write articles which are about the life of PTSD sufferers and their families. Then publishing the articles on the internet or popular magazines to touch more citizens to care about the issue and the victim. By mentioning the real story which teenagers experience, the article will be more credible. Therefore, more people will believe and care about the disorder, more possibilities the disorder can be cured. Moreover, teenagers can build a group to help more PTSD sufferers to overcome the disorder. They can form an organization for these victims to exchange their experiences about overcoming the disorder and reducing the pain. They can also establish a forum such as myPTSD, a website of PTSD Global Peer Support Community, which is a place that PTSD sufferers can talk together and help each other. Finally, the donation is another effective way to help those patients. It is very easy to find a website which is about helping PTSD sufferers to donate. More money can allow those organizations to organize activities which can help PTSD sufferers and their family members out of the shadow more frequently. As the article stated, need our own facility so that we can increase our operational tempo from the current 2 - 3 programs per year, to 2-3 programs per (Support Us). All in all, teenagers or their family members who have PTSD or experience the disorder should care about and help victims to reduce suffering. This is because PTSD is a torturous disorder. The symptom of PTSD is painful. The pain may spread to those family members even the whole society. Therefore, by reading books about PTSD, talking with PTSD sufferers and their families, writing articles about the daily life of PTSD sufferers, building an organization, and donating, teenagers can help PTSD sufferers efficiently and build a harmonious society. (WC: 1212) Chen 5 Works Cited Goth, Stephen. Why Young People Should Care About  Rise News, 18 Jan. 2016. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. LaMotte, Adam, Taft, Casey, Robin Weatherill, Eds. problems and physical pain as moderators of the relationship between PTSD symptoms and aggression in returning Psychological Trauma: Theory, Research, Practice, and Policy, Vol 9(1), Apr, 2017. pp. 113-116. PTSD Curable versus  PTSD Complex PTSD Information Articles Community Forum. N.p., 23 May 2015. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. PTSD, National Center for. PTSD: National Center for  PTSD: National Center for PTSD Home. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Post-Traumatic Stress  Mental Health America. N.p., 29 Mar. 2017. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Schacter, Daniel L. Psychology. New York, NY: Worth Publishers, a Macmillan Higher Education Company, 2014. Print. Smith, Melinda, M. A., and Lawrence Robinson. Helping Someone with  Helping Someone with PTSD: Helping a Friend or Loved One Deal with Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder. N.p., Apr. 2017. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Trauma and Resiliency Resources. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Tull, Matthew. Is There a Cure for  Verywell. Verywell, 07 Mar. 2016. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.