Reynolds 1 Phoenix Reynolds Sarah Basil ENC 1102 30 April 2017 Electronic Cigarettes: A Public Health Innovation In a day in age where smoking is seen as a normal activity and sometimes even as a leisurely activity, the technology to combat smoking is more abundant than ever. One of the newer additions to the family of tobacco harm reduction methods are electronic cigarettes or ENDS devices (Electronic Nicotine Delivery Systems). Recently, the electronic cigarette industry has been put in a corner by the FDA, deeming these products as tobacco products although they contain no tobacco. Following the classification changes, deeming regulations came along, putting the industry in even more of a bind by limiting their production, shop ability to help consumers, and even giving some states the motive to push blanket bans on the products. Following the FDA regulations, there have been multiple lawsuits against the FDA and these they had overstepped their authority and some laws have since been deemed unconstitutional and rescinded. ENDS devices have helped millions of smokers obliterate their habit, and tame their addiction; possibly even some of your peers. There have been individuals that use these products at USF, and per the new rule active January 2016, these devices have been ruled out. The anti-smoking rule at USF included electronic cigarettes in the writing, and they have since been banned for use on campus. Even if there were designated areas for usage, that would be more beneficial than a campus wide ban. Raising public awareness and pushing advocacy groups has gotten the industry a head start in the long road ahead of them. Reynolds 2 Choosing to stand up and support the electronic cigarette industry could lead to saving another continue to help more smokers have one more option to use to quit in the future, as well as help the USF community who may use these devices continue to use them on campus. Electronic cigarettes were introduced slowly into the United States market by big tobacco ironic; since big tobacco is one of the main heads in the process of banning electronic cigarettes. These devices were very reminiscent of cigarettes, came in tobacco or menthol flavors, and were not very effective. Once the popularity started to pick up, more devices were being made by other companies; the second generation of electronic cigarettes. One study posted in the Society for the Study of journal concluded e- cigarettes seem to be more effective in reducing symptoms of nicotine withdrawal than do first- generation (Lechner). This study along with multiple others prove that the innovation of these products has led to more effective devices; and now there are even better products on the market. Part of the FDA regulations stopped the release of new products onto the market as of August 8 th , the same date in 2018, and products that have not been FDA approved will become illegal if the regulations remain in place. Since the FDA has deemed electronic cigarettes a tobacco product, many public schools and areas are incorporating them into their anti-smoking policies; including USF. Having policies like these can force individuals to be sneaky about using their electronic cigarettes, which poses potential accidentally putting batteries in their devices incorrectly which can damage them and pose a dangerous situation. The more advocates that accumulate, the better odds the community has in getting more fair regulations and possibly getting these devices allowed in more public places. Many people may wonder why this is a concern to them, especially if they do not use these products. A huge complaint about smokers is the fact that cigarettes smell Reynolds 3 that is a valid complaint. Electronic cigarettes tend to smell a whole lot better than cigarettes and there are also no butts to be thrown onto the have little to no risk to bystanders. The Consumer Advocates for Smoke-Free Alternatives Association says know from the Burstyn study how low the risks are for those who directly inhale e-cigarette vapor. Bystanders have far less exposure to e-cigarette Electronic With this information, bystanders can rest assured that they will experience little to no harmful effects from nearby electronic cigarettes. Since the Burstyn study, the possible second hand effects have been found irrelevant due to how miniscule they were proven to like cigarette smoke. Another recent study showed that around one in five adults smoke in America, and chances are, we all know of someone who has or does currently smoke cigarettes. One hotspot on the USF campus for smokers is the side of the library, which is constantly riddled with cigarettes butts and the smell of cigarettes. Many complaints have been made to put this to an end, but some people do not understand that nicotine and cigarettes are extremely addictive. Nicotine is a mild stimulant and has addictive effects, and researchers have slowly figured out that nicotine may not be the culprit. The main argument is that nicotine addicts, and the tar, smoke, and other chemicals are what riddle smokers with the smoking related illnesses. Electronic cigarettes deliver the nicotine in a safer and healthier manner, and do so without reeking so bad. One billion people have been projected to lose their lives in the twenty first century from smoking related millions have already and continue to every day. With the rate electronic cigarettes are growing at now, the innovation and option to have the products on the market should remain, but the FDA still pushes for the outlawing of them. To track the rising popularity, John W. Ayers, et al found that online popularity of ENDS has surpassed that of snus and NRTs, which have been on the market for far longer, and is quickly outpacing Chantix or (Ayers). The study Reynolds 4 found this information by tracking the online searches through multiple high population countries and compared ENDS to other NRT methods and pharmaceutical drugs, finding that over three years, ENDS became the more popular method being searched for. This shows more people have been using this method to quit smoking tobacco, and amongst the 40,000+ individuals at USF, there is bound to be a number of people using electronic cigarettes. Since the FDA regulations have been talked about and finally published, advocacy groups have become more prevalent and have gained an unfathomable amount of support. One organization in particular, the Consumer Advocates for Smoke-Free Alternatives Association or CASAA, focuses on consumer advocates and gives them ways to help the industry. Individuals can sign up for their website and get contact information to their local representatives, an email template that a personal story can be added to, and regular emails with events and actions to advocate. The membership is free of charge and is open even for people who may not use the products or know someone who uses them, but wants to join the calls to action for the industries future. CASAA is completely volunteer driven and receives no funds for themselves, as stated on their website: Board of Director members are all volunteers and receive no financial CASAA is not the only organization of this type, are a few local options for the USF community, too. The Florida Smoke Free Association or FSFA follows the same standards as CASAA, however, FSFA serves as a legislative voice for the state of Florida by generating funds from other groups and individuals; focusing more on what businesses can do to help, rather than consumers can still contribute. Events like rallies, gatherings, and even a replication of the Hands Across America movement have been happening and will continue to happen until the FDA and the electronic cigarette industry can come to a fair agreement in their lawsuits. USF students and staff also have the opportunity to Reynolds 5 support the industry. Some individuals continue to use their electronic cigarettes openly on campus, and that is probably because of their need for nicotine to counter the craving for with the anti-smoking rule, these people may face constant backlash from other USF community members. Smoking has been a lifestyle choice for decades now, and it has not been until the last couple decades that we found out the outrageous declining health effects of it. Public health innovations have been continuing to be released to the public to aid them in their journey to become smoke free. In the last decade, a new nicotine replacement therapy method has emerged, and has been the talk of the town since. Studies from certain U.S. organizations and even the Royal College of Physicians in the United Kingdom have come forward to educate the world on the positive effects of electronic they were one of the first organizations to warn us about the dangers of smoking. The deeming regulations from the FDA in May of 2016 aim to outlaw electronic cigarettes in 2018. The regulations have effected public areas, including USF, by adding electronic cigarettes to their anti-smoking policies and banning their usage on the property. Anyone who believes in the well-being of the public, whether they smoke, previously smoked, currently or previously used electronic cigarettes to quit, or even individuals who are completely unengaged with the topic can push for the FDA to be more fair with their power. Advocacy organizations push the opportunity for any individual to help. By advocating and standing up for this industry, less smokers will continue to suffer and lose their lives to such a deleterious habit. Reynolds 6 Works Cited Electronic CASAA. Consumer Advocates for Smoke Free Alternatives, 23 Aug. 2016. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. About  CASAA. N.p., 14 Nov. 2016. Ayers, John W., Kurt M. Ribisl, and John S. Brownstein. Tracking the rise in popularity of electronic nicotine delivery systems (electronic cigarettes) using search query  American journal of preventive medicine 40.4 (2011): 448-453. Bergen, Paul, Catherine Nissen, and Carl V. Phillips. Electronic cigarettes (e-cigarettes) as potential tobacco harm reduction products: Results of an online survey of e-cigarette users Karyn Heavner James  (2009). Etter, Jean-Francois, and Chris Bullen. Longitudinal Study of Electronic Cigarette ScienceDirect. N.p., Oct. 2013. Lechner, William V., Ellen Meier, Josh Wiener L., DeMond Grant M., Jenna Gilmore, Matt Judah R., Adam Mills C., and Theodore Wagener L. Comparative Efficacy of First- versus Second- generation Electronic Cigarettes in Reducing Symptoms of Nicotine Society for the Study of Addiction., 5 Mar. 2015. to The Florida Smoke Free Florida Smoke Free Association. FSFA, 2014.