Katherine Peterson Peterson 1 Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Help People Die with Dignity Since the late the topic of physician assisted euthanasia began to rise because people have access to die differently nowadays compared to ancestors years ago (ERGO). Euthanasia is defined as the painless killing of a patient suffering from an incurable and painful disease or in an irreversible coma (Merriam - Webster). Euthanasia can be passive or active. Passive euthanasia refers to the retraction of life sustaining equipment and treatment while active euthanasia involves drug administration. By implementing laws on euthanasia and or assisted suicide, it will medical . . . (Compassion and Choices). These laws could potentially end suffering as a whole and let people die with dignity. Death is inevitable and when someone is suffering from a debilitating illness, they should be able to control when they want to die. Thus, because many people are suffering with debilitating illnesses, those who do not have debilitating illnesses or have families and close friends with debilitating illnesses should participate in peaceful protest that Compassion and Choices and other organization hold, help contact the government about assisted suicide and euthanasia, and inform those who are confused or unsure about what assisted suicide and euthanasia is about. By participating in one or more of these actions, hopefully legislature will legalize assisted suicide and euthanasia and people who are suffering can die peacefully and with dignity. Many people have a misconception to what assisted suicide and euthanasia due to lack of knowledge. They are unaware of the benefits that could occur if assisted suicide and euthanasia Peterson 2 becomes legal. The main benefit would be to end the suffering of those who have debilitating illnesses. There are millions of people throughout the world who are kept in hospitals or are bound to their houses who are suffering from debilitating illnesses that want to die to end their misery. Not only does the patient need assisted suicide and euthanasia to be legal, but so do their family and friends. Imagine watching your close friend or a family member suffering and you could not do anything about it. A dying physical suffering can be most unbearable to that immediate family (Lonestar). With the legalization of assisted suicide and euthanasia, family and friends who have someone suffering will be able to condone their wishes by ending their suffering. Compassion and Choices released an article in 2014 about a woman named Brittany Maynard. Brittany was enduring brain cancer which caused frequent seizures, stroke like symptoms, and severe head and neck pain (Compassion and Choices). She wanted to die peacefully and with her loved ones close by her, so she chose to shorten the dying process by taking the aid-in-dying medication she was given. This medication was sanctioned (approved) under the Oregon Death with Dignity Act. Death with Dignity Act allows terminally-ill Oregonians to end their lives through voluntary self-administration of lethal medications prescribed by a physician for that purpose. Since this medication was legal under act, Brittany was able to accomplish her wish of dying peacefully and in her loved arms. Make assisted suicide and euthanasia legal so those who are suffering can make the decision Brittany made and die peacefully with their loved ones by their side. While legalizing assisted suicide and euthanasia may not seem apparent to those who effected by suffering, it is still a mission that should be supported by everyone. Whether it is in the future or now, one can have a family member or close friend become ill with a debilitating illness and want to have a way to end their suffering. To deny a person their right to Peterson 3 die because of a debilitating illness is purely injustice. Giving a person to choose to end their suffering gives that person one final decision to truly make them happy. It gives them the ability to do what they feel is right for themselves, but what is also right for their family members and friends. Also, not only family and friends go through this, but so could the reader. The reader could have someone who is suffering with a debilitating illness and by reading this, it might persuade one to take action and participate in the mission. It is not too late to help with this cause. Non-profit organizations like Compassion and Choices and Death with Dignity National Center can always utilize donations to further their mission. There are many other pro-assisted suicide and euthanasia organizations out there that want to see assisted suicide and euthanasia become legal so people can end their suffering. To donate to Compassion and Choices, one can visit https://www.compassionandchoices.org/donate/ where one can donate today and select the amount to donate. Any amount for donations can help further the legalization of assisted suicide and euthanasia. If donating an available option, volunteering is one of the most effective ways to be heard. As said on compassion and website, are at the heart of Compassion and Choices advocacy, education, and outreach efforts, paving the way for a full range of end-of-life options Volunteering is a simple process by which one signs up on their website and begin to take action by going to their discussions and events they hold. There are video on their websites that talk about what assisted suicide and euthanasia is and there are also tutorial videos on what volunteering opportunities are available and how participating in them can help the legalization of assisted suicide and euthanasia. People like to talk, so a good way to spread the word about what assisted suicide and euthanasia is, is to inform people who have questions so they can pass the news on. The more people that know about this cause, the Peterson 4 more of an impact it will have on the legalization of assisted suicide and euthanasia. Another way to help this cause is to contact the government or local community members. Contacting the government may be hard, but anything thing can help this cause. Send letters stating why it is so vital to get assisted suicide and euthanasia legalized. Have the community hold meeting where one can discuss how to further the mission. It only takes a few minutes to begin to help this mission, and by doing so, one can make a big difference in the lives of those suffering or for those families who have close friends or family members who are suffering. The legalization of assisted suicide and euthanasia has been a topic that has been a question of debate for ages now. Arguing about this topic is only doing harm because the people with debilitating illnesses are still suffering with no way to end it. However, it is not too late to stop this debate and proceed with legalization. If the United States legalizes medical aid in dying, it will ensure that fewer people die suffering. (Compassion and Choices). Legalizing will also ensure that family members go into severe financial debt due to hospital and treatment bills and it will also ensure that family members suffer by watching their loved ones endure insufferable pain. As members of society, one allow those with debilitating illnesses suffer. Assisted suicide and euthanasia should be legalized so it will allow the one suffering to die with dignity, relieve the family of extreme financial bills and sadness, and to relieve them of their insufferable pain. Word Count: 1,228 Peterson 5 Works Cited Assisted Suicide - Information on right-to-die and euthanasia laws and history. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. <http://www.assistedsuicide.org/>. Brittany Maynard Dies With  Compassion & Choices. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. <https://www.compassionandchoices.org/brittany-maynard-dies-with-dignity/>. Compassion &  Compassion & Choices. N.p., n.d. Web. 21 Feb. 2017. <https://www.compassionandchoices.org/>. Take  Death With Dignity. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. <https://www.deathwithdignity.org/take-action/>. The Right to Assisted Suicide. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. <http://www.lonestar.edu/rightto- assist-suicide.htm>. Peterson 6