Markovits 1 Gabriela Markovits Sarah Basil ENC 1102 26 April 2017 Animals are not Entertainment On Friday, January 6 th 2017 one of the most famous Orca whales, Tilikum, passed away (Howard). With his death came an array of media telling the public about his sad and violent story. This famous whale, from SeaWorld, was used several times as the face of the movement against animals in the entertainment industry. Due to the many signs of aggression and instability he displayed, his story was often used to fight against wrongful use of its animals. However, Tilikum was not alone. Thousands of animals at SeaWorld and other institutions are used as entertainment by society. From legal petting zoos to illegal circuses, animals are being exploited in very harmful ways. Due to our community, USF, being located so close to several institutions that behave this way, it is important that we be aware of this issue. Just by visiting the wrong entertainment place or buying the wrong movie ticket you might accidently be supporting these institutions that practice animal cruelty. The main way the USF community can fight the mistreatment of animals in the entertainment industry is by educating ourselves about the issue and boycotting the institutions that do not follow the appropriate standards of animal health care. story as a famous entertainment whale started when he was only two years old and was captured from the wild. As explained in the documentary Blackfish, this is where the problems and suffering first started. Orca whales are known for remaining in pods throughout their entire lives and these hunts specifically target the young whales removing them from their Markovits 2 families (Blackfish). Like many other whales and animals, Tilikum was shipped to different zoos with no regards to previous family connections. Placing Orca whales from different pods in small enclosed spaces can often lead to fights and even deaths (Blackfish). Another important aspect of his story is that Tilikum has helped bring to light the dangers presented, not only to other animals, but also to its human caretakers and trainers. In the article Tilikum, Killer Orca, Was by Brian Clark Howard, it is explained that throughout his life, Tilikum was involved in the deaths of three different people. Besides the most famous case where he pulled one of his trainers, Dawn Brancheau, and drowned her, he was also responsible for killing a previous trainer in 1991 and a trespasser in 1999 (Howard). Because of all that happened to him, Tilikum became the perfect symbol for organizations trying to fight mistreatment of animals. His story of animal abuse and its consequences should serve as an example to never again be repeated. Another important factor when dealing with captive animals in zoos and other institutions is the stress level due to human interaction. According to Eduardo J. Fernandez and et. al. on the article Interactions in the Modern Zoo: Conflicts and especially noisy, active crowds, have proved a source of stress for many (Fernandez 2). Fernandez argues that in situations where animals are subjected to a lot of exposure to humans their behavior changes and stress levels rise. Situations such as this are common during animal shows and petting zoos where the animals are constantly forced to interact with humans and have no way of retreating. Furthermore, in another article, Effects on the Welfare of Animals in the Zoo: A by Gareth Davey, some solutions to decrease the stress levels of zoo animals are presented. Gareth explains that barriers between the guests and the animals (two- way mirrors and camouflage nets), more nature like enclosures, and hiding places for the animals Markovits 3 to escape from view are possible ways of decreasing the impact visitors have on the animals (Gareth 177). However, these solutions are not feasible in several situations when the entertainment of the guests is prioritized over the wellbeing of the animals, such as in shows and petting zoos. Both these researchers attempt to explain the dilemma of zoos and other institutions when trying to entertain the crowd and at the same time care for the animals. Unfortunately, animal care is not always prioritized, as it should be, over entertainment in some institutions. As a community, it is important for us all to understand the issue of animals in the entertainment industry. Not only is USF located near several organizations that utilize animals this way, but animals are also a big part of our daily life. The simple action of turning on the TV or going to the movies will most likely result in some contact with animal actors. For example, buying a ticket to a movie that has been involved in a scandal of animal cruelty helps this kind of activity go unpunished. The same works for going to entertainment parks, zoos, and aquariums such as SeaWorld. Because there are several places like that very close to our community, it is easy to unknowingly visit one of them. Furthermore, would you like to be part of the audience of a show that watches an Orca whale bleed to death or an animal attack its trainer? These have been real scenarios caused by the conditions the animals at SeaWorld are subjected to. We need to be aware that by doing these activities without previous research we might be unintentionally supporting animal cruelty. There are many ways people can do their part to prevent the mistreatment of animals in the entertainment industry, but it all starts with education. It is very important to research an organization before visiting it to ensure that animals are not being harmed. A good place to start is by looking at an credentials. Is the organization legal? Are they accredited by any other organizations besides the government? These questions can be answered with a simple Markovits 4 internet search. When visiting zoos and aquariums, look for the Association of Zoos & Aquarium (AZA) logo on their website. AZA is one of the leading organizations that ensures that the proper standards of animal care are being followed. According to AZA, than 10% of the approximately 2,800 animal exhibitors licensed by the United States Department of Agriculture are AZA (About AZA). The very low number of organizations accredited by them shows how much higher their standards are compared to the government standards of animal care. However, just looking for credentials is not enough to ensure that a place is not involved in any scandal regarding animal cruelty. It is also important to check local media for information regarding the place. A good example of this situation is SeaWorld. Although they are accredited by AZA, they have constantly been the focus of reports and boycotts regarding animal mistreatment. There is no clear formula on how to avoid these places, only research and knowledge can help people determine if a place is acting according to the appropriate guidelines. Even though it is hard, if everyone refuses to go to a park that is not treating its animals properly, the loss in revenue will eventually force this organization to change its conducts. Another very useful resource to know about is that any kind of animal abuse can be reported to the local SPCA Tampa Bay or the Hillsborough County Pet Resource Center. This can be done by either calling them or going to their websites. People need to know that they have the power to make a difference; either by reporting animal abuse themselves or simply by boycotting the places that mistreat animals. Animals are an important part of our society and it is responsibility to look out for them. Animal welfare should always be prioritized over the entertainment of the public. Educating society about the issue of animals in the entertainment industry is the first step to bringing change to the world. An educated community that refuses to participate in activities that Markovits 5 are harmful to animals has the power to force organizations to change their policies. However, for this to become real, each person has to do their part by researching the places they intend to visit and boycotting the places that do not follow the appropriate standards of animal care. By doing our part in this fight, we can help millions of animals worldwide suffering from the cruelty of the entertainment industry. Markovits 6 Works Cited AZA Association of Zoos & Aquarium, 2017, www.aza.org/. Accessed 2 . April 2017. Blackfish. Directed by Gabriela Cowperthwaite, Magnolia Pictures, 2013. Davey, Gareth. Effects on the Welfare of Animals in the Zoo: A Journal of . Applied Animal Welfare Science, vol. 10, no. 2, 5 December 2007, pp. AGRIS, . doi:10.1080/10888700701313595. Accessed 2 April 2017. Fernandez, Eduardo J., et al. Interactions in the Modern Zoo: Conflicts and . Applied Animal Behaviour Science, vol. 120, no. 1-2, 2009, pp. . ScienceDirect, doi:10.1016/j.applanim.2009.06.002. Accessed 2 April 2017. Howard, Brian Clark. Tilikum, Killer Orca, Was National . Geographic, National Geographic Society, 6 January 2017, . news.nationalgeographic.com/2017/01/tilikum-seaworld-orca-killer-whale-dies/. . Accessed 2 April 2017.