Sugawara 1 Mei Sugawara Kristen Rouisse ENC1102 12 April 2017 Save Victims of Secondhand Smoke Smoking tobacco has been considered as a problem for a long time, but the problem is yet to be solved. Most of the media announced smoking will cause serious health damage to health. There are only a few smokers who consider about the problem and try hard to quit smoking. They might care about it or think about stop smoking at least once, but cannot escape from addiction of tobacco. However, it is tragedy for nonsmokers because even though they do care about the problem, they happen to inhale secondhand smoke. According to abc NEWS, the research published by British Medical Journal showed that the percentage of risk for getting heart disease is 60 percent higher for people who inhale secondhand smoke than smokers, and secondhand smoke is likely to cause up to 80,000 heart attacks each year only in United States (abcNEWS). Thus, smoking problem, which comes from smokers, is more serious to people who do not smoke. Smoking will lead to terrible health condition for not only smokers but also nonsmokers, so high school students should actively be engaged in tobacco free campaign for maintaining their health condition and saving other nonsmokers from being victim of secondhand smoke. Tobacco contains about 7,000 different chemicals, and 70 of them are the chemicals that cause cancer (CDC). These chemicals are called carcinogens and will accumulate in Sugawara 2 bodies and gradually hurt them from inside. Every time people smoke tobacco, carcinogens get into blood stream and damage DNA. Damage in DNA makes body cells to stop growing properly and leads them to become cancer cells (CDC). There are about 27 possible effects that smokers can get by smoking tobacco (healthline). Lung cancer may be the most known outcome that smokers will receive. However, tobacco is said to be the causes of cancers in anywhere in bodies such as in bladder, blood, cervix, colon, esophagus, kidney, liver, pancreas, stomach and throat (CDC). Those cancers will lead people to death, and CDC estimated that 6 million people dye per year because of tobacco (CDC). Smokers would have terrible health effects by smoking tobacco, but at the same time, they are the one who decided to smoke despite the fact that they knew what outcome they would receive. Though, nonsmokers who do not wish to smoke are in danger of receiving worse health effect than smokers for inhaling secondhand smoke provided by tobacco. According to Center of Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), 41,000 nonsmokers dye each year from second hand smoke (CDC). The reason why secondhand smoke is harmful is that all the carcinogens come from the burning end of tobacco and smoke exhaled by smokers (American Cancer Society). According to American Lung Association, there are mainly nine worst disease nonsmokers can get from secondhand smoke such as, lung cancer, heart disease, stroke and asthma attacks (American Lung Association). Pregnant mother, infants and children have the largest effects from secondhand smoke. It will lead to Sudden Infant Death Syndrome (SIDS) for pregnant mother and low birth weight, lower respiratory illness, middle ear disease and developing lungs for infants and children (American Lung Association). Therefore, it will lead nonsmokers to have higher risks in getting serious diseases. Sugawara 3 Tobacco consists nicotine, and this is mainly why smokers cannot quit smoking. Nicotine is the chemical that makes massive amount of adrenaline and dopamine to give off. Dopamine stimulates the area in brain connected with pressure (healthline). The more smokers keep smoking, the stronger addiction for physical and mental will be. There are several ways to quit smoking. For instance, smokers can try not to smoke with nicotine replacement, behavioral therapy, nicotine replacement therapy, medication and quitting cold turkey. The combination of these methods will bring more effective result. Though, smokers cannot tolerate with nicotine addiction for a long time. Even if they quit smoking tobacco successfully, the habit of smoking brings smokers back to start smoking again. As reported by Chaiton who is a scientist at the Ontario Tobacco Research Unit and is an assistant professor at the Dalla Lana School of Public Health, University of Tronto, the average attempt for 1277 participants to quit smoking was 6.1 (Chaiton, et al.). Thus, stop smoking in their early age is important for both smokers and nonsmokers. Considering about the addiction of tobacco and the bad health result, it is important for high school students to know the risk of smoking tobacco and the effect for nonsmokers. Since they will have more opportunities to face the problem as they get old, they should get used to convince smokers to stop smoking and feel comfortable doing it. Their friends who start to smoke in early age have more risk in ending their life early because of the bad effects of smoking tobacco. Their family members might get cancer because of smokers at their family work. They might end up losing their future wife or husband if they smoke in their house. In order to avoid these tragedies, high school students must take an action right now. By being enrolled in tobacco free campaigns, high school students can clearly show that they support smokers to quit smoking. Tobacco free campaign does not have to be something difficult Sugawara 4 to do, for example, protesting to tobacco making companies. There are mainly three different tobacco free campaigns high school students can involve in. Firstly, high school students can make posters and brochures about how harmful tobacco is to human bodies as is the case for CDC promoting tobacco free campaign by creating some posters that appear to emotion. Appearing to the side of nonsmokers may be more effective than urging smokers to quit smoking for their health. Secondly, they can make video about tobacco problems with using sense of humor since many high school students do not carefully pay attention to serious problems. Something, which can easy to see and catch high school attention like video, is the best way to promote tobacco free campaign. Finally, high school students can show their support for tobacco free campaign to people outside of schools by cleaning up cigarettes on roads. This is the chance to broaden tobacco free campaign and to give people opportunities to think about it. Sometimes it is hard to be engaged in campaigns when they are time consuming and seem difficult to do. Start doing little things is the first step, and it will help the problem to be solved as soon as possible. In conclusion, smoking tobacco will harm both smokers and health condition. The outcome of smoking tobacco would be worse for nonsmokers since they are inhaling secondhand smoke. It is important to have somebody to persuade smokers to quit smoking. In addition to that, it will be great to have an environment for teenagers to talk about that problem without any anxiety. People should start taking action as soon as possible and pay respects for people who try to persuade smokers. If there is a right for smokers to smoke, there should be a right for nonsmokers to not inhale secondhand smoke. However, it is physically impossible unless smokers stop smoking. Since there are so many smokers who considered about quitting Sugawara 5 smoking at least one, this is the time for people to show respect to tobacco free campaign in order to keep health condition great. Word count: 1224 Sugawara 6 Work Cited ABC NEWS, Smoke More Dangerous Than abcNEWS, abcNEWS, 29 June. 2014. Web. 14 April. 2017. American Lung Association, of the Worst Diseases You Can Get from Secondhand American Lung Association, American Lung Association, Web. 26 April. 2017. Chaiton, Michael, Diemert, Lori, Cohen, Joanna, et al. the number of quit attempts it takes to quit smoking successfully in a longitudinal cohort of BMJ, 2016. Print. Risks of Secondhand Smoke What is secondhand American Cancer Society, American Cancer Society, 13 November. 2015. Web. 14 April. 2017. Pietrabgelo, Anne Effects of smoking on the healthline, 25 August. 2014. Web. 15 April. 2017. Center of Disease Control and Prevention, Center of Disease Control and Prevention, 22 Febuary. 2017. Web. 14 April. 2017. and Center of Disease Control and Prevention, Center of Disease Control and Prevention, 9 November. 2016. Web. 14 April. 2017. Tyler, Mara, and Nicotine healthline, 02 December. 2016. Web. 15 April. 2017.