Martin 1 Yanmark Martin Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 April 29, 2017 Why You Should Be Boycotting Zoos and Other Places of Animal Captivity An animal being kept in captivity for entertainment is a fairly recent practice that humans have come to love. Before animal captivity, animals were free to explore the far reaches of the earth with no threat of being locked in a cage to stop them. However, now many of the animals that used to be able roam free around the Earth are stuck in small enclosures for human entertainment. Zoos and other institutions can get away with locking animals away in cages without public outcry by saying that it is better for their health and their lifespan to be kept there. However, this could not be further from the truth because African Elephants, the median life span is 17 years for zoo-born females, compared to 56 years in the Amboseli National Park Geo). This example is just of elephants but the reality is that more animals, like tigers, chimpanzees, and orcas, have significantly shorter life spans in zoos than in the wild. Everyone that has been to a zoo with their kid(s), especially the families whose kids are grown up now, should care about how zoos significantly change the lives of the animals inside them. They should care because even though the zoo may not get their business anymore that does not mean that the animals are being freed from captivity. Thus because of continued animal captivity, families whose kids are now adults should donate to organizations like PETA or tell other families to not visits zoos or these types of organizations anymore so that animals can be free the roam in their natural habitat instead of locked in cages. Martin 2 While many families have visited zoos around the world, the vast majority of them do not have an idea that zoos do not really benefit the animal as much as they might believe. Two animals that many people think of when it comes to not living up to their life spans are orcas and elephants. As previously mentioned, elephants that were born in captivity lived almost forty years less than their counterparts that lived in the wild. This is a problem for the zoos and the elephants because sexually mature in their early teens, elephants generally only start to mate at about 20 (ElephantsForever). This means that elephants are not living long enough to reproduce in captivity. Zoos will say that they are trying to save the population by putting them in cages but these statistics say that they are doing the exact opposite. Orcas may have it even worse than elephants because, in the wild have an average life expectancy of 30 to 50 years, and some make it much The median lifespan of orcas in captivity is only nine (OneGreenPlanet). Many people are familiar however with how orcas are kept in captivity at places like SeaWorld because of the film The orcas kept at SeaWorld are known to have injured dozens of people and even killed four humans while they were in captivity. As opposed to the orcas in the wild, where there has only ever been one recorded attack on a human and this person was not killed (TakePart). These facts prove that not only do animals not live as long in captivity in zoos than in the wild but they are also more aggressive than they are in the wild. Large animals are not the only animals being affected by animal captivity. Smaller animals, in comparison to orcas and elephants, such as tigers and chimpanzees are also being affected by being locked in a cage for the rest of their lives. Tigers have been known to not only be kept in captivity but also to be kept as exotic pets by people. kept as pets or part of a backyard zoos have been shown to be 500 times more deadly than dogs in the United Martin 3 (OneGreenPlanet). That statistic proves why having tigers as pets is not a good idea because not only are these tigers being kept in captivity but these animals are not dogs so they cannot be treated the same way as dogs. Many of people have gone to a zoo and see the and were amazed that a tiger could look like that in the wild. Well they because the is the result of generations of inbreeding tigers to get the genetic deformation that causes the all white skin. Along with the all white skin, many of these tigers suffer from deformities and disabilities. Tigers are also known to often suffer from a form of psychosis called which is when an animal continues to do the same thing for no reason at all (OneGreenPlanet). Along with tigers, chimpanzees also suffer from Unlike tigers however, chimpanzees have very obvious signs that they are suffering from like feces, over-grooming their arms/legs, continual rocking and (OneGreenPlanet). Chimpanzees also have another layer of captivity that many of these other animals do not have which is that often they are sent from the zoo to a testing facility so tests can be conducted on them. These facts prove that animals being kept in captivity do not only feel from the physical effects of being kept in a cage but also feel the emotional and mental effects. Families whose children are grown up may think that the animal captivity in zoos does not affect them anymore because of the fact that their children are grown up but it still can. These families most likely brought their kids to a zoo or another place where they could see animals that means their children, who are now grown up and may have kids of their own, may go to the zoo again because they may want to reminisce to their childhood. It is situations like this that keep zoos in business because they are seen as family friendly and with the admission money they can continue to bring in animals to lock them in cages. Even though that it may not effect these families directly, animal captivity should be something that they care about because Martin 4 by bringing their kids to the zoo when they were young they directly helped put more animals in cages. These families may think that there is no way that they could help free these animals escape from captivity but there are more ways to help than they know. Since it is never too late to help those who need our help the most, there is a lot of different ways to help. There are two main ways to help out animals in captivity, one is indirectly helping these animals and one is directly helping them. One way to help is to donate money to organizations like PETA, who help fight animal captivity every day, and the other is to tell other families about the truth of what really goes on behind the scenes in zoos. With this money, PETA can continue its operations and campaigns against places like SeaWorld and zoos everywhere. By telling friends and family about the truth of what really happens behind closed doors at zoo, they can also join in supporting organizations like PETA. Helping out can become a cycle because by telling friends and family the truth about what goes on at zoos it could lead to more donations to organizations like PETA. These animals need all the help that they can get to escape their prisons and every little thing that anyone does helps out more than they know. Overall zoos appeal to families and that makes them a go to place for kids. However, this could change if the statistics of life spans in zoo got out to the public. For example, the statistic of elephants living almost forty years less in zoos than in zoos than in the wild. That is why zoos should not be supported by families and everyone should care about this issue, even families with grown up kids. Together we can end these animal prisons forever by donating to organization like PETA and telling friends and family about how animals are really treated inside of zoos. Martin 5 Work Citied the Cages and Tanks! the Truth About the Lives of Animals in Captivity Versus the One Green Planet, www.onegreenplanet.org/animalsandnature/the-life-of- animals-in-captivity-versus-the-wild/. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. Kirby, David. a Wild Orca Really Attack a Diver in New TakePart, 24 Feb. 2014, www.takepart.com/article/2014/02/24/did-wild-orca-really-just-attack-diver-new- zealand/. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. Meyer, Amelia. Elephant Life Cycle, 1 Jan. 1970, www.elephantsforever.co.za/life-cycle.html. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. National Geographic, National Geographic Society, Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. Pitiful PETA, www.peta.org/issues/animals-in-entertainment/animals-used- entertainment-factsheets/zoos-pitiful-prisons/. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017.