Sarina Muthiah Ms. Hannah Lay ENC 1102 14 April 2017 Fighting For The Sioux Tribe For over a year now, the Sioux Tribe has been fighting a battle against an organization, Dakota Access LLC, that could one day harm their sacred land. This company is known as the Dakota Access and they have plans to run a pipeline through the Missouri River which is the source of water for the tribe. Running this pipeline could cause a large chance for the water supple to become unsustainable for all life to live and use for a long period. This is a serious problem not only for the Sioux Tribe but the surrounding environment as well if a leak of the pipeline would occur Indigenous Policy ). It would take years for this ecosystem to bounce back from the detrimental effects of the oil and even then, it would never be as it once was. It is the job of all others not just the Sioux Tribe to stand in solidary against this unethical pipeline which will most certainly ruin the land if it were to be built. It does not take to the world to make a difference just a small group of people Indigenous Policy ). By educating and empowering the USF community on the topic of this pipeline and all the detrimental effects that it will cause to the tribe and to the environment as well allow others to understand why this pipeline must be stopped. We must stand in unity with the tribe if we hope to change the way the earth we live used and hold others to a higher standard of this as well. Dakota Access Pipeline VS the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe are two opposing stakeholders that have been receiving public attention considering recent events. This longstanding journey began in January of 2016 when Dakota Access Limited Liability Company, LLC, received approval to construct the Dakota Access Pipeline near the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe Reservation of Dakota Access The conflict between these two sides is that the crude oil within the pipeline would run into the Missouri River which is the water supply for the Native people (Dakota Access Pipeline; at Not only would it ruin their water supply, but possibly ruin the land that they consider sacred to their culture and having detrimental effects to the environment as well. The tribe has suggested for the pipeline to be rerouted, but if this pipeline were to be changed that would extend the timeline of completion. This would also cost millions of dollars to restart this long-standing project, funds that the company did not intend to spend or simply may not have. With the growing media attention placed on these stakeholders, the country is waiting and watching to see the potential outcome (Dakota Access Pipeline; at It is important to care about the issues of the DAPL because it will not only effect the Sioux Tribe but the environment that human beings are expected to preserve. If a leak in the pipeline was to occur is would ruin all living plants and animals within the vicinity of the area. The cost of cleaning this spill would be millions of years. The recovery of the ecosystem would possibly be a limited to no recovery period for years. The ecosystem (all the communities of living organisms found in a specific place, their habitats and their interactions) in which we live provides natural services for humans and all other species that are essential to our health, quality of life and survival Is It Important To Care About The For example, our forests remove carbon dioxide and other pollutants from the air we breathe and cool our air temperatures, reducing the formation of ground-level ozone, a pollutant that can cause heart and lung problems to worsen; our wetlands store storm water, filter and make harmless storm water pollutants, and recharge our aquifers (where most of us get our drinking water) with these filtered waters; and the dune systems on our beaches form natural barriers to storm waves and provide important habitat and travel ways for wildlife. By allowing this pipeline to be built we are thus ending the ecosystem in which it surrounds Is It Important To Care About The To, ensure that this pipeline does not occur we must call the USF community to support the cause of the Sioux Tribe. We must push for a call to action that allows people to understand the importance of this cause and want to support it an anyway possible. There are several ways in which one could support the Sioux Tribe. Follow, like, and share any social posts regarding the DAPL and the Sioux Tribe. Stay informed on the matter at hand because new findings on the DAPL happen every day. Lastly donations are accepted toward the cause of the Sioux! Anything big or small would make a big difference to the Sioux Tribe, so whatever you can would be appreciated! Any show of support could make a large difference in the outcome of the Dakota Access Pipeline. In conclusion, by reaching out to the USF community in attempt to make a difference for the Sioux Tribe could possibly be the weighing factor in this pipeline. It only takes a small group of people to be herd. If all students and faculty at USF were to stay informed and act on the information given there would be no question on the pipeline being rerouted away from the Missouri River. The voices of the Native people refuse to go unheard against Dakota Access LLC and have proved that it is going to be long battle and they will not back down until what they want has been achieved. Works Citied Dakota Access Pipeline  Dakota Access Pipeline Facts. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. uju<https://daplpipelinefacts.com/>. Corporate  EnergyTransfer.com - Home Page. 2017 Energy Transfer Partners, L.P., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://www.energytransfer.com/>. Standing  Standing Rock. KK BOLD, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://standingrock.org/>. Indigenous Policy  #NativeVote16-Overdue National Debate about Pipelines and Science Trahant Indigenous Policy Journal. Trahant, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://articles.indigenouspolicy.org/index.php/ipj/article/view/422/412>. Easy Resolution Unlikely for Contentious Dakota  Reuters. Thomson Reuters, 19 Sept. 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://www.reuters.com/article/us-usa-pipeline- nativeamericans-reroute-idUSKCN11P09K>. Standing  Standing Rock. KK BOLD, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://standingrock.org/>. Thorbecke, Catherine. Timeline of the Dakota Access Pipeline  ABC News. ABC News Network, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://abcnews.go.com/US/timeline- dakota-access-pipeline-protests/story?id=43131355>. Lindsay, Rowena. is the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe trying to stop a The Christian Science Monitor 2016: Opposing Viewpoints in Context. Web. 10 Feb. 2017. Says Army Corps Is Considering Rerouting Dakota Access All Things Considered (2016): Literature Resource Center. Web. 10 Feb. 2017. Rock Sioux Continue Opposition to Dakota Access Weekend All Things Considered (2016): Literature Resource Center. Web. 10 Feb. 2017. Munckton, Stuart. States: Dakota Access Pipeline Struggle: Native American Versus Fossil Green Left Weekly 1111 (2016): 24. Informit Humanities & Social Sciences Collection. Web. 12 Feb. 2017.