Montoya !1 Sergio Montoya Mrs. Aranda ENC1102 March 5th, 2017 World Voice on Climate Change Earth, home to mankind and millions of species of animals and plants, is in the process of sixth mass extinction. This sixth mass extinction that we are in is the of kind. This process is unique because of growing human activity and rising carbon emissions into the atmosphere. The Earth is getting hotter because with more carbon in the atmosphere, more sun radiation and heat is kept from escaping the atmosphere and heating the Earth up (NASA). An organization set on cutting down carbon emissions against climate change is the World Wildlife Fund. This group believes in a future where burning coal and oil to produce energy will not be the primary form of receiving energy. WWF brings awareness to climate change through the use of two advertisements that assimilate and warn of the consequences of climate change that are occurring presently through the use of kairos, the emotional strain of losing species as a consequence in pathos, and a call to action to prevent disaster. The World Wildlife Fund claims that now is the time to take action against climate change in the two images by pointing out how the earth is heating up to a point where it will be uninhabitable (History). The image depicts an hour glass where civilization is represented on the bottom and it is being by the melting glaciers on the top side of the hour glass. It can also be surmised that the melting glacier in the hour glass was placed on the top side of the hour glass because the civilization on the bottom is heating Montoya !2 up by human activity and is melting the blacker because heat rises. This advertisement is a metaphor for how humans are drowning ourselves and the earth by our own activities. The image is also captioned, time to stop global warming is melting This caption sends a message of how international communities need to react to this crisis quickly because not only will species living in colder areas of the world go extinct but and civilization will be in biblical proportions. The second image uses a simile image of the globe melting like an ice cream would. It appeals to how a person would want their ice cream to be served at the perfect temperature rather than melting. It would not be enough to lick up the melting ice cream but rather the solution would be to get it out of a warm environment so that it can cool down. Only after the Earth and ice cream similarly are cooled down can both last longer and be enjoyed more. Both images also make use of pathos in how they evoke a feeling of sadness represented by threat of if carbon levels in the atmosphere are not corrected. The image represents sadness in that if the ice is melted by the heat produced by the city, the seal on the glacier will have no habitat to live and will die. Not only will the seal die but the human population will also suffer greatly and the economy will enter a depression because coasts will be and the sea level will impact billions of lives. The second image evokes awareness in a more juvenile fashion represented in a melting ice cream cone. Anyone who eats ice cream on a cone would want their scoop to be cold so that they can take their time licking away at the sweet dessert. Similarly the image wants the audience to feel that the globe should be colder like your ice cream if it were melting. Montoya !3 The images by the World Wildlife Fund were created to bring awareness on climate change. Coupled with awareness, the WWF hopes that international communities are inspired and motivated to take the call of being cautious into each lifestyles. The images WWF has created call people to better their habits by being more conscientious of their daily habits. Solutions that people can implement into their daily routines could include watching how much water they use, or arranging eco friendly means of transportation in order to save on gas consumption. The WWF want people to do anything to help their cause even if it is only donations. Both images promote these goals through their visually rhetorical messages. A future with less coal and oil consumption and more focus on eco friendly lifestyles is possible if organizations like the Work Wildlife Fund continue to produce awareness through advertisements with a call to its audiences to pay attention and react to the issues that are causing climate change. WWF will continue on its mission to better the environment but it is up to each person listen to their messages in their advertisements and to contribute in some way for this goal to be achieved. To achieve the goal of not worrying about glaciers melting and the Earth heating up, individuals must be more conscientious of their actions and strive to behave in a more sustainable fashion. Montoya !4 Works Cited Climate &  WWF. N.p., n.d. Web. 06 Mar. 2017. Climate Change Causes: A Blanket around the  NASA. NASA, 30 Jan. 2017. Web. 06 Mar. 2017.  WWF. World Wildlife Fund, n.d. Web. 06 Mar. 2017. Montoya !5 Montoya !6 Montoya !7