Name: Shuoyuan Zhang ENC1102 Instructor: Adam Carter Reduce eating meat is better for body Most of people know eating a lot of meat is bad for body. But in our planet, there are still many people consume a lot of meat everyday. From Bard article, right now each Chinese consumes 170 grams meat every day.(Bard) That number is almost triple than the recommended number of daily meat consume of Chinese food diet guide. It advises Chinese people eat 45-70 grams of meat. In addition, compared with current prediction, this number will increase in the future decades. In general, people who eating more meat would became fat quickly, and we all know that obesity may make some other problems of body, such as high blood pressure, heart disease. So compared with current situation, I think people should reduce meat consumption. This change will also influence other fields such as climate, protect our environment. From Fiona article, Dr Marco Springmann said taht the same time, the food system is responsible for more than a quarter of all greenhouse gas emissions, and therefore a major driver of climate Fiona) While the protein found in meat is helpful for restoring and building bodies, we certainly need a lot meat portion of meat with every meal. Reduce eating meat is better for body is base on current daily meat consumption, in America, average consumption is far more than recommended number. From Ted Kallmyer, people need 0.65 gram per pound of the body weight to maintain muscle, that means if a people is 150 pound weight, he need to eat average 100g meat per day, if he eat more than 100g, he maybe going to gain weight faster. (Ted) reduce meat consumption mean people have to entail going full vegetarian, even just whittling down portions. In addition, eating meat also has impact to our environment and climate. In the past three decades, carbon emission related to agriculture and food production are close to account about for half of carbon . If all Chinese people follow the Chinese food guide, global agricultural emissions would drop 12 percent. (Bard) how about American people, in fact average American person consume twice meat than average Chinese person. Another , if most people in the world reduce eating meat, carbon emission will goes down a large number. We all know carbon emission is a big problem in the world right now. So diets have a significant impact for nature. Maybe some people think they have no problem with a meat meal everyday, but reduce eating meat is not only influence a certain person, it also protect our environment. For people who eat a lot meat, check out these benefits and reduce your meat consumption could make you feel better. First, reduce inflammation in your body. body may increase the level of inflammation. Compare to vegetarian, vegetarian diet are naturally anti- inflammatory, because they have high antioxidants, and other phytonutrients. From article, she found that vegetarian have lower level of inflammation of their bodies.(Michelle) Work cited page Bard plumer, China is urging people to eat less meat which could have a big climate , 2016 Jun. 21, VOX.com web. 2017 Apr. 20. Available from: http://www.vox.com/2016/6/21/11978318/china-less-meat-schwarzenegger-cameron Fiona Harvey, Eat less meat to avoid dangerous global warming, scientists , 2016 Mar. 21, Theguardian, available from: https://www.theguardian.com/environment/2016/mar/21/eat-less-meat-vegetarianism- dangerous-global-warming Michelle McMacken, 7 Things That Happen When You Stop Eating , 2016 Jan.12, Wellness, Available from: https://www.forksoverknives.com/7-things-that-happen-when-you- stop-eating-meat/ Ted Kallmyer, We Eat Too Much , n.d. Healthy Cooking 101, Available from: https://healthyeater.com/eating-meat