Perez 1 Chris Perez Instructor Aranda ENC 1102 24 March 2017 Analysis of Two Images from the Food Bank Every day people are struggling to live on meager amounts of food and money. In fact, USA Natalie DiBlasio reports that in 7 rely on food Few people have access to fresh food daily and they must work hard just to survive, especially in largely-populated areas like New York and Israel. Many people in New York suffer from pressures such as unemployment, health care issues, housing costs, and low (Food Bank for New York City). why the Food Bank exists to assist those in dire need of food, which is their main goal. The two images chosen for analysis truly represent who the Food Bank is and what they are trying to accomplish, which is to provide premier assistance to those in need of food. The first image, or image A, is simply a carrot inside of a box and is being presented as an anniversary gift. The message in the image says anniversary, show someone you really Image A is trying to tell the audience to donate to the Food Bank to help provide food. This carrot is being symbolized as a precious gift, like a diamond. The second image, or image B, shows plates arranged in a gutter, just like how plates are arranged in the sink after they have been washed. The message says, many people eat on the The Food Bank is trying to raise awareness of how these poorer people live on the streets and eat whatever they find. Image B also shows juxtaposition because these people own dishes, but have anywhere to put them other than the gutter, so that is ironic in a sense. Perez 2 In general, these two images mostly use pathos to grab the attention. Pathos is appeal to (Rhetoric Really Matters), and it displays pathos by showing that the poor live on practically nothing. The two images are both similar in that they encourage donations to the food bank; however, each image provokes a different message. Image A persuades the audience to make a money donation to help celebrate the Food 25 th anniversary, while Image B attempts to spread awareness of the hunger issue in Israel. The message is still obvious: help the poor by donating. The Food Bank is great at helping poorer families get fed and nurtured, 1 in 7 of people to be exact. Overall, the two images appeal to the emotion of the audience, or people who are willing to help the hungry. The Food Bank successfully achieves this by using pathos in their images. Perez 3 Perez 4 Perez 5 Works Cited DiBlasio, Natalie. Hunger in America: 1 in 7 rely on food  USA Today. Gannett Satellite Information Network, 17 Aug. 2014. Web. 20 Mar. 2017. Food Poverty in  Food Bank For New York City. N.p., n.d. Web. 21 Mar. 2017. Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric (Really) Matters: Explorations In Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. Print.