Shelton 1 Ashley Brooke Shelton Angelica Aranda ENC 1102 March 20, 2017 Vision Project for Equality Gender equality and equal rights for women is a long discussed issue that has recently taken a front seat in the news. The Vision Project is seen as a supporter of equal rights for women and it is beneficial to consider its message. This project, started by Devin Mitchell, is a journalistic photography documentary with the goal being, as stated on their website, help veterans heal by providing them with a (VVP). The photos that make up this project depict military service members standing in front of mirrors. The image in the mirror shows, in theory, how the individuals see themselves. On one side of the image, the service member can be seen wearing their military uniform. On the other side of the image, the individual is shown in a different scene, one that they either are in now or where they were before entering the military. This shows that, not only are they are more than just a member of the military and that they have other lives and interests, but that even though they have these other things going on, they still are and always will be a valuable resource to the armed forces. The two selected images display military service women. For the purposes of this analysis, the image with the woman fixing her hair will be identified as image A. The image of the family with the baby will be known as image B. Both of these images show women as they see themselves, as part of the military (VVP). This not only supports the idea that women are just as important as men in this aspect but also proves to be a very accurate representation of what the Vision Project stands for, providing service members with a voice. The targeted audience for this project and Shelton 2 these images is anyone who believes that men are superior to women in the military and that women do not deserve the same rights and opportunities as their male counterparts. In order to comprehensively address the effect that these images have on the audience, aspects of the images and their content will be analyzed through the use of the four rhetorical appeals, Ethos, Logos, Pathos, and Kairos, as appropriate to each image. As Purdue OWL says it, these appeals are loose in their definitions and are simply a tool to guide analyses. Mitchell is currently an undergraduate student from Los Angeles, California studying sociology. Mitchell, along with Brad Ivanchan, and Mylee Cardenas put this project together. They traveled up and down the west coast in search of stories and lives of veterans to represent through the photographs that they were taking (VVP). One main objective of this photo documentary was to represent military veterans of all genders and sexual orientations in their home environment in a way that is free of bias or judgment. The idea was to show where they are now in life and where they were earlier in their life when they were active in the military (VVP). Along the top of each image included in this project, the individuals name is listed along with the branch of the military that they served in. The purpose of including this information is to make the individuals known and to show that they are not ashamed or regretful of either aspect of their life. Serving in the military is something to be esteemed and something to be proud of. If this were not true, the individuals featured in the images might have chosen to remain anonymous. In image A, a mother and father are seen holding their baby girl in front of a bathroom mirror. In the reflection however, the same woman can be seen, but without the baby and the man. The woman is dressed in military attire and this is meant to represent the way that she sees herself. This image contains elements of both Ethos and Pathos. According to the online text, Really Ethos can be defined as method of persuasion in which the Shelton 3 speaker or writer (the rhetor) attempts to persuade the audience by demonstrating their own credibility or (Hoffman et al. 27). Because of the military connotation associated with this image, automatic credibility is employed. The military is one group of people who represent authority and high levels of respect. Pathos is evident in this photograph through the depiction of a baby. Pathos can be defined as appeal to (Hoffman et al. 37). Babies evoke emotion in almost everyone because of all of the innocence and love that they represent. In image B, a woman is seen standing in front of a bathroom mirror helping her two young daughters with their hair. Again, we see in the reflection the image of the same woman but dressed in her military attire. The rhetorical appeals that stand out in this image are, again Ethos and Pathos, as well as Kairos. Ethos, as previously mentioned, is evident through the nature of the military connotations. Pathos is seen through the two young children. Kairos, a rhetorical appeal less commonly mentioned, is defined by Really as appeal to timeliness, or identifying the right time to write/say/perform the correct action to obtain a desirable result, and then doing (Hoffman et al. 41). Kairos is seen when you consider that the girls are getting ready for some type of event that is happening soon. In conclusion, these two images seen below do a sufficient job at representing the Vision Project and its mission. Not only do these two images appear similar in nature, but through the thoughtful utilization of the rhetorical appeals of ethos, pathos, and Kairos, they are both able to accurately represent how women are equally represented in the military. Shelton 4 Image A Image B Shelton 5 Works Cited VVP by Devin  Veteran Vision Project. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. http://veteranvisionproject.com/ Hoffman, A., & Wiggs, K. (2016). Rhetoric (really) matters: explorations in rhetoric and argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu. Welcome to the Purdue OWL. (n.d.). Retrieved March 05, 2017, from https://owl.english.purdue.edu/owl/resource/625/03/