Floyd West Adam Carter ENC 1102 18 April, 2017 Smoking and How it Affects You Smoking in teens has been greatly reduced throughout the years but it is still a major problem in America today. The consumption of tobacco is still continuing to cause the loss of life every day in the form of lung cancer. Teenagers are becoming a bigger target for big tobacco companies as they try to come up with new flavors and tactics to market tobacco as a product that will bring good things to their consumer. College are trying to combat smoking by creating smoke free campuses for students but there is actually very little they can do to uphold their own rules when asking others to give up a right they have and perhaps an addiction they have that is hard to break. Tobacco companies know this, which is why they want their consumers young. If they are able to get teenagers addicted to their cigarettes then they have a guaranteed lifetime consumer who will do almost anything in order to take part in the vice. We as college students need to put an end to smoking around campus by making a pledge and bringing up the conversation to those who we know participate in the deadly activity. The rate at which smokers are dying from lung cancer caused by smoking each year are around 480,000. (American Lung Association). more is that around 353 people are dying each day from it. (TRUTH). No matter what source you decided to pull your information from regarding deaths caused by tobacco everyone can agree that the numbers are far too high. In an article posted in 2016 by the American Society of Clinical Oncology, it was estimated that more than 16,000 adults would die that year from brain cancer. (ASCO). Medical researchers have been trying to find a cure for naturally caused cancer for years when hundreds of thousands of people are dying each year from tobacco caused health problems that could be ended through educating others and ending big reign over others. Tobacco companies want nothing more than to profit and do not care who they harm in the process. Many teenagers believe that they can stop smoking whenever they want to but according to statistics, it is a much harder feat then college student think. In fact, 87% of current smokers started before the age of eighteen and more than 2,000 youth and young people become smokers every day. (TRUTH). Even though smoking might not affect every single teenager it most likely affects someone close to them. With around 36.5 million smokers in the United States it is probable that at least one friend or family member you know is a smoker. (CDC). While many may find discussing smoking around those involve themselves in it uncomfortable a discussion can last minutes whereas the death of a family member or friend lasts forever. When one was once too nervous to encourage someone to quit consuming tobacco they now feel guilty for not bringing it up and wish they had offered help to someone who maybe desperately wanted to stop but no one ever asked them if they wanted to. As far as teenage smokers go, many do not think about the dangers of smoking later on in their life or lean on the thought that it is their body and it only causes harm to themselves but this is far from the truth. As people grow older they develop relationships, settle down, get careers, and have children. All of these become soiled by tobacco; parents have to choose between spending time with their family and smoking, people have to decide whether or not to be late to work because they need to catch their morning fix of nicotine, or have to distance themselves from their older aged parents because their smoking is detrimental to their fading health. As college students and the youths in our community it is our responsibility to take action and make sure that we and others whom we know are properly educated on the dangers and effects of smoking. There are many things that we can do in order to combat teen smoking but the biggest thing that we as individuals can do that big anti-tobacco campaigns cannot is talk to current smokers about their deadly addiction and try to educate them and give them tools that they can use to quit. Works Cited:  Truth. Truth Initiative, n.d. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. Lung Association  American Lung Association. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Apr. 2017. ASH Action on Smoking &  ASH. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Apr. 2017. Current Cigarette Smoking Among Adults in the United  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 01 Dec. 2016. Web. 20 Apr. 2017. Brain Tumor:  Cancer.Net. N.p., 21 Mar. 2017. Web. 20 Apr. 2017.