Mancuso 1 Sophia Mancuso Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 30 April 2017 Fatal Factory Farming Raising a family can be hectic, and sometimes at the end of a busy work day all a parent can really hope for is that they have the energy to put a healthy dinner on the table for their kids. Parenting comes with its rewards, like watching as their children grow into healthy and successful adults after all the blood, sweat, and tears produced in raising them. It can also come with fear and doubt that they--as a parent--could not be doing the right things for their child in order for them to grow up happy. Sometimes that right thing starts at the dinner table, with feeding their child a meal that is good for them, good for animals, and good for the planet. Many people, especially busy parents, are unaware of the consequential things that animal products do to a health, and what price the animals and planet pay for a family to enjoy a steak dinner. In a study done by the Harvard School of Public Health, it was determined that a risk of death increases by 13% when consuming red meat daily (Harvard Health). Furthermore, Stanford Law School stated in a journal that growing demand for animal agriculture is expected to be a major contributor to a roughly 80% increase in global greenhouse gas emissions from the agricultural (Stanford Law). All a parent could really want for their children is a long, happy, and healthy life, but if their health is compromised by the things they eat and their Earth is deteriorating around them, that possibly happen. With this in mind, it is Mancuso 2 important that parents educate themselves, other parents, and their children about the effects that animal products have on their health and the environment, as well as reduce their consumption of animal products so to ensure that humans, the animals, and the planet are healthy. Often when a topic revolving around animal consumption is brought up, people want to listen. Many rebuttals include the fact that humans have been consuming and using animals for products for years, or that the way of life and is simply human nature. While these prove to be true, this does not mean this way of living has not had serious consequences that are adding up and just now being brought to the surface. The detrimental effects animal agriculture has had on the Earth are clear, and getting worse as the population grows and the demand for animal products grows alongside it. The fact is, back in the day when the population was half it is now and grazing land scarce, animal agriculture was not effecting the environment to the extent it is currently. As industries struggle to keep up with the increasing demand, they plow through thousands of acres of forest to allow cattle to graze. According to PETA, six seconds, an acre of rain forest is cut down for cattle farming. around 14,400 acres every (PETA). When an habitat gets smaller and smaller with every acre cleared, species are bound to go extinct. When this happens, a ripple effect down the food chain occurs. This ultimately results in a multitude extinct species. To put it simply, the animals that parents take their children to see in the zoo may soon no longer be there. Meat can be a great source of protein which is an essential nutrient in any diet. The misconception about meat is that it is the only source of protein. There are many other sources of protein like beans, nuts, and soy which can lower the risk of heart disease by 30% (PETA). Consumption of meat and dairy have been linked to one of the leading causes of death Mancuso 3 in the U.S., heart disease. High in cholesterol, animal products can clog the arteries and result in many health issues. Consuming processed meats like hot dogs can lead to an even higher risk of death, nearly 20% (Harvard Health). In a study done in 1981, 35% of cancer is linked to diet and can be compared to how smoking causes cancer as well (NCBI). Cow milk when given to children has been known to cause asthma, colic, Disease, eczema, and even a possible link to SIDS (Vivahealth). Clearly, numerous studies have brought light to the dangers of consuming animal products. Imagine the model parent who raises a smart and successful child who unfortunately develops heart disease. The fatal mistake that lead to this was feeding their child meat growing up, which lead to an inherited diet consisting of meat. Feeding them meat as a child started their to animal products leading to many health problems down the road. Many people know that children learn from their parents, from language and mannerisms, to habits and behaviors. Many, however, think about diet. What is fed to a child is something they are likely to eat for the rest of their life. This can be avoided early in by feeding them a diet that lacks animal products. The thought of feeding unhealthy food to children who look to their parents for guidance is one of the many reasons why parents need to educate themselves about this. Finding healthy alternatives to animal products is great way to keep children happy and introduce them to new things. It is not too late to start a new path of healthy living for the whole family. Cutting out animal products completely is not the only way to help make an impact. A complete overhaul of a diet is not what needs to happen here. Even reducing the amount of consumption can help tremendously. The demand of meat is what is driving the plow through the forests and destroying acres every day. By buying less meat, the demand will go down but it cannot be done alone. Though it would be ideal that if one person was against deforestation for agriculture that it Mancuso 4 could be stopped, but this is not the case. It takes a lot more people to be heard and by educating others on the dangers of animal products, and even suggesting the many healthy substitutes can round up a crowd loud enough to make an impact. If the demand goes down, industries will have no reason to keep making room for cattle grazing and destroy the environment in the process. Contacting local governments on what they are doing to regulate this deforestation process is a way to get the ball rolling. There are many large organizations that can be supported through donations like Vegan Outreach and The Vegan Society that will work for this cause. Protests, petitions and just changing up the diet can make a difference. If people start consuming less animal product, their health will increase dramatically, the risk of heart disease will go down and many more animals can live a happy life. Animal product free recipes are all over the internet and easily accessible. Not only would changing up diet be a great way to try new things but it might even be better than what their diet consists of now. Healthy alternatives include soymilk, tofu, nuts, beans, the list goes on. As this diet becomes more and more common, more and more recipes will surface. Traditions like meatless Monday have already made it to many families across the world making small impacts individually but huge impacts as a whole. Children are the future of the world. It is important to show them how to be good human beings and make good choices not only with themselves in mind but with the world in mind as well. It is also important that the world they will grow up to live in is not falling apart around them. To ensure this, humans need to feed their children not what the cavemen had fed their children, but what they now know is right to feed them. Though humans have been eating meat for years, it is now known it is taking a toll on the health of humanity. Something needs to be done, but it be unless people know about it. Spreading the word about the dangers of animal products can help make the world a better place for every single living being on Earth. Mancuso 5 Word Count:1385 Mancuso 6 Works Cited A Leading Cause of Everything: One Industry That Is Destroying Our Planet and Our Ability to Thrive on  Student Journals. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. <https://journals.law.stanford.edu/stanford- environmental-law-journal-elj/blog/leading- cause-everything-one-industry-destroying-our- planet-and-our-ability-thrive-it>. Animal Products Are Linked to Heart  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. <http://www.peta.org/issues/animals-used-for-food/heart-disease/>. Genkinger, Jeanine M., and Anita Koushik. Meat Consumption and Cancer  PLoS Medicine. Public Library of Science, Dec. 2007. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2121650/>. How Animal Products Affect  Vivahealth.org.uk. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. Publications, Harvard Health. Cutting red meat-for a longer  Harvard Health. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. <http://www.health.harvard.edu/staying-healthy/cutting-red-meat- for-a-longer- life>. 35 Mind-Shattering Facts Linking Factory Farming to Climate  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. <http://www.peta.org/features/meat-climate-change/>.