Crane 1 Shara Crane Bianca Hernandez English Comp II 15 April 2017 Natural Energy: A Better Choice Since the spark of the industrial revolution, gas and electric power have remained the topic of significant environmental and economic debates. Natural energy practices in electric power production will reduce the stress that is put on the environment, atmosphere, and wildlife while still producing and providing enough energy for our present day fast-pace industry. Stabilization of the economy can be met due to the cheaper methods of natural electricity production. The electric power sector accounted for 32% of U.S. total greenhouse gas emissions in 2012. Greenhouse gas emissions from electricity have increased by about 11% since 1990 as electricity demand has grown and fossil fuels have remained the dominant source for generation Learn About Carbon Pollution From Power The drilling and extraction of natural gas from wells and its transportation in pipelines results in the leakage of methane, primary component of natural gas that is 34 times stronger than CO2 at trapping heat over a 100-year period and 86 times stronger over 20 years Environmental Impacts of Natural ). If carbon dioxide continues to increase at the rate from the provided data, the atmosphere will smother in heat and cause global warming. This rise in global temperature melts glaciers which causes sea levels to rise at an alarming rate. Flooding is becoming more common with time among coastal Crane 2 climates costing hundreds of people their lives annually. The damage that occurs in the event of a flood costs millions of dollars to repair. This leaves governments in debt which can ultimately cripple the economy. Mudslides are also likely to occur because of flooding. When heat begins to circulate in the atmosphere it meets preexisting cold fronts. This combination can cause all kinds of deadly storms. Landslides are a deadly result of melting ice in the event of a steep incline in temperature in snowy areas. Generally, safe to conclude that global warming is a force to be reckoned with. If industry is a leading contribution to this effect, there are ways that humans can counteract its severity through a change in energy production. If nonrenewable energy can be replaced by natural energy, carbon emissions will minimize. In this case, global warming will be stopped by the decrease of pollution in the atmosphere, thus decreasing deaths rates. Another main concern that stems from environmental health is the safety of upcoming generations who are at the mercy of a dying planet. Those who value family would want to see their children live long, happy lives without fear of wrath. One direct way that carbon emission is killing our loved ones is through smog. Smog is a combination of smoky pollutants and fog; It rises and falls over cities and poisons its inhabitants. The most famous case of the worst smog conditions is Beijing, China. The residents of Beijing live in constant fear for their health every time they have to leave their homes. air pollution contributes to the deaths of an estimated 1.6 million people in China every year, or about 4,400 people a (Levin, Dan). This situation was caused by consistently growing industry. In contrast, there are other locations across the globe that polluted by carbon-emitting industry. These locations have significantly lower death rates, all of which have little to nothing to do with the direct toxicity of the atmosphere. Anyone, whether they are animal lovers or not, should care about the lives of our neighboring organisms. Almost all polar animals are in danger from the melting of their habitats. Arctic animals from polar bears to penguins fight for survival while their homes disappear right from under them. Crane 3 Animals the only organisms in danger: plants and coral reefs able to evolve along with their evolving habitats. The oceans absorb carbon dioxide from the atmosphere while turning it to rock along the sea floors. The increase in carbon dioxide in the air has overloaded the oceans with these deposits making sea water acidic and uninhabitable for all sea life. These plants and animals are detrimental to the survival of the food web. If our planet continues at this dying rate, all living things, including humans, will be in danger of extinction. The costs of extraction of nonrenewable energy and its use is significantly growing over time. the U.S. is spending approximately $1.5 to $1.75 BILLION PER DAY on imported oil this is a huge drain on our (Pardon Our Interruption). This trend is only recorded for the U.S. alone. Can you imagine the impact that these costs have on the rest of the world? This money could be spent on more important things such as saving the planet and all of its inhabitants. What would be the point of putting all money and effort into using this energy if humanity be alive long enough to use it? A common misconception in society today is that there are only two sides of the energy debate: nonrenewable energy extraction or nonrenewable-fueled electricity power plants. There is another side to this debate that seems to shine brighter than the others and natural energy production. The healthier alternatives for the environment, the economy, and the population are the three primary sources of natural energy: solar panels, wind turbines, and hydroelectricity. Sunlight is one of the most available resources on the planet. Solar panels are used to capture, store, and utilize energy from the sun. struck by the photons in sunlight, the solar cell generates an electrical charge due to the photovoltaic How do solar panels ). Wind is another resource that is almost always available across the globe. Wind turbines also capture, store, and utilize energy, but from wind power. wind turns the blades, which spin a shaft, which connects to a Crane 4 generator and makes How Do Wind Turbines ). Through these practices, harmful pollutants be released into the atmosphere in production of electricity. But, these alternatives have other positive effects as well, such as an increase in savings on electricity bills and/or the cost of energy production. In using wind turbines, May 2012 study by Synapse Energy Economics found that adding wind energy in the U.S. Midwest would save consumers between $65 and $200 per (Vinson and Goggin). As for the use of solar panels, electricity savings from solar can be significant, ranging from the low end of $7k to upwards of (Richardson, Luke). Whether these practices are used for businesses, industry, or for a home, the benefits for both are substantial. Water is the third most available resource on the planet. Hydroelectricity is the most commonly used form of renewable energy due to the availability of its resources and its cheap production. Energy can be harnessed using Hydroelectricity and water movement. uses flowing water to spin a turbine connected to a generator that produces electricity...all the water is returned to the river after Dams used for electricity generation are also used to store irrigation and clean drinkable water. Given that fresh water availability is a main concern given the booming population, the multipurpose nature of hydroelectricity can not only save the environment but its population too. Hydroelectricity is accountable for 97% of all energy produced by renewable resources. the U.S., hydropower is produced for an average of 0.85 cents per kilowatt-hour (kwh). This is about 50% the cost of nuclear, 40% the cost of fossil fuel, and 25% the cost of using natural (Facts About Hydropower). If most of the world seems to already be using hydroelectricity as a main source of energy, this transition for the other countries should be nearly effortless and worthwhile. To make an impact, the industry of energy production must change its practices to natural energy. It will cost money to acquire resources necessary for building natural energy equipment, but money will be saved with the use of this practices in the long run. The economy will benefit Crane 5 from these increasing savings. With time, it will grow stronger than ever before. The money that is saved from producing renewable energy can be used for projects that can go towards cleaning the environment and studies to pull carbon dioxide from the air as well as from the ocean, decreasing its acidity. Ways that anyone else can help would be to buy electric cars and/or install solar panels for his/her home. Also, it would help to spread the word and educate the public about global warming: what it is, how caused, and how it can be stopped. Anyone can have a positive effect on our planet with a little effort. This is about own life, their loved ones, their animal and plant neighbors, and the life of the planet that nurtured and provided shelter to each and every one of them. time to give back. Crane 6 Works Cited: Environmental Impacts of Natural  Union of Concerned Scientists. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Facts About Hydropower. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 May 2017. How do solar panels  How do solar panels work? N.p., n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. <https://joinmosaic.com/how-do-solar-panels-work>. How Do Wind Turbines  How Do Wind Turbines Work? Department of Energy. N.p., n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. <https://energy.gov/eere/wind/how-do-wind turbines-work>.  Clean Energy Council. N.p., n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. <https://www.cleanenergycouncil.org.au/technologies/hydroelectricity.html>. Learn About Carbon Pollution From Power  EPA. Environmental Protection Agency, 27 July 2016. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Levin, Dan. Study Links Polluted Air in China to 1.6 Million Deaths a  The New York Times. The New York Times, 13 Aug. 2015. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Pardon Our Interruption. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 May 2017. Richardson, Luke. How Much Money Can Solar Save You in  EnergySage. N.p., 24 Apr. 2017. Web. 01 May 2017. Tom Vinson and Michael Goggin, American Wind Energy Association. Wind power saving consumers  TheHill. N.p., 03 Feb. 2016. Web. 01 May 2017.