Pena Castro 1 Daniela Castro Composition II Intermediate draft 30 April, 2017 Best if used Every day food wasting around the world becomes more and more of a growing issue. In fact, according to the Food and Agricultural Organization of the United Nations (FAO) everyday more than six thousand tons of food get thrown away by consumers in first world countries (Save food, 2016). Alarming statistics such as the previously presented could go on and on for hours. For this reason, multiple institutions and organizations have joined the cycle of change by getting involved and developing programs, tips, and small changes that can be integrated to life to achieve a sustainable life. However, as many other growing issues in the world the solution relies on each one of us, and what we decide to do to generate the changes we want to see. Food wasting, as all the big issues concerning the world right now, is something that started long ago, and that has been exponentially growing due to a general lack of interest on it. Most of the time when people think about major global problems we rarely relate them to our daily life. More than that we tend to think that its someone problem, and that even if we do something, we are just one person compared to millions and our contribution change anything. However, none of these misconceptions are even close to reality. In fact, in the US every individual will waste around 290 pounds of food every year, according to the research study revealed by the NRDC on 2012 related to food waste in America. Those 290 pounds per individual, will accumulate into more than 2,500 dollars that an average family of four is literally Pena Castro 2 throwing away just in food every year; reveled the FAO on 2014. Now picture what will happen if ten people reduce by half the amount of food they are wasting every year, that will represent more than 1400 pounds less of food waste. According to the Hunger and Poverty facts and statistics of Feeding America in 2015 more than 55 million people in the US live with food insecurity. However, America produces enough food to feed more than 500 million people. Looking at these statistics, the numbers do not make sense, how is it possible that food for 150 million more people than the total population of the country is produced and still 55 million people that receiving a constant nor safe amount of food every day. And one of the reasons for these unreasonable statistics is food wasting, America has one of the highest percentages of food waste in the world, with over 40% of its total produced getting thrown away. In others words, in the United States more food is going to the bin than to the plates of food insecure families. This means that 13 million kids are food deprived in the US, while we throw away enough food to feed more than ten times that population (Action against hunger, 2016). According to Sustainable statistics, that 40% of food wasted also represents 32% of the US fresh water reserve being used for food that is never going to be consumed. Also, it exceeds the amount of food necessary to feed the whole state of Texas or more than 25 million people. Nothing has ever changed by just looking at it, if a change is intended one must act. Organizations such as the National Resources Defense Council (NRDC), have started multiple programs and initiatives, in order to fulfill their main goal the people, its plants and animals, and the natural systems on which all life since 1970 (4). Yet, these initiatives and its impact depend exclusively on the number of people that decides to get Pena Castro 3 involved with them. For this reason, more and more alarming numbers and statistics have become available to the public in the last decade. In fact, some of them have even been integrated to advertising campaigns and social media. The one and only purpose of this initiatives is the same as else; raise awareness, keep the community informed, persuading others to start the change, donate, volunteer, just join the cycle of change. Organization such as Food Shift and Stop Food waste, recognize that every individual wastes food for different reasons and in different ways. Also, they understand that not everyone is able to commit the same amount of time for the cause. For these reasons, they have developed multiple options and strategies, designed to adapt to a variety of lifestyles and leave no space for excuses to avoid getting involved. For example, the best way to get involved is to re-evaluate the amount of food we are buying compare to the amount of food we actually consume. Also, considering including safe non-perfect looking fruits or vegetables in our grocery shopping list may help to shift the cycle of waste in which we are currently into. Also, if you are not ready to start changing your lifestyle and the way you eat, you can always start by donating to non-profit organizations that support sustainability projects. Funds are always necessary for this causes, but so are the volunteers that make those initiatives a reality. Learning about organizations supporting sustainability around your area, may give you the chance to contribute to the change cycle while connecting yourself with your community and creating a sense of ownership about your projects and community. On the other side, if you prefer to start taking action in your own life to make the change, the key words are a game reveled the Food Shift initiative. They have created a Shift pledge, which represents a compromise for every individual that signs it, to select and apply various strategies designed to save money and food in different areas of your life. These initiatives could also extend to small businesses trying to integrate Pena Castro 4 sustainability to their growing market, for this niche the NRDC has developed workshops and sponsorship programs that teach innovators and entrepreneurs how to successfully include food, water and energy saving initiatives into their businesses while making it economically successful. Overall, food wasting is a problem that has been growing exponentially over the past few decades, getting ahead of us while we chose to think it was not our responsibility to do anything about it. Now, many alarming statistics on the topic have been reached, people have started to realize that this is a problem that concerns every one of us, and that is in fact in our acts the solution and the change. For those committed to reduce our food wasting while saving money and supporting sustainability, organizations such as the Food Shift, the NRDC, Stop food waste, etc. have developed strategies and provided options such as donations, volunteer opportunities and pledges for everyone to get involved with in a variety of different ways. So independently of how do you want to start, your contribution does make a difference. Pena Castro 5 Works Cited ACF. Hunger  Action Against Hunger. BBB , Apr. 2016. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Berkenkam, JoAnne.  NRDC. N.p, 21 Aug. 2012. Web. 25 Jan. 2017https://www.nrdc.org/issues/food-waste FAO. SAVE FOOD: Global Initiative on Food Loss and Waste  Food and Agricultural Organization of the United Nations. N.p, 09 June 2016. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. FAO. Technical Platform on the Measurement and Reduction of Food Loss and  Food and Agricultural of the United Nations. N.p., 17 Aug. 2014. Web. 06 Feb. 2017. Rogers, Nicole. A NEW NRDC REPORT SHOWS THAT AMERICA WASTES 40% OF ITS  Sustainable America. N.p., 1 Oct. 2012. Web. 10 Apr. 2017. Reduce your  Food Shift. Earth Island Institute, 25 May 2014. Web. 10 Apr. 2017.