Mack 1 Professor Ricketts ENC 1101 30 April 2017 Socioeconomic Status & How It Affects Success of Teens An important discussion in America today involves the correlation between economic status and success. It is undoubtedly true that in America there is a huge gap between the rich and the poor. With that being said, how does socioeconomic status affect the success in teens? Socioeconomic status affects the success of teens in a major way. It has remained true by researchers that income plays a role, but some would argue that this role is insignificant and does not necessarily impact the success of teens. The problem with this argument is that the seriousness of the role that income plays is being minimized, when it should be taken very serious, considering the wealth distribution gap, this is a big issue in America. There are many people who could be affected by the role income plays in success and subjective well-being. Historically, people with higher economic statuses tend to live a healthier and more luxurious lifestyle than poorer people or people with lower economic statuses than them. They also live in safer environments and avoid more risky behavior than their counterparts. This is because impoverished neighborhoods and bad environments have been found to invite deviant or risky behaviors. Schools in wealthier neighborhoods also tend to have better textbooks and materials, so it is possible that they are receiving much better education than their counterparts. This would give them a better opportunity to get into college and be successful than the less fortunate. Effectively, and systematically making it more difficult for the poorer people to escape the lower class. Mack 2 According to the U.S. Department of Education, an analysis of data on 2008-09 school- level expenditures shows that many schools in impoverished areas receive less than their fair share of the state and local funding, which leaves many students in low income area schools with fewer resources than their wealthier counterparts. (U.S. Department of Education) This piece of evidence suggests that socioeconomic status plays a role in the quality of education a student receives. The underlying factor of socioeconomic status playing a role in education could put teens living in impoverished areas at a huge disadvantage. Another underlying factor of socioeconomic status that researchers have found to play an important role in the success of teens is neighborhood structure. In 2003, Charis Kubrin and Ronald Weitzer wrote Directions in Social Disorganization In this scholarly journal, the authors discuss how poverty increases the likelihood of crime and delinquency because of the bad environment that poverty creates. The theme throughout this conversation is that neighborhood ecological conditions shape and influence crime rates. This could be a huge underlying factor that puts poorer teens at a disadvantage to being successful as their counterparts. According to Vicky Cattell, who is an honorary senior lecturer at Queen Mary, University of London the factors of exclusion, enjoyment of life, and perception of inequality, can be Income plays a huge role in health and it has been found by researchers that wealthier people have access to more resources than poorer people. This is a factor that can contribute to depression, high blood pressure, and all types of other diseases and disorders in poorer people. For instance, wealthier people tend to eat healthier and organic foods. This is because, from a demographic standpoint, there are more supermarkets in richer neighborhoods than there are in poorer. In contrast, when you analyze the food selection in poor Mack 3 neighborhoods, there are much more fast food restaurants in impoverished areas than in wealthy neighborhoods. Not only are food selections unproportionately dispersed, but to make matters worse, poor people are generally less educated on healthy dieting. This means that lower class people are at a huge disadvantage when it comes to eating organic, healthier foods and maintaining a healthy lifestyle. Not only is there a disparity in food selection, but on average, richer people receive better healthcare. They can afford better insurance and have more options when it comes to expensive operations, medicine, and personal doctors. The combination of these factors show that income plays a role in the success of a person, and that this role is significant. In conclusion, socioeconomic status plays a very important roles in the success of teens. This is a major problem because there is a huge gap between the rich and the poor when talking about wealth distribution in America. Factors that researchers have found income to play key roles in are education, neighborhood structures, and health. Education is arguably one of the most important keys of success, and with that being said, teens living in poverty are at an alarming disadvantage. When analyzing the quality of education and access to resources, income affects teens directly. Teens that attend schools in wealthier neighborhoods tend to graduate at a much higher rate than kids going to school in poor neighborhoods, and this is most likely a direct result of socioeconomic status. The same is found when analyzing the characteristics of different neighborhoods and how they affect crime rates. Poor neighborhoods have been found to have high crime, which is a factor teens growing up in wealthier neighborhoods will most likely never have to experience. This is important becauses a teen who grows up in an impoverished neighborhood, can avoid deviate behaviour and get good grades, but always have that risk of being in the wrong place at the wrong time because of an unsafe environment. I think the best Mack 4 way to fix this issue is to start by renovating and properly supplying schools in poorer neighborhoods. By starting with education and fixing the way poorer neighborhoods are structured, I think the effects of income can become suppressed a little but there needs to be more research to figure out the most effective way to structure a neighborhood to prevent high crime and violence. Works Cited Berliner, David C. Our Impoverished View of Educational  Teachers College Record Mack 5 Vol.108, No.6, 2006, pp.949--995. Web. 4 Feb. 2017. Kubrin, Charis E., and Ronald Weitzer. New Directions in Social Disorganization  Journal of Research in Crime and Delinquency Vol.40.No.4 (2003): Pp.374--402. Web. 4 Feb. 2017. Lombe, Margaret, Von Eugene Nebbitt, Aakanksha Sinha, and Andrew Reynolds. Examining Effects of Food Insecurity and Food Choices on Health Outcomes in Households in  Social Work in Health Care Vol.55, No.6, 2016, pp. 440-60. Web. 4 Feb. 2017. More Than 40% of Low-Income Schools Get a Fair Share of State and Local Funds, Department of Education Research  U.S. Department of Education. N.p., 30 Nov. 2011. Web. 08 Apr. 2017. Tavernise, Sabrina. Gap Grows Between Rich and Poor, Studies (2012).