Alvarez 1 Luis A. Alvarez Dr. Oana Cimpean ENC 1102 28 April 2017 Government Surveillance Anywhere is Government Overreach Everywhere Leaks of classified U.S. government documents rewrote the understanding of the American intelligence apparatus. Policymakers, whistleblowers, activists, and writers are working on the cutting edge of the digital revolution, where a battle is being fought over who will control most decisive tool of the 21st (Foreign Policy 65). They represent those seeking to harness the web in the name of national security, those working to bring it under the letter of the law, and those hoping to liberate it in the name of human freedom (Foreign Policy 65). Disclosures of the intelligence operations of the National Security Agency (NSA) have increasingly been saturated in controversy in revealing the scope of U.S. electronic surveillance--a situation that shows no signs of abating. Two vocal stakeholders in this debate are the NSA and the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU). These two key contenders share the common ground of upholding the U.S. protections of free speech and the freedom of the press (About the ACLU, About the NSA). In fact, the First Amendment limits government efforts to free speech, freedom of the press, and the right to peaceful (Congressional Digest 2). The Fourth Amendment grants the to the people to be secure in their persons, houses, papers, and Alvarez 2 effects, against unreasonable searches and until a warrant allows a physical search of a house or the listening of phone conversations, for example. (Congressional Digest 2). Americans affirm in the U.S., they exercise their constitutional rights at their discretion. They place much (unrequited) faith on the government to safeguard their freedoms. The government and the national security organizations comprising the security apparatus maintain in order to guard these protections, the security apparatus know as much as possible about as many people as (Vollman 70). Even the most patriot can believe the activities are usually performed not with the American best interests at heart, investigations can be woefully erroneous, and the government can lie. The Terrorist Screening Database, or the Watchlist, is used by U.S. intelligence agencies to nominate people as known or suspected terrorists. Over the past fifteen years, the list has from a few thousand to more than a million (Scahill 2017). But the most troubling fact is that leaks revealed 40% of names on the list have no established ties to recognized terrorist (Scahill 2017). So why are people on the list? The example discussed infra reveals one does not have to be a shadowy miscreant or a swarthy individual with an unpronounceable name to be included in the Watchlist. In 2002, Maher Arar, a Syrian-born Canadian citizen was interrogated extensively by FBI (Federal Bureau of Investigation) officials at JFK Airport when returning home from a family vacation in Tunisia (Scahill 2017). He was accused of being an Al Qaeda member and was refused access to the evidence behind his incrimination. The agents prohibited Arar from invoking his Sixth Amendment right to a lawyer. Then, the U.S. government sent him to Syria where he was imprisoned and tortured for ten months. A Canadian investigation determined Alvarez 3 was completely innocent and the mistake was based on faulty (Scahill 2017). Nearly twenty years ago, thanks to a request made under the Patriot Act following the terrorist attacks of 9/11, the Bush Administration gave the security apparatus permission to record phone calls and wiretap so-called  of the President (ACLU 2002). An is anyone who criticizes the President. To illustrate, the Bush Administration sought to ruin former Time reporter Matt Cooper and former US diplomat Joseph Wilson--professionally and personally--because dared to voice [through the press belief intelligence on Iraq [negotiating with Niger in hopes of building a nuclear was being (Andrew 2005). Cooper was guaranteed eighteen months in prison if he kept his sources classified. He was commuted of his sentence for testifying. To destroy former US diplomat Joseph Wilson after his July 6, 2003 commentary for the New York Times covering the Iraq-Niger affair entitled I Find in they also leaked the identity of his wife former CIA operative Valerie Plame, whose career abruptly ended (Cooper, Calabresi, and Dickerson 2003). However, illegal surveillance on innocent Americans dates further back. Despite popular support for championing civil liberties of marginalized communities, the government [wiretapped the phone calls of Dr. Martin Luther King in the name of national (ACLU 2002). Dr. King regarded the government greatest purveyor of violence [and in the for waging wars for profit and for disenfranchising the rights of thousands of law abiding Americans (Scott-Baumann and Stacey 2013). Consequently, his rhetoric antagonized President Lyndon B. Johnson and Congress therefore rendering him an  of the President (Scott-Baumann and Stacey 2013). Moreover, the 1974 Privacy Act Alvarez 4 passed to prohibit the constitutional abuses uncovered by the government, prevents agencies from collecting information on how Americans exercise their First (Vollmann 70). However, this restriction is not absolute; it allows the recording of such information if it is pertinent to and within the scope of an authorized law enforcement  (Vollmann 70). It is a readily abused loophole if the rights guaranteed by the First  are exercised by those considered to think  or write  the wrong people (Vollmann 70). Why should the audience of young college educated law abiding Americans care? Is it unconstitutional and therefore unethical to encroach on the privacy of others. As the government considers young adults more rebellious than their elders, they are even more vulnerable to illegal electronic surveillance. College students are usually anti-authoritarian for their mistrust in public servants and of the government and would fervently protest in defiance of the callous nature toward the civil liberties of prudent Americans. To illustrate, young American civil libertarian supporters of former NSA contractor Edward Snowden launched an online campaign to President Barack Obama to pardon (Matthew 2016). In 2013, Snowden leaked details of various surreptitious government surveillance programs (Foreign Policy 65). The campaign was a reaction to the Obama witch-hunt toward whistleblowers and its malicious stance towards actions (Matthew 2016). Although there is exploitation in the that [Americans cannot fully exercise their First Amendment due to government it is arguable that college students not being coerced into doing but are increasingly demanding protection from words and ideas they do not like in the name of emotional well-being (Ritzer 69). Most college students do not see themselves being controlled and exploited and would vehemently reject [that Alvarez 5 (Ritzer 69). Most college students seem willing to surrender some of their constitutional protections to maintain order and purge colleges and universities of uncomfortable ideas. Furthermore, rather than having their First Amendment protections controlled by people such as functionaries and directors of national security organizations, it may be that it is college students who are in control. It is the audience who [order and protection from and those demands must be met if [the national security apparatus is to (Ritzer 69). It may be reasonable to claim that college students are forcing national security organizations into a reckless and potentially destructive war to see which agency can be the most responsive to eliminate disconcerting ideas from class discussions at the cost of their civil liberties. A movement is arising, undirected and driven largely by students, to rid campuses of words, ideas, and subjects that cause discomfort or resentment. This new climate is slowly being institutionalized, and is affecting what is expressed in classrooms, even as a basis for discussion. The president of the Foundation for Individual Rights in Education, Greg Lukianoff, describes this tendency as vindictive protectiveness (Lukianoff and Haidt 2015). Vindictive protectiveness, however, indoctrinates students poorly for professional life, which often requires collaboration with people and ideas incongruent with their personal system of beliefs (Lukianoff and Haidt 2015). A campus climate bent on policing speech and castigating is likely to thought patterns surprisingly similar to those long identified by cognitive behavioral therapists as causes of depression and anxiety (Lukianoff and Haidt 2015). Lukianoff recognizes this protectiveness may be engendering students to think pathologically. This propensity to defend oneself ideologically is very Alvarez 6 detrimental for any democracy. As each camp demonizes the other, compromise becomes more challenging due to a polarization of beliefs. Conversely, on campus and in the classroom, many young adults are realizing universities do not adequately support open discussions, debates, and protests addressing socially significant, controversial, and sensitive issues. They feel censored, either by the university or even by their own decision, due to standards of Although the of information on law abiding Americans promises to maintain it often backfires, their comfort with discussions of a controversial nature and their free (Berman 124). By suppressing free speech, colleges and universities and, by extension, the government, civic engagement among young voters at a time when debates over [privacy and should make young people pay more attention, not (Lukianoff 2012). Students cannot learn how to navigate democracy and engage with others if they are forced to think twice before they speak. College students can call the White House at 202-456-1414 to tell the administration to stop illegally spying on Americans (ACLU 2002). They can join or donate to the ACLU in the fight against unlawful government infringement of civil liberties.The audience can spread the word by following and @stopwatchingus. By engaging the audience with social media, they are empowered about how they can cause civic change with the power of their Twitter account. Alvarez 7 Works Cited the The ACLU. The American Civil Liberties Union. January 2017. Web. 21 January 2017. the The NSA. The National Security Agency. 5 April 2015. Web. 21 January 2017. American Civil Liberties Union. Years Ago, Wiretapping of Innocent Americans Was an Abuse of Government Power. It Still 9 March 2002 via Google Images. Creative Commons Attribution (CC BY 2.0). Web. 20 February Berman, Emily. Domestic Intelligence and Lee Law Volume 71. Issue 1. Winter 2014. 3. Web. 24 January 2016. Cooper, Matthew, Massimo Calabresi, and John F. Dickerson. War on 17 July 2003. Web. 20 April 2017. Surveillance Volume 94. Issue 10. December 2015. 2-32. Web. 20 April 2017. Lukianoff, Greg. Free Speech on New York 24 October 2012. The New York Times Web. 9 January 2016. Lukianoff, Greg and Jonathan Haidt. Coddling of the American 4 September 2015. Atlantic Web. 9 January 2016. Matthew, Karen. Silencing Whistleblowers Imperils 14 November 2016. Press Web. 20 April 2017. Ritzer, George. the Means of Consumption: Enchanting A Disenchanted Pine Forge Press. Second Edition. 2005. 1-70. Print. Alvarez 8 Scahill, Jeremy. on the Explorer. Uploaded by National Geographic. 13 March 2017. Explorer. Web. 20 April 2017. Stacey, Mark and Michael Scott-Baumann. for the IB Diploma: Civil Rights and Social Movements in the Cambridge University Press. 2013. 107-124. Print. Stephen, Andrew. The Bush Administration, like of that Richard Nixon, sees enemies everywhere. And it goes after them in the same sinister and unscrupulous Statesman, Volume 134. Issue 4719. 1 January 2005. Resource 66. Web. 20 April 2017. Surveillance State and its Foreign Policy. Issue 203. December 2013. 64-67. Print. Vollmann, William T. of Loving Foreign Policy. Issue 203. December 2013. 68-71. Print.