Patel 1 Jeet Patel Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 14 April 2017 Should College Athletes Be Paid? College sports are important to wide range of people it has a different effect on different individuals. There are two variables that underlie college sports and those are the fans that support the sport and the student athletes that part take in the sport. College sports are overlooked by the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) which is a nonprofit organization. One of the rules the NCAA has made is that no student athletes be bribed with money and the student athlete must not accept any money or valuables from anyone. This seems to fair for the most part because student athletes most of the time get scholarships that cover their education, books and housing for the four years they are in college. But there is a big problem that gets overlooked in this topic is that the student athlete that take part in sports mostly come from low-income families. The student athlete desires to go to college and their main goal is to make it to the pros so they can support his/her family. But little does the society know that the college to pro transition is bad and this leaves the student athletes with nothing after their four years expect a bachelor degree. In jobs economy, a bachelor degree is considered under qualified for most jobs. And according to the National College Players Association(NCPA) whose goals to benefit the student athletes by being an advocate for things like paying student athletes, increase graduation rate, and any issues that an athlete has. The student athletes need more voices for them and that is going to come from people who interested in college Patel 2 sports because if they became a voice for the athletes then this movement for students athletes getting paid would be stronger and the NCAA would will have to double think on their bylaws because now people care about student athletes even though they are not interested in sports but they only care about the treatment of athletes. To make a movement successful there needs to be people that come from both sides of the topic. So, in college sports there are passionate sports people and there are people who care or even care about. In the topic of paying student athletes the people who care about sports is important because they make up the other half of the voices. If people who care sports were to be educated on the topic about paying student athletes their opinions could change and for a moment as big as this it is important to have their voices be considered for the athletes because now when it does come down to the NCAA changing the rule on paying student athletes there are people from both sides of the argument which can be used against the NCAA to allow paying student athletes. would pay athletes because when President Theodore Roosevelt helped create the NCAA in 1906, he had no idea what it would grow into. At first, it was a great place to watch athletes play sports while making sure the rules were being followed. But now in the 21st century, the NCAA is a billion-dollar is the way always scared to make amendments, even when (Hartnett). Basically, if the athletes had the support from lovers of college sports and the who care about the sports but they care about the ashes then it would make changing the rule much easier since there are many people now supporting the paying of the athletes. The NCAA has many kinds of schools, sports and athletes it has to regulate because NCAA comprises over one thousand colleges and universities that host 19,000 teams competing in twenty-four different sports. Its 460,000 athletes are divided into three divisions that align Patel 3 like-minded schools and increase (Silverstein). This means a lot of scholarship that are being given to all those athletes, but many do not realize that some universities have the enough money to fully pay for everything for the athlete so some money has to come out of pocket. Many athletes are coming from low income families and paying out of pocket is hard for them because their family already does not make enough to put food on the table and now they have pay for a kid in college. This problem could be solved by the student athlete getting a job but the NCAA does not allow a student athlete to get a job for whatever reason. So, there are some cases where the student athlete gets money under the table from the university and or the coaches so they can make it through college. But once the NCAA finds out about that the NCAA comes down on full force on all the individuals that were part of the so-called crime; the person who gets hurt the most from this is the student athlete because he could get his/her scholarship taken away, teammates lose respect, and he/she become a center of attention by society. To prevent the athlete from paying out of pocket and getting in trouble from the NCAA for taking money from any University or companies. The NCAA is stated to be a nonprofit organization in which all the money that is generated from college sports come ticket sales, TV networks, investments, championship games, and others. This money is regulated by the NCAA and the biggest revenue source is the broadcast networks that have the rights to broadcast the college sports. 2011-12, the most recent year for which audited numbers are available. NCAA revenue was $871.6 million, most of which came from the rights agreement with Turner/CBS (NCAA). As presented from the NCAA that most of the money that is being made is coming from a broadcast network which is CBS, the money that is being generated is no small figure. The NCPA believes that there should be a law that allows to use that money Patel 4 generated from the broadcast networks to give to student athletes that pay out of pocket. Another way a college athlete can be paid is by letting them get a job or allowing endorsement deals which but both of these are considered braking the rules to the NCAA so the NCAA would need to change their bylaws allowing only certain type of athletes who come from low income family that pay for school to be allowed the opportunity for an job and endorsement deal. Another problem that comes into factor is that the graduation rates of student athletes are dropping due to the fact that they get paid for playing and some athletes already understand that they will not make it to the pros. The college to pro rate is not good at all because the NCAA has done research and shows that 80% of all of the college athletes will not make It to the pros (NCAA). This causes the student athlete from graduation because they know they make It to the pros and they do not have the money to stay in school. 45% and 52% of football and basketball players do not graduate, while their athletic programs receive 100% of revenues produced by these athletes regardless of their programs graduation (Huma, Staurowsky 5). The authors of price of poverty in Big Time College stated that almost half of the student athletes who played basketball or football in college do make it to their graduation and this is harsh to see because the NCAA makes the money from them playing and the NCAA does nothing about their education. Also, the authors part of the NCPA in which they want the success of student athletes by making sure they graduate college. They also believe that the NCAA should allow student athletes to get a job, endowment deals and get money from the TV networks so that the athletes have the resources to graduate, support their family and advance their studies post college sports so they can become qualified to get jobs. If college athletes were paid there are many positives that come from that; things like increase the in-graduation rate so that the athlete will have the resource to get some kind of job Patel 5 after playing college sports. Another thing that is positively correlated to paying college athletes is that the student athlete can support themselves through college and also support their families who are desperately in need and also could save money to go to graduate school so that they can pursue a career of their choice. The NCPA is also an advocate of the players because they believe in the success of the student athlete and they believe that paying the student athlete ultimately is good for the society as a whole. Right now the NCPA is working on getting legislations passed so that college athletes can be paid and they need more people to join their movement by being another voice for the student athletes. Patel 6 References: Estimated Probability of Competing in Professional NCAA.org - The Official Site of the NCAA. N.p., 13 Mar. 2017. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.  NCAA.org - The Official Site of the NCAA. N.p., 22 Nov. 2013. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Hartnett, Tyson. Why College Athletes Should Be  The Huffington Post. TheHuffingtonPost.com, 21 Oct. 2013. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. Huma, Ramogi, and Ellen J. Staurowsky. The Price of Poverty In Big Time College  Http://www.ncpanow.org. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017 Silverstein, Yisroel, CLC. National Collegiate Athletic Association  Salem Press Encyclopedia, January. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ers&AN= 87996104&site=eds-live. Patel 7