Student 1 Student Instructor Lewis ENC 1102 30 April 2017 Join the Fight to Help Others Recover from Mental Illnesses Imagine living life either through a filtered mindset of perpetual hopelessness, emptiness, and anxiousness, or one of hope, joy, and overall upbeat quality of life. The universally ideal choice would be the latter of the two. When it comes to reality, millions of people suffer from intangible and unseen mental illnesses like general anxiety and major depressive disorders. This unfortunately growing epidemic lowers the quality of life of many, including individuals of those whose paths have only just begun. Currently, 40 million adults suffer from an anxiety disorder, and 16 million suffer from least 1 major depressive in the last year (NAMI). Additionally, adults between 18 and 25 are more likely to have than those 50 years and older, and the underlying symptoms of an anxiety disorder develop before the age of 21 Without further action, young adults may continue to live life without their full potential. To compensate for mental illnesses, individuals can practice healthy coping mechanisms such as the use of music and social support systems to enhance their quality of life. Additionally, advocates can act to confront the issue by combining these two recovery mechanisms through social events, designed in hopes to potentially bring a sense of unity and hope, thus creating an overall healthier state of mind and create awareness in the urge to fight and win against mental illnesses. The issue of mental illness is not a new age discovery, and its presence has been around for many centuries; however, former president Harry Truman passed an act which created the Student 2 foundation for mental health organizations today Mental Health Founded in 1979, the National Alliance on Mental Illness, or NAMI, has emerged from a small number of caring individuals to now hundreds of members from across the country, simply by taking the initiative in providing information to help improve the lives of those that battle with mental illnesses. As a major important leader in the issue, the NAMI has shared their voice through several blog posts that encourage the art of music as a way to compensate for psychological disorders and thus provide as a form of treatment. In an excerpt from the post Impact Of Music Therapy On Mental the writer shares that patients of hers shared that even in their darkest hours, music provided as an outlet to express emotions and experience feelings of peace, and (Warren). Additionally, the aspect of lyric analysis, improvisation music playing, active music listening, and songwriting are four major interventions in music therapy that provide as a method of compensation with the psychological effects of mental illnesses (Warren). Although there are many forms of recovery that are costlier than others, it is important to acknowledge the use of music as an easily accessible coping mechanism to encourage individuals to work through negative thoughts and ultimately lower the severity of mental illnesses. There are many factors that are involved in this topic, but the overall message is quite clear to find solutions and practical recovery mechanisms for psychological illnesses, and encourage non-engaged individuals to get involved and support the cause. Writer Nancy Jackson from the article, Therapy and Chronic Mental Illness: Overcoming the Silent states that the underlying and invisible are hidden symptoms of loneliness, isolation, and grief. Through music, traumas can decrease in severity since music offers as a filter for people to be to build relationships, and to re-experience the Student 3 wholeness of their own (Jackson). Music offers as a tool for self-help and connection with others due to the fact that the combination of both results in an empowering and uplifting outcome. The idea of treating and lowering the severity of mental illnesses worldwide seems broad and unrealistic. Although the issue and treatment options around mental illnesses like anxiety and depression seem overwhelming, non-engaged men and woman can reach out to raise awareness to help create a movement that combats the negativity alongside mental illness and instead bring hope toward individuals. Raising mental health awareness is vital in that non- engaged persons are very likely to know someone with a psychological disorder, and having initial support may in return help someone that they know. An idealistic approach to this would include the positive usage of social media to bring together individuals. social media and multimodal resources often use hashtags in order to bring people together towards a certain topic, and making use of this can help raise awareness towards mental illness and recovery on a local or worldwide scale. The art of music plays a major role in bringing both engaged and non- engaged supporters together through a shared interest in music. Incorporating musical artists that are supporters of mental health awareness is idealistic. As a result, the use of social media and mental health awareness hashtags starts the innovative conversation starter among those that struggle with mental illness, and through concerts and music festivals these individuals are brought together to then add a spark of hope and unity in quality of life. Since the National Alliance on Mental Illness provided insight towards music and mental health, the possibility of their support would be beneficial in lowering the severity of young psychological health in the U.S. Their nationwide credibility brings attention to a wider Student 4 audience, and their reputation may result in partnerships with reputable musical artists that support their cause. The aspect of mental illness is constantly debilitating and heartbreaking issue for young adults in society, but with the help of current and future supporters, the combination of raised awareness through social connections and music may lower the overall severity of mental illnesses worldwide, thus enhancing quality of life. Anyone from anywhere can develop a mental health issue, but with knowledge and support from others, one can fight the battle, live a more fulfilled life, and make a change by choosing to take action in joining the campaign to fight against mental illnesses. (Word Count: 1,370) Works Cited Chronister, Julie, Chih-Chin, Chou, Kwong-Liem Karl, Kwan, Melissa, Lawton, and Kurt, Silver. Meaning of Social Support for Persons with Serious Mental Rehabilitation Psychology 60.3 (2015): 232-245. Accessed 3 Mar. 2017. Davis, Lisa, and John, Brekke. Support and Functional Outcome in Severe Mental Illness: The Mediating Role of Proactive Psychiatry Research 215.1 (2014): 39- 45. Accessed 3 Mar. 2017. Student 5 Garred, R. Therapy: A dialogical Music Therapy. N.p., 2006. Accessed 3 Mar. 2017. Gebhardt, Stefan, Markus, Kunkel, and Richard, von Georgi. Role Musical References Play in the Modulation of Emotions for People with Mental The Arts in Psychotherapy 47.1 (2016): 66-71. Accessed 3 Mar. 2017. Grocke, D., S., Bloch, D., Castle, G., Thompson, R., Newton, S., Stewart, and C., Gold. Music Therapy for Severe Mental Illness: A Randomized Embedded-Experimental Mixed Methods Acta Psychiatrica Scandinavica 130.2 (2014): 144-153. Accessed 3 Mar. 2017. Jackson, A. Nancy. Therapy and Chronic Mental Illness: Overcoming the Silent Music Therapy Perspectives 33.2 (2015): 90-96. Accessed 3 Mar. 2017. Moxley, Joe. Home. N.p., n.d. Web. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. Rawls, Natalia. NAMI: National Alliance on Mental Illness. N.p., 29 July 2015. Accessed 22 Jan. 2017. NAMI: National Alliance on Mental Illness. N.p., n.d. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. Psychiatry. Medknow Publications & Media Pvt Ltd, 2014. Accessed 2 Apr. 2017. The American Mental Wellness Association. N.p., n.d. Accessed 3 Mar. 2017. Rawls, Natalia. NAMI: National Alliance on Mental Illness. N.p., 29 July 2015. Accessed 22 Jan. 2017. Student 6 Silverman, J. Michael. of a Live Educational Music Therapy Intervention on Acute Psychiatric Perceived Social Support and Trust in the Therapist: A Four- Group Randomized Effectiveness Journal of Music Therapy 51.3 (2014): 228- 249. Accessed 3 Mar. 2017. Warren, Molly. NAMI: National Alliance on Mental Illness. N.p., 19 Dec. 2016. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. Williams, Charmaine. Social Context of Treatment Coursera. University of Toronto, n.d. Accessed 2 Apr. 2017. For A Brief History of Mental Illness and the U.S. Mental Health Care System. N.p., n.d. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017.