Student 1 Student Instructor Lewis ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Ambitions For Conquering Depression Individuals all travel through life, taking everything one step at a time, capturing every beautiful moment and withstanding the powerful experiences that approach. But for others, these day are nothing but a challenge to complete every day. Dreading the rays warm their face in the morning, and crawling through every task with their head barely above water. Hippocrates BC) described melancholia, otherwise known as major depressive disorder, (1): prolonged despondency, blue moods, detachment, anhedonia, irritability, restlessness, insomnia, aversion to food, diurnal variation, and suicidal impulses (Schwartz 1). Those suffering similarly like what was described above are suffering from depression and numerous victims are simply unaware and oblivious to the various treatments one can endure to distinguish any unhappiness, guilt, insecurities, etc. To address this issue, those concerned with the safety and health of their loved ones can unite and secure this issue by researching diverse resolutions to treat victims, creating a friendly environment for everyone to ensure each individual feels respected and supported, and helping raise awareness to assist in battling this disease. Unfortunately, this tragic phenomenon has been a struggle for centuries. Previously known as the earliest accounts have been apparent for centuries. Its wrath has blossomed worldwide but treatments have taken quite the positive rotation. Between the years of 1945 and 1980, primary-care specialists treated emotional problems based on their Student 2 symptoms, not the actual disorder, and only used the latest sedative in that time period. The available sedative changed from bromides to chloral hydrate to barbiturates to benzodiazepines (Callahan 122). More evolved techniques have risen that are quite riveting in contrast to tactics used in prior decades. Questionnaires such as the Beck Depression Inventory, Hamilton Depression Rating Scale, Zung Self-Rating Depression Scale, and the Center for Edidemiologic Studies Depression Scale are used to identify persons with clinical depression and to document changes with treatment (Oyama). Luckily, tactics have evolved substantially but still require some improvements due to the high depression rates. Psychotherapy, surgeries, counseling, and medications all contribute to tackling depression but yet, why is depression still an ongoing illness if all of these successful remedies are available? With enough assistance from non-engaged stakeholders, treatments can continue to gradually increase and depression rates can drop. Some stakeholders can argue that a significant setback for finding treatments could be insufficient wealth or lack of health insurance. A dispute with non-engaged stakeholders states that the inability to pay any treatments can halt any chances of seeking help to overcome depression. Depending on community and ethnicity, some individuals may not be as privileged to receive health care benefits or acquire a healthy income sufficient for health care professionals. Although these rates are unfortunately quite excessive, the government has proposed a solution to this affair. Our members of Congress have passed legislation in December 2016 called the 21 st Century Cures Act that can alleviate this problem. According to the mission statement, Democrats and Republicans lined up to support the bill, which aimed to modernize and personalize health care, encourage greater innovation, support research, and streamline the (21 st Century Cures). In hopes of success for this new government aid, Student 3 worrying about how to pay for treatment rather than obtaining proper treatment can increase attempts and possibly account for lower depression rates. Although depression is a very popular topic, many stories are not exchanged throughout the world. But one brave soul decided to take a risk and discuss her journey through depression and how she uses it to save lives and connect with others. According to TEDx Talks, Hunter Kent, a senior at Cape Elizabeth High School, spent many of her teen years battling depression. The feeling of isolation submerged her to the point of harming her body to experience any sort of feelings. As the depression worsened, she was transmitted to a 3-week leadership camp with other teenagers. Uniting with one another by sharing personal anecdotes, she came to the realization that she had unfolded the truth and developed trust with her peers. Conquering that barrier changed her fate forever and she currently reaches out to young freshmen about overcoming pressure and judgments. She also assembled an Instagram page that comprises of encouraging quotes and personal incidents of her depression to empathize with any others in similar situations. Understanding the detrimental effects of depression and the significance of battling it and merely listening to others can accommodate in providing opportunities to offer victims the proper reinforcement essential. In the meantime, an institution funded by the people can be arranged for mentally ill patients to undertake in hopes of curing this ailment. A ranch in the beautiful state of Tennessee called Recovery Ranch consists of trained mental health care professionals and personalized care to ensure victims receive the necessary treatments they deserve. They combine evidence-based medications, individual therapy, group therapy and traditional, experiential and alternative approaches to help clients address the issues that fuel depression and also recover from co- occurring disorders and common ways of coping with depression and Student 4 Incorporating these procedures with a group of individuals in alike instances can help enhance trust and stability while establishing companionship. Unfortunately, many victims choose to linger in agony due to the extravagant expenses and distance instead of attempting to surpass it. Concerned individuals can pledge to this notion with any donations or support by contacting the providers of Recovery Ranch With sufficient donations and advertisement from non-engaged stakeholders, this scheme could potentially blossom globally. Moreover, it is vital to exert essential tasks that can assist any loved ones currently stuck in this situation. Depression affects up to 18.8 million American adults in any given one-year period, those of which only twenty-five percent get the help they need (Belvoir 7). Without any effort, millions of people around the world will continue to deteriorate and possibly risk their lives to alleviate their sorrows. In addition to a personalized care institution, stakeholders can provide any close relatives, friends, or coworkers with emotional support and respect to achieve any confidence boosts and trustworthy bonds for anyone suffering from depression. Sometimes the feeling of amity and understanding and merely feeling important and desired is required for improvements in insecurities. If numerous intellects joined together to conduct research in hopes of discovering improved treatments, many theories and ideas can be discussed and intertwined to harness new results. Imagine people uniting and working together to assist in funding mental care institutions and contributing any psychological reassurance; those undergoing this mental disorder could be capable of undertaking these efforts and foreseeing betterment with their depression. To conclude, depression is a prevalent, ongoing mental disorder that should be deciphered in a serious manner. Numerous of depressed individuals are either unaware or entirely anguished to execute any constructive approaches. Comprising successful treatments and Student 5 emotional encouragement demands for an abundance of effort advanced research attempts that may or may not have been conducted, adequate donations and public advertisements to any organizations that support mental disorders, and plentiful respect and patience to others, whether suffering from depression or not. Potentially saving a life of a stranger or loved one would be self-rewarding and could utilize any hardships personally and for the individual. Uniting engaged and non-engaged stakeholders can intensify the notion of furthering endeavors towards treating depression and lowering depression rates perpetually across the world. (WC: 1226) Student 6 Works Cited Callahan, Cristopher. Depression : a History of the Treatment of Depression in Primary Care, 2005. Oxford University Press, Accessed 30 Apr. 2017. Nemade, Rashmi. Understandings Of Mental Help Historical Understandings of Depression Comments, 19 Sept. 2007, www.mentalhelp.net/articles/historical-understandings-of-depression/. Accessed 30 Apr. 2017 Nikhil Nihalani. Treatment Strategies and Depression, 2010, pp. 3. CRC Press, Accessed 30 Apr. 2017. Oyama, Oliver. Jan. 2017. Accessed 30 Apr. 2017. TEDxTalks. Depression: How I Became My Own Hero Hunter Kent YouTube, YouTube, 21 Jan. 2015, www.youtube.com/watch?v=Rv9SwZWVkOs. Accessed 30 Apr. 2017 Vosel, Jeff, editor. Treatment The Ranch, www.recoveryranch.com/treatment-issues/mood-disorders/depression/. Accessed 30 Apr. 2017 Century Cures Act Usfhealthonline.com, USF Health, www.usfhealthonline.com/resources/healthcare/21st-century-cures/. Accessed 30 Apr. 2017 Student 7 10 depression myths debunked: knowing the facts about this mood disorder can help you combat it more  Mind, Mood & Memory, vol. 3, no. 4, 2007, p. 7. Academic OneFile, Accessed 30 Apr. 2017.