Student 1 Student Instructor Lewis ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Restaurants Can Do More Than Just Feed Guests When a guest orders food at a restaurant and they do not like it for some reason, or they cannot finish their meal, it ends up getting thrown away. In response to this problem, Charlebois argues of avoidable food waste is an important environmental issue, particularly in the hospitality industry where growth has been (279). Many factors contribute to this issue, such as plates with large portions, incorrectly made food, and not to mention the shelf life of every item. In the restaurant world, each restaurant has a of the and a of the Front of the house includes hostess, servers, bus boys, and managers. While the back of the house includes the kitchen staff such as chefs, kitchen prep, expediters, and dish washers. Much of food waste happens in the back of the house during kitchen preps, when errors are made on orders, and if food is old both on the shelf or in the coolers. Although there is an unimaginable amount of food that gets wasted from restaurants, if restaurants figured out different methods to prevent food waste they can make a significant impact on this eminent issue. Darden Restaurants is a large food hospitality chain with restaurants including Olive Garden, Long Horn Steakhouse, Bahama Breeze and a few more. In 2003, Darden Restaurants came up with Darden Harvest where they donate all the unused leftover food to numerous hunger relief organizations. To prevent excessive purchasing of food to all seven of their branches they invented a way to reduce over buying and stocking. As reported in the Darden Student 2 Digest, uses advance forecasting systems and manages the distribution of food to our Additionally, Darden Restaurants partnered up with Organic Matters. Darden restaurants donates food to Organic Matters, but unlike the hunger relief organizations they donate scraps off plates and their trimmings after they prep food and it gets turned into dog food. This company managed to invest in the future of food waste 14 years ago by actively participating in preventative methods that work for their various food chains. As noted by Finn, is clear that we need change to drive global reductions in food (997). If more restaurants participated and figured out methods by which to reduce food waste in their unit it would greatly impact the food waste epidemic. Restaurants that are not engaged does not necessarily mean that they do not care. Simply that they have not actively tried to find methods that can prevent food waste. Unfortunately, you start going up the supply chain, you find where the real food waste is happening on a gargantuan (Stuart 00:7:34-00:8:19). Consumers do not put in that little bit of effort that would help reduce waste tremendously. They would rather throw away food then figure out a way to redistribute. It can be thought to be easier to just discard old items, left over foods, and trimmings during prep. In regards to what Darden Restaurants has come up with, it does not take that much effort to minimize food waste. is possible and desirable for the food service industry to reduce food waste to optimize cost reduction and (Charlebois 279). To achieve minimizing food waste, restaurants needs to come up with creative methods to reduce waste. Preventative methods can be easily obtainable but are the responsibility of the restaurants to put forth the effort. For instance, restaurants tend to want to please these customers by giving them large portions. portion sizes in restaurants have been identified as a public health Student 3 (Berkowitz 3048). By providing large portion meals customers might not finish their plate, especially after having a salad and appetizer. If a restaurant strives for slightly smaller meal portions they decrease the amount of food that can be wasted and leftover. Another way to prevent food waste starts in the back of the house and how they store food. is their function to establish reasonable control systems, including storage and effective stock control such as proper rotation according to first-in first-out (FIFO) (Charlebois 280). Ingredients with labels and dates, if not properly stored food will not be rotated and can potentially be another reason for unnecessary food waste. Kitchen staff need to rotate food per the first in first out rule to assure that everything gets used before the expiration. Lastly, a major area of opportunity to prevent food waste is in food prep. When the back of the house preps for service is when a lot of food waste occurs, even waste that normally come to mind. For instance, the preparation stage, the majority of food waste was unavoidable as it comprised of mainly inedible parts of foods, such as bones, seafood shells, inedible fruit skins and cores (Papargyropoulou et al. 331). Those scraps can be put to better use, whether it be making some type of soup to feed the staff that contains a number of ingredients that would otherwise be discarded or using one of Darden Restaurants methods for turning trimmings in to dog food. Restaurants need to take a good look at their back of the house to uncover areas of opportunity to save food and redistribute it in a better way. To effectively prevent food waste, it all starts with the large restaurant industry. Restaurants, their main goal is to feed customers, but what if they could put their skill to a greater use. In actively participating in food waste methods that work for each individual restaurant the amount of food waste saved from being thrown away would be unimaginable. Restaurants should take in to consideration some of the methods Darden Restaurants has already Student 4 implemented in their seven different restaurants chains with various locations. Darden Restaurants has managed to solely come up with ideas to prevent food waste that works for their restaurant company. In following their footsteps restaurants that want to engage in the movement can come up with areas of opportunity such as the forecasting system, Darden Harvest, and their partnership with Organic Matters. For restaurants to make a difference, they need to take a good look at their back of the house and see where the most food waste happens and what options they have to tackle the problem. In reality just another step or two that needs to be taken. Not only can the restaurant help the cause in the back of house but they can also get involved outside of the restaurant. For instance, the Darden Harvest method where they donate meals to hunger relief organizations calls for volunteering and giving back to your community an area for team building for those interested. All these methods to prevent waste can be easily achievable on a restaurant level and can greatly impact the overall waste that heads to landfills. In closing, food waste is no secret and is quickly becoming out of control but with the help of a large food industry such as restaurants the quantity can dramatically decrease. In order, to achieve goals of preventing as much food waste as possible, it all starts in the restaurants back of the house. The back of the house is responsible for the heart of the restaurant. Through preventative practices such as Darden Restaurants forecasting system, Darden Harvest, and donations to Organic matter for dog food many restaurants can finally take an active stance on preventing food waste. Getting involved will help tremendously in reducing food waste and can also benefit the restaurant by becoming more appealing to customers. If only restaurants could achieve more than just feeding their guests imagine what can be accomplished. (WC: 1,278) Student 5 Works Cited Berkowitz, Sarah, et al. Entrees in a Worksite and Restaurant Setting: Impact on Food Consumption and Public Health Nutrition, vol. 19, no 16, Nov. 2016, pp.3048-3054. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1017/S1368980016001348. Charlebois, Sylvain, et al. of Study on Food Waste in Fine Dining: The Case of Delish International Journal of Culture, Tourism & Hospitality Research, vol. 9, no. 3, July 2015, p. 278. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http ://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx?direct=true&db=edb&AN=1086 5910&site=eds-live. Darden Digest. Can a restaurant company eliminate food waste? https://www.darden.com/blog/can-a-restaurant-company-eliminate-food-waste. 2014 March 18. Accessed 2017 Feb 15. Finn, Steven M. Our Food: Minimizing Waste and Optimizing Zygon: Journal of Region & Science, vol. 49, no. 4, December 2014, pp992-1008. EBSCOhost, doi:10.111/zygo.12131 Papargyropoulou, Effie, et al. Framework for the Study of Food Waste Generation and Prevention in the Hospitality Waste Management, vol. 49, 01 Mar, 2016, pp. 326-336. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.wasman.2016.01.017. Stuart, Tristram. global food waste TEDSalon. May 2012. London Spring 2012. Lecture.