Cherry 1 Mackenzie Cherry Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102.035 April 10, 2017 CannaBusiness The current society that exists is one that is constantly changing and dealing with new problems brought up every day. Some of these issues include immigration, homosexuality, animal testing, and the legalization of certain substances. Throughout the past few years, the argument over the legalization of marijuana has become even more of a pressing topic. Whether it be for medical or recreational use, there are multitudes of conflicting opinions of whether or not marijuana should become a legalized substance. Marijuana has been around for hundreds of years as a substance people use both medically and as a recreational substance. With the use of marijuana there are two chemicals mainly involved, (CBD) which seems to impact the brain without a and tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) which has pain relieving (and other) (Welsh). The more popular the conversation has become, the more the differing arguments have been analyzed. The key push for marijuana legalization is all the positives it has been found to provide for people medically. It has been found to help with diseases such as glaucoma, epileptic seizures, syndrome (a seizure disorder), cancer, and multiple sclerosis (Welsh). As the research into the positive and negative effects of legalized marijuana continues, it is important to keep the public educated about how it could positively affect the world we live in and get rid of the negative stigma placed on marijuana use. Even people who personally are older and not smokers themselves, should care Cherry 2 about the legalization of marijuana as it can affect them in more ways than one, specifically through how it affects the economy. The first regulation of marijuana happened in the year 1937; the Marijuana Tax Act was passed by Congress, not to illegalize marijuana but to place a tax and regulation on drugs. This regulation essentially evolved into making it illegal to possess and sell the drug. It was not until 1970 when the Controlled Substances Act was passed that categories for drugs were established and Marijuana was placed in the top category as an illegal substance along with items such as heroin and LSD (Martin). In the following years, various states made exceptions for medical testing or decriminalized the drug. The generation of children from the Baby Boom were the ones who started changing the opinion of the drug, from the negative light the government had shone on it (Martin). With this new positive light, the increase for a push towards medical legalization started increasing. The question still remains as to why should people, especially non-smokers, care about whether marijuana is passed or not? The answer is simple; the economy. Several people of working age and older in society now have seen the struggle of the economy, including changing pay wages, to the worries of being laid off. One of the best examples of the positives Marijuana Legalization can have on the economy is in the state of Colorado. Colorado is the first state to have legalized marijuana for recreational use. In Colorado alone, the legalization of weed 18,005 full-time jobs and added about $2.4 billion to the economy last (Pyke). All this money is coming from the mix of customers buying the products, and the producers putting money into their businesses. So now, instead of this money going to underground sources such as the people illegally distributing, the money is going back to the government for legal production and distribution. Not only is this making it so that there is more Cherry 3 money for the government, both state and regional, but it would also bring in more money for smaller communities in these states. Another way that this would help boost the economy is by decreasing the amount of money needed to have people prevent drug trafficking. While legalizing marijuana would not get rid of all of the illegal activities surrounding drugs, it would take a big chunk out of the picture. Around 1 trillion dollars is spent each year on law enforcement investigating illegal producers and traffickers (Pyke). Finally, it would result in a decrease in the amount spent on prisons for marijuana related offenses. It was found that estimated one in four people are in prison solely because of non-violent drug offenses, including possession, sales, and repeat offenses related to (Smith). With a decrease in these arrests, less money can be devoted to these issues, and can be put elsewhere. Like all arguments, there are negatives to accompany all the positives. One of the main counterarguments has been how can the sale of the drug be completely regulated? In Colorado, the response to this issue was tagging the plants with a radio frequency identification chip, which stays with the plant from the beginning of growth to its sale. Along with this people have been concerned with the safety aspects of the distribution of marijuana. As a precaution, places that currently legally sell marijuana, test all the products for potency and multiple possible contaminants, and the drug is sold in child-resistant containers (Miller). Finally, a third concern has been with what the legal limit will be when it comes to possessing marijuana. Currently, in many states the legal limit is 1 ounce, or 28 grams, and along with this a person must be at least 21 years of age, like with alcohol (coloradopotguide.com). As more is learned about the complete effects of marijuana these standards may become more restrictive. Along with making it legal, it also opens up the ability to do more research on the substance. Cherry 4 As the argument progresses through different parts of legislation, people can do their best to get informed and stay informed to make a legitimate decision if they are able to vote on the issue. It is important to get educated, and there are a variety of websites such as norml.org, where anyone can sign up to get informed newsletters and updates. It is important to look beyond the negative stigma that has been placed on marijuana, to get informed of the facts and not just what is generally said about the issue. As a member of society, people can also show their support through social media outlets, such as sharing educational videos on Facebook or other posts which inform. One can also help by making donations towards groups who do participate in legislation. While an individual may not personally have any opinion on smoking or be personally affected by whether or not they can legally smoke marijuana, it can still affect several aspects of life. Whether it be legalized recreationally or just solely medically, both can have a large influence on the economy. The legalization of marijuana will open up opportunities for many people with medical needs, aid in causing research to be done, and help with safe recreational use, while causing an increase of jobs and money flow for the economy. Cherry 5 Works Cited Marijuana Laws in  Colorado Pot Guide. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. <https://www.coloradopotguide.com/marijuana-laws-in-colorado/>. Martin, Scott. Marijuana in the United States: How Attitudes Have  Time. Time, n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. <http://time.com/4298038/marijuana-history-in-america/>. Miller, Joshua. From Colorado, a Glimpse at Life after Marijuana Legalization - The Boston  BostonGlobe.com. N.p., 22 Feb. 2016. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. <https://www.bostonglobe.com/metro/2016/02/21/from-colorado-glimpse-life-after-marijuana- legalization/rcccuzhMDWV74UC4IxXIYJ/story.html>. Pyke, Alan. $2.4 Billion Impact in Colorado Is a Lesson for 5 States considering  ThinkProgress. ThinkProgress, 28 Oct. 2016. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. <https://thinkprogress.org/5-states-weighing-marijuana-legalization-would-reap-enormous- economic-benefits-study-suggests-cb06831d154b>. Smith, S.E. The Case for Legalization Is in the  The Daily Dot. N.p., 11 Dec. 2015. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. <https://www.dailydot.com/via/marijuana-legalization-economic-argument/>. Welsh, Jennifer. 23 Health Benefits Of  Business Insider. Business Insider, 20 Apr. 2014. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. <http://www.businessinsider.com/health-benefits-of-medical-marijuana- 2014-4/#c-slows-the-progression-of-alzheimers-disease-7>. Cherry 6