Truong 1 Caitlin Truong Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 30 April 2017 Legalize Assisted Suicide assisted suicide is the sympathy killing of a patient who is suffering from an incurable, painful disease or a coma that they cannot wake from. It is still illegal in most countries today. In the United States, only 6 states- California, Colorado, Oregon, Vermont, Washington, Montana, and DC- have legalized physician assisted suicide. The remaining 44 states either have laws that prohibit it, do not recognize it, or are otherwise unclear on the legality of physician assisted suicide (Euthanasia ProCon). That would mean a majority of patients do not have access to it. Patients should have the right to avoid their unendurable pain and hasten their inevitable death. Their rights are being taken away if physician assisted suicide is illegal. Thus, because so many suffering patients are unable to receive assisted suicide, individuals who have a history of disease in their family, should donate to pro- euthanasia organizations, so that these dying people can pass away with dignity. People who are suffering from a terminal disease have no expectation of recovery. In the Netherlands, a country where physician assisted suicide is legal, terminal means that the patient has a expectancy of In some states in the U.S. where physician assisted suicide is legal, the time frame that many health care providers use as reference to determine whether an Truong 2 illness is terminal is six months of life expectancy. Patients who are not in that range are not even considered to be eligible for physician assisted suicide (Life Org). Many patients who do not meet that requirement still wants their wishes of assisted suicide to be respected. These patients are living with intolerable pain and just wants their suffering to be alleviated. The World Federation of Right to Die societies believe that it is unfair that patients in a hopeless condition must suffer longer based on unreliable predictions. Even a most reasonable judgement will not always be accurate in many cases (World Federation of Right to Die Societies). A person who is in excruciating pain should have the right to a timely and dignified death. Many people have a family member, friend, or loved one that is suffering from cancer. For many of these terminally ill people, life is so painful that it is not worth living. They do not want to spend their last moments of life bed-ridden. Chemotherapy is a treatment that destroys cancer cells, and helps to slow their growth. Many cancer patients, especially those that are in stage 3 or 4, know that for them it is too late. They no longer want to fight. The side effects that come with chemo is not worth it, along with expensive medical bills that would just put a burden on their financial matters. With physician assisted suicide, many family members and friends will be relieved to know that their loved one is no longer suffering. People can still commit suicide whether physician assisted suicide is legal or not. If patients do not have the option to choose, they might feel trapped in a life that is meaningless. They could end up taking the matter into their own hands, or it in a more gruesome and horrific way. This would be even more devastating for everyone. A wise man named Milan Kundera once said, do not have Truong 3 many advantages over people, but one of them is extremely important: euthanasia is not forbidden by law in their case; animals have the right to a merciful Medical technology today can accomplish the goal of prolonging the life of humans in remarkable ways. Respirators can support a patient with failing lungs and keep them breathing. For the patients who have a realistic chance of surviving, technology is their biggest blessing. But for patients who are terminally ill, all it does is prolong their suffering. No one wants to live their life lying in a hospital bed, hooked up to machines. Therefore, depression is the most common factor that many terminally ill patients share. Grief over knowing the fact that death is approaching is the reason for their depression. Over 77% of terminally ill patients have said that they have been affected by depression (Health Line). It does not help their mental health, but that does not mean that they are not competent enough to make their own decisions. One of the biggest arguments against physician assisted suicide is that the Hippocratic oath prohibits doctors from killing. In many states where the death penalty is still being used, it is usually a physician that is administering the lethal injection. Why should this be different for physician assisted suicide? Over time, the Hippocratic oath has been significantly modified on several separate occasions. References to women not being able to study medicine and doctors not being able to break the skin are no longer acceptable and have been removed (John Hopkkins University). Philip Nitschke, MD, has said, much-quoted reference to no is also in need of explanation. Does not doing harm mean that we should prolong a life that the patient sees as a painful burden? Surely, the in this instance is done when we prolong the life, and no means that we should help the patient die. Killing the patient--technically, yes. Is it a good thing--sometimes, yes. Is it consistent with good medical end-of-life care: absolutely Truong 4 He is also the director and founder of Exit International, one of the largest non-profit pro- euthanasia organizations. There are many simple things that individuals can do to help the legalization of physician assisted suicide. Individuals who have a history of disease in their family or those that have a family member, friend, or loved one suffering from a terminal illness can go sign a petition to have it legalized in more states in the U.S. They can also donate to non-profit pro-euthanasia organizations, such as Exit International and Dignity USA. Any amount helps and goes a long way in spreading awareness of this controversial issue. By working with the World Federation of Right to Die Societies, individuals can contribute to the cause at a global level. The main focus is to spread awareness of this issue, because not many people know about it. If enough people voted yes to approve physician assisted suicide, it can be legalized in more states. More states need to have Death with Dignity laws in place, where terminally ill patients can voluntarily request to receive a lethal prescription medicine that will hasten their inevitable death. Legalization of assisted suicide everywhere will also help to regulate the practice of it. Euthanasia should not have a negative connotation, because it is not the same thing as murder and should not be regarded as such. Donating to pro-euthanasia organizations and signing petitions are just some of the things that citizens can do to help legalize it in more areas. Not every doctor will choose to participate, but the patient will always have the right to switch physicians to one that is willing to do the deed. Many people do not realize the fact that animals have a right to be euthanized, while humans do not. Every living creature deserves to have a merciful death. Physician assisted suicide halts a agonizing pain, reduces the Truong 5 devastating financial effects of hospice care on their family, and preserves their right to determine their own fate. Word Count: 1233 Truong 6 Works Cited Cirino, Erica. Depression in the Face of a Terminal Illness and  Healthline. Healthline Media, 14 Mar. 2016. Web. 24 Apr. 2017. <http://www.healthline.com/health/depression/terminal-illness#overview1>. Ensuring Choices for a Dignified  The World Federation of Right to Die Societies. N.p., 13 Apr. 2017. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. <http://www.worldrtd.net/>. Guides: Bioethics: Hippocratic Oath, Modern  Hippocratic Oath, Modern Version - Bioethics - Guides at Johns Hopkins University. N.p., n.d. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. <http://guides.library.jhu.edu/c.php?g=202502&p=1335759>. State-by-State Guide to Physician-Assisted Suicide - Euthanasia -  Should Euthanasia or Physician-assisted Suicide Be Legal? N.p., n.d. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. <http://euthanasia.procon.org/view.resource.php?resourceID=000132>. Terminal  Terminal Illness and Euthanasia The Life Resources Charitable Trust. N.p., n.d. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. <http://www.life.org.nz/euthanasia/abouteuthanasia/abouteuthanasia4>.