Student 1 Student Professor Lewis ENC 1102 30 April 2017 Ceasing Tragic Indifference Towards Homelessness Thousands of Americans will be spending tonight either on a sidewalk, a bench, or in an overcrowded shelter. However, homelessness extends beyond those less fortunate individuals. Homelessness is everywhere, the epidemic stretches between coasts and all across the globe. One might wonder, then, why a solution to this epidemic is not at the forefront of social reform, or why communities are not more proactive in helping out their own people. To answer this inquiry, the cause is a lack of will, knowledge, and understanding. oblivion to homelessness is only one of the side effects of the stigma that homelessness carries. The word literally refers to a scar left by a hot iron; in modern vernacular, however, the word has developed into meaning mark of shame or Homelessness has a plethora of causes, forms, and demographics, and very few of these are deserving of being branded as Unfortunately, that does not prevent people from avoiding the subject matter altogether: out of sight, out of mind. Empathy, and whether or not an individual experiences it, is not the most important reason to take action against homelessness. Homelessness is an unnecessary use of money and a drain on a economy. By educating the public, homelessness can be destigmatized, gain the attention it is deserving of, and ended. Homelessness is not an exclusively modern concern. The last surge of homelessness took place preceding and surrounding the Great Depression, and has continued to fluctuate ever since. To put into perspective the current state of homelessness, the Coalition for the Homeless stated Student 2 that, has reached the highest levels since the Great Depression . . . with 62,435 homeless people, including 23,764 in need of emergency shelter (Basic Facts About Homelessness: New York City). In Without Tony Sparks draws another comparison between the Great Depression and the current state of homelessness in America. Often referred to as tent encampments have within and around US cities on a scale unprecedented since the Great Depression (Sparks). Thusly, one can see the graveness in numbers of people without homes or reliable shelter. With a growing population and increasing presence of homelessness, many economies are suffering. In Hawaii alone, the homeless population has resulted in roughly four million dollars in excess expenses (Cost of Homelessness). This sum was retrieved from a web report published by the National Alliance to End Homelessness (NAEH), one of the leading advocates for ending homelessness in America. Their account, of continues to remark that people spent an average of four days longer per hospital visit than comparable non-homeless people, [resulting in an extra cost approximately $2,414 per (Cost of Homelessness). They also state that the of psychiatric hospitalization was over 100 times higher than their non-homeless cohort [resulting in an excess cost $2,000 per (Cost of Homelessness). Among other costs, NAEH also identifies that as a result of anti-vagrancy laws, the time that a homeless person spend in jail or prison costs taxpayers approximately $14,480 per year (Cost of Homelessness). These expenses often come out of pockets and take an enormous toll on a economy. NAEH is not alone in recognizing the costly side effects of homelessness. Another organization sharing similar goals with NAEH is the National Coalition for the Homeless (NCH). Compiled on their website is information from multiple credible sources, proving the Student 3 claims of NAEH. NCH says that the primary, but not isolated, causes of homelessness include lack of affordable housing, poverty, lack of affordable health care, domestic violence, mental illnesses, and addiction. The National Low Income Housing Coalition reports that support for low-income housing has fallen 49% from 1980 to (Why Are People Homeless?). The organization Families USA found that in three Americans . . . is uninsured, of those . . . 30.7% are under eighteen. In 2007-2008 four out of five [uninsured were working (Why Are People Homeless?). In Status Report on Hunger and Homelessness in Cities: the U.S. Conference of Mayors found that 16% of the single adult homeless population suffers from some form of severe and persistent mental (Why Are People Homeless?). That same report states, of cities surveyed by the U.S. Conference of Mayors identified domestic violence as a primary cause of (Why Are People Homeless?). NCH also found that the of alcohol and drug abuse are disproportionately high among the homeless All of these devastating conditions make for a costly circumstance of homelessness. As well as costly, these conditions are not inevitable. Homelessness this severe is a product of indifference toward the issue. It is important to remember that the true victims of homelessness are those without homes, regardless of the expenses the issue inflicts on other members of society. It is not uncommon to see at least one homeless person during a normal routine, especially in large cities. A large portion of the public chooses to turn a blind eye to the men, women, and children living on the streets. This can largely be marked up to the stigma of homelessness and its presumed association with mental illness and addiction. Many people forget that these people are just as human as their family members, colleagues, and themselves. In a Student 4 which gained the attention of ABC News, Homeless and randomly selected volunteers were used to illustrate the way people pay attention to homeless people. Unaware of the true experiment, the subjects were under the impression they were headed to an audition. Meanwhile, those conducting the experiment had already contacted their family members and loved ones and dressed them as vagrants outside of the studio. With the use of a hidden camera, they watched as the participants walked past their loved ones without even realizing. This experiment shines light on the extent of which many people are blind to homelessness, or rather, choose to ignore it. Non-engaged stakeholders should be concerned about homelessness due to empathy and a want for human welfare. If for no other reason, homelessness is inarguably costly. Helping fight homelessness does not need to be, however. Because of the proven correlation between addiction and homelessness, the solution is not to donate cash and change to the people on the street. If anything, this approach may only serve to worsen the existing state of homelessness. One option for those wishing to become a part of the solution of homelessness is to visit either website at www.endhomelessness.org or website at www.nationalhomeless.org. Both of these organizations have resources across America and provide options for involvement in their efforts. NCH provides a directory of shelters and health care providers non-engaged stakeholders can volunteer at if a direct donation is not practical. Volunteers may have the opportunity of working in soup kitchens, preparing and serving food. Or perhaps during night shifts in shelters, providing a warm, safe place for homeless people to seek refuge for the night. There are many ways to help these organizations, as well as others, accomplish progress across the country. Homelessness is not inherently present. Through a willing, knowledgeable, and Student 5 understanding community, homelessness need not be a common experience in America. (wc:1211) Student 6 Works Cited ABC News. ABC News Network, n.d. http://abcnews.go.com/WNT/video/invisible-homeless- 23462954. Accessed 9 April 2017. Facts About Homelessness: New York Coalition For The Homeless. N.p., n.d. http://www.coalitionforthehomeless.org/basic-facts-about-homelessness-new-york-city/ Accessed 30 April 2017. of National Alliance to End Homelessness. N.p., n.d. Accessed 7 April 2017. National Alliance to End Homelessness. National Alliance to End Homelessness. 2017. www.endhomelessness.org. Accessed 21 Jan. 2017. Coalition for the National Coalition for the Homeless. N.p., 12 Jan. 2012. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. of Homeless Echoes the Great Evening Standard, 08 May 2015, p. 25. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx ?direct=tru&db=bwh&AN=102573608&site=eds-live. Accessed 7 April 2017. Sparks, Tony. without Property: Informality and Political Agency in a Seattle, Washington Homeless Environment & Planning A, vol. 49, no. 1, Jan. 2017, p. 86. EBSCOhost, Student 7 ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx ?direct=tru&db=edb&AN=120302338&site+eds-live. Accessed 28 April 2017. Merriam-Webster.com. Merriam-Webster, 2017. Accessed 7 April 2017. Are People National Coalition for the Homeless. National Coalition for the Homeless. July 2009. Accessed 10 April 2017.