Thorne 1 Colten Thorne Professor Aranda ENC 1102 March 5, 2017 Analyzing Anti Fracking Advertisements In society with much of the population and many companies not resigning to the argument for Climate Change, hydraulic fracturing has become a popular topic of debate. In short, fracking, or hydraulic fracturing, is a method in which workers will drill over a mile into the ground and then typical of water (90 percent), sand (9.5 percent) and additives (0.5 percent) is pumped at high pressure to create micro-fractures in the rock that are held open by the grains of (www.what-is-fracking.com). From these cracks oil is extracted back to the Those who support continuing fracking efforts occasionally refute claims of the environmental damage caused. They more often validate their standpoint with the economic advantages that fracking provides. The opponents of fracking suggest that it is a major danger to the environment. These organizations declare that the hydraulic fracturing process uses toxic chemicals and release methane gas from the ground into the atmosphere, all posing a major threat to the environment. Americans Against Fracking is an organization that identifies, obviously, as an opponent of hydraulic fracturing. The two images analyzed in this paper accurately reflect the standpoints of Americans Against Fracking by utilizing the arguments of the organization in an attempt to persuade the viewer to adopt their anti fracking policy. Americans Against Fracking is an organization supported and created by a plethora of other organizations that take and support actions into protecting the environment. With hydraulic fracturing becoming increasingly popular among petroleum and natural gas companies, these organizations created a separate entity with the purpose of combating fracking efforts across Thorne 2 America, its ultimate goal being to completely ban the practice. As they state on their website, goal, quite simply, is to ban fracking. To that end, we support federal, state and local efforts to ban fracking, enact moratoriums and to stop practices that facilitate fracking like natural gas exports, frac sand mining and the construction of (americansagainstfracking.org). The primary argument the organization makes against hydraulic fracturing suggests that the practice a direct and immediate threat to the drinking water, air, climate, food, health and economies of communities across the United (americansagainstfracking.org). In the following analysis of image A, these beliefs and arguments of Americans Against Fracking are apparent. Image A is a poster that prominently promotes the banning of fracking. When first viewed it is evident that the poster makes a strong pathos appeal to invoke a feeling of endangerment in the viewer. This is achieved by the overall dark coloring and basic style of the poster in concert with the eye-catching red highlighting the fracture and phrase The red and very sharply illustrated fracture immediately draws the attention and depicts the results of hydraulic fracturing as a dangerous entity. Next the viewer reads the phrase poison stay down The phrase further appeals to pathos by using the word a word with a heavy negative connotation, to describe the hydraulic fracturing fluid. This phrase begs the question, what is the poison, prompting the viewer to read the below sentence which says, flammable, poisonous liquids injected into the earth during hydraulic fracturing seep back into the ground water, endangering the health of the people who drink This sentence uses charged language such as and to describe the fracking fluid. After describing the dangers involved with fracking, the poster suggests that the viewer should support the banning of fracking. The effectiveness of this poster lies in the fact that it is structured as a good, persuasive argument. It uses visual pathos appeals Thorne 3 to get the viewer to associate fracking with danger, then employs logos appeal by informing the viewer of exactly how and why hydraulic fracturing is dangerous, and finally presents them with the appropriate action to take. This particular image, image B, was used by Americans Against Fracking during their fight against fracking in New York in which they succeeded in banning fracking in the state. Image B depicts the statue of liberty breaking down fracking towers as oil trucks flee from the destruction. The statue of liberty has often been used in advertising as a purely american and unifying symbol which people can rally behind. The god rays emanating from behind the face of the statute further amplify this effect. The statue has a positive and patriotic connotation to it as well and therefore, those opposed to the statue would be depicted in a negative light, just as the fracking rigs and oil trucks are. A good example of ethos appeal, image B appeals to the the authority of the statue of liberty and, by extension, the U.S. It also appeals to New Yorkers specifically with the phrase Yorkers against being prominently displayed in the foreground of the image. The unstated argument of this image implies that to be an opponent of fracking is a patriotic act and to be a supporter of fracking is the opposite The analysis of these images related to Americans Against Fracking exemplified the arguments of the organization. Image A depicts the dangers of fracking in a more abstract way in order to evoke a purer feeling of fear and disdain towards fracking. Even so, the poster employs the core argument of the organization as well to offer evidence to further convince the viewer of the dangers. Image B persuades the viewer with an argument that employs an ethos appeal, an appeal to authority. It specifically utilizes the authority that the statue of liberty holds as a patriotic and exclusively American symbol. These images are visual representations of the arguments Americans Against Fracking uses to validate their stance on Hydraulic fracturing and their arguments against the proponents of fracking. Thorne 4 Image A Image B Thorne 5 Works Cited About the  Against N.p., n.d. Web. 06 Mar. 2017. What Is Hydraulic  Is EnergyFromShale.org, n.d. Web. 06 Mar. 2017. Hoffman, A., & Wiggs, K. (2016). (really) matters: explorations in rhetoric and argumentation. MA: XanEdu.