Daniela Bigott Brenden Jackson ENC 1101 4/09/2017 Bigott 1 Joining the Conversation- Intermediate Draft Though often not discussed, the coping process of child abduction may a bit disordered and chaotic for all parties involved. It is troubling finding a starting point in treating the emotional and psychological setbacks experienced by the child and more often than not, the feelings and damages of the parents and loved ones are often neglected or not given priorities. Child abduction is not a one victim crime and the only effective way to deal with the psychological and emotional setbacks of both the child and the families is by family centered interventions and therapies. Providing those types of therapies would allow for a smoother transition between the child and their loved ones and would provide a clearer understanding of the underlying trauma that families necessarily pick up on their own. For the coping process to work after the child has been abducted, it is essential for the family to play a significant role in order to the child to not have to feel as vulnerable as they use to. If the family is not a part of the transition process from the child being abducted into now being safe and at home, there is a higher possibility of the child retracting back into the scared and vulnerable state of mind that they were forced to be in. Dr. Geoffrey L. Greif is a Professor at the School of Social Work at the University of Maryland in Baltimore, Maryland and has extensive background in child abduction. His background allows him to believe that if the immediate family is not involved in the therapeutic sessions for the child, then a high chance of the child retracting back to his/her old ways where it was vital to constantly be in a scared state of mind. In cases where families are not as involved in the therapy and interventions, Daniela Bigott Brenden Jackson ENC 1101 4/09/2017 Bigott 2 it is said that parents agree that their children seem to be afraid and paranoid at things the average child were taught not to fear, such as law enforcement or personal prohibiting them from living what was once their normal, mundane life (Greif 275). It is also known that the longer time the child was taken, the worse their symptoms are once they return home. Not only should the child receive immediate help and aid once they return home, but the amount of time he/she was away should also be taken into consideration when regarding appropriate treatment. In one of Dr. articles titled Ambiguous Reunification: A Way for Social Workers to Conceptualize the Return of Children After Abduction and Other , the more time the child has been away from home, the bigger the risk of seeing developmental damage or regression in that child when she/he is finally returned home (Grief 306). There is a way to control how much of that damage permanently stays with that child and it is through family orientated therapy. It is crucial for family to be a major part in helping the child feel safe and welcomed. Educating families on how to react and adjust to child abduction is already a challenging and emotional journey. Having the same parents react and adjust to their child being returned home can be even more destructive to all parties involved. It is clear that most families are not taught how to deal with unprecedented situations such as child abduction so it is shown that therapies that are family centered and choose to educate those struggling to help their child cope with their trauma have more successful outcomes. Made mostly by the Department of Justice, The Transitioning Families Therapeutic Reunification Model (TFTRM) was made to help families transition back to a normal life after their child has been brought home after being abducted Daniela Bigott Brenden Jackson ENC 1101 4/09/2017 Bigott 3 (Judge et al. 233-234). The TFTRM provides guidelines to those parents or loved ones struggling with the homecoming of their child and their main goal is to help those via interventions and family therapy and empirical problem solving techniques. The model forces families to become a part of the solution to their unprecedented problem. Families are a unit so if one member is feeling helpless and scared, it is the role of the rest of the family to adapt to the change. They can accomplish this by educating themselves and implementing what they have learned from therapies and interventions in a way that does not come off as too aggressive or forceful to the already vulnerable child. When in family therapy, one of the many uncomfortable things to discuss and consider is why, when the child was abducted, he or she chose to stay with the abductor when they had the opportunity to escape. It is said that One of the many reasons children choose to stay with their abductors is because they fear harm and violence will come to their family if they decide to stay. When children are reunified with their families, there is a sense of guilt and fear that the abductor(s) may come back and hurt the family. With family oriented therapy, families can help alleviate that pain and ensure the child that they are safe and no one is coming after them. Charles Williams an associate professor of psychology at Drexel University in Philadelphia explains that once the abductor convinces the victim that he or she is alone and no one is looking for them, then when the abductor gains total control over the victim. Sometimes victims will believe that they are being monitored every second of the day so why they choose to avoid seeking help (Goodale 2014). In family therapies, it is crucial that the child understands that no one is threatening the safety of their families. For the children to comprehend this, Daniela Bigott Brenden Jackson ENC 1101 4/09/2017 Bigott 4 constant exposure to families and loved ones is important for them to understand that no harm is coming their way. Dr. Butterworth is a psychologist that specialize in trauma cases like child abduction and explains how violence is frequently used to scare children into thinking they should always be scared, for themselves and for their families (Snow 83). Although there is little literature regarding children becoming attachment to their kidnappers/abductors (Namnyak 9), the attachment is proven to be out of fear that the abductors might harm the families if the child does not stay (Snow 83-84). A counterargument to family therapies and family oriented interventions could be that all children react and adapt differently so such personal therapies may make the feel smothered or attacked. families circumstances and narrative is unique and should be dealt with (Judge et al. 235) so in an effort to ascertain what works most effectively, family therapies should not be ruled as the only successful way for children and their families to cope. Child abduction should no longer be treated for as a one victim crime. With interventions between the child and their respective families and loved ones, the painful coping process can be undeniably levitated and hopefully allow for a smoother transition from a captive and stressful lifestyle to a calm, inviting one. Daniela Bigott Brenden Jackson ENC 1101 4/09/2017 Bigott 5 Works Cited Goodale, Gloria. California Kidnapping Case: Why Woman Seek Help Years  The Christian Science Monitor, 2014. EBSCOhost, Retrieved from http://search.ebscohost.com Greif, Geoffrey L. Ambiguous Reunification: A Way for Social Workers to Conceptualize the Return of Children After Abduction and Other  Families in Society, vol. 93, no. 4, Oct-Dec. 2012, pp. 305-311, PsycINFO, doi: 10.1606/1044-3894.4241 Greif, Geoffrey L. The Long-Term Aftermath of Child Abduction: Two Case Studies and Implications for Family  American Journal of Family Therapy, vol. 37, no. 4, Jul-Sep 2009. Academic Search Premier, doi: 10.1080/01926180902754711 Judge, Abigail M., et al. The Transitioning Families Therapeutic Reunification Model in Nonfamilial  Family Court Review, vol. 54, no. 2, Apr. 2016, pp. 232-249. PsycINFO, doi: 10.1111/fcre.12215 Namnyak, M., et al. Psychiatric Diagnosis or Urban  Acta Psychiatrica Scandinavica, vol. 117, no. 1, Jan. 2008, pp. 4-11. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1111/j.1600-0447.2007.01112.x. Snow, Robert L. Child Abduction: Prevention, Investigation, And Recovery. Westport, Conn: Greenwood Publishing Group, 2008. eBook Collection (EBSCOhost). Retrieved from http://eds.a.ebscohost.com