Friese 1 Meghan Friese Brenden Jackson ENC 1101 Composition 1 3/31/2017 The Great Barrier Reef has been in constant decline for as long as researchers have studied it. The unfortunate change to the reef is due to human contact, pollution, and climate change. Its extensive ecosystem and the complexity makes the Great Barrier Reef important. The environment the reef provides gives life to its indigenous creatures. It is built by billions of living organisms. The astonishing size of the coral reef makes it the largest single living structure with an interconnected living community. It covers over 133,000 square mile and is scattered with islands and coral cays (Bowen, 27). The impressiveness of this habitat, enabler of life, and living chain of coral is what drew me to conduct more research on it. While learning about the extensive history of the reef, I began to question its origins as well as how it affects our world. What impacts does the Great Barrier Reef have on its surrounding environment and what impact does the surrounding environment have on the Great Barrier Reef? James Bowen spent over a decade pursuing his interest in the Great Barrier Reef. In his studies, he used archived research as well as underwater and field research to ensure his accuracy. He states the creation of the Great Barrier Reef started as the collection of dead coral built upon itself in order to house newer organisms. The cycle of the reef continues as more coral dies and is molded into the wall (Bowen). This process creates flourishing life that provides a home and refuge to hundreds of various species. These species include a wide variety of birds, reptiles, mammals, crustaceans, fish, and many other animals. The reef is off the coast of Friese 2 northeastern Australia and is named one of the seven natural underwater wonders of the world. The expansive home has over 600 various types of soft and hard coral which allow a wide variety of plant growth (Bowen, 12). Human impact on the environment has always been substantial. Human activity has caused damage to the Great Barrier Reef with physical contact and increased pollutants. Tourism has been a major contributor to the reefs rapid deterioration. People travel from all around the world to witness the wonders of the reef. Over 2 million tourists visit the reef annually. The active tourism includes reef walks, interactive diving, ships dropping anchors and unloading boat fuel (Dale, 5). This has a significant impact on the fragile reef environment. Concern over the health of the reef became an issue for the science community. In 2004, scientists began to wonder if disturbing the reef for research affected it more negatively than leaving it alone. They began a study on whether the amount of creatures and different types of creatures impacted the reef from the previous mapping done of the reef. Various sights were not used in mapping the reef. In order to gather data, scientist studied both the areas mapped out as well as the areas left alone. The data they received back was contradictory. The coral had built up a resilience in the area touched by humans. However, the coral was flourishing more in the areas not touched (Maynard, 5). In recent years, the disruption in the growth from tourism has declined, which has given the reef an opportunity to rebuild itself. Richard G. Pearson has written numerous articles focusing on climate change and extinction. From the very beginning of human interaction with the reef, its health has been progressively declining. Not only are people nearby the reef effecting it, but people thousands of miles away are as well. The reefs problems have become global. Pollution has been a main cause of deterioration and bleaching. For quite some time, the reef has been deteriorating through a Friese 3 natural process called bleaching. However, humans have helped speed up this process in an unnatural way. Coral bleaching occurs when water temperatures are too warm for the coral to survive. The coral goes through heat stress and begins to deteriorate. The heightened sea temperatures cause the coral to expel the algae from inside of it and transforms it into a white color. Over the previous century, the majority of the Great Barrier Reef has become damaged and bleached. This has resulted in the production of oxygen which contributes to the diminishment of sea creature diversity and causes some species to perish (Woolridge, 56). When considering the causes of bleaching, one of the more controversial topics is global warming. Human carbon footprint is the speculated cause for earth heating up. The very mild winters and the unusually hot summers have warmed the waters in the ocean. This is believed to be the main reason the reef is in peril. Humans may have made their mark on the coral reef, but what many do not realize is the impact the Great Barrier Reef has on people. The various attributes the Great Barrier Reef has on its surrounding environment is a main theme when discussing the reef. Not only does this include ecological, but it also includes economical. The Great Barrier Reef provides a needed environment for sea creatures, and also provides a variety of jobs for humans. The decline of the reef has also led many environmental professionals to discuss the controversial topic of human impact on the Earth. Scientist and environmentalist understand the human threat to the reef and its system. The impact has been significant. They study the effects and implement ways to reduce pollution and slow the reefs decline (Pearson, 14). Many decide to take the backseat to ecological and environmental problems. They believe that nature will correct itself. A popular idea is that the Great Barrier Reef is beyond natural repair. In order to fight climate change and the effects it has on the reef, we must be Friese 4 aware of human activity and the consequences it has on ecosystems (Ecosystem Services, 2). Regulations and governmental policies are in place to slow and lessen the deterioration of the reef. The Long Term Sustainability plan is the main focus for the Australian government right now. This plan involves many smaller components. Water quality, greenhouse gasses, and human disturbance are all areas that are being focused on (Dale, 10). In order to implement corrections, government is enforcing more ecologically minded laws. These laws will make recycling mandatory as well as spreading harmful chemicals, such as pesticides, illegal. However, while the intentions are in the right place, they continue to struggle with implementing these plans (Dale, 10). The Great Barrier Reef is an important ecological and economical treasure to the world, and should be treated as such. Unfortunately the reef is declining because of human contact, pollution, and climate change. If no action is taken, we may live in a world someday without a Great Barrier Reef and creatures that rely on it as a home. In order to live in a healthy environment, we must create that environment. Friese 5 Brodie, Jon, and Richard G. Pearson. Ecosystem Health Of The Great Barrier Reef: Time For Effective Management Dale, Allan P., et al. Research Article: Risk Analysis Of The Governance System Affecting Outcomes In The Great Barrier  Journal Of Environmental Management 183.Part 3 (2016): 712-721. ScienceDirect. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. James, and Margarita Bowen. The Great Barrier Reef. [Electronic : History, Science, Heritage. n.p.:Cambridge, UK ; New York : Cambridge University Press, 2002., 2002. University of South Florida Libraries Catalog. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Maynard, Jeffrey A., et al. Great Barrier Reef No-Take Areas Include A Range Of Disturbance  Conservation Letters 9.3 (2016): 191-199. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Natalie Stoeckl a,n , Marina Farr a , Silva Larson a , Vanessa M. Adams b,c , Ida Kubiszewski d , Michelle Esparon a Robert Costanza d. Ecosystem Services. Vol. 10. N.p.: n.p., n.d. Science DIrect. Web. Scott A. Wooldridge. Marine Pollution Bulletin. Vol. 58. N.p.: n.p., n.d. Science DIrect. Web.