Ortega 1 Yosselyn Ortega B. Hernandez ENC 1102 4/30/17 Did you know the beauty products you use on you face and body have to go through a testing process before they can be sold to the public? The ingredients used in a large amount of beauty products end up being tested on living, breathing animals. Unfortunately, year, more than 100 million mice, rats, frogs, dogs, cats, rabbits, hamsters, guinea pigs, monkeys, fish, and killed in U.S. laboratories for biology lessons, medical training, curiosity-driven experimentation, and chemical, drug, food, and cosmetics (PETA). Innocent animals undergo life threatening procedures so that humans can use the next trendy product. Take action in the fight towards ending animal testing by refusing to buy cosmetic products from companies that test on animals and by donating to organizations that work to end animal testing altogether. Together, we can spread awareness and raise questions about the ethicality of using animals for the sake of humans. The amount of cosmetic companies that test their ingredients on animals can be astonishing. Even in 2017, with the technology this world possesses, animals are still subjected to abuse that leads to death. The truth is that at this moment, animals all across the country are suffering. mice are made to grow tumors nearly as large as their entire bodies, kittens are purposely blinded, and rats are made to suffer seizures. Dogs are intentionally poisoned with experimental drugs, chimpanzees are infected with debilitating diseases, and rabbits have grotesque devices implanted into their (PETA). No experiment leaves an animal in the Ortega 2 same condition as before it underwent the testing. Millions of animals die due to these experiments, and these innocent animals have no say to protect them. The are many more animals killed outside of cosmetic or medical experiments. According to the Humane Society of the United States, of vertebrate animals are dissected These dissections done by grade school students offer no new information about the animals, as real scientists have already discovered what they can about them. The euthanization methods of animals cause unnecessary suffering as removed from gas chambers and injected with formaldehyde without first being checked for vital There is nothing innocent about the way animals are being treated in the behind-the-scenes production of beauty products or their medicine. More people should become aware and understand the extent to which animals are undergoing pain. The world should know that there are alternatives to testing on animals, and if companies gave them a try, there would be less animal casualties and less suffering of innocent animals. methods... include sophisticated tests using human cells and tissues (also known as in vitro methods) advanced computer-modeling techniques (often referred to as in silico (PETA). These alternative methods would not only exclude the practice of killing animals, but it would also produce more accurate results. There were studies done to show how inaccurate using animals to help humans with their health. For instance, on rats, hamsters, guinea pigs, mice, monkeys, and baboons revealed no link between glass fibers and cancer...[and it only after human studies related the two did the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) label these fibers as carcinogenic. EpiDerm, an in vitro test derived from cultured human skin cells, was found to be more accurate in identifying chemical Ortega 3 skin irritants than traditional animal (neavs). Animals are not similar enough to humans for the results of animal tests to much of a benefit for humans and only leads to more animal deaths. In relation to beauty products, the Institute for In Vitro Sciences has vitro assays addressing relevant endpoints for cosmetics, including eye and skin irritation, percutaneous penetration, and photo-toxicity, have achieved partial or full animal replacement Buying cruelty-free beauty products are another alternative to buying necessary products. People should become aware of these alternatives and options that may benefit the animals and also the product consumers. Animals have no say in the matter of animal testing and humans take advantage of them. be their voice and let it be heard that experimenting on animals is unethical and unnecessary. Only humans have the power to end animal testing. Take action by refusing to support companies that test on animals and by donating to organizations that work to end animal testing. inform those who are unaware of the cruel practices towards animals because this is something worth fighting for. Cosmetic companies such as Lush and Wet N Wild committed to animal rights by only producing and selling cruelty-free products. Support these types of companies that refuse to sell their products in China, where imported beauty products are required to be tested on animals before being placed on the market. MAC cosmetics, for example, is one of those companies that claim to be cruelty-free, yet sell their products in China. Make a statement by refusing to buy their products or the products of any company that allows their products to be tested using animals. Support organizations such as the Humane Society and the Institute for In Vitro Sciences. The Humane Society helps a voice to these animals and work toward the day Ortega 4 when animals are no longer used in harmful (Humane Society) and by donating, you are helping animals used in experiments and kept in laboratories. The Institute for In Vitro goal is the acceptance of alternative methods and the replacement of animals in testing require continual method development, validation and (IIVS). These organizations work hard to spread awareness of the reality of animal testing, as well as to help guide people towards ways to help the cause. Donations can help make a difference in the lives of millions of innocent animals and we can hope that one day animal testing can become illegal in the United States where these two organizations are located. Ortega 5 Works Cited Institution In Vitro Sciences N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA): The Animal Rights N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. The Humane Society of the United States : The Humane Society of the United  N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Society, New England Anti-Vivisection. Animals in Science /  In Testing. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.