Jacobs 1 Parker Jacobs Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Protect Children Not Guns number of gun violence deaths over the years has seen as increase since 1984, with a 25 percent increase in the amount of (Brady Campaign, 2015). Although these numbers look good there is still time to turn things around. Gun violence is America has grown sustainably over the past 20 years are has grown to a high point worldwide. Gun violence is a terrible thing and with limits on firearms there will be a more peaceful and less dangerous place for all Americas. Even though gun violence in America is at a high, it could be put to an end by using safer background checks to get firearms out of hand of a mentally ill person and to pass new gun legislation to limit the use of firearms in everyday civilians. Thus, because gun violence in America is substantially higher than other various countries American teenagers needs to support new gun control legislations and safer background checks so that the number of gun violence deaths in America dies down or even getting cut in half. This subject in gun violence deserves to have a lot of care because of all the devastating stories surrounding the topic. On December 14, 2012 Adam Lanza open fired in sandy hook elementary school in Newtown, Connecticut killed 20 children between the ages of six and seven as well as 6 other members of the sandy hook staff. This event promoted many gun legislations including federal as well as state banning the manufacturing and selling of various kinds of semi- Jacobs 2 automatic guns with more than ten rounds in the clip. In the final police report they stated Lanza had many mental health issues during his life which might have caused such a horrific event. There are many ways to safer background checks if they get passed in legislation such as monthly checks-ups to see if the possessor of a firearm is still in the mentally capacity to own a deathly weapon. Safer background checks include options like having two yearly check up on gun owner to make they are still with it mentally and if they are in the right state to possess a deadly weapon. Even though sandy hook was the 3 rd worse singled man mass shooting in the United States history, there are many violent school shooting for example columbine, On April 20 th , 1999 Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold fired shots in the columbine high school cafeteria in Columbine, Colorado. They killed 12 students and a teacher in the cafeteria before both committing suicide. To go around and kill innocent students and then committed suicide these guys can not be mentally stable. They also found homemade explosives in the high cafeteria. There are many ways to stop events like these in the future. Another option would be not letting people who have committed any crime own a firearm even if the crime they committed got expunged. Teenagers have a long life to live and it be cut short because a mentally ill person slipped through the background check system and was able to possess a deadly weapon. There are various ways to act on gun control but only some of them end up being effective. America teens could do anything from protest to becoming a legislator to vote on these types of gun violence votes. America teenagers must get out there and protest gun violence as well as vote, encourage, and promote new gun control legislations. lose more than 32,000 Americans to gun violence every year in this country. an average of 87 deaths a day. These tragedies range from gun accidents and suicides to horrific mass shootings like those Jacobs 3 at Columbine High School in 1999 and at Sandy Hook Elementary School in (NY Times, 2015). With help from the next generation these numbers will start to decrease. Also if these numbers start to see a decrease the next generation after this one (the future children of teens) have to worry as much as gun violence in America. Although these stories are terrible there are various organizations working to make sure gun violence could be limited in the future if not stopped completely. There are many organizations that are activists against gun violence, one of those being the Brady Campaign. The Brady Campaign is a non-profit organization that has been trying to end gun violence in America since 1974, they are working toward the coalition to end gun violence in The United States of America. The Brady Campaign was named after Jim Brady, who is permanently disabled due to the Ronald Regan Assassination. The Brady Campaign has participated in various protects to end the coalition on gun violence. will cut the number of gun violence deaths in America in half by (Brady Campaign Homepage, 2017). Those are big numbers to put their names behind which means there up to something. The Brady Campaign has been doing many things to try to put an end to gun violence, those include working on safer background checks and new gun legislation. Working with local legislators will help improve the awareness on gun violence and put more people behind these new and improved background checks. American Teenagers deserve a voice on the subject of gun violence. Its time as America teenagers where teens start to understand more and gun violence is a big topic that should never be ignored. America teenagers should get out into their local community to work with commissioners and mayors to increase the awareness of gun control on Jacobs 4 a state level. Commissioners and mayors that are for gun control need support and America teenagers coming close to voting years are starting to develop opinions on the topic. These state legislators are one of the only ways to make gun violence decrease. Better gun legislation and laws such as limiting civilian firearm use is one of the only thing legislators could do with their power by proposing a bill and having people that back that bill. It is called upon them (American Teenagers) to support gun legislations make gun violence less common and more conditioned background checks to keep the firearms out of a sick hands. If Americans confront the problem of gun violence it could lead to many more innocent people dying. Teenagers must confront the problem and not support the use of guns for non-military action and get more support behind safer background checks. Safer background checks include new options like the mental check-ups and not letting someone with a police record own a gun. Although teenagers still have a long time to live and learn it is now time for them to act and take a side on gun violence. It is a touchy subject that needs to be confronted head on. With help from a percentage of America teenagers better background checks can be set up, while the teenagers could also work with local congressmen to pass various gun control legislations and eventually laws. American teenagers can also participate in various gun control rallies and protest to help increase awareness on the topic while learning more about gun violence. The younger teenagers must get a step on this so they will be better prepared to handle tough decisions when it comes to voting later on in their teen years. American teens need to support new gun control legislations and safer background checks so that the number of gun violence deaths in America die down or even getting cut in half. Jacobs 5 Works Cited Page Cooper, Alexander C. Fully Loaded: An Alternative View Of The Gun Control  Albany Government Law Review 8.(2015): 337. LexisNexis Academic: Law Reviews. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Rostron, Allen1. A New State Ice Age For Gun  Harvard Law & Policy Review 10.2 (2016): 327-360. Index to Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Soloperto, Adam P.1. A Standard Of Review For Gun Rights: The Second Amendment Question Hot As A Two-Dollar  Seton Hall Law Review 47.1 (2016): 225-265. Index to Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Karimu, Olusola O. The Two Sides of Gun Legislation and Control Debate in United States of  European Scientific Journal, 2015, p. 400. Lewis, Lindsey. Mental Illness, Propensity for Violence, and the Gun Control  Houston Journal of Health Law & Policy, vol. 11, 01 Oct. 2011, p. 149.