Adela Lopez Ms. Elizabeth Ricketts ENC 1101-010 29 April 17 The Flaws in the system Social media is a fairly new developing network, but it has had an immense effect on society with the talk about injustices it has a tendency to make it a viral and controversial topic. In the news one sees a lot of stories involving criminals and what they have been arrested for. Lately there seems to have been a pattern in the stories. There have been a lot of controversies involving police brutality. Before social media this would have been a mere headline in the news it would not have gotten the attention it deserved, but now so many people are able to express how they feel and that things should be done. The black community has been continuously targeted in these recent months, but this is something that has been happening for years. I believe there just have not been enough people who have spoken out before and voice their opinions. When a criminal is convicted one assumes that all criminals are treated equally and given their proper punishment for their crimes. One assumes that they are prosecuted in the same way and that their crime is the main thing taken into consideration, but it is not. The criminal justice system has its flaws. There is a trend that shows that things like the race, and class are still affecting the punishments criminals receive after being convicted of the similar crimes. Lately in the media has focused on police brutality targeting minorities, mainly blacks not just those with African descent. Michael Tonry published a book in 2011 where he strongly voiced the injustices created in the criminal justice system. In his own words he talked about the uneasy relationship between the black community and the police. Something that is highly seen today. Before, people who wanted to speak out like Michael Tonry have as much success as they do now. Social media a widely spread out as it is today headlines get the attention they deserved. Scholars able to draw as much attention to the flaws that the criminal justice system has in order to be able to fix it. After, the development of social networks more people began to try to speak out on these injustices, Brock Turner was a Stanford college student who was sentenced to only six months in jail after a sexual-assault case where the jury convicted him. But became an even bigger controversy when he was released from jail after serving just three of his six-month sentence. This angered a lot of people because many criminals before have receive a harsher punishment, some with cases that involved less evidence than the ones involved in the Brock Turner case. He is also a white high class male who is wealthy because of his parents. The judge who was at charge of this case commented that prison sentence for Brock Turner would have severe and collateral on him. Brock Turner has privilege, and was let of on a less severe punishment because of his class and wealth. Research shows that race plays a major part in the outcome of criminal cases, and it According to the NAACP Criminal Justice Fact Sheet, 14 million whites and 2.6 million blacks reported using illicit drugs, yet blacks are convicted 10 times more than whites. The NAACP also mentions that blacks serve as much prison time for a drug offense as whites do for a violent offense. It already seems unfair that they are facing the same severity for a different level crime offense. We live in a free land and abide by the rules why is that the criminal justice system is focusing more on a race and class than their actual crime? Although there are people who would disagree and argue that in case like Brock Turner he received a less severe conviction because he is young and he is clearly remorseful, and also had no previous criminal record. People like perhaps the judge of the case for example who stated that the sentence was so light because, prison would have a severe impact on  It is still really obvious that there are flaws within the criminal justice system. Brock turner is just one example of the many cases where class and race has played a role in the convictions of criminals. Many also argue that if Brock Turner would have been black or a Hispanic or Latino he have gotten off so easy and would have gotten the six months asked for by the prosecutors perhaps even more time. Due to their race as well as their inability to afford a good lawyer. Although it all depends on the exact case there is a similar case, Brian Banks. A black high school football player was accused of rape when he was 16 years old, he was tried as an adult and received more than five years in prison and another five years on parole for being a sex offender. After the accuser finally dropped the charges after admitting to false accusations. It would all depend on the case but this minor was innocent but bared a worse sentence than a guilty Brock Turner. According to the Huffington Post because our criminal justice system is flawed and is steeped in racial bias. Brock Turner is a white high class male was sentenced to only six months and served three. Brian Banks was lower class black teen who would have served five years on a rape case if his accuser admitted to the false accusations. The Warren Court of laws was set forth to end racial segregation in the united states they wanted to incorporating the Bill of rights, a fair treatment among all convicts. These set of laws were set in 1953 and were procedures that must be followed with every criminal that is convicted, but it seems that in era it has slowly been diminishing. The criminal justice system has had its flaws for some time now. Social media has placed it in the center of view and has been able to bring more and more awareness to what is happening. This is a new generation that is slowly developing a new way to speak up together to what is right and wrong and how the criminal justice system needs to build a path for change. Works Cited Bierschbach, Richard A. Wrong with Sentencing Virginia Law Review, vol. 102, 2016, pp.1447-1450 Blay, Zeba. Black Voices. Huffington Post, 2016 http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/lets-not-ignore-the-importance-of-brock-turners Web. 2017 Koren, Marina. the Stanford Judge gave Brock Turner six The Atlantic. Jun.,2016. https://www.theatlantic.com/news/archive/2016/06/stanfors rape-case-judge/487415. Accessed April 2017. NAACP. Criminal Justice Fact Sheet. http://www.naacp.org/criminal-justice-fact-sheet Rodriguez, Fernando S. Differences in Criminal Sentencing: Do Effects Vary Across Violent, Property, and Drug Wiley. Vol. 87, no. 2, 2006, pp. Starr, Sonja. Large Gender Disparities in Federal Criminal Michigan Law. Nov., 2012. https://www.law.umich.edu/newsandinfo/features/Pa Accessed February 2017. Mic. Turner gets Months- A black student got 5 years for a rape he Mic Network. 2017., https://mic.com/articles/145788/brock-turner-gets-months-in-jail-a- black-student-got-5-years-for-a-rape-he-didn-t-commit#.NQ2yQcgmf. Accessed April 17 2017 Tonry, Michael. Punishing Race. Oxford University Press, 2011