Sahadath 1 Shari Sahadath Karen Hanson ENC 1102 16 April 2017 The Cruelty of Animal Testing Do you know what animals must endure to produce a Covergirl mascara? Or a Neutrogena face wash that you may use? An estimate of 115 million animals worldwide are tested in laboratories every year Animal Cosmetic companies test on animals to ensure the safety of their products for human use, but unfortunately millions of animals are harmed every year in result of this practice. Animal testing contributes to animals suffering with physical and psychological distress, most being fatal Animal To make a change on this issue, it is important to become aware of animal testing and the abuse that animals must face. Testing on animals for cosmetic products should be prohibited because it can be considered an act of cruelty. In order to fight for rights and become aware of the development of scientific alternatives to animal testing, people can donate and join The Humane Society of the United States (HSUS). Many people are not informed on how detrimental animal testing is, and the statistics that come along with this issue. According to the Humane Society International, animal testing refers to processes implemented on animals for science, and safe and effective cosmetic products Animal Animal testing has been a controversial issue for many years, with more and more animals being harmed every day. Many companies support animal testing because it aids in the production of their cosmetic products. Their reasons for testing on animals Sahadath 2 are mainly strict assurance of safety and effectiveness for human use. As much as they try their best to reduce the use of animals on cosmetic products, they do not want the risk of their products harming humans. However, just as many organizations are against testing of animals in laboratories, especially for cosmetic products. These organizations educate people on the issue of animal testing, ways it can be prevented and the development of alternative methods. Alternative methods that are in the process of development are computer models such as skin sensitizers, microbes, cells and tissue cultures, the use of model organisms and deceased human volunteers (Doke and Dhawale 223). Animals have rights just as humans do and they should not have to face such merciless acts. According to PETA, in 2014, 1 million animals in the U.S, 3.02 million in Canada and 4.87 million in the United Kingdom were used for cosmetic testing. These animals are forced into this process and must suffer to live these harsh lifestyles of being confined in cages, isolated from freedom and being physically and psychologically traumatized on If animal testing cannot come to an end, there should be huge decreases in the number of animals being tested at least until the alternative methods are put into efficient effect. Many organizations have this desired goal of replacement for animal testing but the enthusiasm to implement other alternatives now are repeatedly muted (Watts 182). Animal testing is a harmful procedure performed on animals. If people were to research The Humane Society of the United States website, or any stakeholder organization that is against animal testing, they can get an insight as to what animals must face, and images of these animals after being tested in laboratories. These images will show unhappy and frightened animals that appear to be undernourished. Just glimpsing at the animals displayed, anyone can feel a sense of compassion and sadness towards the animals. Especially, people with pets would not want their animals to endure any suffrage from experiments that can be fatal. Imagine witnessing innocent Sahadath 3 animals undergoing these harsh procedures. Most people would only feel a sense of connection to help these animals if they see with their own eyes the treatment received when the testing occurs. Organizations that are against animal testing do a substantial job on giving previews on animals that are being tested on, with the use of videos. Most of these videos being graphic to show the truthfulness in what face Animal These thoughts and actions make many organizations and scientists want this procedure eliminated for alternative methods. Alternative methods such as skin sensitizers would be an effective implementation to use in replacement once it is developed (Gordon and Hawke 397). People should become engaged in the new developing methods so that animal testing can eventually be terminated. This issue is a matter of realizing what animals go through to produce a stick of mascara or a compact face powder, makeup that is used every day. These productions scar animals for life causing mental and physical damage. Also, if this act can come to an end, animals would not have to experience such abuse. Take action and become aware of the injustice of animal testing. Firstly, you can make a simple step of donating or joining The Humane Society of the United States, or any other organization that supports rights. Donations assist the organizations to provide aid for the animals to fight the cause. Animals that are tested in laboratories need all the help that they can get to terminate this practice. Secondly, becoming educated on this serious issue can lead people into buying animal cruelty-free products such as Nyx or Bath and Body Works, and encouraging others to follow. Thirdly, on certain website pages, such as PETA, there are links to share to friends and to the public, to educate them on the issue of animal testing Animal Testing Out of Your Shopping Lastly, there is also the option of signing a petition or writing letters so companies that test on animals can see how many people are against Sahadath 4 their actions. However, an extreme way to take action, if you are really concerned about these animals, is donating your body after you die for testing. You can think of it as helping suffering animals even when you are not alive. Animal testing should not be supported, as there are alternative methods that can replace this cruel act. The more people against this procedure, the closer this issue can get to being abolished. Animal testing is a prevalent issue worldwide. Animals have rights which are taken from them when being tested in laboratories for cosmetic productions. However, there will always be people who do not have an interest in this issue and will continue to use animal tested products (Bushnell 1606). People who are or become aware of this controversy should feel engaged with this issue to help animals in need of being saved from the cruelty of testing. Just the sight of these defenseless animals would make people want to become knowledgeable about this issue. Also, seeing the grieved animals would encourage people to take action and contribute something, whether it be donating to an organization or using animal cruelty-free products. If consumers keep buying the cosmetic products, the producers will keep testing on animals to continue the production. So, it is up to the consumers to take action and make a difference. Helping these animals and making animal testing illegal is possible. Sahadath 5 Works Cited Animal Humane Society International. N.p, n.d. Web. 14 Apr.2017. Bushnell, F. G. The British Medical Journal, vol. 2, no. 2396, 1906, pp. 1606-1606. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. Doke, Sonali K., and Shashikant C. Dhawale. Review: Alternatives To Animal Testing: A  Saudi Pharmaceutical Journal 23. (2015): 223-229. ScienceDirect. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. on PETA. N.p, n.d. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. Gordon, Jerry, and Scott D. Hawke. BioScience, vol. 29, no. 7, 1979, pp. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. Animal Testing Out of Your Shopping The Humane Society of the United States. N.p, n.d. Web 14 Apr. 2017. Watts, Geoff. Testing: Is It Worth BMJ: British Medical Journal, vol. 334, no.7586, 2007, pp. www.jstor.org