Hargrove 1 Markese Hargrove Professor Brandon Jackson ENC 1101 30 April 2017 When a person plays a sport that requires them to ram into another person or thing at full force, and full speeds, there are great risk that are going to come with it. One of those risks being, facing the chance of receiving a serious injury and to be more serious, and a head injury. Getting a head injury like a concussion comes with many negative effects that need to be managed and taken serious. Those negative effects being some sort of mental illness, and lifelong problems. To begin with, sustaining a head injury could be not only dangerous to your body, but also to your way of life. Depending on the severity of your concussion, it could be likely that you may end up with a very serious mental illness that will reshape your life in a very negative way. For example, the movie starring Will Smith shows what is meant by concussions may shape your life in a negative way. That movie goes in to depth on the thoughts, actions, and call to help many players go through when they receive a concussion. As displayed in the movie, a serious concussion can lead to the so far unsolvable mystery of what goes on with an Player like players killing themselves and or others, players getting addicted to dangerous drugs, player not knowing who they are and what is going on in the world, etc. One of the leading causes behind the head injuries getting so bad to the point of these problems not only came from the actual physical contact but also mostly came from the athletic trainers not treating them right. As explained by Andrew Notebaert, sports trainers and doctors Hargrove 2 were not going by the ground rules of treating an athlete with concussion or head injury type Without the proper treatment, a head injury would still be fresh allowing one simple hit to worsen the condition and causing more damage to the head and brain area, which is where the psychological problems stem from. According to Current Issues in the Identification, Assessment, and Management of Concussions in Sports-Related Injuries by Catherine Mckeever, number of sports-related concussions appears to be increasing, causing a greater need for appropriate identification by This, not necessarily as bad as concussions psychologically changing your way of life, but it is also a very negative effect to sustaining a head injury in sports. For many years and many cases today, much is not being done about head injuries. To better explained this point, this shows that a player can be hit in the head at full force and may be even stumbling a bit, but if they look capable of still playing trainers will treat this like any other simple injury and skip protocol and let them go out and play. This is simply unacceptable. With this, NFL officials and government have come up with many ways to combat the issue. Because they know exactly how to stop or cure it, one thing that they have tried in the past was upgrade on the uniforms worn. With Andrew McIntosh in and head protection for the athlete as a means to prevent argues that, is important that the sports can convey their needs to the standards organizations and manufacturers, e.g. a helmet to prevent intra-cranial hemorrhage and skull Although they are upgrading many players are still fighting these battles of concussions and their negative side effects on life. When it comes to injuries many people especially diehard fans turn the blind eye on it. So, when it comes to injuries they think much of it other than the fact that players Hargrove 3 using their techniques or just need to be more educated. To fix that, officials started doing things to educate the players and more. For example, in the article the era of sport concussion: Evolution of knowledge, practice, and the role of psychology, Julie Guay argues that, of the high stakes of mismanaging these injuries, professional sports organizations, federal/state government, and various health-related disciplines have responded with efforts to educate the public and improve treatment and management of this But this still has not solved the problem fully and more is still needs to be done. In the Fans eyes the Officials are simply killing the game. They care for all the new rules and their main rebuttal is that NFL is doing nothing but making the game no Hint the name (N)o (F)un (L)eague. While one could agree that some of the rules are making the game less pleasant to watch, most rules are still very much needed to protect a player and their wellbeing. Fans realize that these rules are being made for that reason. In the Massachusetts School Sports Concussions Law: A Qualitative Study of Local Implementation Experiences. Mitchell Doucette believes that goal is to strategize methods (starting with the youth) to help during the implementation process of a head This shows that the goal to eliminate the fun from the game, but to help gain more knowledge on the issue so that more can be done about it. No matter how the fans feel about it though, today many must follow the policy due to further information on the effects one might have due to poor treatment. (Hellen Ling 2016). In conclusion, of course when there are new rules to a thing someone loves so dearly they will have some sort of negative bias towards them. To be honest coming from an athlete, it is not about what the fans want, its more about what will protect them overall. Head Injuries are a very serious issue that cannot be played with. If not treated properly players can end up with all sorts Hargrove 4 of problems they control. That is an issue that needs immediate attention for the protection of everyone involved. These athletes have families and a life of their own to live. Hargrove 5 Markese Hargrove Professor Brandon Jackson ENC 1101 30 April 2017 Work Cited Doucette, Mitchell L., et al. The Massachusetts School Sports Concussions Law: A Qualitative Study Of Local Implementation  Journal Of Law, Medicine & Ethics 44.3 (2016): 503-513. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Guay, Julie L. The Era Of Sport Concussion: Evolution Of Knowledge, Practice, And The Role Of  American Psychologist 71.9 (2016): 875-887. Education Source. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Ling, Helen, John Hardy, and Henrik Zetterberg. Neurological Consequences Of Traumatic Brain Injuries In  Molecular And Cellular Neuroscience 66.Part B (2015): 114- 122. McIntosh, Andrew S. Helmets and Head Protection for The Athlete as A Means to Prevent  International Sportmed Journal 4.1 (2003): 1-9. Academic Search Premier. McKeever, Catherine K., and Philip Schatz. Current Issues in The Identification, Assessment, And Management of Concussions in Sports-Related  Applied Neuropsychology 10.1 (2003): 4-11. Academic Search Premier Notebaert, Andrew J.1, Current Trends in Athletic Training Practice for Concussion Assessment and  Journal of Athletic Training (National Athletic Association) 40.4 (2005): 320-325.