Bazan 1 Valeria Bazan Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 12 February 2017 A Given Right Physician assisted suicide is still one of the most controversial issues in the United States. It is defined as the medical aiding of a terminally ill patient for a painless death and so far it is only legal in six states. Opponents towards it have more of a moral and religious perspective to the issue while in contrast, proponents look at it in terms of a rightful choice dismissing the misconceptions of the right to die. Over the years more and more organizations are being established within the nation but it is still a struggling legal effort; support is needed. The majority of states do not have assisted suicide legalized and because of this, patients who have not been diagnosed as terminally but run the potential risk should become involved in the legalization process so if their time comes, they can have a choice. Assisted Suicide has been a crucial issue since 1828 where the First United States Statute outlawing assisted suicide was enacted Historical Timeline - Euthanasia - A climactic stage in the 1870s was then hit when morphine and other drugs were trying to be publicly advocated in the usage of assisting a patient to die with dignity. It was evidently rejected by the American Medical Association as it was seen as a For over the course of the years, many organizations began to rise in support of the legalization of assisted suicide. Such organizations which have brought upon new change include Compassions and Choices and Death with Dignity. Finally, on October 1st, 1971, the First Aid in Dying Statute was Bazan 2 signed into a law in California. The following year, eight states (California, New Mexico, Arkansas, Nevada, Idaho, Oregon, North Carolina, and Texas) signed right to die bills into laws (Should euthanasia or physician-assisted suicide be legal?). As seen throughout history, as time progresses, people are leaning more toward the idea that everyone indeed should have the right to die. Even just recently, the outreach manager of Compassion & Choices, Amanda Cavanaugh, has put in efforts for New York to finally get a death with dignity law through a bill called the Medical Aid in Dying Act for 2017 ( right to  2017). But even through this progress over the years, those changes have evidently progressed at a slow pace. To pinpoint this slow pace it is important to target the reasons why a lot of people are not for assisted suicide. One of the most controversial arguments is the religious and moral perspective of euthanasia. At a heavy basis, people have shoved the idea that God is the only one who has the right to take away a life. The expectation of everyone to go by this thought is simply absurd. One, not everyone is religious and hence one cannot force such ideologies as a support to any argument. To some, there is gift of life through or even a for all it matters. Organizations such as Death with Dignity who support the right to die do not leave these arguments out of the picture. They have an entire page on their website dedicated to religions and their position. Under Roman Catholicism, Death with conclusion stated, Francis, despite being considered more liberal than past popes, has continued statements against physician-hastened death, stating that the practice is and a result of our that devalues and dehumanizes the (Death With Dignity). What about assisted suicide is a false compassion? People can understand the point of view of a catholic at their dying stage praying and believing that it is will. But what about the dying atheist Bazan 3 who wants to stop suffering?How come there is not a consideration for his choice? People cannot be generalized. That is what it comes down to a logical and realistic perspective; let the laws accommodate everyone. The people should ultimately have a choice. The religious should have the choice to accept the suffering just like the non-religious should have the choice not to. According to a report by The Economist, one-third of those medically prescribed with lethal drugs do not even end up using them but feel secure enough with the option of having them Is It Ethical to Affirm a Right to ). Hence it is seen that assisted suicide is also about giving the people a sense of security and a feeling of choice that should not be denied. Moving onto a more logical argument, those against assisted suicide stand for the due process clause of the United States that does not protect our liberty to commit suicide (Should euthanasia or physician-assisted suicide be legal?). This is where there this misconception. In literal terms, it is the right to suicide for which people are trying to change the laws for. There is a difference however between being mentally ill and wanting to commit suicide versus being terminally ill wanting to commit suicide. In an article, the fear that could become confiscation, police could become instruments of oppression, public education could become indoctrination, etc ( Is It Ethical to Affirm a Right to are all part of the which assisted suicide could bring about. Another slippery slope is the idea that the mentally ill may take advantage of the law to have a painless ending. All logical to question but also all logical to answer. There are reasons why regulations exist. The law changing should not mean that a person can wake up and get physician-assisted suicide. There is a term called regulation. Obvious precautions and in-depth psychological evaluations and assessments should be taken into consideration when enacting the right to die law. Moving to a more emotional Bazan 4 stance, some people would love it for their loved ones to be next to them in their dying hours. It was deemed impossible for everyone who is terminally ill to get this wish but now it is not. With the legalization of assisted suicide, those who become terminally ill can choose the exact moment they wish to pass and end their suffering. This means, that those patients can ultimately have the ones they wish around them. Dying alone is not a concept wished upon most. Thus, there are many ways that one can be involved in securing their right to die and protect themselves against this concept. Organizations such as Compassion & Choices are endlessly creating programs that will set up patients with personalized health care plans based on their values. By donating to such programs patients will be able to look out for themselves and also as Compassion & mission states, their choice at the end (Compassion & Another way is to sign petitions and declare support. Web sites such as Compassion & Choices and Death with Dignity have a page where people can sign state petitions that will eventually lead legislators to pass the law. Declaring support is huge and can really make a difference. By declaring support, patients can stand for their right to die. It is encouraged to form movements and even start local groups in support. The impact of an organization consisting of patients fighting for their right to die can become a huge stepping-stone to the legalization of assisted suicide. Assisted Suicide is seen through many misconceptions and bias religious beliefs that should not be an excuse for a choice to go unnoticed. The legalization process has been at a slow pace so far with it being legal in six states so far but the support is finally outpouring. By declaring support and donating to organizations that are for the right to die, the process can Bazan 5 speed up even more. A special time and date can be picked by any patient so that they can go about their last days in the best possible way to their taste. The concept of being surrounded by loved ones at the end would also be a guarantee with the right to die law being enacted. Thus is it is important for those who care about their choice in the end to act and become part of the movement so that their given right gets protected and they can go about their life in the best way in the final days. Bazan 6 Work Cited Compassion &  & . N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 Historical Timeline - Euthanasia -  euthanasia or physician-assisted suicide be N.p., n.d. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. The right to  . The Economist Newspaper, 27 June 2015. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. Top 10 Pros and Cons - Euthanasia -  euthanasia or physician-assisted suicide be N.p., n.d. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. Press-Republican, Robi Caudell. A right to  . N.p., 25 Jan. 2017. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. Religion and  With . N.p., n.d. Web. 17 Apr. 2017 Will, George. Is It Ethical to Affirm a Right to  . N.p., 31 Aug. 2015. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. Bazan, V. (2017). Change In Unpublished Manuscript, University of South Florida