Gonzalez 1 Madison Gonzalez Kristin Rouisse ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Assisted Suicide Can Help The word suicide does not usually sit well with people due to the end result. Society is not comfortable with the idea of loss and change, especially when it is initiated by a party involved. Although suicide is not the answer to obstacles faced or an overall hard life, physician assisted suicide is something that helps people in need. The definition of physician assisted suicide is practice of providing a competent patient with a prescription for medication for the patient to use with the primary intention of ending his or her own (2017). When discussing assisted suicide it is important to realize that it is truly a last resort when someone is terminally ill and in severe pain. Most people, especially ones in the middle of their lives, have witnessed or heard about the awful experience involving someone at the end of their life, so everyone can connect to and understand how hard that time period is. Therefore, middle aged men and women need to sign petitions backing physician assisted suicide as well as donate their time and money to organizations in support of it because they might need to utilize this option later on in life. Many organizations take a staunch stance against the idea of physician assisted suicide because they believe it to be immoral and even selfish; this dissent is clearly seen through statements such as this one, is never death with dignity, and assisted suicide legislation threatens true patient choices at the end of (2016). Organizations made by people who Gonzalez 2 disagree with assisted suicide believe that there is no dignity in assisted death, but how can a person have dignity when they are dying and in immense pain? Giving a patient viable options when they come to the end of their treatments is not threatening their choices; it is allowing them to make the best decision for themselves. These negative beliefs stem from the stigma that comes along with suicide in general, but assisted suicide is not the same situation at all. To assume that assisted suicide is corrupt is and unfounded. The decision is not taken lightly or in haste; it is the last resort of unfortunate circumstances. As stated before, assisted suicide and suicide in general is frowned upon due to the sense of abandonment and change. A statistic illustrates the extent to which people disapprove of physicians aiding in the ending of life: 31% of U.S. adults surveyed believe that doctors and nurses should do whatever possible to save a life. In 1990, this number was only (Wpadmin). It is important to remember that in some extreme circumstances not everyone would wish to be saved following a traumatic accident; to research, some 66% of U.S. adults believe that a doctor or nurse should allow a patient to die in certain (2016). The adults that partook in this research, for the most part, understand that sometimes quality of life can be completely diminished after a tragic accident. Dignity is not found in living through unnecessary pain and anguish. It is truly seen when someone is permitted the right to end it all when they see fit. Even though there is a following of people against the right to choose own fate, there is also many who support the decision of ending a life under specific circumstances. Everyone, especially people nearing the end of their adult lives, should be interested in this issue because they could come across the exact situation one day. No one wants to admit that they might be in need of severe medical assistance at some point, but more likely than not they will. As an adult, it is hard to imagine not being allowed to make the most important decision of life Gonzalez 3 when decisions were always made on an individual level. No one can truly know what they would want to do in a situation such as enduring a terminal illness until they are actually going through it. Onlookers judge situations and deem them wrong or selfish when they truly have no idea what they would do in that scenario. The people that should be deciding their fate are the ones that endure the pain and suffering, not the observers who have never encountered anything of that magnitude. Anything can look plain and simple from the outside when it is not happening on a personal level. It is essential to be in support of physician assisted suicide in order to be given the opportunity to make decisions when or if it comes down to that. Middle aged citizens especially need to get involved because it is very likely that they will be either first hand or second hand affected by this issue. Although it may seem hard to contribute to this cause, it can actually be as simple as signing a petition of support. This act would rally together everyone in support of the right to decide their own fate, making it easy to see by lawmakers and opposing opinions that assisted suicide is supported and a well-known issue. This link https://www.deathwithdignity.org/take-action/petition-florida/ can be used to show a great deal of support in less than a minute by simply signing the petition (Death with Dignity). At the same website, it is easy to share information with others about assisted suicide as well as declare support of it. These actions may not seem like they would make a difference, but they truly cause a ripple effect of support concerning the right to die. Among these options, there is also the opportunity to donate monetarily to this issue. A donation can help the cause in multiple ways, whether it goes to patients who wish to die in peace or to rallies and organizations that fight for their rights. Any amount would help in the progress of this issue. An inspiring way to get involved is to partake in a rally for physician assisted suicide. This would provide an opportunity Gonzalez 4 to showcase beliefs concerning this issue as well as meet others who are just as passionate about it. Physician assisted suicide is a controversial issue that affects everyone in some way due to the high prevalence of terminal illness across the world. Even with such a high occurrence, it is an issue that does not get a lot of publicity or attention from most citizens because it is a hard topic to discuss. This lack of media publicity is detrimental to the patients in need of the medical attention discussed due to them not being able to make their own decisions in most states in the U.S; this is why people need to get involved and show their support for assisted suicide by something as small as signing a petition or as large as donating funds to organizations that are explicitly for the issue. The concept of letting an adult choose their own fate should be simple because it is their decision to make, but outsiders deem themselves more level-headed and take control of the situation when it is not their place to intervene. It is essential more support is rallied together to fight for people who cannot fight for themselves. Word Count:1200 Gonzalez 5 Works Cited Citizens Against Assisted  True Dignity. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Dying with  Home Page 2. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Medical Definition of Physician-assisted  MedicineNet. N.p., 24 Jan. 2017. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. Physician-Assisted Suicide Fast  CNN. Cable News Network, 07 June 2016. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Take  Death With Dignity. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Wpadmin. 25 Surprising Physician Assisted Suicide  HRFnd. N.p., 03 Apr. 2015. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.