Ramsamy 1 Taylor Ramsamy ENC 1102 Dennis April 30, 2017 NSA: An Ignored American Danger On September 11, 2001, the United States suffered one of the biggest tragedies in its 240 year history. Over three thousand Americans died that day as a result of a terrorist plot that sadly could not be discovered in time to stop it. Many American citizens are old enough to remember the image of the Word Trade Center billowing smoke as it slowly collapsed due to the impact of two hijacked airplanes hitting them. The image was ingrained into our minds as we swore that we would never let the tragedy repeat, no matter what the cost. As a result of this immense tragedy, the American Government scrambled to try and find ways to prevent this from happening in the future. However, in recent years, due to leaked documents from whistleblowers, it has been discovered what exactly they did to do this. In 2001, President George W Bush gave unprecedented power to a government agency called the National Security Agency (NSA), by allowing them to begin monitoring their fellow citizens without their knowledge. Instead of protecting the American people, this law allowed the NSA to trample the rights of the American people by invading their privacy to unwarranted levels. The Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF) is one of many groups who has begun to fight against the NSA as a result, as they sue the organization to hold it responsible to the American values it was created to help protect. It is my belief that the NSA needs to be put into check as a result, as the NSA has gone too far into its surveillance by collecting too much information without realizing the dangers of doing so and without showing results. Ramsamy 2 As stated before, the NSA is a government agency that was given a great deal of power as a result of the Patriot Act of 2001. The main goal of the agency is to gather any information that is needed by the federal government in order to protect the American people from any potential threats Asked ). The organization does this by monitoring communications and activities made by suspected terrorists in search of any clues as to an incoming attack. As a result, the NSA examines many different venues in search of any potential terrorist threats. They previously examined telephone records, but now their main attention is on the internet. Currently, they target information found through e-mail, as well through accounts under organizations like Microsoft, Yahoo, Google, Facebook,Skype and Apple. (Gellman ). The amount of data that the NSA has control of is simply staggering. Before the 2015 revision of the Patriot Act in Congress , it was found that the NSA had been recording 3 billion phone calls a day directly. Even after the revision though, the NSA would have access to these phone calls though, as the organization just has to request it from the phone companies themselves (Harkinson). The EFF claims that the NSA has access to at least 1.7 billion e-mails per day with current technology the Domestic Spying Program In addition to this, NSA veteran William Binley has stated that he believes that the NSA is in possession of 15 to 20 trillion information transactions from the course of eleven years. the Domestic Spying Program There is an immense danger with allowing the NSA to to be able record and have possession of so much data. The NSA has been found to keep the communications they stumble across online for at least five years, later keeping those records offline in a different server for up to ten years. (Levison-Waldman).This means that the government would have access to any phone call or message you send for up to ten years to bring up whenever it finds it necessary. In some cases, information can be collected by the NSA Ramsamy 3 under the guise of a criminal investigation, even if there is no reason to, and can be kept for up to 30 years as they brought up against the supposed criminal (Levison-Waldman).It may seem to be unimportant to many Americans as they believe they have nothing to hide, but unfortunately that means nothing. When the NSA collects data, it collects all the information contained within that data. This data can contain information like license numbers, legal documents, financial documents,which would include credit and debt card numbers, and health records (Domestic Surveillance National Data Warehouse.). This information may not land you in jail, but it can seriously affect your life. By keeping these records for so long, the NSA risks having this information being leaked or accessed by others. Even if the NSA claims that it is a secure venue, there have been lapses in security before. An example of this is the the scandal involving the spying of NSA officials on love interests. According Reuters, it was found that at least 12 NSA officials had been using their position to examine the actions of those they knew. Due to their positions in the NSA, it was found that they were able to access the calls and or e-mail records of their loved ones and track their actions through those means (Selyukh). In addition to this, there are future dangers to be taken into account as well. This wide range of data would make it harder for the NSA to find terrorists, not easier. This would be due to the fact that NSA officials would be hardpressed to examine large volumes of information at once in a short amount of time. This short amount of time devoted to documents could lead to some potential signs of terrorism being missed. In fact, according to some experts, this overload of information has lead to some terrorism attacks, like the Fort Hood shooting and slipping past and putting American lives at risk. (Levison-Waldman). The NSA, however, claims that this massive surveillance is necessary and that it has pulled results. In fact, the NSA has claimed that they have prevented 54 terrorist attacks Ramsamy 4 worldwide using these methods. This may seem impressive, but this information is misleading. First off, only 13 of those 54 attacks would have taken place in the United States.In addition, there was no major terror plots prevented by the NSA as none were detected by them in advance. Most of the potential threats that had been detected by the NSA were of smaller crimes like supporting terrorist groups, aspiring to attack, or joining the group. Also, it was found of those potential attacks, the FBI had already intercepted them and were in the process of determining the validity of the attackers before arresting them. (McLaughlin). Also, it should be noted that according to the United States State Department, there was approximately 11,774 terrorism attacks worldwide in 2015, resulting in the deaths of 28,328 people just in that year alone due to terrorism attacks.This shows the NSA has been largely ineffective so far, even with their massive surveillance. The issue of NSA surveillance may seem to be an issue too big for ordinary citizens to protect themselves from. However, it is easier than it seems to protect yourself from the dangers of NSA surveillance. It is recommended that you turn on a two-factor authentication on your accounts whenever it is possible Internet Two-factor authentication is a system that would send a randomly generated confirmation code to your phone or e-mail whenever you log into an account. Before you would be able to access the account, you would have to input this code. If the code is not implemented in addition to the password, access would be denied to the device. This authentication is also available on Gmail, meaning that this could be added to your student account provided by USF. To add two-step authentication to your Gmail, all you would have to do is search to add two-step authentication to your gmail and click on the link entitled 2-Step Once there, all you have to do is follow the instructions listed there. That is an Ramsamy 5 simple way to at protect your own privacy and make it harder for the NSA to access your documents. However, to fully protect ourselves, we must find a way to help prevent the NSA from continuing its massive surveillance system on own citizens. And that is where the EFF comes into play. The EFF is currently attempting to hold the NSA to its actions in court by taking two separate cases to federal court over their surveillance methods. The first case is Jewel vs NSA, with their lawsuit alleging that the NSA committed unconstitutional actions by partnering with telecommunications companies to gather data. The second case is First Unitarian vs NSA, in which they are suing the NSA to prevent them from collecting any more telephone records. Their goal is to have the federal courts rule in their favor and limit the NSA to surveying those who truly have terror ties, not normal citizens of the United States The best way to help them is by donating to group so that they can be able to continue the fight for our rights. The easiest way to help continue the fight is by going onto their website and donating to the group. In addition, if you go to you can find various different ways to help donate to the cause if you can not donate monetary value. The EFF will take donations of frequent flyer miles, cars, or even stock donations, There is no denying that the events of September 11, 2001 were tragic. It is a day that the lives of over three thousand American citizens were killed due to the fact that their government was unable to detect the threat in time. It is a day that will live on in infamy as the image of those smoking towers haunt us to this very day. However, this does not mean that the American people should hand over all their rights to privacy to the government for an agency that only gives them the illusion of safety. The NSA may try to keep us safe, but their massive surveillance program is doing more harm to its citizens than good. If we truly want to protect our nation and create a safer world, we need to reform the NSA again so that it targets terrorists, not the innocent Ramsamy 6 citizens that live in its nation. The NSA has not been helpful over the years, but that does not mean it can not be. American just needs to truly protect our nation, not work against it. Ramsamy 7 Works Cited Electronic Frontier Foundation, 29 Oct. 2014, www.eff.org/about. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. Data: If You Have Nothing to Hide, You Have Nothing to Domestic Surveillance National Data Warehouse. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. Asked NSA, www.nsa.gov/about/faqs/about-nsa-faqs.shtml. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. Gellman, Barton, and Laura Poitras. British intelligence mining data from nine U.S. Internet companies in broad secret The Washington Post, WP Company, 7 June 2013, www.washingtonpost.com/investigations/us-intelligence-mining-data-from- nine-us-internet-companies-in-broad-secret-program/2013/06/06/3a0c0da8-cebf-11e2- Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. Harkinson, Josh. the incredible amount of data the NSA could be giving up in just 24 Mother Jones, www.motherjones.com/politics/2015/06/patriot-act-nsa- surveillance-expiration. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. the Domestic Spying Program Electronic Frontier Foundation, 9 Aug. 2014, www.eff.org/nsa-spying/how-it-works. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Ramsamy 8 Levinson-Waldman, Rachel. double danger of the it policy on surveillance Rachel The Guardian, Guardian News and Media, 10 Oct. 2013, www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2013/oct/10/double-danger-nsa- surveillance. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. National Consortium for the Study of Terrorism and Responses to Terrorism: Annex of Statistical  U.S. Department of State. U.S. Department of State, n.d. Web. 29 Apr. 2017. <https://www.state.gov/j/ct/rls/crt/2015/257526.htm> NSA  Electronic Frontier Foundation. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Apr. 2017 . Selyukh, Alina. NSA staff used spy tools on spouses, ex-lovers:  Reuters. Thomson Reuters, 27 Sept. 2013. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Steps You Can Take Right Now Against Internet Electronic Frontier Foundation, 27 Oct. 2013, www.eff.org/deeplinks/2013/10/ten-steps-against- surveillance. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. on First Unitarian Church v. NSA: First Amendment Challenge to NSA Electronic Frontier Foundation, 21 Sept. 2015, www.eff.org/deeplinks/2015/09/update- eff-case-arguing-nsa-spying-violated-groups-first-amendment-rights. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017.