Abdelbari 1 Omar Abdelbari Ms. Heiser ENC1102 April 3, 2017 Christianity and the Afterlife Proposition To many Christian people, the world that man lives in was engineered by God and he presumably made all its inhabitants with free will. Based on their actions here in the free world, God would decide their fate in the other world, the other life he has afterlife. The afterlife decides what becomes of people after their temporary life here on Earth. God made the worlds of the afterlife with great distinction; a world for those who will be saved, and one for those who be. The concept of these worlds known as Heaven and Hell, follows common logic here with actions on earth, i.e. if one lives in an unlawful way, he is then subject to face repercussions. However, the huge difference is that the afterlife warrants repercussions for eternity rather than just worldly punishments. On the other side, if man lives within the restrictions of the laws set down by God, then he is granted a place in eternal paradise. But what if this promise is not even real? What if man follows these laws and limits his life for nothing? Either way, this is a pretty big deal and should be thought about by everyone. Simply put, what man does here on earth can potentially decide his fate forever, whether one considers forever to be the afterlife or the current one. Understanding religion, science and philosophy could potentially pave a lifestyle for man and his respective eternity. The average time a human lives for is 79 years. In that 79 years, a man could feel as though he has accomplished all life has had to offer in that span of time. He may feel as though he has lived forever simply because there was not a time he could remember when he was not Abdelbari 2 around. Without being able to fathom the thought of centuries before a current time, the thoughts of afterlife could be overwhelming and even perhaps inconceivable. PhD and University of Philosophy Professor Sean Carrol explains this in his journal Big Carrol explains that the afterlife cannot be conceived because the only way to conceive something is to compare it to something else. He shows this when he questions the reader would you be if you had different (Carrol). By this idea, then the only way to perhaps conceive the afterlife, to figure out what it might actually be, would be to compare it to the worldly life. Almost every scientific breakthrough has stemmed from people trying to make sense of their worldly life. Thus, understanding the worldly life is made easiest by understanding scientific reason. However, scientific reasoning is a means by which millions of people make sense of not just the current life, but the afterlife also. American writer and professional Biochemist Isaac Asimov discusses this in his book Life and Energy. In the book, Asimov relates that science, when taken in its simplest form, is just a cycle of energy which human beings make sense of the attributes of the world. He explained this by stating that have airplanes today because people wondered why we cannot fly and we have gravity because people wondered what kept us (Asimov). His main theory is that Life can be thought of a cycle of energy i.e. Man is born of some energy and when he dies, his energy is transferred to something else. Life as a natural occurrence of the world is a theory held by millions of atheists around the world. They believe that after the current life, there is not a just ceases to exist. This however is a complete contrast to the afterlife proposed by Christianity. In the Holy Bible, the afterlife very much exists and is eternal. The Book of John in the Holy Bible affirms who believes in Me, though he may die, he shall (John Abdelbari 3 11:25). This idea has shaped many Christians current lifestyles, which seems perfectly logical. If the current life is nothing but a mere snippet of what the afterlife has to offer, why not live by the regulations God has set down? This idea has served in many social angles as well. e.g. The idea of the afterlife comforts someone when a loved one has passed away by the sentiments are in a better place Because of this comfort, brings reason as to why many people lean to this proposition rather than the scientific gives life a lot more purpose. However, whether it be scientific or Biblical, personal belief will not necessarily change the outcome of what might actually become of man after his time on earth has ended and thus an evaluation of his current life should be the main priority. The key is to remember that even with all the speculation on the afterlife, there is one thing that remains current life. The way one lives his current life will always determine whether the afterlife is great or not, exists or not, and most importantly what it means to them. Famous Philosopher Alan Watts made mention of this in his book The Tao of Philosophy. He stated that whatever a person perceives the afterlife to be, it will always adjust the way he acts in the current life. If one does not believe in the afterlife, the current one should surely mean everything to them and should live it to its fullest at all times. If Christianity is the path that one might think is for them, then a reevaluation of their current life should still be made in order to ensure they are doing the right thing. But first one might need to discover truly who they are and what they really want out of this life before considering the afterlife and that does not always have to be as complicated as it sounds. One way to discover the things that might intrigue a person is to always have them learn something new about their religion. Alex Blackwell, a famous blogger told about this on his web page He said that most people are born into Christianity and thus they Abdelbari 4 never are given the opportunity to tell if it is really for them. The way he resolves this is to encourage the casual Christian to open up to new ideas, read about different theologies, deepen their knowledge about the Bible and they may be surprised to how much they did not know. He guarantees that people will have a different outlook on life here and beyond if they seek a deeper answer to questions they thought they had the answer to. Another way to cope with understanding what the afterlife means is to live differently. The easiest way to do that is to travel. Chris Riotta, a journalist for Elite News said that in order to completely appreciate life, one needs to travel. Travelling can open up mind to all the different wonders of the world and in essence, provide a sort of satisfaction of the life they lived in the current world. If one has seen all there is to see here, then they would be more open to the potential wonders of the afterlife rather than just being stuck with their Religious or personal perspective of what it might be. Whether the afterlife means an eternity in Heaven, Hell or does not exist at all, what it means to a person can drastically change by the way their current life is lived. Understanding the possibilities of what the afterlife may be, is essentially the prompt to appreciating and living the current life to its fullest. Do not wait to die to begin to start living because there is no guarantee what happens next. Abdelbari 5 Works Cited Asimov, Isaac. Life and energy. New York: Avon, 1977. Print. Blackwell, Posted By Alex. Beliefnet Voices - Alex  Everyday Inspiration. Carrol, Sean. The Big Picture: On the Origins of Life, Meaning, and the Universe  Booklist, no. 18, 2016, p. 6. EBSCOhost. Riotta, Chris. People Who Travel Frequently Are Open-Minded, Creative And  Elite Daily. N.p., 25 Aug. 2015. Web. 04 Apr. 2017 Watts, Alan. The Tao of philosophy: the edited transcripts. Tokyo: Tuttle Pub., 2002. Print.