Elsner 1 Dylan Elsner Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 April 16, 2017 The Best Backseat Driver In an age where road rage and traffic own the highways, every commuter wants to be done with the Many grip their steering wheel on I-4, begging for a better way to get from their house to the office. On that same interstate, two drivers exchange information after one of them carelessly changed lanes, causing an accident. It is unreasonable to expect the entire population to give up their personal car to take the bus. After all, drivers love decorating their vehicles, touting which school their honor student attends meaning personal vehicles have lots of staying power. Self-driving cars have been dreamt of since highways were first built; a robotic taxi that belongs to a single person is no longer science fiction, but slowly becoming reality. However, the revolutionary technology is facing a long development period because so few consumers talk about it. The technology can be developed, but it would be unsafe for a fully automated car to be on the road while unaided drivers still commute. Because unsafe, outdated vehicles are causing preventable accidents, drivers need to create demand for assisted driving technologies to make the roadways safer. In Florida, most common car accident a rear-end (Jim) which is almost always caused by following too closely and not having enough time to stop the car. Not only is this accident completely avoidable, it is also a form of aggressive driving that is impossible when cars are outfitted with driver-assist features or are automated. Assisted driving Elsner 2 cars will begin to apply the brakes when the front-facing sensors detect another object, meaning tailgating on the highways would come to an end. Self-driving cars, on the other hand, will be capable of transmitting their position and speed to each other; if one car begins to slow down, the cars behind it will apply the brakes at the exact same moment. The human reaction time is on average approximately of a (Florida Safety Council). Meaning it takes the driver a second and a half to both recognize the threat, and begin to apply the brakes. A car traveling at 60 mph, which is lower than Florida interstates, takes four and a half seconds to completely stop; once the driver realizes traffic is slowing down, they may already be colliding with the vehicle in front of them. Assisted driving and self-driving cars can completely eliminate the most common accident in the state of Florida; the technology will prevent accidents caused by merging into a car, pulling out in front of car, and will be capable of stopping drivers from running red lights. Accident fatalities will become less common than lightning strikes, but only if the public demand that this technology become safe and affordable. Even more common than fender-bender collisions is bumper-to-bumper traffic. Florida is full of commuters, meaning congested roadways can transform the largest highway into a free parking lot. Stop lights, yield signs, and merging lanes contribute to packed roads. Even new drivers recognize how difficult it can be to maintain a constant speed when more cars get onto the road; if one driver slows down, every vehicle in the lane must match that speed. What happens when someone realizes that their exit is the next lane over too late, and must wait for somebody to let them over? Everybody in the middle lane now must wait for the right lane to let the car over, creating more traffic. These situations cannot be fixed by assisted driving technology, as these are caused by a lack of communication. However, if a network of self- driving cars was implemented instead, then traffic would only occur from the most extreme Elsner 3 congestion. A super intelligent vehicle will recognize that traffic will flow best when they let a car get into its lane, as it prevents the other lanes from slowing down to merge. Because self- driving cars have much better reaction times, they can also go the speed limit safely in congestion, they will only need to slow down slightly to make room for other vehicles. And once all of the drivers clogging up the roads get to their destination, their intelligent vehicle may even be capable of parking itself. The less complex systems offer parallel and perpendicular parking, while more expensive features will aid the driver in locating a parking spot (Doug). The biggest reason that this technology is not more common is the cost. Many people struggle to afford a used vehicle, let alone a car packed with the most innovative driving features. Fortunately, the best way to lower the cost of a product is through competition. Companies currently developing these features are clearing the way for their competitors to pick up the slack and release cheaper versions of the same features in the future. However, companies not currently invested in this technology will start their work sooner if the public asks for it. If enough people tell the giant car companies of the US that these features will convince them to purchase their products, then they will begin to compete. Some features are currently available for purchase, such as assisted braking and blind spot detection, and they reduce the cost of insurance that covers the vehicle as it less likely to be in a crash. Even though these features are offered by several different manufacturers, the features may vary slightly, both in functionality and own unique (Reports). Several different terms for what is essentially the same technology can be very confusing for consumers; a standard should be put in place. The driver- assist systems should share names, not unlike current features such as power steering and ABS. In a sense, the extra cost of these features will pay for themselves in the money saved from cheaper premiums. Elsner 4 Because it is a logical next step in the infrastructure of the US, commuters may assume that the implementation of this technology is inevitable, but that would be taking the part they can play for granted. Self-driving cars have been in development for quite a while, but they are only being produced for consumers by a handful of companies. As it stands, there enough demand to justify mass production for public use. Several companies are working to outfit their vehicles with this groundbreaking technology. Consumers who want this technology should support Google, Mercedes Bens, Nissan, (Strohm) if they are really interested in getting this technology. However, supporting a car manufacturer can be very expensive, and is likely not on the average budget. The next best way to generate the interest required for the technology to be readily available for purchase is by creating the demand on social media. If every day, stories related to self-driving cars were trending on twitter, then companies would take notice. If every driver fed up with traffic and accidents spread the word and created demand for self-driving and assisted driving vehicles, then the roadways would become a much safer place. Elsner 5 Works Cited Strohm, Mitch. Driverless Cars: 6 Firms On The Cutting  Bankrate. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. Florida Safety Council - Matrix BDI - Chapter Six. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. Doug Newcomb, Alex Colon January 18, 2017 10 Comments. The Best Driver-Assist Cars of  PCMAG. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. Reports, Consumer. Cars With Advanced Safety  Consumer Reports. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. the Most Common Type of Car Accident in  Jim Dodson Law. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Apr. 2017.