Smalls 1 Jasmine Smalls Professor Martha Heiser English 1102 4 April 2017 Trendsetting in the LGBT Community How long will the inequality within the LGBT community be ignored? Though the LGBT community has made some progress, they still have a long ways to go to be considered equal. Prior to the past decade and a half, the LGBT community has faced several obstacles. These obstacles include but are not limited to getting married, discrimination, labor laws, and violence. Fast forward to time and it can be seen that reforms have taken place but not enough. The LGBT community needs help with being heard. The fight for change within the LGBT community is usually done by its own member which is not enough to get their point across. To further excel with reforms for the LGBT community, a plan must be put in place to include more people of the non-LGBT community to further raise awareness and support. Standing for Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender, the LGBT includes more than just in the name. is an umbrella term that encompasses a diversity of gender expression including drag queens and kings, bi-genders, crossdressers, transgenderists, and (Ncadi). The word transgender alone defines different groups that would be classified as part of the LGBT community. Looking from the present into the past, it is seen that the LGBT community has come a long way over the past decade or so due to its efforts. Under the presidency of Bill Clinton, in 1993, the ask. policy was implemented amongst gay soldiers in the U.S. military. Gays were not allowed to openly serve in the military. If it was found out that they were gay, then they were dismissed from their services. Due to the Smalls 2 fight and efforts of the LGBT community, this act was banned in 2001 by president Obama thus allowing gays to openly serve our county. Another popular progression of the LGBT community would be the fight for same sex marriage. As of 2015, the ban of same sex marriage was proved to be unconstitutional resulting in its legalization in all 50 states. With a in social science, Kath Wilson stated that would help remove negative symbolism associated with same-sex relationships and make a positive statement about their equal (Wilson 89). It was thought that the legalization of same-sex marriage would create a wave of change for the LGBT community and their equality. On the other hand, although some of their many efforts have paid off, there are still a lot of issues that need to be changed. Discrimination, violence, and healthcare are still major issues that the LGBT community faces. A lot of places will use the freedom of religion right to deny services to anybody of the LGBT community (Stack). Some people of the LGBT community are in fact religious themselves so this is very unethical and prejudice. It feel good to be discriminated against; nobody deserves to be turned away because of who they are. The same goes for the healthcare. Those who are transgender often have a hard time finding insurance with decent coverage. Insurance should accommodate all types of people being that not everybody would have the same health risks as those apart of the LGBT community. The LGBT community is more at risk for viruses such as HIV/AIDs. The healthcare system should provide better coverage for incidents likes this. The issues within the LGBT community may not affect one who is not a part of the LGBT community but that does not mean that it should be ignored. As human beings, it is easy to be ignorant to things that may not affect self. Rather than turning the blind eye, it is important that people of the non-LGBT community become mindful and understanding to their Smalls 3 controversies. By doing so, a greater support system can arise thus making equality easier to achieve. Without support behind something, it makes being heard difficult. In fact, the LGBT community recently took a few steps back after the mass shooting at the gay nightclub, Pulse, located in Orlando, Florida. Speaking on the Pulse nightclub shooting with a degree in civilization, New York Times reporter, Daniel states Now progress has been stripped away in one chaotic  38). Due to the shooting, a lot of those within the LGBT community are experiencing a sense of fear to speak out thus slowing down their movement towards reform. Violence amongst the LGBT is very popular and the issue at Pulse nightclub was a big reminder. gay and transgender people, especially those of color, experience violence at disproportionately high rates compared to straight cisgender (Scaccia). Those of the LGBT community are more at risk of being put into violent situations because of their sexuality. This is only part of the reason why it is important for those outside of their community to help take a stand. Taking a stand always have to include major actions; just join the movement. Furthermore, it is one thing for someone to just say they support the LGBT community but it is another thing to actually show support. By showing support, a trend can be started resulting in the growth of a support system. The best way to create a voice is by creating a brand out of the LGBT community. More people will be willing to become aware of what is going on. This can be done by wearing items that showcase the LGBT community. This includes bracelets, t-shits, pins, and etc. By creating a trend in merchandise that shows support for the LGBT community, more people will be open to do so as well. Sometimes traditional and religious belief can make it hard for one to support the LGBT community. By creating a trend, it can make people of that category even more comfortable to say they support the LGBT community. They Smalls 4 have to openly speak on it; they could simply wear a rainbow bracelet that shows your support. Creating a trend of just wearing something rainbow colored eases the anxiety one might have when it comes to showing the support. In continuation, as humans, it is easier to blend in rather than to stand out. If a lot of people are showing support through following a trend it makes it easier for others to jump on the support train. Sometimes it even take a person knowing about the underlying issue for them to want to follow a trend. brands are relevant, engaging, entertaining and more often than not, courageous. They take a stand for or against something and have the confidence to stand apart from the crowd. People remember compelling brands and know what to expect from (Parr). By creating a brand out of the LGBT community people would have more courage to stand up for what is right. People would be more willing to becoming aware of the situation at hand. It even have to be any specific apparel. As long as it showcases the LGBT community, a trend is being set and carried on. This can result in more listening ears for the voices in desperate need to be heard. In conclusion, it has been a long time coming for the LGBT community and they deserve equality. Because the inequality in the LGBT community is so controversial, hard for the LGBT community to make a statement by themselves. Everybody, no matter what sexuality preference they classify under, is needed to help spread the word. This can be done by physically showcasing support and wearing something that represents the LGBT community. This will create a trend within society, especially the younger generation. Make the acceptance of the LGBT community a trend so they can reach their goals of equality and, most importantly, happiness. Smalls 5 Works Cited Ncadi, Samhsa. What Is The Meaning Of  Mental Help What Is the Meaning of LGBT Comments. N.p., 7 Oct. 2005. Web. 05 Apr. 2017. Parr, Shawn. The True Power Of  Fast Company. Fast Company, 10 Jan. 2013. Web. 05 Apr. 2017. Scaccia, Annamarya. 4 LGBT Issues to Focus on Now That We Have Marriage  Rolling Stone. Rolling Stone, 29 June 2015. Web. 05 Apr. 2017. Scherer, Michael, et al. Why Did They Die? (Cover  Time, vol. 187, no. 24, 27 June 2016, pp. 30-41. EBSCOhost Stack, Liam. The Challenges That Remain for L.G.B.T. People After Marriage  The New York Times. The New York Times, 30 June 2016. Web. 23 Apr. 2017. Wilson, Kath. The road to equality: the struggle of gay men and lesbians to achieve equal rights before the  British Journal of Community Justice 12.3 (2014): 81+. Academic OneFile. Web. 1 Mar. 2017.