Kennard 1 Emily Kennard Professor Hanson ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Animal Testing: More Harm Than Good? Have you used perfume or cologne today? How about makeup or deodorant? If the answer is yes, then there is a possibility that you have contributed to the harmful and inhumane tests that are performed on innocent animals every day. In fact, according to Mukerjee, million animals are used in experiments (excluding rats, mice, birds, reptiles, amphibians, and agricultural animals used in agricultural experiments), plus an estimated 100 million mice and Many people think that cosmetic testing on animals is only the makeup products being rubbed onto the bare skin of the animals. This seems pretty innocent. Except the reality is much worse than that. Animal testing needs to be banned because it is not helpful towards the reactions humans may receive from the cosmetics. Right now, you can help end the suffering of many innocent animals by learning what animal testing entails and doing everything you can to prevent this from happening. Animals do not undergo skin irritation tests where the cosmetic item is simply rubbed onto an exposed area of skin on the test subject. Animals undergo many different tests ranging from inhalation, consumption and even eye irritations. One example of these tests that animals endure during this laboratory time is the Draize eye test. This test requires the animals to have chemicals forcibly shoved into their eyes to see how their eyes would react. Many of these animals end up blind due to this test (Wilhelmus). To put this test into perspective, imagine the burning feeling of getting shampoo in your eyes but multiply it by one thousand fold. Another Kennard 2 test is the skin irritant test where chemicals are rubbed onto hairless rats to see how they react to it. The results show redness and fluid accumulation under the skin of these animals. According to an article written by Maibach Marzulli, the results between the skin irritant test on the hairless rats compared to those on a human subject show a considerable difference: it is more irritating to the rats than it is to man. Marzulli also concluded that radioimmunoassay [skin irritation of skin prostaglandin E disclosed no differences between irritated and control skin, suggesting that this technique cannot be used as an objective measure of skin (Marzulli). When there is one test that has been scientifically proven to be unbeneficial to humans, there might be many more. In order to fully comprehend what animal testing is, an explanation of what happens during these experiments needs to be discussed. Cute little rabbits and mice are brought into a lab. They have tubes forcibly shoved down their throats and needles poked into their eyes. All of their hair is shaved from their bodies. With each needle, tube, and patch of skin chemicals are forced into and onto their bodies. Many animals go blind, are paralyzed, and are burned during these experiments. The lucky animals die during these procedures. The unfortunate ones that live, later have their necks broken and all animals are eventually tossed to the trash (Sandler). Many innocent animals are subjected to these tests, million animals used in experiments and 78,294 animals are subjected to severe pain near, at, or above the pain tolerance threshold of un-anesthetized conscious (Canadian Council). This means that no animals undergo anesthesia during these tests. These animals can feel every single needle, tube and burn on their bodies. The astonishing thing about this whole situation is that the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) require animal testing to be performed on new cosmetic products (Graef). This means that many name brand cosmetic companies choose to test on innocent Kennard 3 animals. Many new innovating ways to test the reactions that humans receive from cosmetics are being discovered daily and cosmetic companies are still choosing to test on animals due to a large market in China demanding these name brand companies. For the selling of all cosmetics in China, they are required to be tested on animals to prove their safety Rules On Animal There are advancements in synthesized skin that have already made and has proven to work more effectively for humans than the use of animals, and it has already been scientifically proven that the testing performed on animals gives no medical advancements as to how humans will react to these cosmetics. Right now, you can help the ending and prevention of animal testing. One way is to boycott all cosmetic companies that test on animals. The People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) has compiled a list of all cosmetic and household companies that test on animals. You can find the list on their website. Another way is to sign a petition with the humane society. This organization has so many different petitions that people can sign to help animals in different areas, not just the ones involved with animal testing. Visit their website for more information on the different types of petitions they have to offer! Thirdly, you can donate to companies like LUSH cosmetics. LUSH cosmetics raises money to give away with their LUSH Prize Award. This award offers two hundred and fifty thousand pounds-the equivalent to $313,518-to the people that are advancing the findings of non-animal testing regulations for toxicity Is The LUSH Finally, you can write to your local state representative and say that you want a bill to be written and brought to the capital to help against the purchase and creation of cosmetic products that have been tested on animals. The closest representative to the University of South Florida is Kathy Castor. It may come across as unlikely that a bill like this would be passed, but something similar has already been passed and is currently in effect Kennard 4 within the European Union. The Cosmetics Directive was created to help with the phasing out of animal testing for cosmetic purposes. More specifically, prohibition to test finished cosmetic products and cosmetic ingredients on animals and [it prohibition to market finished cosmetic products and ingredients in the EU which were tested on on Animal If the European Union can ban animal testing in all twenty-eight countries that follow under its ruling, why the United States follow suit? To conclude, it may seem as though animal testing is extremely innocent, but it is actually extremely harmful toward cute innocent little animals. They suffer every day for the sake of humans to have the luxury of cosmetics. Although it may seem as though animal testing may never be banned, steps are being made to eventually reach that goal. Even an everyday person such as yourself can make a huge impact by doing one of the things mentioned above. Every small voice can come together to create an uproar. That uproar will bring justice for all of the animals that suffer every day for our comfort. Kennard 5 Works Cited Ban on Animal  European Commission. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Canadian Council on Animal Care, 2013 Animal Data 2015. China Rules On Animal Testing To Impact Personal  Household & Personal Products Industry, Sept. 2014, p. 28. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Graef, Alicia. Animal  Vegan Peace. N.p., 7 Mar. 2014. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. <http://www.care2.com/causes/its-about-time-animal-testing-for-cosmetics-could-soon- be-banned-in-the-u-s.html>. Marzulli, Maibach H.I. The Rabbit as a Model for Evaluating Skin Irritants: A Comparison of Results Obtained on Animals and Man Using Repeated Skin  Food and Cosmetics Toxicology 13.5 (1975): 533-34. ScienceDirect. 4 Nov. 2002. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. <http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/0015626475900085>. Mukerjee Madhusree, for the Animals: A Veterinarian Analyzes the Turf Battles That Have Transformed the Animal Scientific American, Aug. 2004. Sandler, Jessica, Amy Clippinger, Joe Manupello, Jeff Brown, Patricia Bishop, Monita Sharma, and Katherine Groff. Regulatory Testing  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. <http://www.peta.org/issues/animals-used-for-experimentation/us- government-animal-testing-programs/animal-testing-depth/>. What Is the Lush  Lush Fresh Handmade Cosmetics. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Wilhemus, Kirk R. The Draize Eye  Survey of Ophthamology 5.6 (2001): 413 Kennard 6 515.ScienceDirect. 19 June 2001. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. <http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0039625701002119>.