Daniel Malanga ENC 1102 Professor Ryan April 19, 2017 Education on Abortion Whether or not abortion should be legal is one of the most commonly discussed debates in the U.S. Both sides of this issue have strong and validated opinions, which makes the decision of where one stand that much harder. The pro-life movement takes a stand against the legalization of abortion, while the pro-choice movement believes it should be exclusively the choice. With the lack of current governmental educational resources available, women today are making uninformed decisions on whether to get an abortion. With education and emotional guidance for woman, showing women how abortion may affect them and empowering them to get involved with the abortion debate, women can become more knowledgeable about the imperative decision they are making. The lack of education and emotional counseling provided for women is a major issue regarding Abortion. In recent years, society has become much more desensitized to the idea of abortion. For example, the scandal of planned parenthood workers selling the body parts of aborted babies. many within the abortion industry and sadly, those who circled like vultures to pick apart and profit off the carcasses of these aborted and now dead children they easily rationalized their actions by claiming that the baby was dead anyway, so why not use his parts for (Novielli 1). This quote is evidence of planned attempt to make more money out of a lost life and then downplaying it as justification. Due to this societal desensitization, women have become more and more comfortable with getting abortions. Before women decide to abort their baby, they should know what the fetal process is like and what is taking place within their bodies. days from conception, heart begins to beat, with the own (prolifeacrossamerica.org 1). Most women do not know that the own heart starts to beat 18 days from conception, just as they do not know much, if anything at all, about the fetus and its growth. 25 percent expressed confusion about the nature of the (Reardon 1). This statistic shows that a significant number of women do not fully understand just how real and alive the baby growing inside them is. Many people overlook abortion as a life changing thing because they minimalize the value and reality of a developing fetus. This is dangerous because a negligence to educate herself can cost a life. However, I do understand that most women fully rely on education to make such an emotional decision. Therefore, I believe that women should be offered emotional counseling funded by the government, so that women can be guided by unbiased professionals about what it is that they truly want to do. The U.S has not provided nearly enough education for women who encounter unplanned pregnancies which is why abortion has become such a deadened topic and why women have been impulsively getting abortions. If abortion remains legal, government should not be morally justifying it without (at the least) enforcing some sort of regulation, such as a required education class that must be taken before the abortion. With the lack of education and emotional counseling for women who encounter unplanned pregnancies and the factual development of a fetus, it is highly possible woman are making uneducated decisions that can affect them for the rest of their lives. Some women may not have formed an opinion on abortion because they have not taken the time to research the subject. Remaining ignorant to the negative effects of abortion can be a detriment to a health both mentally and physically. Nearly all women face the chance of an unplanned pregnancy. If a woman chooses to proceed with an abortion without taking the time to research the physical and mental risks that it entails, then that woman could potentially be making a catastrophic mistake. Some may say that is a hyperbolic statement, however, statistics clearly state the dangers of abortion. Abortion procedures can go wrong just like any other, and can even cost the life of the mother. have died of legal and illegal abortions. Moreover, over 347 women have died from supposedly and abortions (college.studentsforlife.org 1). The potential physical dangers the only thing that should worry women who are planning on proceeding with an abortion. Many women who do decide to get an abortion encounter feelings of regret that can result in severe emotional or mental damage. 8 weeks after their abortions, 55 percent expressed guilt, 44 percent complained of nervous disorders, 36 percent had experienced sleep disturbances, 31 percent had regrets about their decision, and 11 percent had been prescribed psychotropic medicine by their family (iowartl.org 1). Given the risks associated with abortion procedures, it is not surprising some might oppose its legality. There are many ways one can take action in effort to help reduce the number of abortions performed each year. Going to a local abortion clinic and standing outside offering education and guidance to women is a great way to reach out to mothers who are questioning abortion. most effective thing one can do as a pro-lifer is to get involved at the nearest abortion (Prolifeactionleague.org 1). This may seem imposing on the women going into the clinic, but with the right approach this can be a very successful take of action. One could host a learning table for woman with a sign that reads a thought provoking statement or type of slogan. Something along the lines of the facts, before you or sure you know, before you may cause a woman to pause and think about the gravity of her decision. Another form of action one could take is to educate people on fetal development. This can be done through workshops, pamphlets or even simple conversation. For those who are pregnant and in search of abortion education or counseling, there are sources available. I suggest utilizing resources from both sides of the debate, in order to make the most educated and informed decision. Some well- known pro-life sources include the National Right to Life Organization and the Pro-Life Action League. As for pro- choice sources, some well-known organizations are the Center for Reproductive Rights and the Feminist Majority Foundation. Researching and studying both sides of the abortion dispute can pregnant women, make firm and educated decisions. Too many women today are ill informed of the mental and physical risks associated with abortion and therefore are making uneducated decisions. Given the statistical evidence, I firmly believe it should be a legal requirement to go through government funded counseling that educates and guides them to make the most well thought out decision. The debate of pro-life vs. pro-choice has a long way to go before any sort of compromise or conclusion will arise, but until then people should educate themselves and stand up for what they believe in. Work Cited Baby Developmental  Prolife Across America. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. Carole Novielli 14, 2017, 05:44pm. Becoming Desensitized to Killing Is Easier than You  Live Action News. N.p., 14 Mar. 2017. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. Post Abortion  Iowa Right to Life. N.p., 26 Oct. 2016. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. Reardon, David C.  Http://www.abortionfacts.com. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. Why Should You Care About  College Students for Life of America. N.p., 31 Mar. 2015. Web. 30 Apr. 2017.