Claudia Vizcarra Robert Ryan Composition II 4/25/17 Sex Education For there to be change surrounding a certain topic, first there must be knowledge surrounding that certain topic. As the parents and influencers of the younger generations, it is imperative that we properly educate our children on all issues surrounding sexuality and hygiene. people mistakenly believe that refers only to sexual behavior (e.g., sexual intercourse) and not the full array of topics that comprise sexuality. These include information and concerns about abstinence, body image, contraception, gender, human growth and development, human reproduction, pregnancy, relationships, safer sex (prevention of sexually transmitted infections), sexual attitudes and values, sexual anatomy and physiology, sexual behavior, sexual health, sexual orientation, and sexual (plannedparenthood.org) This misinterpretation leads parents and guardians to oppose sex education because they are convinced that sex education programs will lead to more youths engaging in sexual activity. Influencers then gravitate towards non-educational, Biblical- based, and abstinence-only curriculums that do not educate the audience on how to practice safe sex, nor explore topics beyond sexual intercourse, that have shown to be extremely ineffective at preventing not only teen pregnancy, but also sexual activity. When a high school in Chicago in 1913 attempted to implement a comprehensive sex education program, the Catholic Church quickly took action against the program. It was not until the 1920s that schools began to integrate sex education into their curriculums quickly following a 1919 study found that soldiers would have been better off, had they received the proper instruction pertaining to their hygiene and sexuality. For the next few decades, the United States was publishing sex education based material and training teachers to be able to properly inform students. This all changed in the 1970s because, ed became a political issue during this time, as religious conservatives built a movement based, in part, on their opposition to sex instruction in the public schools. Groups like the Christian Crusade and the John Birch Society attacked SIECUS and sex education overall for promoting promiscuity and moral (newsweek.com) All around the country, parents began protesting sex education under the impression that they were protecting their children from the evils surrounding sexuality. In the 1980s, sex education became inevitable due to the HIV/AIDS outbreak. Taking advantage of the nationwide panic, conservatives helped add provisions for abstinence education to the 1996 Welfare Reform Act, and the Federal government directed tens of millions of dollars to abstinence-education programs for the first (newsweek.com) Now in the present-day United States, organizations such as Planned Parenthood are taking a stand against abstinence-only programs that have never shown any proof of preventing sexual activity amongst younger generations, nor has it shown any proof of preventing pregnancy in teens, by executing sex education that goes beyond just sexual activity, but explores all of the unique topics surrounding sexuality. Planned Parenthood believes, is important that young people receive age-appropriate sexual health information and develop practical skills for keeping healthy. Educators can help families by providing culturally meaningful learning opportunities in safe and non-judgmental environments so that young people can learn about sexuality in a healthy and positive (plannedparethood.org) Rather than declaring war on one of most basic drives and trying to hard-wire children to believe sexuality is wrong, those with influence over younger generations must educate and inform youths of the wonders and dangers of sex in order to allow adolescents to understand their bodies and everything beneath the surface. Sexuality is not a new concept. Without sex, no one and nothing would exist. Along with sex being around since the beginning of time, the dangers have been as well. The children of America have a right to be informed of what is truly happening to and in their bodies, as well as how to prevent sexually transmitted diseases and unwanted pregnancy. Keeping youths in the dark about themselves sets them up for disaster and chaos when both the positive and negative effects of sex, a naturally occurring drive in humans, are inevitable. It is irresponsible for adults to force younger generations to grow up ignorant to the facts and reality behind sexuality. The material being presented is not salacious images and references that is meant to encourage youths to engage in sexual activity, it is actual human anatomy and information pertinent to maintaining a safe and healthy lifestyle whether or not a person chooses to be sexually active. Many people have no idea that sexually transmitted diseases can be passed on through other means besides sex, such as toilet seats in public restrooms, meaning absolutely zero sexual activity could take place and someone could end up with a sexually transmitted disease. A main goal behind sex education is to ensure that people have a firm understanding of their bodies and that they what to do when they feel as though something may be wrong. Parents and teachers often have a hard time relaying important information to the younger generations because parents often complain about sex education being too obscene and too awkward to relay, while teachers, that if they do address sexuality beyond the dangers involved, they might be accused of exploiting young (mg.co.za) Willingly withholding valuable information that could potentially save lives, prevent diseases and unwanted pregnancy, and help people to be more comfortable in their own skin is the true exploitation of young people, not purposely keeping younger generations unaware and lost in themselves. go in depth about anything so a lot of strange gaps in a teacher who has instructed sex ed in middle and high schools and wishes to remain anonymous to protect his job, tells Broadly. know porn and they know movies, but everything except the most graphic imagery and vague references made by adults is outside of their realm of (broadly.com) People do not realize that since we are not taking the initiative to educate our youths about what really happens when it comes to sex, they unconsciously rely on films to be their main source of information leading them to basically have no based-in-fact knowledge about sexuality in the end. To make a change, people around the country should email their congressmen and congresswomen demanding that age-appropriate comprehensive sex education be taught in all schools for all grade levels. Also, getting in contact with schoolboard officials to further push the sex education agenda would be extremely beneficial. Signing a petition to implement sex education programs in all schools nationwide would lead to more people being educated on the issue and end demonization towards sex ed. year, U.S. teens experience as many as 850,000 pregnancies, and youth under age 25 experience about 9.1 million sexually transmitted infections (advocatesforyouth.org) Abstinence-only curriculums have proven time and time again to be extremely ineffective as it leaves youths uneducated and fearing any kind of expression of sexuality, which in turn makes any kind of expression of sexuality a potentially dangerous one. In order to begin helping younger generations, the country must first educate their older influencers to avoid negative and unnecessary backlash and protest against curriculums with the sole intention of helping ensure the youth of the United States is kept safe without being kept in the dark. Works Cited Advocatesforyouth.org. N.p., n.d. Web. 20 Apr. 2017. Cornblatt, Johannah. A Brief History of Sex Ed in  Newsweek. N.p., 13 Mar. 2010. Web. 20 Apr. 2017. 2014. Web. 20 Apr. 2017. David, Sara, Amy Lombard, Sarah Hagi, Meghan Bartels, Diana Tourjee, Kimberly Lawson, Callie Beusman, Elfy Scott, Zing Tsjeng, Gabby Bess, and Leila Ettachfini. In the Age of the Ass, Our Teenagers Deserve Better Sex  Broadly. N.p., 28 Apr. 2017. Web. 28 Apr. 2017. Ferreira, Louise. really talk about sex, baby: Improving sexuality education for  The M&G Online. N.p., n.d. Web. 20 Apr. 2017. Parenthood, Planned. Implementing Sex  Planned Parenthood. N.p., 10 May 2014. Web. 20 Apr. 2017.