Student 1 Student Professor Lewis ENC 1102 30 April 2017 20 Minutes for 20 Years It was Squire Bill Widener who said, what you can, with what got, where you Theodore Roosevelt quoted philosophy on life to emphasize that people make an impact around them to the best of their ability, and beyond that, they are not responsible. Women in the military have served to the best of their ability all the way since the Revolutionary War, acting as nurses at basecamps and fulfilling auxiliary roles never intentionally put at the front line alongside their fellow male patriots (Grant 90). In late 2015, the Department of Defense opened ground combat roles to women. This decision is currently being debated by the Center for Military Readiness (CMR) for jeopardizing the effectiveness of the military. Many people are uninformed as to the facts about the issue of women serving on the front line, leading them to make decisions based on emotions rather than a well- informed opinion. There are few issues in the world upon which ordinary people can make impact, but this issue is one where enough support and awareness will certainly cause change. The Service Action Network helps unify and support women in the armed forces, with a focus on full equality between men and women. To have a positive impact on this issue, a person must inform their local and federal representatives that they will lose a vote if they legislation that would hinder women from seeking combat roles and should join SWAN and donate to their cause. An important question to answer is: what does it take to be a soldier? Earliest example of a female soldier is that of Deborah Sampson, whom served in disguise as a man in the Revolutionary War (Young 88). She served her nation on the frontline, even though her Student 2 nation forbade her from doing so. Since 2015, all combat roles have been open to women (Carter), but lobbies such as the Center for Military Readiness have put the legislation under siege, claiming that women cannot perform the tasks that men do. In all fairness, the numbers do support their claim, but numbers may also be deceiving sometimes. Take the example of Shaye Haver- a graduate of the US Military Academy at West Point, whom in 2015 completed Ranger School, being one of the first two women in history to do so in the U.S. Completing Ranger School is no easy feat to accomplish with only 36.8% of attendees graduating and Ranger Training Haver and her fellow graduate are sadly the exception to the norm, and not the standard. When considering the claim that are unfit to serve in combat it is important to look at the numbers aforementioned. A Congressional Review after having the combat roles open for one year made some interesting discoveries. One such discovery was that of 29 women whom attended the Marine Corps selection for the Infantry Officer Course, where none passed. 98% of the women dropped due to physical performance issues while the last one dropped due to an injury. This would mimic the trend set at Ranger School, where no women had passed before Haver and her comrade. This indicates that these schools for elite infantry units are hard to pass, but to some degree is possible. In England, the UK Ministry of Defense found that the current predominantly single sex initial military training, women have a twofold higher risk of musculoskeletal (MSK) (United Kingdom Ministry of Defense 4). To add upon this statistic, the numbers also show that, experienced a 15 to 20% higher rate of Disease Non-Battle (United Kingdom Ministry of Defense 4). A data analysis by Michelle Dolfini-Reed et. al. from August 2015 into Perspectives During Combat Element Integrated Task which is their way of saying women in combat roles, also had interesting results. volunteers predicted Student 3 increased risk to female safety; female volunteers were not as concerned. In the post assessment survey, there was not a statistically significant difference in the scores of men and (Dolfini-Reed iv). Men are likely to assume women are not up for the task, which help change the status quo. A key factor in making a change in this issue, and upholding legislation pertaining to women in combat, is to bring up numbers, facts, and surveys when the topic comes up. Enlighten those who immediately assume women cannot do the roles of men, but beware, the numbers do show that most women cannot. The solution to this issue of women not making the cut is to give participants of a unit- selection a course before the actual selection process where they learn how to handle themselves regarding injuries and how the selection will proceed. The British SAS experimented with this. They faced an issue where men, never-mind women, could not pass selection for their unit. This led them to have a pre-selection camp where they focus on how to handle injuries, what to focus on during certain evolutions of the selection, and under what circumstances injuries are likely to occur. So far, although the pre-selection is no secret, there is no scholarly information about it. The information of this comes from a personal interview with Ingar Lund, whom has worked in the field for almost 30 years. If such selection camps were to become more common, it is likely that both men and women would gain from the experience, and the military would profit from the more informed participants. This however, does not solve the issue of musculoskeletal injury. That might be a question best answered when more awareness for the topic exists. A truth that must be faced before continuing is that women will have more performance issues and be physically weaker compared to men of similar backgrounds (Kamarck 27). The reason it is important to come to terms with this is so that the issue can be faced head-on, and not neglecting surveys, statistics, and research aforementioned to reach the ultimate goal of bringing women to the front. There are many factors in play with this topic, Student 4 but the overall message is quite clear women aspire to work in these fields, but may lack the physique to do so, while sometimes simply being a woman is the issue. There are many large issues to tackle in the world. Everything from world hunger to migrations and wars all issues too large for individuals to solve, but this issue is one that is relatively small and easy to have an impact on. The stakes are the careers of women who aspire to serve a lengthy career in the military, not hindered by policy in place due to uncertainty. People should call their local representatives and their congressmen and inform them that if they oppose legislation to further the development of women in combat, they will lose a vote. Enough calls and letters will eventually lead to them realizing that the cost of opposing such legislation is too great compared to the downsides of implementing such regulations. Women like Deborah and Shaye will always exist women who go out of their way to excel at a game. To restrict their progress is no different than giving a chef a rusty knife and old fish or a pilot a broken plane with one wing. Help clean the knife and fix the wing call, or mail your representatives, their information can be found at www.house.gov, and from there, all needed is respectful words and a clear message: give women a chance, do not give up on them. The cost of a person spending 20 minutes either sending a letter or calling a representative of their state could potentially affect the next 20 years of the life of a female soldier out there somewhere. what you can, with what where you call, mail, influence. (WC: 1306) Student 5 Works Cited and Ranger Training The United States Army Fort Benning Infantry ARTB. Web. Accessed 30 Apr. 2017. Carter, Ashton. Department of Defense Press Briefing in Pentagon Briefing Room on 03 Dec 2015, U.S. Department of Defense. Web. Accessed 30 Apr 2017 Dolfini-Reed, Michelle, Elizabeth Bradley, Bradley Dickey, Yancey Hrobowski, and Jessica Wolfanger. Assessment of Changes in Perspectives During the GCE  2015. Web. Accessed 29 Jan 2017. Grant, De Pauw Linda, Conover Hunt, and Miriam Schneir. Remember the ladies: women in America, 1750-1815. New York: Viking Press, 1976. Web. Accessed 11 Apr. 2017. Kamarck, Kristy N. Women in Combat: Issues for  CRS Report. 2016. Web. Lund, Ingar, Regimental Sergeant Major, Norwegian Army. Personal Interview. 2014 Roosevelt, Theodore, Jr. Theodore Roosevelt: An Autobiography. New York: Charles Sons, 1920. Web. Accessed 30 Apr. 2017 United Kingdom Ministry of Defense, Women in ground close combat (GCC) review paper, December 1, 2014. Web. Accessed 30 Apr 2017 Women in the United States  Women in the U.S. Army The United States Army. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. Young, Alfred F. Masquerade: The Life and Times of Deborah Sampson, Continental Soldier. New York: Vintage, 2005. Web. Accessed 11 Apr. 2017