Morocho 1 Casey Morocho Hannah Lay ENC 1102 25 February 2017 Analysis of PETA Endorsed Images For the past several decades, there has been a progressing issue of animal cruelty within society. Different industries, such as the food and entertainment industry, have had claims made against them of abusing animals for human exploitation. However, the topic of animal cruelty did not come to the mainstream light until a couple of years ago. Thus, organizations such as the People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, also known as PETA, have tried to make strides in the fight for animal rights. With the purpose of acting as a firm voice for the animals, PETA has spread the word that have rights and deserve to have their best interests taken into consideration regardless of whether they are useful to In the instance of SeaWorld Parks and Entertainment, PETA has made animal cruelty claims against their SeaWorld Orlando park in regards to their orcas. PETA shows how it is against SeaWorld in the of mothers and calves, artificial insemination, and moving animals between breeding (Brammer). Yet one way that this organization has tried to spread their objective and mission to its audience is by creating advertisements about the campaigns that they hold. By using rhetorical appeals, PETA can grasp the targeted attention with their graphic images and inform them of what SeaWorld is doing. In the first image endorsed by PETA, ethos and pathos are two major rhetorical appeals that are heavily used to convey what they believe SeaWorld is doing wrong to their orcas in captivity while in the second image, PETA utilizes pathos and kairos to convey a similar message. Morocho 2 (Weisberg) In this image of a man on top of a dolphin, PETA uses pathos and ethos as its rhetorical appeals. By displaying elements of pathos, which is the appeal to emotion, PETA is trying to make the audience feel disgusted about the claims against SeaWorld regarding the treatment of their orcas in captivity. The image infers bestiality, which are acts of sex with animals. The diction used in the image, such as and in one sentence, can anger the audience due to the underlying message of bestiality. PETA is tapping into viewpoint on bestiality which is looked at as a horrible thing to do. It does not conform to what society has established as right. In addition, the phrase Grown Men Perform Sex Acts on is meant to shock the audience and be repulsive. This phrase is startegically placed right underneath so the feeling can be associated with the entertainment park. It can also stir pity for the animals in the audience since grown men should not be performing on animals. There is also a smiling man on an orca floatie that has a facial expression of sadness. The facial expressions of the grown man on the inflatable orca could cause the audience to see how the orcas feel about the artificial insemination and masturbation that SeaWorld does to them to breed more orcas. This could also represent how Seaworld, as a corporation, benefits off the captivity of the orcas. It appears that PETA is trying to express that even though bestiality is looked down upon by society, it is somehow supported by SeaWorld because they masturbate and artificially inseminate their orcas. In regards to the appeal of ethos, an appeal to credibility, it is clear to Morocho 3 see the credibility of PETA and the known reputation associated with it in the image. Since PETA is a well-known and large animal rights organization,there is a significant probability that the audience will believe what they state. They are known to be largest animal rights organization with over five million members and Through this image, PETA is trying to accomplish its goal of informing its audience about what SeaWorld is doing in a sexual, comedic manner. The use of ethos and pathos in this image helps PETA do a great job at achieving this goal. (Taylor) In this second image endorsed by PETA, it takes a more innocent approach towards the audience when compared to the image of the man and the inflatable orca. As pathos and kairos as its main defense against SeaWorld in this image, PETA is basically trying to express how SeaWorld has been separating baby orcas from their mothers for decades. Through certain elements of pathos, the image makes the audience see the innocence of the orcas that are being separated by the naked woman in the small bathtub. The small bathtub expresses the trapment of the orcas. The image also uses neutral and dark tones to reflect the sadness and innocence of the animals. To add to the atmosphere of sadness, the text in the picture is small and not bolded to go with the theme being displayed. The dark shading in the image shows a somber attitude which coincides with the sadness that the orcas feel after being Morocho 4 separated. The naked body reflects the innocence of the orcas that SeaWorld captures. The woman in the image is pregnant, which illustrates the strong bond between a mother and child. In terms of the usage of kairos in the image, which is the appeal to timeliness, it is shown in the picture through the phrase It makes the audience feel as if something they must do as soon as possible. urging its audience to boycott the corporation right now. Also, the amount of time SeaWorld has been babies and is another example of kairos. shows the audience that SeaWorld has been doing this for decades which means that several orcas have been affected. When analyzing both images endorsed by PETA, there are several contrasts and comparisons that can be seen by the audience. One comparison is that the image of the man on the inflatable orca and the pregnant mother in the bathtub both use elements of pathos. The first image uses diction such as to create an emotion of anger and pity in the audience while the second image uses dark shading to achieve the same effect. Another comparison is how both images state the entertainment parks name before saying a claim against it. In the first image it says Where Grown Men Perform Sex Acts on while the second image says Seperating mothers and chidlren since The sentence structure is similar and allows the attention to be grasped by the name. Even though there are similarities in the PETA endorsed images, there are also significant differences. The first image not only uses pathos as a rhetorical appeal but ethos as well. The image uses the PETA reputation to have its targeted audience to believe that SeaWorld masturbate and artificially inseminate its orcas. However, the second image does not use elements of ethos. The second image uses kairos when speaking to its audience. making a call to action of boycotting SeaWorld at this moment since it has been affecting orcas for decades. Another difference between the images are the style. The first image of the man on the inflatable orca seems more comedic compared to the Morocho 5 sentimental image of the mother in the bathtub. The two styles used by PETA shows the graphic way as to trying to appeal to its audience. According to Business Insider, PETA developed a brand on the fringe, supporting its own extreme PETA, with its main goal of acting as a firm voice for animals, achieves its purpose by displaying such graphic images. By the display of such images, the rhetorical appeals help capture the attention as to how SeaWorld treats its orcas in captivity. In the first image of the man and the orca, the use of ethos and pathos played an extreme role in PETA being able to transmit their message. As for the second image, pathos, logos, and kairos were the rhetorical appeals that were able to convey a similar message. By studying the images, it makes it possible for the audience to see its intended purpose, audience, and message. This plays an important part for the success in acting as a firm voice for the animals. Morocho 6 Works Cited About  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 24 Jan. 2017. <http://www.peta.org/about-peta/>. Bhasin, Kim. 13 Most Offensive PETA  Business Insider. Business Insider, 12 Oct. 2011. Web. 10 Mar. 2017. <http://www.businessinsider.com/peta-shocking-controversial-ads-2011- 10>. Brammer, Rebekah. Activism and Antagonism: The Blackfish  Screen Education, no. 76, 2015, p. 72. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=edsgao& AN=edsgcl.441157971&site=eds-live. Taylor, Derrick B. Pregnant SuperModel Marissa Miller takes on SeaWorld  Herald Sun. N.p., 06 May 2015. Web. 9 Mar. 2017. <http://www.heraldsun.com.au/technology/science/pregnant- supermodel-marisa-miller-takes-on-seaworld-naked/news- story/8dbade5e8112771715778d47137b90f0>. Weisberg, Lori. PETA targets SeaWorld with sex  Sandiegouniontribune.com. N.p., 23 Aug. 2016. Web. 9 Mar. 2017. <http://www.sandiegouniontribune.com/business/tourism/sdut-peta- attacks-seaworld-with-orca-sex-ad-2016jan27-story.html>.