Adepoju 1 Susan Adepoju ENC 1102 Angelica Aranda 3/5/2017 World Wildlife Fund Over the years, the way we have been treating the Earth has been causing its deterioration and the quality of life has been going downhill. We are destroying nature on a daily basis which is effecting the animals that live in these areas drastically. Since everyone is so focused on their own needs, we are not thinking about our environment and the dangers that we are bringing upon it. World Wildlife Fund (WWF) is an organization that is working against this problem. WWF wants to take better care of our environment which is why they speak for nature and the endangered animals since they have a voice of their own. To most effectively spread this message, this organization has relied heavily upon the four rhetorical appeals in the two selected images to sway the audience to care for the environment so that they change the minds of those who care enough for the environment and the animals that live in it so that they can be swayed to agree with their opinion. World Wildlife Fund has been known for protecting both endangered species and nature for the past 50 years. WWF has locations in over 100 countries with one million members in the U.S. and five million globally. They desire to spread their knowledge on how to preserve forests, marines, freshwater, wildlife, food, and climate worldwide. These different aspects have helped work from saving species and landscapes to addressing the larger global threats and forces that impact (World Wildlife Fund). Their efforts are centered around educating Adepoju 2 people, so that it ensures they make an effort to better the environment and its inhabitants. Darryl Fears notes in his article About Everything You Buy Came at the Expense of an Endangered that all the products that consumers buy every day and the goods that are in stores all come from areas where monkeys, toads, and wild cats live. (Fears 1) This shows how deeply rooted our selfish and harmful actions are. This lets us know ignorant we are to the fact that we know that we are destroying the lives of thousands of animals. World Wildlife Fund argues that animals should not be used for fashion statements and this is depicted through the Image A. Image A shows two cheetahs, one is baby and the other one appears to be an adult. On the back there is a size tag on it and the adult cheetah has an size tag on it. This image is showing us how many animals of different sizes are killed just to make clothes of all sizes. This applies to pathos which is an appeal to emotions. This picture is very sad because it shows the animals being lined up by their sizes. Looking at the faces they seem to have a very mad expression on their faces. They look very sad, stern, and angry as if they know they are going to be killed for clothes. This will make the audience feel very sad for the animals because their fate has already been decided for them. The picture is also very plain because there is not a lot going on in the scene. You have two cheetahs walking in a field of grass and it is hard to make up the background because it kind of fades in with the grass. The color is more of a blackish and greenish color and making this the prime color says a lot. Green normally represents safety and it also represents growth and fertility. By looking at the photo you can tell that the animals do not feel safe at all. There is no safety in this picture because the animals are still being hunted for their fur. The picture does not represent growth because the baby cheetah will never have the chance to grow up because its life is being cut short just so that its fur can be used for close. The image also applies to logos which is an Adepoju 3 appeal to logic. If you look at upper right corner of the picture you will the statement claims more victims than you This appeals to logo most people are not aware of how many animals they are killing just to make a clothing piece. In order to change their minds, we have to be more persuasive! rests with reason and refers to an logical (White 3) It also shows us how so many of us are very ignorant to what is going on with the fashion industry/fashion designers that use real animal fur in their clothes. They put text in white so that it stands out in the picture and that it will be noticeable to those who do not care enough. Another way that WWF expresses the need to take care of our environment is through Image B. Image B shows a lion who is covering his face with his hand and on the picture reads the words on Earth are we doing to our The picture first appeals to pathos. Colin Higgins mentions that pathos for persuasive effect on triggering audience emotions such as happiness, sadness, satisfaction, pity, or (Higgins 5) The picture is supposed to make us feel sad and fearful. It is sad because looking at lion it shows that we are destroying its home and we do not really care. By looking at lion you cannot help but feel guilty because you know you are one of the reasons as to why the earth is slowly falling apart. It also makes us fearful because it could get to the point where earth potentially be a place where we can no longer live because of its awful state. This is really scary to think about because we are only destroying the animals home but our home as well. Since lions are normally known as the of using them for the ad was a good idea because it shows even the most powerful animal knows what we are doing is wrong. Image B also appeals to Kairos. Kairos is usually a call to immediate action it also an contextual appropriateness or situational (Rife) The words on the picture on Earth are we doing to our appeals to Kairos because it creates a Adepoju 4 sense of urgency. It is telling us that we need to do something immediately or else things are just going to get a lot worse to the extent that it will longer be fixable. The word choice also makes you to reflect on the things we can do to improve the way we treat our planet. Just like the first image the words were written in white so that it popped out more and it grabs the attention. Overall, WWF uses these two image to appeal to ethos, pathos, logos, and Kairos. WWF mainly desires to protect nature and decrease the amount of destructive threats that the life on Earth faces and these ads described just that. They were able to reach out to target audience so that they can be informed and have a change of heart. It was effectively done through the color schemes of the images and the sayings on the images. The word choices also had a heavy impact on it as well. Eventually WWF will be able to get everyone on their side to take better of our planet and the animals that live in it. http://www.boredpanda.com/32-most-creative-wwf-ads/ Adepoju 5 Adepoju 6 Works Cited 1. Darryl Fears about everything you buy came at the expense of an endangered Washingtonpost.com N.d. Web 5, February 2017 2. Colin Higgins, Robyn Walker, logos, pathos: Strategies of persuasion in social/environmental Accounting Forum, Volume 36, Issue 3, September 2012, Pages 194-208, ISSN 0155-9982, 3. Marta Szabo, White. Culture Propels the Intersection of Ethos, Pathos, and Logos with Innovation and  Journal of Systemics, Cybernetics and Informatics, Vol 14, Iss 3, Pp 1-6 (2016), no. 3, 2016, p. 1. 4. Rife, M.C. Ethos, Pthos, Lgos, Kairos: Using a Rhetorical Heuristic to Mediate Digital-Survey Recruitment  IEEE Transactions on Professional Communication, no. 3, 2010, p. 260. 5. WWF - Endangered Species  WWF. World Wildlife Fund, n.d. Web. 05 Feb. 2017