Masse 1 Riley Masse Instructor Ryan ENC 1102 18 April 2017 College Athletes Deserve to be Paid College athletes that compete in the National College Athletic Association (NCAA) are more than just students that show up a few times per year to compete in athletics. These athletes serve the university for which they play for. What they do on the court or in the field generates publicity, school-spirit, and, most importantly, revenue. Despite this fact, these athletes are considered under the guise of the NCAA. This means that the players cannot be viewed as employees under the NCAA, and thus cannot receive the benefits that employees would earn. As a compensation to the players for the hard work they bring to their schools, some, not all, are awarded a scholarship. However, the scholarship typically only covers expenses that are associated with tuition and room and board. This is a serious problem not just for the athletes, but for the students that attend universities associated with the NCAA. These scholarships take up a large portion of the budget that colleges have to spend. The way the NCAA handles its student-athletes is not practical. These athletes should be viewed as employees so they can be fairly compensated for their contributions to the schools, and, more importantly, so the general population of those attending the university can greatly benefit from the increase of available funds. One defining aspect of a school that many students and alumni take pride in is the athletics. Whether it is tailgating at a football game, watching volleyball tournaments, or travelling cross country to support a basketball team, college sports are popular in America. This Masse 2 entertainment that the athletes provide, however, is not appropriately accounted for. Unlike professional sports players, these athletes cannot sell autographs, jerseys, merchandise etc. that has their name on it. They are viewed as amateurs by the NCAA, and thus cannot make money off of their OWN brand that they have created. The NCAA believes the scholarships provided that only cover tuition and housing are sufficient. This, however, can lead to unsatisfied players, and likewise, less involvement in athletics at a school. According to Robert Sternberg, is just nicer and more energizing to work or study in an institution where people feel a connection that competitive athletics can (Sternberg). Sternberg writes that athletics generate the kind of school spirit that makes attending the university much more enjoyable and productive. If athletes were paid by the NCAA, they would be more committed and more competitive in their efforts, because they would know that they were respected by the organization that they play for. The impact of student-athletes on the school is much bigger than just the sports, and they should be compensated for that. If college athletes were viewed as employees, the students at the school would be able to benefit even more from increased spirit on campus due to the improved situation of these athletes. The amount of money that schools spend on scholarships for their student-athletes is astronomical. According to Barry Petchesky, author for Deadspin: average, schools spend 12 times as much per individual athlete as they do per individual revenue come close to covering these expenses, requiring universities to dip into general This screams unfairness to the students at universities everywhere. The fact that schools need to take money out of the budget that would normally go to the students is something that cannot be overlooked. This problem is partially a result of the scholarships that schools spend on these athletes. For example, the South Eastern Conference (SEC) spends nearly Masse 3 $164,000 per athlete (Petchesky). The alternative to this situation would be to have the schools view the players as employees of the school instead of students. That way, the school could use its revenue from these athletes to pay them, instead of taking directly from the budget to extend scholarships to these athletes. The schools need to spend money on these scholarships so they are taking money and potential improvements away from other aspects of the school. Things such as dining hall food, dorm renovations, and improved faculty could all be a result of the removal of scholarships and addition of employment for these student-athletes. The students at the university will be able to see their money go somewhere that they would see direct benefits. This would be possible because the NCAA would be the ones paying the student-athletes as well as the university, so the lack of a need to pay off scholarships would free up a lot of funds for the schools. To add to this, it is worth noting that support and student fees combine to cover nearly 18 percent of the average (Petchesky). By removing the scholarship, these athletes would get paid by the NCAA and the university, so it would not be just the university giving out these scholarships and funding. Students are missing out on potential improvements because of the scholarships schools are paying, and that needs to change. There are critics that will say that the student-athletes need to continue to be on scholarship in order to stay focused on their overall career path. To this, one can argue the fact that most of these student-athletes are not attending the school to obtain an education. This should not be sugarcoated by the NCAA who tries to hide this fact from the public. NCAA membership has adopted amateurism rules to ensure the priority remains on obtaining a quality educational experience and that all of student-athletes are competing (NCAA). Statements such as these provide the NCAA with justification for the way that they treat athletes. By stating that the students are here with a top priority of earning an education is allowing the Masse 4 schools to exploit them when it comes to athletic benefits. Except for a few anomalies, the athletes want to try and jumpstart their careers in professional sports. This can be fixed by having the athletes get paid as employees and, at the same time, teach them how to prepare for the lives they are striving to accomplish. By eliminating the scholarship, the NCAA is eliminating that culture that people have been brainwashed to believe that athletes are there for school. They are there to compete, and once that is recognized, they will get the respect and the payment that they deserve. Meanwhile, the students at the university that receive scholarships for academics will be able to utilize those funds. Action needs to be taken to make changes to this situation that student-athletes are in. Students are being handed the short end of the stick when it comes to the priorities. The funds being spent on scholarships for these student-athletes takes away from the quality of the school that the majority of the students have to deal with. average NCAA Division I baseball team has a roster of 35 players but only a maximum of 11.7 athletic (ScholarshipStats). This fact highlights the overarching issue that the small majority of people at a university are on athletic scholarships, and only a small amount of those students can benefit from the extreme funds being spent on them. The action that needs to be taken is to start demanding for athletes to be able to sell their own brand, as well as demanding for athletes to get paid for playing and practicing every day. Given that an athlete is viewed as an employee of the school, they could start to earn benefits that would help their families as well. It is not uncommon to see a star player in the spotlight of a big sports stage have to go home to a poverty- stricken lifestyle. If they were viewed as employees, they would earn more and their compensation would be much more valuable than just a free education. Awareness is the biggest thing that can make a difference in this issue. Since the NCAA is such a dominating force in Masse 5 America, the first step to change is to raise awareness and gather a following to fight for this issue. Students are being robbed by the NCAA and the Universities because of the funds being poured into scholarships for a small percentage of athletes at the university. If athletes were paid as employees, the lives of students would improve unequivocally, and the athletes would finally get the compensation that they deserve. Change needs to happen. Masse 6 Works Cited  NCAA.org - The Official Site of the NCAA. N.p., 24 Apr. 2014. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. <http://www.ncaa.org/amateurism>. Brooks, Rich. Hashtags Explained: The Complete Guide to Hashtags in Social  Flyte New Media. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. <http://www.takeflyte.com/hashtags-explained>. Mission &  More About NCPA. NCPA, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <http://www.ncpanow.org/about/mission-goals>. N.p., n.d. Web. <http://www.scholarshipstats.com/baseball.html>. Petchesky, Barry. SEC Schools Spend $163,931 Per Athlete, And Other Ways The NCAA Is A Bonfire For Your  Deadspin. Deadspin.com, 16 Jan. 2013. Web. 19 Apr. 2017. <http://deadspin.com/5976391/sec-schools-spend-163931-per-athlete-and-other-ways-the-ncaa- is-a-bonfire-for-your-money>. Sternberg, Robert J. College Athletics: Necessary, Not Just Nice to  NACUBO. N.p., n.d. Web. 19 Apr. 2017.