Pittard !1 Tani Pittard April 16, 2017 ENC 1102 The Harsh Reality of Animals in Captivity Every day, animals from all over the world are taken from their homes and separated from their families merely for the sake of another species entertainment. As humans, we tend to believe we have the right to do what we want with any species we consider to be less valuable than our human selves. According to websites like One Green Planet, the biggest difference between humans and these animals we put in captivity is that only one of us is able to say no. In our modern society, and theme parks such as SeaWorld are mainly seen as educational and friendly environments for families to spend time together in. Although the way they are viewed may change if the families watching put themselves in the shoes of these other species. Many of these animals are put in environments much smaller than the homes they would make in the wild, and often times will get sick due to malnutrition. In order to stop this madness, we must take a stand against these companies. To do that, we have to stop supporting them, which means we need to stop going to the zoo. It is true that companies like SeaWorld aim to save educate the population about animals and even to help protect many species, as it is stated on the front page of their main website. This is one of many reasons public schools take young students on field trips to places like SeaWorld to teach them about these animals up close and personal. However, SeaWorld and other similar companies may not realize that they are doing more harm than good when it comes to these animals well being. The fact of the matter being that on average animals live much longer in the Pittard !2 wild. According to One Green Planet, Orcas will live up to 50 years when living in their natural habitat, while on average in captivity they live to around nine years old. To more properly educate these young children, the public school systems could skip going to the zoo and take the kids to a local wildlife preserve. This type of environment is much more educational anyway, as it shows the animals in their natural habitat. In an article found on anti captivity website, it is noted that animals tend to behave differently when in captivity rather than in their natural habitats. This is another reason a wildlife preserve or trip would be much more educational. According to an article titled Economics of the average cost for visiting a wildlife reserve is significantly less than that of a trip to the zoo. Meaning this is not only more educational, but a way to save money. Financially, it is a much better option to skip the family trips to the zoo and other animal theme parks. Many families will spend hundreds of dollars annually to keep up with passes and such in order to continue being able to go to these places. That is not to mention the amounts spent in the parks. Typically, meals in theme parks are much higher than that of a family friendly restaurant or even a trip to the grocery store. If we include the price of some carnival style games as well as several souvenirs it is easy to blow through a hundred dollars at a theme park. According to main website it costs ninety seven dollars at the gate for a single day admissions ticket. With most memorable T-shirts and trinkets costing much higher than they would in a department store, it was written on Sea World Fact Check that on average a family of four will spend around two hundred to two hundred fifty dollars in just one visit to SeaWorld. However, it would not only be a better financial option for families. The amount it costs these theme parks to keep these animals in captivity is ridiculous in itself. In the taxes portion of the Pittard !3 Smart Asset website, it was reported that the D.C. Zoo spends 2.6 million annually on just panda exhibit. Also according to this website, report estimated the total economic output of AZA-accredited zoos and aquariums in 2013 to be $17.2 Imagine how much more green the environment would be if this $17.2 billion were put into bettering the natural wildlife parks instead of into an entertainment business which runs based off of exposing animals in extremely uncomfortable environments. In general, animals in theme parks are kept in enclosures which are much smaller than the homes they would make in their natural habitats. Specifically regarding the Orcas at SeaWorld who live in 6 million gallon tanks of chilled filtered salt (SeaWorld.com) that are around 36 feet deep. According to the website if these orcas were in the wild they would typically as much as 100 linear miles (and dive up to 850 feet in depth) during a meaning that wild orcas most likely encounter many different water temperatures as they travel, meaning the chilled water is not adequate to their health. The even more obvious fact being that no amount of water in a tank will ever amount to an orcas natural habitat, which is the ocean. While SeaWorld continues to tell visitors that orcas live longer in captivity according to the Blackfish documentary made in 2013, this is one of the many reasons that statement is false. As previously stated, their life time is many times more than cut in half. Another reason for this that was stated in Blackfish is because half of the orcas in the park are from different tribes. This means that they all speak different dialects and have trouble communicating with one another. This takes a harsh toll on their life spans because, like humans, orca are very social creatures. They depend on communication for survival. Often times these orcas are taken away from their families and this will result in them going crazy sometimes. This Pittard !4 is what happened with the whale Tilikum who killed his trainer. According to the documentary as well as many animals psychologists, the only reason Tilikum even attacked Dawn, his trainer, is because the whale had been from being held in captivity for so long. Another reason animals shorten their lifespans in captivity is due to malnutrition. The New York Times even wrote an article explaining how out of hand this issue has gotten in some In the article it is stated that there was a study done because many of the trainers were that captive populations of the black rhinoceros were suffering anemia and were failing to so, Ellen Dierenfeld, nutritionist at the Bronx Zoo, suspected that they were suffering deficiencies of vitamin (Freudenheim). The study concluded that the rhinos in fact, were missing a big part of their diet which was causing their lack of vitamin E. This is the case with many animals held in captivity because they cannot get nearly the variety of nutrients they would be getting in the wild. Most of these animals are kept on a very strict diet which does not often change due to the budgets at most theme parks. Many animals even look different when malnourished. This is just one more reason to watch animals in their natural habitat rather than go see the show put on by theme parks all over the globe. In order to help these animals live longer and escape this captivity we have to stop supporting these theme parks. To do this, we have to stop going to the zoo and other theme parks which hold animals in captivity. Not only is it morally wrong to take an animal away from its family for the sole purpose of our entertainment, but to shorten their life spans in the process is beyond terrible. Even if we were to completely ignore the moral aspects, it is still true that you can save so much money by skipping the trip to a theme park, and going to a wildlife reserve Pittard !5 instead. If we act soon there may not even be any animals left to put in captivity. Help end the madness now, and stop spending your money at the zoo. Works Cited Blackfish. Dir. Gabriela Cowperthwaite. Magnolia Pictures, 2013. Documentary. Empty the Cages and Tanks! the Truth About the Lives of Animals in Captivity Versus the  One Green Planet. N.p., n.d. Web. 15 Mar. 2017. Freudenheim, Betty. Is a Growing Concern at the The New York Times. August 2008. Web. April 16 2017. Josephson, Amelia. Economic of smartasset.com - taxes, March 4 2016. Web. April 15 2017. Keim, Brandon. SEAWORLD FACT  SeaWorld Fact Check - Killer Whale Tanks. Wired, 20 Sept. 2011. Web. 07 Mar. 2017.