Gabriela Shephard Ms. Elizabeth Ricketts ENC 1101-010 27 April 2017 The Benefits of Music Therapy for Children with Special Needs It has been argued whether music is important in the lives of disabled children. Using Music as a foundation for therapy has been created to complete personal goals and assist patients in any area using musical elements and therapeutic procedures. Therapy is overlooked as a legitimate type of treatment, and is not credited as it should the need for Music Therapy has increased and research has shown the positive responses from music therapy sessions. There are several reasons as to why Music Therapy should be utilized, and it begins with its purpose and impact on children. Because music is known as a universal language and a general form of entertainment, using it as a method for improving health is an option that is both brilliant and kid-friendly. Music itself can trigger diverse thoughts and feelings, which can involve memory exercises and recalling rhythmic patterns. Music Therapy redirects focus, engages, stimulates communication, and encourages participation. It differs from other types of therapies not only because it involves music, but also because it creates a personal bond, supports well being, and involves physical activity. Although some say that Music Therapy does not benefit children with disabilities and disorders, it promotes new behaviors and stimulates various skills. Therefore, Music Therapy is crucial for children with disabilities in order to enhance their social, emotional, and behavioral skills. One of the principal benefits offered to children with disabilities is communication. The use of a melody sung with fabricated lyrics, or the practice of repeating words imposes an urge to participate in the activity, which stimulates development in the cognitive thinking. There are many strategies and techniques where nonverbal communication takes place which stimulates various motor skills. Motor skills can comprise of movements and gestures or simply making facial expressions and eye contact (Kim et al). Children who suffer from disorders that hinder speech such as Mixed Expressive- Receptive Language Disorder experience difficulty in social interaction and emotional regulation (Wetherick 1). According to a study by Wetherick, changes in relationship patterns and increased spontaneous speech and cooperative play occurs during music therapy for children with a language (Wetherick 1). The study showed that throughout the session, the children with language impediments improved and demonstrated different behaviors as well as enhanced communication skills. The research displays the significance of interactions with peers to practice vocalizing and connections using words or actions. Additionally, communication often occurs with the client and the therapist in private sessions because of the efforts made to have a personal relationship with the client. This invites the child to gain the trust, and the impressions received result in the participation and interest. The enhancement of behavioral and emotional skills for children with special needs is also a major advantage of Music Therapy. The specific activities the therapist presents to the client encourages responses and behaviors according to the needs. Children with Emotional and Behavioral Disorders, (EBD) may have several concerns that stands as an obstacle to learning and other skills. These children may have anxiety, depression, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, or autism (Sausser et al 1). Music Therapy teaches and encourages appropriate behaviors and responses by helping children create songs or experiment with instruments to describe feelings. Playing major and minor cords help to differentiate between happy and sad sounds. When children have significant emotional needs, it is even more beneficial for them to participate in music activities in order for them to portray positive responses (Sausser et al 8). These structured activities motivate children to expose feelings and expressions, completing the goal of the music therapist for the individual child. Music Therapy gives children individual attention in order for specific needs to be met, and leaves a positive impression on the child. The emotional effects of music therapy for children with disorders and disabilities contribute to the establishment of different thoughts and actions, which improves emotional well being. According to Constantin, music is a way of communication and can generate different kinds of feedback based on emotions. Music alone is powerful enough to evoke those types of responses. Fulvia Anca firmly states, both communicates and induces emotions thought various characteristics: tempo, melody, intensity or sound quality (timbre). It is only one of the benefits of engaging with (Constantin 178). There are numerous methods to bring forth emotions through music. For instance, playing or singing melodies at different speeds can a present a mood that connects with the appropriate reactions. Music itself can stimulate diverse feelings and emotions, but with the guide of a therapist to present suitable content it becomes more apparent that the improvement in the child with special needs is not solely based on listening to music. This demonstrates the importance of engaging and participation that enables them to improve their skills. The research gives evidence of the impact of music and the interaction related to music has with disabled children. Music Therapy is needed for children with emotional and behavioral disorders in order to boost the self-esteem and set up positive habits for their well being. Music Therapy is a powerful tool that is unlike any other therapy. Not only does it involve music, but also the interaction and musical connection between the child and the therapist. It inspires children to make new sounds and play foreign instruments, giving them freedom in their play and excitement to learn. Other therapies typically focus on the counseling aspect or recovery of patients rather than personally connecting on a level that is understood by both the therapist and the client. Therapies that involve a form of amusement or display a kid- friendly environment can be intimidating or uninviting to children. Therapy alone symbolizes the need for help and can be viewed as embarrassing or shameful, which as a result can turn people away because of its negative connotation. One unique characteristic that is familiar in Music Therapy is improvisation. Improvisational Music Therapy is known as effective intervention addressing fundamental levels of spontaneous self-expression, emotional communication and social engagement for individuals with a wide range of developmental (Kim et al 2). The improv portion of therapy relates to all the spontaneous responses and operates as an openly friendly environment, compared to the structured curriculum or procedures of typical therapies. Music Therapy specifically uses live instruments to focus the attention on the movements and visible motions made by the therapist in order to engage children and meet their therapeutic needs (Kim et al 2). The improvisational factors contributing to the mental and physical growth of the child involve a welcoming atmosphere to influence music making. Overall, Music therapists have seen a change and improved development in children who have experienced improvisational Music Therapy. Music Therapy is a different but therapeutic approach that has received attention for its mix of activity and music, and also its positive feedback on children with disabilities. Some believe that Music Therapy is an unnecessary treatment because it is not a cure or enhancement for mental or physical illnesses. In addition, there are many misconceptions about music therapy and its overall success. Donald Wetherick concludes, research is needed to confirm the value of small-group improvisational music therapy in promoting social communication, positive changes in relationship patterns and increased spontaneous speech and cooperative play for children with a language (Wetherick 868). Because there is no definite evidence, it is often not taken seriously and it is often believed that there is little research on the matter. Music Therapy is supposedly not promoted enough to be a legitimate treatment that benefits children with disabilities. It is still a subject that triggers questions and seems unfamiliar to the general public. While it seems as though Music therapy is an overlooked practice, there have been various studies on how simply listening to music can influence the behaviors of any person, particularly children who have trouble focusing, learning, and expressing themselves. Therefore, Music Therapy has been established to improve the lives of children and enhance their social and behavioral skills. While many consider Music Therapy to be a meaningless practice due to its inability to restore children to perfect health, there is evidence that verifies the validity of the practice and the impact it has on children with disabilities and disorders. It is important for people to be exposed to unfamiliar events and to be introduced to foreign perspectives, because it may lead to a life changing experience. Music Therapy should be offered and available in schools, nursing homes, hospitals, and therapy related organizations for all ages. Music Therapy is an essential practice for children with special needs, and is expected to expand and be implemented in many lives. Works Cited Constantin, Fulvia Anca. Effects of Music Therapy on Children with Special Journal Plus Education / Educatia vol. 12A, 2015, pp. 178-183. eds.b.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/ Kim, Jinah, et al. Emotional, Motivational and Interpersonal Responsiveness of Children with Autism in Improvisational Music  The International Journal of Research & vol.13, no. 4, 2009, pp.389-409. doi:10.1177/1362361309105660. Accessed 18 Feb 2017. Sausser, Shannon, and Waller, Raymond J. Model for Music Therapy with Students with Emotional and Behavioral Arts in Psychotherapy, 33, no. 1, 1 Jan. 2006, pp. 1-10. doi:10.1016/j.aip.2005.05..003 Wetherick, Donald. Therapy and Children with a Language Impairment: Some Examples of Musical Communication in of Music, no.6, 2014, pp.864-868, 10.1177/0305735614547716. Accessed 19 Feb 2017.