Panton 1 Patrick Panton Instructor Ryan ENC1102.001 14 April 2017 Conveying the positive effects of Pro-life. Various organizations have disputes over the ethical and morality of abortion and having been trying to convince various target audience about why pro or anti life should be considered. Abortion can be stated as the deliberate termination of a pregnancy which is usually between twenty-eight weeks of pregnancy. Abortion is a controversial topic that has acquired many conspicuous assertions. Abortion is an immoral act that should not be considered by various types of groups including teenagers and persons that are unaware of the danger of unprotected sex. Prolife is beneficial in most circumstances where a life can be saved and can be used to better of the nation on a whole depending on how that child is grown. Anti-life totally takes away that choice of action. This issue needs to be address because it deteriorates the minds that can help build and preserve the future generation. One should not be able to single handed make a decision that can deteriorate the economy. Prolife is a responsibility and takes a community to raise a child, this can be addressed in the issue of abortion and that prolife is seen beneficial over anti life in certain circumstances. This can be described in various rhetorical appeals and various research that support this claim. The united states have a high rate of abortion as seen invarious statistics on the abortion rate for the period of 2006-2008. In the article entitled pregnancy in the United States: Panton 2 incidence and disparities, written by Lawrence B. Finer states that abortions intentions from 2006 national survey of family growth stated that the rate of abortion increases since the past decade by forty five percent with the amount of rape victim slight (Lawrence,10). This statistic indicated that women are using the route of abortion very often, more often that they should be.The number of women being raped has increase over the decades this does not result in the high increase in the number of babies being aborted. Women are seeking the wrong alternative to get rid of their own responsibilities. In the same article, it states that teenage pregnancy has dropped by fifty percent from 1991 to 2014. However, the number of women being pregnant from rape has increases since 1991 with thirty thousand pregnancies being produced each year by rape victims this statistic also goes with the amount of abortions yearly. This goes to show that more resources are being used to deal with these abortions, rather than building resources abortions are using them. This data that was taken from the National Survey of Family growth which is a trusted and credible source. On way to get rid of these negative impacts on the economy the prolife movements can be used to uplift and find other means for women to go about unwanted pregnancies. Based on the statistics presented it can be demonstrated that abortion is not the proper path to follow to build an economy. Prolife can be seen as a better alternative than abortion by consuming less resources and the child can help better of the economy. There are several testimonies that have stated that various women were on the verge on abortions. Doctors stated that it was too late based on these assertions the females decided to keep the child and that children grew up to be successful business men and doctors. In the articled entitled abortion Melissa Oden tells her story on how her mother tried to abort her using the saline technique. This method was futile because of the development of the fetus. Melissa is now an Panton 3 outstanding business woman that has given birth in the same hospital that her mother tried to abort her in. This only goes to show that prolife has its benefits over the torture of abortion in the economy. The target audience being the rape victims would be confused about the options they have into fixing a unforeseen situation .The target audience would be interested in this aspect because of the benefits it can have on women who are sterile. Rape victims who are pregnant can provide women who are sterile and want children with the unwanted child. This in turn will benefit the rape future with various groups to help and console to get over the trauma of rape. This procedure will be beneficial for the rape victims and for sterile women. S R Labium wrote an article on why and how women cope after realizing that they are sterile. In the article after infertility treatment: a long-term investigation of marital and sexual The article states that women who are sterile and that wants children usually to overcome the situation by If rape victims detour from adoption there can be more viable children that will be available to be adopted. Although in various states there are children homes that are full, this will not affect this procedure because of the age difference. In this case rape victims and others will benefit. This shows that the target audience has options and should not lead to child death for their own benefits but think of others while benefiting. Rape Victims need to take action to make this possible there are several prolife organization that deal with specific awareness and special programs that will assist rape victims to make the necessary steps towards a better economy. Two organizations that deal with prolife are Youth defense and forty days of life. These organizations deal with small awareness groups for persons who are looking for a better way than abortion. These groups will help guide rape victims Panton 4 in approaching the matter of abortion differently. Youth Defense states growth of a child needs moral and supportive (33). This statement deals with the necessary work and dedication it takes to deal with a child. These groups also deal with which hospital is best capable of placing the child into a respective family. This way is the best possible way to take control of the situation and benefitting both the rape victim and the economy by using less resources for abortion while also adding to the national work force. This is the best way to go when dealing with unwanted pregnancy although the process of abortion may take a shorter time it also can be dangerous to your health depending on what procedure is used either by saline or by a C-section and the various other procedures. It can be concluded that abortion is decision that one should think twice before doing, location and financial factors are important in making such decision. Prolife is a beneficial option that allows for the world to grow in a strong work force and allows other women who can not reproduce, to gain the opportunity to love and take care of a child. The use of pathos, ethos, and various personal experience with abortion allows rape victims to empathize and allow them to choose a better and more appropriate path. Panton 5 Work Cited Page Counter, Carol. defense-the cutting edge of the prolife http://www.youthdefence.ie/who-we-are/aims-and-objectives/. The Irish times. November 1997 Oden,Melissa. Abortion https://www.theguardian.com/lifeandstyle/2006/oct/27/healthandwellbeing.society. December 2008 S R Leiblum, A Aviv, R Hamer; Life after infertility treatment: a long-term investigation of marital and sexual function.. Hum Reprod 1998; 13 (12): 3569-3574. doi: 10.1093/humrep/13.12.3569 Unintended pregnancy in the United States: incidence and disparities, 2006 Finer, Lawrence B. et al. Contraception , Volume 84 , Issue 5 , 478 48 days of https://40daysforlife.com/ accessed 17 Aprl 2017. Panton 6