Rainey 1 Kiersten Rainey 5/15/17 Sarah Basil Enc. 1102 Keeping earth alive Climate change has been a growing issue since the Industrial Revolution, when man discovered that fossil fuels like oil and coal could run factories, trains and boats. During the Industrial Revolution, global economy increased exponentially; however, there was a downside to this economic success, an increase in carbon dioxide emissions (LI 1). This increase in carbon emissions has led to global climate change, destruction of ecosystems and endangerment of animal species. Humans are pushing earth to its tipping point, and something needs to be done to stop it before too late. Our failure to acknowledge and act on the issue of global warming has made it become a pressing issue that threatens the future of our planet. Luckily there are ways to turn it around if we act now, we can save the planets by reducing our carbon footprint and switching over to renewable energy sources. As members of the USF community, being aware of the resources available to you can help reduce your carbon footprint, and help the future of the planet. Everyone has heard of global warming and climate change but some are unaware of what it actually is. warming is the term applied specifically to indicate rising average global air (Keeting 1). There are many theories about the cause of this increase in temperature; some think that it is a natural fluctuation in temperature like the Ice Age was. However, there is scientific data backing up the claim that the rise in temperature is actually because of human emitted carbon dioxide (Houtman 262). Carbon dioxide is a greenhouse gas that causes the greenhouse effect which is naturally occurring process in which the accumulation of atmospheric gases prevents solar radiation from escaping into space; this radiation then heats the surface of the (Isadora 1). Basically, carbon dioxide traps the suns radiation causing earth to overheat. This phenomenon is causing the ice caps to Rainey 2 melt, which causes sea levels to rise; this increase in temperature has had a large impact on earths ecosystems and oceans. As Americans, we are taught to consume as much as we can and to make as much money as we can. To be quite frank, our culture supports gluttony, and we indulge in anything not concerned about the consequences. This is especially true in the ways we use up fossil fuels, our society loves planes trains and automobiles which are machines powered by nonrenewable resources like oil and coal. There is scientific evidence that if we continue to consume fossil fuels at the rate we do, there will be detrimental effects to future generations earth. The way we treat earth right now is going to have economic effects on their generation as well, environmental harm has a larger impact than most think of the way in which it will disturb biological and physical systems, climate change will have a range of, generally adverse, impacts on the health and socio-economic resources of future human (Page 7). The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) forecasts a temperature rise of 2.5 to 10 degrees Fahrenheit over the next century (NASA 1). This rise in temperature will, cause shorter winters, spikes in temperature, unpredictable rainfall patterns, and many more effects on the environment. This will make life much harder for future generations, causing them to deal with prolonged drought periods or hurricanes and these environmental effects are right around the corner. One of the most alarming effects global warming will have on the world is the rise in sea levels from melted ice caps. According to NASA, sea levels will rise 1 to 4 feet by 2100 which will flood many major coastal cities all over the world (NASA 1). The difficult method to deal with this issue would be for humans to just adapt to the environmental changes and spend billions of dollars doing so, but the easy way is to switch to renewable resources. The smart alternative to nonrenewable energy is solar energy. Solar energy is being adopted all over the United States and world by people whom have acknowledged the benefits it has on the environment. Solar panels are what most people use to powers their homes or properties, these panels save homeowners money in the long run because solar panels last longer and are more efficient than Rainey 3 conventional energy sources. Here at USF, we are in Florida nicknamed the sunshine state, solar power is meant for us. In states like Florida, Arizona, and California the sun is always out, with the exception of an afternoon thunderstorm in Florida, the sun never stops shining in these states and solar power would work perfectly. There are other renewable energy forms for states that very sunny. Wind power for states with wide open space like Idaho and Nebraska, and hydroelectric in states with access to water and many more. The jump to renewable energy will not be sudden, people need to be eased into it. To ease our way into helping the environment, as members of the USF community, we can start by carpooling to school, riding the Bull runner or biking to class to at least reduce our own carbon footprints. To take the next step towards a greener earth, you can invest in solar energy, buy electric cars, and even participate in peaceful protest speaking for the earth! There are plenty of solutions for the issue of global warming, the movement towards renewable energy has already started, and we should follow this movement. In conclusion, Global warming is an issue that is only going to get worse. Future generations will suffer from this increase in temperature, we need to care less about how this affects us right now in the present and worry about the future of earth (that we will most likely still be living in) in which we are currently pushing to its tipping point. We have the resources now to fix this issue, as a technologically advancing society we have access to amazing technology to help the environment and prevent any further damage. Here at USF we can help in this fight against global warming as well, by utilizing our campus resources and following the green movement. With environmental friendly alternatives like solar power, wind power, and hydro-electric power, we can fix the issue before too late. Rainey 4 Works Cited: Biological Consequences of Global Warming: Is the Signal  Elsevier Science Ltd, 2 Feb. 2000. Web. 2017 Houtman, Anne, Megan Scudellari, Cindy Malone, and Anu Singh Cundy. Biology Now. New York: Norton, 2015. Print. Isadora, Micah L. Simone and Issitt Flynn. Greenhouse  Salem Press Encyclopedia, January. EBSCOhost April 2017 Keating, Christopher. Global  Salem Press Encyclopedia of Science, January. April 2017 LI, ANTHONY H. F. Hopes of Limiting Global Warming? China and the Paris Agreement on Climate  China Perspectives, no. 1, Mar. 2016, pp. 49-54. EBSCOhost, NASA The Consequences of Climate  NASA, n.d. Web. 12 Apr. 2017. Page, Edward. Climate Change, Justice and Future Generations. Edward Elgar Publishing, 2006. EBSCOhost, April 2017