Ellis 1 Collin Ellis ENC 1102 Robert Ryan 17 April 2017 Private Data for Sale Many people in the digital age fail to distinguish credible news sources from the infinite number of fraudulent sources on the web. These fraudulent sources skew the perceptions of the masses with propaganda based on personal opinions and spreads a great deal of misinformation. Social media giants such as Facebook, Twitter and Google have become a platform for this type of propaganda, and has disengaged the public with many issues in the world. In the realm of internet privacy, the propaganda surrounding the topic has followed the same suit. The notion of being able to buy the internet history of individuals more specifically members of the House and Senate swarmed these social media platforms. The community has been disengaged with the politics surrounding the regulations, to the point where Go Fund Me accounts created by Adam McElhaney and Misha Collins have acquired a joint total of 298,873 dollars to purchase the web history of the Senate (Go Fund Me). However, this action is illegal. The telecommunications act explicitly prohibits the sharing of consumer information. This example of fake news shows just how much misinformation effects the public. In October of 2015 the FCC adopted regulations that required Internet service providers such as Verizon, AT&T and Comcast to get permission before selling the data they collect in the digital marketing space. would be required to receive the permission of its consumer by an Opt in- or Opt-Out policy prompt and were required to be transparent in what Ellis 2 type of data they shared and with what entity. These regulations were set to take effect in of 2017, but the congressional review conducted by the House and Senate delayed its enactment. The 1996 Congressional Review Act allows the house and senate to repeal legislation with a majority vote and a presidential signature. When federal legislation goes through the review process and that legislation is repealed, the entity who created that legislation will not be able to create similar laws in the future. On April 3 rd of 2017, President Donald Trump solidified the rollback of the privacy regulations by signing S.J. Res. 34. The FCC will be unable to regulate privacy regulations in the future. Consumers should have the right to Opt-In or Opt-out from their data being marketed or shared. The rollback of the privacy regulations, is a step backwards that rescinds consumers control over their data. It was a critical step in empowering consumers in the digital realm that is constantly evolving. With the 5 th generation of wireless technology on the verge of entering the market, there will be an evolution in the amount and type of data can obtain from its consumers. The business aspect of this is attributed to the fact that consumers pay for a service that will power these future innovations, can monetize the use of said services. The moral aspect of this issues stems from the ability of external forces to influence socio-political decision making of a consumer. Research conducted by Brett R. Gordon and Wesley R. Hartman found that advertisements can shift the electoral votes of multiple states and consequently the outcome of an election. A business entity in Russia would be able to purchase the congregate data of several states and place ads for the candidates whose policies favor their businesses. The primary distinction between and Internet Content Providers (ICP) comes down to their business models. such as Google, Facebook, Twitter offer free services and with consent in their form of their usage agreement, monetizes the data they are giving consent to use Ellis 3 by their consumers. On the other hand, that only offer paid services now can monetize metadata about its usage. Taking into consideration the effects of law in the tech industry, new technological innovations that incorporate the 5g spectrum will exponentially increase the amount and type of data that will be at the disposal of Gigabit speeds that are 10,000 times faster than what is available in the current market will bring forth massive amounts of metadata Mobility The way and gather information is also very different. Unlike Google, Facebook and Twitter a consumer can be constantly connected to their ISP. A device is constantly pinging their ISP with location, web history, app usage, purchasing data and more. There are currently no restrictions on the type of data they can collect and technological innovations will continue to bring that data to exponential amounts. The rescinding of the privacy laws, combined with the new republican head of the FCC foreshadows the end of Net-Neutrality. Net-Neutrality is a policy adopted by the passing of the Open Internet Order (OIO), which ensures consumers and businesses have access to fast and fair open internet access (FCC). Without the OIO, would be able to charge premiums for faster internet access essentially, creating two different internets. One for people or entities that can afford the premiums vs those who cannot. The best example of this turns to relationship with Comcast and Verizon Both were found throttling speeds to Netflix servers (Shalini Ramachandran). If the Net Neutrality regulations are removed, will have ability to throttle services that either favors revenue for themselves or corporate affiliates, inevitably killing small businesses. A strong argument for the repeal was formed on a basis that it would provide more competition in the advertising market and allow to be treated the same way as and not pick winners and losers(Lohr). Per Alexandra Bruell of the Wall street Journal, in 2017 the Ellis 4 digital advertising market is projected to reach $ 83 billion dollars, where google will take up 40.7 % and Facebook 19.7% of that gross revenue. being able to sell consumer data will grow that market and provide more competition. However, neither Google nor Facebook monetize consumer data for any of their paid services. The amount of competition and growth in this market has been the focus for repealing the privacy regulations. Despite the regulations being highly favored by the consumers and their public discontent the bill was passed. The growth of big businesses was held at a higher priority level than the perspective of consumers. However, there is much that can be done about it. It seems that the Senate and House of representatives have forgotten that the people have voted them into the seats they currently hold. It seems that they have also forgotten the are supposed to represent the will of the people. Midterm elections provide an opportunity to construct a congress that supports the public opinion and presents and opportunity for a long- term solution. Young adults and college students have the biggest role to play in making this change and the responsibilities of engaging and informing their peers, family members and local representatives about the pending effects of this decision. The quickest rebuttal would be to have State legislation passed that provides a more ideal regulation of The inventor of the World Wide Web Tim Burners Lee, stated that privacy is a core American value and not a partisan thing (Sam Thielman). It does not make sense that both parties normally fight for privacy, but the republicans decided to take it away. Ellis 5 Works Cited Bruell, Alexandra. Digital Ad Market to Grow 16% This Year, Led by Facebook and The Wall Street Journal, Dow Jones & Company, 14 Mar. 2017, www.wsj.com/articles/u-s-digital-ad-market-to-grow-16-this-year-led-by-facebook-and- google-1489489202. Accessed 19 Apr. 2017. Gordon, Brett R., and Wesley R. Hartmann. Competition in Presidential SSRN Electronic Journal, doi:10.2139/ssrn.2322901. Smart Mobility Summit, Smart Mobility Summit, 6 Apr. 2017, www.smartmobilitysummit.com/#speakers. Accessed 19 Apr. 2017. Lohr, Steve. Neutrality Is Next Target, Administration The New York Times, The New York Times, 30 Mar. 2017, Accessed 19 Apr. 2017. Federal Communications Commission, 25 Aug. 2016, www.fcc.gov/general/open-internet. Accessed 19 Apr. 2017. Ramachandran, Shalini. to Pay Comcast for Smoother The Wall Street Journal, Dow Jones & Company, 23 Feb. 2014, www.wsj.com/articles/netflix-agrees-to-pay- comcast-to-improve-its-streaming-1393175346. Accessed 30 Apr. 2017. Thielman, Sam. Berners-Lee: Selling Private Browsing Data Is The Guardian, Guardian News and Media, 4 Apr. 2017, Ellis 6 www.theguardian.com/technology/2017/apr/04/tim-berners-lee-online-privacy-interview- turing-award. Accessed 19 Apr. 2017