Williamson 1 Camila Williamson Professor Robert Ryan ENC 1102 19 April 2017 A Yes to Euthanasia point of view on euthanasia and assisted suicide is usually negative and looked upon. It is viewed as the action of helping someone end their life, like murder, without receiving any sort of consequences. But the truth is that not like that. Euthanasia, for some people, is the only escape from suffering and misery, and it soon becomes the only thing that can help families dealing with a terminally ill family member. Of course, euthanasia should be regulated and monitored not only by health professionals, but also by the law so that there are no instances where assisted suicide comes in where not wanted or not needed. The legalization of euthanasia is a topic that should concern most people, if not everyone, because it is our loved ones that in a future could be limited by the options currently available for assisted suicide. It is necessary for people to get informed about the topic and inform others about how to help and how to advocate towards the legalization of euthanasia in all fifty states. At the end of the day, euthanasia may be hard to regulate but with some help from the masses we can spread awareness of how necessary it is to improve the quality of life for those that are terminally ill, and occasionally the end of suffering for those that have no other escape. Euthanasia is known for being one of the hardest topics to argue about because of the misinterpretation of the definition of euthanasia, and the many negative connotations that come with the word suicide. For educational purposes, the definition of active euthanasia is: mode Williamson 2 of ending life in which the intent is to cause the death in a single act (also called mercy (McGraw-Hill). This means that euthanasia is the act of administering a drug, with the purpose of ending a life. The definition alone is meaningless, and with a weak definition it is necessary to set it in the medical context so it can begin to make sense. The act of assisted suicide that is supported by most medical organization is not the administration of these drugs to whoever wants them, but instead, a very heavily regulated process which the applicants must have to go through to be even considered for euthanasia. Assisted suicide is there to help the ones suffering, not to hurt them, but the media and other organizations, such as The American Life League and BBC, portray it in a way that shows it as inhumane or murder. individual has a right to determine what is done to his or her body. Accordingly, an individual has a right to choose death over a life of pain and suffering, as long as the decision to die is competent, well-informed and made after careful thought and (Hirsch 382). This quote shows how despite it being hard to regulate, it is up to the patient to consciously decide what should be done, not the law. It is wrong to just object to letting the patient chose what they want their life, and occasionally their death to be like. Despite what everyone thinks, euthanasia only apply to those that are ill, it also applies to their families and loved ones. Once you put yourself in the position of thinking that if one of your family members were deathly ill and in an immense amount of suffering and pain, would you or would you not think about assisted suicide as a method of relieving them from their sickness? It is at these types of moments that true judgement comes in. Assisted suicide exists and is an option in many countries because it is the humane way to ease pain if requested. would not tell anyone else that he or she should choose death with dignity. My question is: Who has the right to tell me that I deserve this choice? That I deserve to suffer for weeks or Williamson 3 months in tremendous amounts of physical and emotional pain? Why should anyone have the right to make that choice for (Maynard) These were the words of Brittany Maynard, a twenty-nine-year-old woman that suffered from a rare form of cancer that took control of her life. Before she passed away with the help of her physician, she wrote this commentary to express her feelings about euthanasia and assisted suicide. Her message is clear, and it speaks the words of those that It expresses how euthanasia for those looking at it from the outside may seem like an act of weakness, but for the ones that are in pain, the only choice to not only end their suffering, but their loved ones suffering too. important to understand the euthanasia is important, but even more important to understand the we can make a difference. Compassion and Choices is an organization that fights to educate and legalize euthanasia in the United States. important for them to share stories of people that have opted for euthanasia, some that have succeeded, and some that have not. Brittany Maynard was a very strong woman that had the resources to move her family over six hundred miles to Oregon to receive the care she needed to end her life in a peaceful way like she wanted. Others are not that fortunate. Jennifer Glass was diagnosed with rare case of non-smoker lung cancer that later took over her entire body and ultimately her brain. She decided that when the cancer had taken too much from her, she was going to end her life with help of a physician, and upon further research, she came to the realization that in her home state of California that was not an option. She later became a Compassion and Choice advocate and said am doing everything I can to extend my life. No one should have the right to prologue my (Glass). The same way that we can opt to choose whether we want to be treated or not when we become ill, should be the same way we can opt to let the decease take its course or end it before it can bring more pain and suffering. The legalization of euthanasia is a Williamson 4 life or death matter. It is crucial that people begin to educate themselves on this matter, and realize that this is not a call for attention, but a cry for attention. There is no pretty way to put it, but for some people ending their life is the best option they have; and hard to see that most people in the United States cannot legally make the choice. Life should never be filled with pain and suffering, but sometimes it is, and when this happens there should be the option to die in peace. So many people have already had to endure the last weeks or months of unbelievable pain to reach their inevitable death, and for those that have had to wait till the end, they have had to wait every day for their death to come, knowing that there is nothing in their power to make it less painless and faster. Euthanasia brings an escape for those that have no rout, and brings those around them ease in knowing that, if desired, their death will be peaceful and painless. The only way will get euthanasia and assisted suicide to be legalized is if there is support from the outside public by sharing information about euthanasia and making them understand that this topic concerns everyone, and not only those who are ill. Let your voice be heard and start advocating for those that are incapable of doing it. Williamson 5 Cited Sources: active  McGraw-Hill Concise Dictionary of Modern Medicine. 2002. The McGraw- Hill Companies, Inc. 19 Apr. 2017 Hirsch, Dana E. Euthanasia: Is It Murder or Mercy Killing? A Comparison of the Criminal Laws in the United States, the Netherlands and Switzerland. Vol. 12, Los Angeles, Loyola Marymount University and Loyola Law School Digital Commons at Loyola Marymount University and Loyola Law School, 1990 Glass, Jennifer. No One Should Have the Right to Prolong My  Compassion & Choices. Compassion and Choices, n.d. Web. 19 Apr. 2017. Maynard, Brittany. My Right to Death with Dignity at  CNN. Cable News Network, 02 Nov. 2014. Web. 19 Apr. 2017.