Stokes 1 Jesse Stokes ENC1102 Karen Hanson 16 April, 2017 Preserving Our Democracy: Saving the Electoral College The Electoral College is a system that has been in place since the inception of our Democratic-Republic, one with great tradition, dignity, and honor. This system is not just tradition, but an institutional norm that defines the very make up of our Constitution and nation as a whole. However, the idea of the Electoral College does not come without controversy when discussed today. There are those who believe that the system is in place to keep the power in the hands of the few, and in turn, limit the capabilities of the many (Schumaker). However, such claims are generally fueled off of emotion, with easily-irrefutable arguments to support it. In actuality, the Electoral College is a system with the best interest of all of the people in mind, not just a selected few. Moreover, to abolish such a sacred system, would be to, in part, abolish our nation as well. It is time that all Americans come together and ensure that our lawmakers know that the Electoral College is a process that it still of importance and relevancy, and one that needs to remain in place for generations to come. The Electoral College is not a place, but a process Is the Electoral Such a method was developed by our Founding Fathers as a middle  of sorts between the votes of congress and of the people. It is inclusive of 538 electors, meaning the Presidential candidate to reach 270 of those will be the victor (Shaw). The Electoral College was initially put into place to make electing a President a simpler and more efficient process in the world before Stokes 2 modern technology. Now, however it serves what could perhaps be considered a much more important purpose. The Electoral College acts as a balancing force to keep heavily-populated, like voting states, such as New York and California, from determining the outcomes of the elections for the entire nation. Without the Electoral College, such a scenario would be easily achievable. In the past seven presidential elections, the states of New York, California, and Illinois have all voted in favor of the Democratic candidate (Will). These states alone, hold nearly half of American voters within their borders Population meaning that without the electoral college, the other forty-seven states would very easily and quickly be rendered useless. The Electoral College process can be seen as another form of checks and balances put into place in the construct of our nation. The main point of reference for keeping the system in place in the modern era is to keep the aforementioned states from mandating election outcomes for the remaining states and citizens across the country We Need the Electoral If hopeful abolitionists get their way, not only would heavily-populated, like voting states run the board, but a whole new set of points of contention could arise when it comes to the candidates, themselves. With a lack of the Electoral College, the idea of a plurality vote would open up. This means that Presidential Elections would become overrun with candidates. This voting process is much different than the idea that most anti-electorates think of. With a majority vote, the victor must successfully achieve fifty-one percentage points. With a plurality vote, however, this is far from the case For example, if four candidates were to enter the race, one with only twenty-six percent of the overall popular vote could end up as the next commander-in-chief. This would not only cause confusion and distrust, but could also spark even more mass outrage and riots in the streets of America than what we see with the current Stokes 3 political process. The idea of implementing a plurality vote in the United States is a more recent ideal to develop. One of the largest electoral-abolitionist groups, FairVote, have been one of the major supporters of this new type of voting system After ratification the year 1804, after the conclusion of the Washington regime, the electoral college has defined President- Elects for the two proceeding decades Electoral College Fast ). Times may have changed, but the founding principles of our nation have not. There is no validation for the arguments of our nation has been fueled by the Electoral College for over two-hundred years, and there is no reason why we should compromise our morals and throw away our belief system now. There is truly only power in numbers. We, as Americans need to realize that it is time for us to unify behind our constitution. Our law makers need to hear from us so that they realize that we still care about the Electoral College. As the tax-payers who support their bank accounts, and individuals who keep them in office, it is the job of congress to hear the concerns of the people and oblige them, appropriately. Now is the time for us to express our concerns, before it is too late. We must act efficiently and effectively to ensure the stability of the system that has kept our great nation in line since the very first presidential election. Other than contacting those currently in office, you can do your part to volunteer on the campaigns of those that support the Electoral College and ensure that the offices in the Capital building are filled with more of those who also care about the Electorate, and less with those who either wish to abolish it, or have no opinion on the matter. To stay impartial is to secure the demise of the Electoral College. The time for neutrality has come and gone. We, as Americans, must now throw our full-fledged support behind the Electorate and trust that our Founding Fathers had the right idea in mind on how to elect the leader of the free world. This task will not be easy, but is undoubtedly, achievable. Stokes 4 However, being complacent is the worst thing that we can do. Remaining passionate about the cause is the best thing that we can do to ensure its place in our government. In conclusion, the Electoral College process is not outdated, nor irrelevant. It is a system that is very much so still of the upmost importance to society. We must rise up and preserve the qualities of our nation. The Electoral College is a procedure that was created as, and will remain a system both of the people, and for the people, whether the individuals support it or not. The Electorate hold grudges, only accountability. Stokes 5 References Electoral College Fast  US House of Representatives: History, Art & Archives. N.p., n.d. nnnnnWeb. 16 Apr. 2017. FairVote.org. Electoral Systems in the United  FairVote. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. Plurality  Britannica. 20 July 1998. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Schumaker, Paul. Why the Electoral College Is Bad for  Perspectives on Politics 3.02 nnnnn (2005): n. pag. Web Shaw, Daron R. The race to 270 the Electoral College and the campaign strategies of 2000 and nnnnn2004. Chicago: U of Chicago Press, 2006. Print. U.S. Population Grows to 320.09 Million. California Still Reigns as Most Populous US  Nnnnn Tech Times. N.p., 30 Dec. 2014. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. What Is the Electoral  Archives.gov. N.p., 19 Dec. 2016. Web. 9 Apr. 2017. Will, George. 18 states have voted Democratic in six consecutive elections with 242 electoral nnnnn  Politifact. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Why We Need the Electoral  RealClearPolitics. N.p., n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017.