Lynn 1 Jared Lynn ENC.1102.10 Project 3 Final Karen Hanson Concussions in Football Football is one of the biggest sports in America today, with an enormous amount of people playing at a young age, high school, collegiate, and at a professional level. This year the NFL is supposed to bring in over 13.3 billion dollars in the 2016-2017 season which is more than a 50 percent increase from 2010 (Houck) this makes football one of the most profitable games in the United States. Football is also one of the most dangerous games to be played however, people suffering from injuries that are related to concussions, which can destroy the mental state of a player based on how much they play with the injury and how many blows to the head they take. Concussion related injuries are one of the most dangerous injuries that could happen to a football athlete, matter if the player is 14 years old trying out for his high school program, or NFL tight end Rob Gronkowski, a concussion affects people the same way by damaging their brains. Parents and family of these football players should really make sure that they are on top of everything if the player receives a concussion, as it could lead to potential life threatening situations and conditions. Also, a way to prevent these injuries in all levels of football are simple; to make sure that your athlete knows the proper way to tackle, and just a simple explanation of the effects of these concussion related injuries can help prevent someone from hitting another athlete the wrong way, and in turn partially saving their life. CTE or Chronic Traumatic Encephalopathy is another one of the big medical conditions that football players obtain. According to researchers with the Department of Veterans affairs Lynn 2 and Boston University they have now found out that percent of NFL Players they examined and 79 percent of all football have been diagnosed with CTE (Houck). CTE is a condition that arises from multiple shots to the brain and have been connected with the deaths of multiple NFL and collegiate athletes. Since football is one of the biggest and most competitive sports in the United States, it is very hard to tell a die-hard football fan that has been cheering on their local team for about 20 years that the NFL has to get rid of big hits, the single greatest play that excites a crowd the most. The fact of the matter is however that more and more players are prone to getting these head injuries it is a common threat that both the NFL and other small organizations are trying to minimize. Concussions have been a problem in the NFL and other organizations before, but now with a bunch of athletes such as Junior Sea, who was one of the most iconic NFL defensive players of the early 2000s. He committed suicide in May of 2012, and when they did the evaluation of why he committed suicide they found that he had CTE. CTE is a brain disease that occurs when an individual is constantly taking blows to the head and it leads to symptoms such as memory loss, depression, and dementia. (CDC) Imagine your fifteen-year-old son Jimmy is playing his first tackle football game of high school and all of a sudden another big start linebacker comes out of nowhere and lowers his head and makes some serious helmet to helmet contact. As soon as this occurs you can never rule out that maybe he can be concussed, and once that happens at a young age like that it can cause lingering effects such as headaches, nausea, etc. This should not happen to our youth. Football is obviously one of the most watched/played sports in our country but parents want their athletes to become braindead by the age of 30 if they continue to play. As parents, we need to come together and make sure that the game is being played the right way, safe, and efficiently. Lynn 3 Just think about your children, you really want to send your child out on a field where all of the other athletes are just head hungry and want to take every other athletes heads off. The answer is no, not how the game of football should be played. Overall, the game should be played as a non-violent and classy game, not people just running around trying to hurt people, because in lower class cities that is what they promote, the biggest and dirtiest players win games, but that true and is not what we should hold our children on. The first step to making sure that our athletes are safe is parents and other people who our close to our athletes are making sure that they are playing the game safely. One of the best ways to make sure that athletes that get hurt is to make sure they know how to properly hit. The way to hit would be to make sure that they lead with their head, and to make sure that they wrap people up instead of just flinging their body around recklessly. This is such a fantastic way to make sure that our athletes are safe because it allows players to significantly decrease the amount of times that their head gets contacted by another player. This makes the game exponentially safer for not only our children, but for professional athletes as well. Another sure fire way of making sure that our athletes make sure that they hit the proper way and play the game in a safe manner is just by using education. Word of mouth is one of the most effective forms of communication, with a lot of people being affected and have the potential to touch many more people outside of the community as well. Just by explaining to other people about the dangers of these head to head hits, the effects of concussion related injuries, and just the overall way that players should tackle is very beneficial to the football community. Starting to teach kids the proper way to play the game at a young age is very crucial to this technique of spreading awareness, as they can teach more people as they grow up, mature and become better athletes. Lynn 4 In conclusion, concussions and concussion related injuries are not something to ignore and push off to the side, as they are causing a lot of harm to football players, no matter what the age or skill level. Adults and people who look after NFL players should be a lot more careful about monitoring their child or athletes play, making sure that them and they people they play with and against are safe and are as least prone to these injuries as possible. Imagine an NFL Sunday that is still as competitive and hype as every other season, but instead of three injuries a game that could potentially end career, it could be a much safer NFL with no one getting hurt and still playing the game that racks in over a billion dollars of revenue a year! Concussion related injuries are a lot worse than they sound, with hundreds of athletes getting affected, you need to educate people on the topic, empower them to make a change, and engage them to help them understand why they should change. Lynn 5 Works Cited Baumgart, Mark Fainaru-Wada and Simon. The tackling  ESPN. ESPN Internet Ventures, 05 Sept. 2014. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Inside the Numbers: Counting Concussions in the  PBS. Public Broadcasting Service, 13 Dec. 2012. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Safety Rules &  NFL.com. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Houck, Zachary, et al. Epidemiology of Sport-Related Concussion in an NCAA Division I Football Bowl Subdivision  The American Journal of Sports Medicine, no. 9, 2016, p. 2269. Resource  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, n.d. Web. 30 Apr. 2017.