Garcia 1 Santiago Garcia Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 30 April 2017 Why Animal Rights Matter Circuses, zoos, aquariums, hunting and movies all have one thing in common: animals being exploited for entertainment. The entertainment industry is a greedy business where the only thing that matters is revenue and large audiences. Animals are being used to get tons of money, and the animals get abused or killed for these purposes. These animals are trying to live normal lives, but people are selfish and using them to get quick money. Animals can be punished by being hurt physically, mentally, and by not getting fed when their performance was not perfect. People who do not work in the entertainment industry are unaware of these things going on behind the scenes, especially children, who are not introduced to these problems until middle school or high school. The teenagers and adults have tried to get this problem to stop from happening, but the main source of income that the entertainment industry gets is from children. These children need to be aware of this to understand what happens behind the scenes in zoos and aquariums, such as not getting fed. Children need to protest animal exploitation by not going to these entertainment businesses to give them the message that animals are not to be used for money. This would give an end to this abuse, thus leading the businesses to lose revenue and closing all together. Garcia 2 Most people believe that animals are having a good time in movies and circuses, but this is not the case. The behaviors of the animals when they do stunts or acting is all due to tremendous amounts of torture and insane training methods (PETA). Animals in circuses are exposed to many diseases, because they were not given basic medical first aid. Most of these animals get tuberculosis, and this is due to not being treated for wounds that were inflicted during beatings and injuries from accidents (Paws). Circuses are also known to have topsoil available to hide the wounds and blood on the animals (Causes). Movies also tend to be a great business that uses animals and hurts them so they can do something for a film. One of the worst cases of animal cruelty in a movie, is the film, Cannibal Holocaust. It was proven that a minimum of six animals, which include: a muskrat, a pig, a monkey, a snake, a turtle, and a large spider were killed for the sake of the film. There was a problem with the first monkey being killed with a gun in the film, so they had to kill another monkey for the scene (Causes). Countries like Sweden, Costa Rica, Austria, Finland, India and Singapore have banned and restricted the use of animals in circuses to prevent this monstrosity that the entertainment industry pursues (Causes). There should be more countries like them that should help protect the animals from abusive humans, and children need to advertise this. Animals being used for the entertainment industry live 96% of their lives in chains or cages (Paws). In circuses, animals travel for eleven months in a year in long distances inside a box car with no climate control, sleeping, eating, and breathing the same air as other animals which causes diseases and illnesses. When the animals are allowed out the cages and chains, they are exposed to abusive discipline such as whipping, hitting, poking, and electric shocks (Paws). The United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) has made it so there are very Garcia 3 minimum standards for caring of these animals, most of these areas that use animals for entertainment are not inspected. When animals are taken out of the wild, they may carry diseases that are threats to the general safety. Many public records have proven that most circuses use Tuberculosis positive wild animals in their public shows (Paws). These circuses, are not required by the law to have the equipment for rampant or loose animals, and due to this, there have been over 100 human injuries worldwide. The circus animals like elephants are usually put in cages with shackles that are as little as five feet in length, which is a striking difference to the thousands of miles of space they lived in the wild (Paws). The problem about being put back in the wild is that these animals can also be hunted down for sport. Hunting is a terrible sport where the animals are shot and killed to become trophies and for their fame. Television shows such as Duck Dynasty advertise killing animals for sport. Killing animals should not be a sport, especially when they are innocent animals that are only trying to live their lives normally. Hunting should be stopped by having hunting licenses revoked, and it should be illegal to kill animals in the wild for sport or television. Animals in the entertainment industry will need tons of support from children, because they are the ones who are most brought to these businesses. If these children are understanding of this major situation that is going on around the world, they may have sympathy for these animals who are being used and abused for the sake of entertainment. The children will need to protest these businesses to help the animals gain their liberty and rights to live their normal lives instead of being put in chains and in containers that have enough space for them. Children can contact the investigators to check up on the animals and how they are being fed and if they have any wounds. The entertainment industry will lose tons of money from people not going to Garcia 4 attend their shows, watching their movies, etc. The children will also have to contact their local government to make a law against animals in the entertainment industry. Children need to not only picture themselves in the positions, but also make sure other people know about these terrible problems going around the world. People will not do anything unless it affects them or their children. The parents will be able to understand their children which they can help support their viewpoints. If this happens, there will be tons of success in order to help get these poor animals out of this terrible danger for a greedy and monstrous business. Children can contribute to helping this cause by donating and supporting PETA to help these animals get fed, medical attention, and to spread the word of what happens behind the scenes of these businesses using animals. Animals in the entertainment industry are being tortured and killed, for the sake of entertaining an audience, but not that many people are standing up against it. Children need to join organizations like PETA in order to stop these terrible businesses and sports from using animals for entertainment. This will be a big step into becoming a friendly community with the animals without having to force them to do anything against their will. There are obviously tons of fans of the entertainment industry that uses animals, but if the children can inform these other oblivious people about what goes on behind the scenes, it will definitely change their hearts and opinions about zoos, circuses, and other types of industries that exploit animals for entertainment. Not only will it inform the businesses and consumers, but it will take these animals back to where they belong. WC: 1216 Garcia 5 Works Cited Animal Abuse Facts and  Causes. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. <https://www.causes.com/causes/549994-stop-slaughter-houses-stop-animal cruelty/updates/416945-animal-abuse-facts-and-statistics>. Circuses: Three Rings of  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. <http://www.peta.org/issues/animals-in-entertainment/animals-used-entertainment factsheets/circuses-three-rings-abuse/>.  Animal Equality. N.p., 19 Sept. 2012. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. <http://www.animalequality.net/entertainment>. PAWS - People Helping  Enjoy the Circus? The Animals PAWS. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. <https://www.paws.org/get-involved/take-action/explore-the issues/circus-cruelty/>. Peta2. Why Animal  Peta2. Peta2, 17 Mar. 2017. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. <https://www.peta2.com/animal-rights-basics/why-animal-rights/>.