Rieder 1 Ty Rieder Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102.035 30 April 2017 Why GMOs Should Matter to College Students (and Everyone) In any situation involving peddling a product or idea, there tends to be two or multiple stakeholders with varying perspectives on the case, typical for or against it. While active stakeholders are an important aspect of marketing, non-engaged stakeholders are what companies and organizations need to influence because they are the true deciders of whether or not something will prevail. An issue that correlates perfectly with the relationship between a product and a non-engaged stakeholder would be the topic of GMOs. One of the major problems that genetically modified organisms, or GMOs, have is that just saying an item is genetically modified tends to automatically insight a negative reaction in people not completely informed on the subject. Although the science behind GMOs is well understood by members of the scientific community, that information might not always resonate with the public, and since the market and the public are one in the same, the truth can get muddled when marketing GMOs. Whether people like it or not, GMOs play an important role in the agriculture industry and are essentially fueling the future generations of the occupational world. This is why people in the age range of 18 to 24, or college students in particular, should take a stand for GMOs. Since students of universities will eventually become the new members of the workforce and even the parents of the new age of consumers, able to decide what food is the safest and healthiest to consume for themselves and their children. Rieder 2 To first set the stage the non-engaged stakeholders should know in more detail about what GMOs are. According to Aarts, writer of the peer reviewed Traceability of Genetically Modified Organisms, a GMO is defined as a organism that has had its genetic content altered in a non-natural way. The genetic modification is usually carried out by the insertion of genetic elements carrying the desired trait into the genome of the organism to be  (Aarts p.2). By using this method, scientists are able to genetically alter the DNA of organisms (primarily plant seeds) so that way they hold more favorable genetic traits, such as being more resilient to pests, droughts, and harsh weather. This is exactly what companies, such as Monsanto, are doing for a living; altering plant species by genetically modifying the seeds of these plants. While there is a good amount of negative stigma that come with GMOs, it is essential to look at the numerous benefits that they offer. Farmers in harsh areas can show how genetically modified seeds have improved their crop yield and are able to provide for food to more people. How well farmers do affects how much food a population has. Not only do vegetables and fruits that are genetically modified benefit the ones who grow the genetically engineered seeds and plants, but they make food healthier, more aesthetic looking, and prevent it from being sprayed with pesticides by making them completely obsolete. According to the Office of Science at the U.S. Department of Energy, GMOs provide better taste as well as resistance to disease and pests (Holmes). Avoiding the consumption of potentially harmful chemicals such as pesticides are not only the best interest of college students, but of everyone. With all of the dissension surrounding the use of genetically modified organisms it can be easy for college students, or anybody, to haphazardly denounce them as harmless and effective way of improving farming. If GMOs are completely eliminated from the agricultural industry, Rieder 3 seeds that are completely void of genetic altercation could not survive harsh climates, pests, and draughts (Holmes). This would directly and negatively affect farmers who are trying to produce a large enough bounty for a major, thriving country. Not only would American farmers be affected by this, but agriculturist from harsher climates would not have access to genetically engineered seeds and they would have to watch their crops parish without any hope of reviving them (Lappe). The problem with GMOs is the lack of interest that college students might have about genetically modified organisms. Stakeholders on both sides can utilize the ignorance of GMOs to warp the truth or refrain from dispersing it. For example, a news article on the World News Daily Report outlined the death of a 31 year old man named Juan Pedro Ramos after he ingested a tomato that was infused with fish DNA, which he was allergic to. Although the story gained traction it turned out to be completely fabricated (Papple). The tomato the article referred to was  which only contained a gene that prevented the tomato from softening too quickly and the World News Daily Report website is notorious for reporting false information (Papple). While it is a relief that GMOs are not as dangerous as some dissenters would imply, it is fair to mention that there have been some questionable practices from Monsanto and the Food and Drug Administration. Since the 1990s, Monsanto has had ties with FDA and is scrutinized for not disclosing data that some experts were reluctant to expose the public to GMOs (Aubert). This does not mean that the government is allowing GMO corporations to negatively affect the health of citizens for a sum of money, but its still beneficial people to know the affairs of companies with departments of the government. Rieder 4 If college students are actually seriously interested in the future of GMO research and use, luckily participating in the pro-GMO campaign is fairly simple. The best way to take action is just spread information about GMOs and help defend against sophistry that surrounds the genetic field of science. Although this may seem like a generic and inept way of combating ignorance, the more students that are educated about GMOs and are willing to correct contrived jargon against them is the best solution for the issue. Of course this is not the only way college students can get involved in the issue, if a more active approach is desirable, there are other methods of getting the message across. Assuming every university has a library or some other building complex that receives a considerable amount of foot traffic, a group of students could congregate there. If enough people come together, they can educate the other students about GMOs by holding up posters and handing out informative pamphlets. They can also discuss the beneficial properties of GMOs in depth with students who are interested in the topic. If an individual wants to do more on their own, creating a website or video about GMOs is a also a good way to aid the cause. The importance of GMOs should not be diminished by college students and the general public as a whole. Genetically modified seeds play an important role in the agricultural business by producing a higher crop yield, remove the need for pesticides, and even improve the nutrients received by fruits and vegetables. While the business tactics of businesses such as Monsanto can be questionable, the truth is that the science behind GMO shows that they are much more beneficial than harmful; this is much similar to the vaccination issue. It is a prevalent part of our society, so the more people that are educated there will be a better chance of humans progressing even more. Rieder 5 Word Count: 1212 Rieder 6 Work Cited Aarts, Henk J.M., et al. Traceability of genetically modified  Expert Review of Molecular Diagnostics, vol. 2, no. 1, 2002, p. 69+. Academic OneFile, go.galegroup.com/ps/i.do? AUBERT, JEAN-ERIC. NGOs on GMOs: the reasons for  OECD Observer (2000): 47. Business Collection. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Holmes, Christina. GMOs in the laboratory: objects without everyday  Focaal, no. 48, 2006, p. 35+. Academic OneFile, go.galegroup.com/. Accessed 18 Apr. 2017. Lappe, Anna. Can GMOs save the  AMASS, vol. 19, no. 3, 2015, p. 8+. Academic OneFile, go.galegroup.com/ps/i.do? Accessed 27 Apr. 2017. Papple, Dawn. Did Kill Juan Pedro  The Inquisitr News. Inquisitr, 05 Mar. 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.