Diaz 1 Viviana Virginia Diaz Melim Professor Robert Ryan ENC 1102-001 30 April 2017 Animal Testing for Medical Purposes Humans were born with an insatiable trend of finding explanations to every phenomenon that affects their external or internal environment. People started noticing that their health could be affected negatively, but what was causing that harm? They started to use animals for experimentation to have a better understanding of how the body functions and how they could reverse or prevent its deterioration. With this knowledge, scientists have been able to develop medicines and treatments to cure and prevent several diseases that affect not only humans but also nonhuman animals. Despite all the contributions that animal research brought to medicine, there is a lot of controversy regarding this topic; whether if it is ethical, or not, to test on living organisms for research purposes. As the most intelligent species in the world, humans have the responsibility of improving the life of every specie that exist. Because no human or nonhuman specie is exempt of diseases, animal testing needs to be promoted and supported by governments and institutions in order to keep producing medical data and information that can help to save and improve the life of future human and nonhumans generations. For centuries, animals have been used by humans for medical purposes. Animal research has provided scientist with the required knowledge to develop new procedures and drugs that can help to prevent and treat several diseases and disorders that affects people and animals. Nearly every medicine, medical device, surgical procedure, and treatment that we know today has depended on animal testing. According to The Federation of American Diaz 2 Societies for Experimental Biology of the Nobel prizes awarded in physiology or medicine have been dependent on research with (2017). Based on this evidence, we can infer that the most successful medical advances were due to animal testing. Animal research procedures are guided and regulated by complex federal and state laws, policies, and guidelines that are implemented in order to guarantee high standards of animal care in laboratories. In addition to these laws, animal research needs to meet all the international requirements of the Animal Welfare Act, which stablishes standards for housing, feeding, and alleviation of pain (if any) for animals in laboratories. It also requires veterinarians to conduct regular inspections of the conditions that animals are exposed to. In order to reduce or eliminate the pain that animals can feel during or after every procedure, it is strictly necessary that scientist use anesthesia and analgesics. What most people do not know is that scientists pay important attention to the wellbeing of the organism that they are experimenting on. Not only for ethical values, but also because unhealthy and stressed animals are not effective research subjects because this kind of conditions insert uncontrolled variables in the research that can produce inaccurate data. A lot of animal right activists and people that wants to stop animal testing are promoting negative messages exaggerating and sending misleading information of what animal testing is, creating a lot of misconceptions in the society about this topic. First, most of the pictures and videos that organizations that support animal rights are of mammals such as dogs, cats, and monkeys. This makes the general public think that most of the experiments are done with these species. The truth is that most of the experiments are practiced in animals such as fishes, rats, and mice. The use of species such as dogs, cats, and monkeys is just when it is strictly necessary. For example: when scientists are researching for severe diseases, such as AIDS, that are affecting a large number of individuals. It is important to emphasize that Diaz 3 apes and endangered species cannot be used for research purposes. According to ProCon organization in the United States eat 9 billion chickens and 150 million cattle, pigs and sheep annually, yet we only use around 26 million animals for research, 95% of which are rodents, birds and (Markoff 2016). We can observe that the number of animals used in research for medical purposes is not even the shadow of all the animals that humans use as source of food; without taking into consideration all the animals that people use for vanities such as clothing, and for entertainment. Most of the organizations that seek to protect rights propose the use of alternative methods of research, such as in vitro cells and computer based models. The idea that these technologies can produce data for every single experiment is a common misconception. Even though these alternative ways of testing can be used for simple research, there are several reasons why they cannot replace animals in most of the research. First, living organisms are very complex. Animals provide the perfect environment because they help scientist to study interrelated processes that occur in every system of the body (nervous system, endocrine system, circulatory system, immune system, and others). Studying a drug in a cell culture show how a medicine or treatment works in a dynamic and complex organism. Second, testing on animals also help to study the sides effect that a specific drug or procedure can have. Third, most of the animals used in experimentation have short life cycles, which help scientist to study the effects of a certain genetic manipulation or a treatment for a whole lifespan. Even though there are some alternatives to reduce the number of animals used in simple research, these methods are limited in what they can model. Not even the most sophisticated technology can mimic the complex interactions among cells, tissues and organs that occurs in a living organism. Diaz 4 If you have ever taken a pill, such as Advil, an antibiotic or had a vaccine, you have benefit from animal research. Almost every medical procedure, drug, treatment, medical device, and diagnosis tool was developed thanks to animal testing. All these developments have helped to treat, prevent, cure, and even eradicate thousand diseases. It is not a secret that through history there have been thousand diseases such as Ebola, smallpox, polio, rubella, hepatitis, and other terrible illnesses that have killed millions of people. Animal research has also helped to treat severe diseases that causes a lot of suffering in world, such as diabetes, HIV/AIDS, Cancer, and Alzheimer. Animal research has also helped to improve the health care of farm animals, wild species, pets, and endangered species. There are thousands of procedures and vaccines that help to prevent and cure diseases such as rabies, tetanus, distemper, and other illnesses that affects animals. There is no doubt that animal research has helped species to live a healthier and a longer life because of all the medical information that it provides to scientists. People need to be the voice of the truth. If there is no more animal testing, how people will have medicines to treat their diseases? Or how there will be pills to relief minor aches such as heartburn? How would patients with cancer or AIDS feel if they know that there is no one out there working to save them? How would people know that the medical drugs that they are consuming is apt to be used on humans? It is time to speak out for science and support animal research for medical purposes. There are several ways you can get involved for this cause. The first stage is to spread the voice in order to clarify all the distorted facts that people can believe about animal testing. Use pamphlets and social media to inform your community and let them know all the benefits that animal research can, and have brought to them and their family. This way, you can encourage them to join the second stage, which is to support all the organizations that conduct research with animals. The best way to do this Diaz 5 is to donate. Most of the biomedical organizations rely on monetary contributions that people, companies, and governments invest in order to keep conducting medical research to develop medicines, treatments, vaccines, and several other medical advancements to fight illnesses. Nobody is exempt of getting sick. At some point of their lives, people have taken any kind of medicines that were tested on animals. Everybody knows someone that have been affected by severe diseases such as cancer, diabetes, Alzheimer, or any other illness. It is important to be aware of how animal testing have helped to develop new treatments, procedures, and drugs to prevent, diagnose, treat, and cure terrible diseases that can affect not only humans but also animals. Human beings have the compromise of guarantying and improving the life quality of their specie and of other species that inhabit the world. It is important to take intelligent actions today in order to guarantee bright outcomes for future generations. Remember, donate now to organizations that support animal testing and help to save human lives that are being harmed by diseases. Diaz 6 Works cited Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology. Statement of Principles for the Use of Animals in Research & Education, http://faseb.org/Science-Policy-and- Advocacy/Science-Policy-and-Research-Issues/Animals-in-Research-and- Education/Statement-of-Principles.aspx. Accessed 17 May 2017. Garanttin, Silvio, and Giuliano Grignaschi, Testing Is Still The Best Way To Find New Treatments For European Journal of Internal Medicine, 2016, pp. 33- 34. Markoof, S. ProCon.org. Background of the Issue, 24 May 2016, animal- testing.procon.org/view.resource.php?resourceID=006512. Accessed 17 May 2017. K. Frequently Asked Questions. Animals Rights Myths, 27 March 2014, http://www.faqs.org/faqs/politics/animal-rights/myths/part1/. Accessed 17 May 2017.