Johanning 1 Gregory Johanning Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 5 April 2017 Protecting Children, Abolishing Corporal Punishment The development of children and making sure that they are properly nourished is vital to how they grow up. It is important that the next generation be raised in such a manner that educates them on the decency of what an ideal society envisions. Children all around the globe are experiencing physical abuse from authoritative figures and are crying out for help. Setting the rest of the globe aside, the United States has one of the worst rates among other industrialized nations on losing children to abuse or child neglect (Child Abuse Statistics), and physical punishment is still used as a method of discipline today, even in preschools (UNC School of Medicine). Since children around the world are continually playing the victims to physical abuse as a form of discipline, couples without children should be informed through classes taught by those with knowledge of the negative effects of corporal punishment so that child abuse can be eliminated once and for all. It is rare that one would hear commotion about a parent severely beating their child. Although physical abuse is not a prevalent means of teaching children discipline anymore in society, it still exists and is used. Shockingly, the United States alone loses an average of four to seven children daily due to physical abuse (Child Abuse Statistics). There are only a handful of countries around the world that have banned the use of corporal punishment on children. One area of the world that has worked tirelessly to prohibit corporal punishment in their region is the Caribbean. Of the 14 states in the Caribbean, the governments of 13 of the nations are either Johanning 2 reviewing legislature or approving laws and bills that help protect the children of their countries (The Nature and Extent of Corporal Punishment). In this part of the world, children are more susceptible to being beaten and abused within their own homes (The Nature and Extent of Corporal Punishment). This means that there are still portions of the world that view physical discipline as acceptable or effective. In this case, the word is a strong word. It is interpreted differently by each person. Some would call this method of discipline because the unwanted behavior of the child would cease while neglecting the psychological effects the physical discipline would have on the child. A study was conducted where there was significant evidence pointing to the fact that there is a strong correlation between corporal punishment and a decrease in brain development of children (Cuddy, Emily, and Reeves). Possible responses children can have to physical discipline are feelings of dejection, lack of belonging within their family, and even lack of self-expression out of fear of the possible repercussions that their actions may bring upon them. These possible side effects that physical abuse can bring is what leads to the underdevelopment of children both socially and mentally. One example of corporal punishment that resulted in a fatality was the case of Alize Vick, a 2 year old little girl who was killed by her foster mother. Alize was often seen with bruises and marks on her body by her neighbors but her foster mother claimed her to be accident prone and even filed reports about the reoccurrence of these injuries (Osher). One neighbor was worried about the safety of Alize because she was hearing commotion coming from the foster home through a baby monitor. The neighbor took it upon herself to bring this case to law enforcement officials so that they would step in and take Alize away from her foster mother. However there was insignificant evidence giving the police reason to legally remove Alize from the foster home (Osher). Nobody seriously consider this case as being a form of child Johanning 3 abuse and therefore it did not receive the proper amount of attention. It should be noted that each county within Colorado has the right to decide how they run their child protection department and that there is little interference from the state itself (Osher). As a result of no action being taken on this situation, the foster mother continued to beat little Alize both physically and verbally up to the point of death. Alize Vick was killed in October, 2007 when her foster mother threw her approximately five feet and landing head-first into a coffee table (Osher). The fact that the erratic behavior from her foster mother was allowed to continue without repercussions is unacceptable. A defenseless child lost her life because law enforcement was not legally able to intervene into the situation due to there being insubstantial evidence. Children, like Alize, deserve a voice and the right to be heard because they cannot lead their own fight for justice. The possibilities of how to effectively end the corporal punishment of children are numbered. One of the ways that couples without children can help are by educating themselves on how to effectively discipline children, either when they decide to have children of their own or if they simply just decide to be involved in a life. They can do this by taking classes on effective parenting methods, specifically other ways to discipline children other than through the use of physicality. Those who teach or administer the class would have to be registered and pass an exam showing that they too understand how children should be disciplined because it is vital that those who are looking for education on this issue receive and attain the best quality of information. Another way couples without children can contribute to this movement is by donating money to any one of the organizations who have planted themselves and made a mark on the continued fight to end corporal punishment of children. The more funding that these organizations receive, the more likely it is to start programs where couples can get information Johanning 4 on how to better themselves on disciplining their children. With financial backing, organizations like The Global Initiative to End All Corporal Punishment of Children will continue to expand and blossom, attracting new members with an increase in popularity. As more and more people are educated on this issue and the immediate and long term effects it presents to children, abolishment of corporal punishment of children will spread to countries where this will be viewed as a form of foreign policy. However with these methods of getting involved in this movement, couples without children and those already involved will be able to create enough momentum moving forward that will prolong and strengthen the fight against those who use corporal punishment as a form of discipline. Words can simply not express enough the importance of protecting children of any generation. The formation of their lives starts with a nourishing, intellectual, and loving childhood build around the parents or adults that raise them. Understanding that a path to independence is centered upon the environment they are raised in is the first step couples without children or those who have no knowledge of this issue must come to realize. Getting involved in this movement and not sitting on the sideline is the first line of action needed. It essentially does not matter how one gets decides to take action because when any person joins a cause, others consequently follow. Corporal punishment of children is no doubt a serious issue in society, both locally and globally, and needs to be dealt with accordingly. Informing those, like couples without children, will help bring about an end to this menacing problem. Children deserve to grow up in the best environment possible with an encouraging support group guiding them along the way. Making this a reality for them is the least everyone can do to contribute to the cause in ending corporal punishment of children. Word count: 1289 Johanning 5 Works Cited Child Abuse  Childhelp. N.p., n.d. Web. 22 Feb. 2017. Christopher N. Osher Cosher@denverpost.com, Jordan Steffen Jsteffen@denverpost.com and Jennifer Brown Jbrown@denverpost.com The Denver Post. Abused Cries for Help Were  The Denver Post. N.p., 10 Nov. 2012. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. Corporal Punishment of Children Remains Common Worldwide, UNC Studies  Corporal Punishment of Children Remains Common Worldwide, UNC Studies Find - UNC School of Medicine. N.p., 24 Feb. 2011. Web. 10 Apr. 2017. Cuddy, Emily, and Richard V. Reeves. Hitting Kids: American Parenting and Physical Punishment Brookings  Brookings. Brookings, 26 Oct. 2016. Web. 12 Apr. 2017. The Nature and Extent of Corporal Punishment: Prevalence and Attitudinal Research in the  PsycEXTRA Dataset (n.d.): n. pag. Web. 21 Feb. 2017. Welcome to the Global Initiative - Global Initiative to End All Corporal Punishment of  Welcome to the Global Initiative - Global Initiative to End All Corporal Punishment of Children. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.