Fuller 1 Delaney Fuller Kristen Rouisee ENC 1102 28 April 2017 Vaccinating to Ensure a Healthy Population Not all children in the United States have updated vaccinations, which puts everyone at a much higher risk of spreading illnesses such as influenza, tetanus, measles, and several other preventable diseases (Immunization). Although school boards require certain immunizations for admittance, some children do not attend school at all, are home schooled, or are exempt from receiving immunizations due to personal religious practices. In the past two decades, many people have come to believe that having their child vaccinated can lead to the development of autism. This theory has been debunked countless times by medical professionals and researchers alike and the extensive evidence available discredits this false claim. Another reason children are not being vaccinated is because some parents believe in natural remedies alone and do not believe pharmaceuticals are the answer, thus refusing immunizations. Because of the many diseases vaccines prevent, all members of society, including adults without children, should be informed about the dangers of not vaccinating children and should take action on this immediately. Although these individuals currently do not have children of their own, they need to be reassured that it is dangerous to the entire population to not vaccinate children and should be informed about the abundant evidence available proving that vaccines do not lead to autism. Autism is a genetic disorder that does not have one single cause. One of the earliest signs of autism is a delay in verbal communication or sometimes, a child not communicating at all Fuller 2 (Learning About autism). Children typically begin to develop their motor and cognitive skills between the first and third year of life, which is the approximate age range that doctors are giving children the most abundant rounds of immunizations. This similarity in timing is one of the reasons some parents believe there is a direct link between vaccinations and the development of autism. Another reason some parents believe vaccinations lead to autism is because some vaccinations contain thimerosal, a mercury-based preservative (Bellinger). Although research shows there are certain cases where thimerosal was a common link in children who developed autism, the amount of children affected was minimal. Due to the small amount of children reported and the fact that thimerosal was just one of many links found in these cases , thimerosal can be ruled out as a direct of autism. This lack of evidence also rules out vaccines in general as a cause or link to this disorder. This knowledge needs to be taught to parents and non parents alike to educate the entire population of the United States that autism and vaccines have no correlation, discrediting the main argument of the parents of anti-vaccination movements. Diseases such as measles and polio were previously more common in the United States and lead to thousands of deaths annually (CDC National). Today, vaccine preventable illnesses have extremely low death rates compared to even just fifty years ago due to modern vaccinations and the immunity they build through being properly vaccinated. If the entire population was properly vaccinated, the risk of contracting preventable diseases would decrease even further. The choice to not vaccinate does not only affect one individual health, but the health of any person in contact with them. Natural remedies can not build up immunization to a disease like immunizations can and are not a realistic solution to protect the entire population against strong strands of a virus or bacteria. The children of parents who decided against vaccination Fuller 3 contract preventable illnesses that can lead to hospitalization or in some cases, even death. A fifteen year old boy, Luke Duvall, was not given an H1N1 (influenza) vaccination in 2009. He began to feel weak and developed a high grade fever, but was sent home by doctors to rest. In just days, lungs filled with mucus and he began to struggle to breath. He was hospitalized, put on a ventilator, and put into an induced coma. Luke was lucky to regain his strength over the next month, although 36 pounds lighter than beforehand (Why Vaccinate). This is just one of hundreds of stories of a child going through unnecessary pain because of a wrong decision made by his or her parents. Most children are not able to advocate for his or herself because people are more likely to listen to an adult rather than a child. It is the duty of any adult, parent or nonparent, to be educated about important issues such as vaccinating and to advocate for children to ensure the health for future generations to come. The most efficient way to call attention to the importance of vaccination would be to inform those who do not have children about this topic through factual information. Most people still believe that autism and vaccinations are related and therefore may understand why some parents decide against vaccination. If the research regarding this false link was shared with everyone, then the claim can be proven false once and for all, eliminating fear of a child developing autism after receiving a vaccination. Adults without children should also be informed of the hundreds of documented cases of children suffering from preventable diseases due to not receiving immunizations. No adult in their right mind should be at peace with the image of a child suffering, therefore requiring a call to action. Once adults are informed about why vaccination is the responsible choice, they can begin to make a change by signing petitions to end anti-vaccination groups. Next, they can donate to causes such as Voices for Vaccines or Fuller 4 local school boards and medical groups who are for the vaccination of children. Any amount of money helps and will be used to reach and educate more people. Information about both the false link between being vaccinated and developing autism, as well as the documentation of children contracting vaccine-preventable illnesses, could be shared by the creation of a new organization that travels around the country presenting these facts. This organization could conduct classes in large auditoriums and present the audience with factual information about the positives of immunizations. Throughout the presentation, the audience would be informed about the false correlation between autism and vaccines and be presented with real stories of children contracting vaccine preventable diseases. The organization would be run by volunteers and funded solely by donations. If this organization were to mainly target adults without children, then proper vaccine knowledge can be spread further than parents alone and would help lead to the vaccination of each and every child. The choice to vaccinate a child or not has a further impact than the health implications of the child alone. Vaccines build up immunity to preventable diseases but can be compromised by those who do not recieve timely vaccinations. In order to achieve the vaccination of all children in the United States, proper knowledge regarding this topic must be spread to all adults. Once proper knowledge is acquired, these adults can create an organization that spreads the facts and help the nation conclude that immunizations are the most safe and practical prevention method of illnesses. By donating money and signing petitions, anti-vaccination movements can be slowed down or even stopped completely. The vaccination of all children will lead to a healthier nation for all ages and can help end unnecessary suffering. Word Count: 1209 Fuller 5 Works Cited Bellinger, David, and Roberta White. 30.  Practical Guide for Deciding Really Safe and Really Dangerous in the World Around by David Ropeik and George Cray, Houghton Mifflin, 2002, p. 247+ CDC National Vaccine Program Office: Vaccine Fact N.p., n.d. Web. 13 Apr. 2017.  Immunization Requirements Florida Department of N.p., n.d. Web. 13 Apr. 2017. Learning About  (2012): 1-11. Web. 28 Apr. 2017. Why  Vaccinate Your Baby : Preventing Disease N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.