Smoak 1 Conner Smoak Ms. Heiser ENC 1102.069 23 April 2017 The World Outside Our Backyard In the world, there are more than 800 million people who are considered to be food insecure. That is one in every nine people. This number is more than the combined population of the United States, Canada, and the European Union. Food insecurity is the state of being without reliable access to a sufficient quantity of affordable, nutritious food. Poor nutrition in the lives of so many people has traumatic repercussions. 3.1 million Children under the age of five die each year due to poor nutrition, forty five percent of death in children. Over 66 million primary school children go to school hungry across the world. It would take 3.2 billion U.S. dollars a year to fix hunger in students. Many people worry about the future of the world and the hands they are putting the world in, but what if the supposed hands that are going to support the world one day are too weak to hold it due to malnourishment and the fact that they are not being taken care of today? Now many people probably think that all this stuff is happening in countries that have absolutely nothing and where they do anything about it. While this can be true, this issue hits closer to home than many may realize. In an article published by The Ledger on June 15, 2013, the USDA estimated that there are 50 million people that experience food insecurity in America. Whether they see it or not, people experience food insecurity in every county in America. over 3,000 counties where there are people suffering from food insecurity, and over 3,000 counties where there are people who want to do something about their suffering. Smoak 2 Polk County is located in central Florida and covers a vast area of cities that are inhibited by many people who want to make a difference in the lives of those who are suffering in their own backyards. In this area food insecurity affects 17.3 percent of residents. For Polk children, 27.9 percent are affected by food insecurity. That is more than 39,500 Polk County children dealing with food insecurity (The Ledger). Few people understand how many of the people they are surrounded by are affected by this. The worst part is that the people who do know the statistics know what to do to lessen the problem. A program that is immensely funded in Polk County is KidsPack USA, a nonprofit organization dedicated to improving the lives and opportunities of children (KidsPack). This is made possible by local community volunteers who pack food for children to take home on the weekends. In Polk County, there are more than 3,800 homeless or hungry kids that receive breakfast and lunch during the school week and minimal or nothing for dinner and the weekends. When Kids Pack was started, 449 students in 31 schools in Polk County were being fed on the weekends through this program. In the recent school year, 1,345 students in 66 schools who had this opportunity to have food for the weekends (KidsPack). My church is one of the many groups of volunteers that are committed to making a difference in these lives by packing these meal backpacks. These meal backpacks provide not only life, but also hope to the children who receive them. Now some people have the chance to be up close and personal when it comes to the work they do, but this is a story about how helping really does makes a difference. Karen Smoak is a third-grade teacher and has firsthand experience with the effect that these meals have on her students. One Friday this year, she saw one of her former students frantically looking up and down the hallway during dismissal time. She knew he should be out at the bus loading zone so Smoak 3 she stopped him and asked him what he was doing and why he getting on the bus. He was looking for the guidance counselor because she dropped off his Kids Pack backpack to his classroom and he planning on going home without it. He was willing to miss the bus home on a Friday afternoon because he had to find his backpack, his food source for the weekend. She has another little boy this year that receives a backpack of food each weekend too. It has food in it for him and his three-year-old brother. He has some behavior issues, a lot of which stem from the poverty he lives in, and his lack of food. She allows him to be 5th in line when they go to lunch each day because that puts him in the position to be the first one through the lunch line. And even though all of the students get their food within seconds of each other, he is so worried that he is going to miss out on lunch if he the first one to get it. Getting his backpack of food for the weekend is possibly the most important part of his week, at least in his mind. The statistics of food insecurity in the world and in America have been shared and there have been testimonies about the effects of hunger on real children and how helping makes a difference. According to a report by RTI International, a nonprofit organization focused on health research, there are still many people who are adversely being affected by food insecurity despite the efforts of this country currently. People just sit back and think that someone else will do the job so we need to. Someone else is doing the job but they do it all on their own. Everyone needs to take part to make a difference. Participating in a program such as KidsPack would cause change in not only the lives of those they are helping, but also in their own life. If you were on the other side of the problem, you would want anyone who could to help, so why you? The future of the world is in your hands. Smoak 4 Works Cited Our kidsPACK. (n.d.). Retrieved October 2, 2016, from http://www.kidspack.org/about-our-pr+o+A 2 gram Insecurity: Hunger In Polk And (2013, June 15). Retrieved October 2, 2016, from http://www.theledger.com/news/20130615/food-insecurity-hunger-in-polk-and- florida Statistics WFP United Nations World Food Programme - Fighting Hunger (2016). Retrieved October 2, 2016, from https://www.wfp.org/hunger/stats and Hunger in Feeding America. Retrieved October 2, 2016, from http://www.feedingamerica.org/hunger-in-america/impact-of-hunger/hunger-and-poverty Vulnerable Populations Disproportionately Affected by Food Security, Despite Public (2014, Jul 24). Targeted News Service (USA). Retrieved from http://infoweb.newsbank.com/resources/doc/nb/news/14F479504E7F97F8?p=AWNB