Wood 1 Mallory Wood ENC 1102 Prof. Angelica Aranda 5 March 2017 Protecting Endangered Species There are many organizations dedicated to the preservation of the environment and the animals. The World Wildlife Fund is a nonprofit organization who strives to do just that. Their mission statement is: mission is to conserve nature and reduce the most pressing threats to the diversity of life on (worldwildlife.org).This stakeholder encourages people to put in the effort to restore what has already been destroyed and also to stop others from further destroying the planet. The advertisements aim to reach a variety of people ranging from environmentalists and animal rights activists to anyone who cares about animals and the environment. They do so by using various rhetorical appeals, such as ethos, pathos, kairos and logos, to convince people that something has to change. This paper will discuss two images used to portray this message. One of the images used addresses the World Wildlife goal of saving animals and preventing extinction while the other demonstrates efforts to save the environment. Image one displays an elephant with the back half of its body represented only as bones. The image also includes the statement you wait the only place to see an elephant will be a Another important feature of this image is the information provided at the bottom of the ad which mentions how the WWF has over 40 years of experience in elephant conservation. This image employs all four rhetorical appeals, though some are more prevalent than others. Ethos, which is a way writers make their point by establishing their credibility (Ethos, 27), is Wood 2 displayed in the image as the inclusion of information about the work the organization has done, with elephants, demonstrates their experience and knowledge of the issue at hand. Pathos, the appeal to a emotions (Pathos, 37), is shown in this image through the depiction of half of the body as a skeleton and the phrase referring to elephants only being seen in museums. This allows advocates, or anyone who cares about animals, to feel sad and concerned for the animals and what they could do to help so museums will not be the only way to see them. Kairos, the appeal to timeliness (Kairos, 41), is indirectly used by having half of the body being decayed. It is more directly included in the part of the statement urging the viewer to not wait any longer to do something about the crisis. The use of logos, which involves the logic of evidence and reasons (Logos, 32), was in showing that the animals are dying which should be more than enough reason for people to act in a way that prevent animal suffering. Image two is an image that does not feature much but what it does display holds lots of meaning. It displays many trees in the shape of a pair of lungs with an area of dead trees. This image uses ethos by showing how trees are essential to living and they are essentially the breath of life as they provide oxygen. The brown, dead area of the lungs shows how deforestation affects the Earth; this is doing so this shows how destructive humans are to the environment. Cars are included in this dead area of the lungs which shows their contribution to the destruction. Pathos was evident in the way the trees were formed into lungs. This gets a person to realize how severe the damage being caused on the Earth is as they can relate it to the body. This also brings about the realization that destroying the source of oxygen will harm people as well as the environment. Kairos was also indirect in this image as the urgency is depicted with almost half of one of the lungs already dead and in order to prevent more death, action needs to be taken right away. Logos was shown in much the same way as in the first Wood 3 image which shows that the Earth is being destroyed and as it is home to so many different animals, this destruction needs to be stopped. The main similarity in the two images is that they both show a slow death, the lungs are slowly dying, as is the elephant. They both evoke a reaction from the viewer, making them want to help in any way possible. The World Wildlife main goal is to deforestation, extinction, climate change, and poverty by partnering with local communities and Informing people of the situations is the first step in getting the help and support of others which is accomplished in both of these images. They also show that this is an ongoing crisis that needs attention as soon as possible. The organization effectively uses the images to represent their goals, as a person does not need to have much prior knowledge to understand what the images are saying. The rhetorical devices assist in doing so effectively, as people react a certain way to certain things. The organization not only wants people to take immediate action, they also want people to be made more aware of the situation, which the images highlight for the viewers. After analyzing the images it can clearly be seen that the use of rhetorical devices is an effective way of presenting information to people in order to get certain reactions. Wood 4 Image One Wood 5 Image Two Wood 6 Works Cited World Wildlife Fund - Elizabeth Strunk  World Wildlife Fund - Elizabeth Strunk Designs. N.p., n.d. Web. 22 Mar. 2017 WWF:  WWF: Lungs Ads of the N.p., 01 Apr. 2008. Web. 22 Mar. 2017. Endangered Species  WWF. World Wildlife Fund, n.d. Web. 22 Mar. 2017. McKee, Jessica and McIntyre Megan. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Action, MA: XanEdu,2016. 27-31. E-text. Lane, Emily, McKee, Jessica and McIntyre, Megan. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Action, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 32-36. E-text. Gayle Lee, Kendra, Mckee, Jessica and McIntyre, Megan. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Action, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 37-40. E-text. Last name of author, First name of author. of Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. Page numbers. E-text.