Melissa Anne Bernal Instructor Ryan ENC 1102-001 19 April 2017 Intermediate Draft Project 3 Growing up in a Hispanic culture, we placed importance on embracing all aspects of the culture. From the food, the mannerisms, the value on respect, the religion, and especially the music. Growing up in this bubble of Spanish culture almost impossible to believe that I could live my life without music; that includes hearing it, playing it myself, and most importantly dancing to it too. It occurred to me that Deaf and Hard of Hearing people must live a life of struggle and sadness without the joys of music in their life. Now I know that a myth. Deaf and Hard of Hearing people enjoy music and other activities just as much as we do. They do not see their of as a setback much less a disability, instead they look at their of as something that makes them unique and special. It gives them a sense of belonging. Juan Pablo Bonet brought this new way of communication from France. He adapted it to what is now known as, American Sign Language. Apart from their different ways of seeing the world, Deaf people usually communicate through this beautiful language. The only downfall is that not everyone is fluent in ASL. The Deaf community is only growing daily, continuing to expect them to adapt to mainstream society simply right anymore. Being a part of the Deaf community does not mean that you are Deaf or Hard of Hearing. It means one way or another you are connected to it, through family or friends who are Deaf or if you find an interest in it. the great thing about the Deaf community, they welcome anyone who wants to learn about them or learn ASL. They want more people to see them as equals rather than less than. Deaf people have struggled for centuries to get their basic rights. Originally the only way Deaf people could be seen as equals were if they took speech therapy and became oral speakers through the memorization of vibrations in their bodies. With the advancements in technology, hearing aids and cochlear implants, have made great strides in the Deaf medical community. It is never a guarantee that they will regain their hearing, but it does allow them to retrain their brain to sounds and vibrations. Unfortunately, despite these advances Deaf people everyday struggle with many things those that can hear take for advantage. Common examples are asking for cash to be broken up, asking for directions, and needing movies with subtitles, and so on. It boils down to one statement. People, especially USF Bulls, who do not know ASL should learn it. The main reason is for the fact that it allows society to unite rather than be broken into small portions of individual culture. Studies have shown that learning a new language improves the brains ability to retain information and expand creative output a person has. At USF, students are exposed to a whole new world, where everyone is accepted for who they are despite their abilities or lack thereof. Russell Scott Rosen conducted a study at a high school defines the factors [of ASL motivate students, including community and culture, and analyzes strategies for promoting language processing and In 1988 Gallaudet University students protested for a deaf university president. The students were enraged with the fact that university had a hearing president for a deaf school. It seemed wrong to them. The entire university shut down because students refused to attend classes and sat in the yards in protest. It is clear that anyone who is a student there would feel that way. The thing that astonished the nation was that when the students reached out to the media, people from all over the nation came to Washington D.C. to support the students. Deaf or not deaf, people came, they protested, and the school eventually gave the students what they demanded for. This is simply a clear example how although not everyone in the world is deaf, it does not mean that we cannot be a part of them, that we cannot support them as fellow Bulls. As a student at USF, I know that trying to learn a new language and help out my deaf Bulls is seen as something that just my part. Everyone is worrying about their own classes, their major, their plans for their career. But if we sit down and take a little time to learn even basic sign language we could open ourselves to a whole new environment that allows us to grow as individuals and as a community. Works Cited The Purdue OWL. Purdue U Writing Lab, 2016. Disability Museum. Straight Ahead Pictures, Inc. 2001. http://www.disabilitymuseum.org/dhm/edu/essay.html?id=59 Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. ASL IVC. (2015, April 3). Through Deaf Eyes. Retrieved from: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tJeAG8tZyf4 Weiss, L., & Weiss, L. June 6, 2011. Switched at Birth. L. Weiss, P. Stupin, J. Ziffren, B. H. Edwards, L. Gase. Los Angeles, California: ABC Family/Freeform.