Student 1 Student Professor Lewis ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Solar Power to The Rescue: Project 3 Energy makes the world turn. It powers our lightbulbs, our fires and our very cells. Billions of people use unimaginable amounts of energy daily. Possibly the largest issue and debate in the modern day is about energy. More specifically, what type of energy we ought to use. Energy provides consumers with a way to live comfortably, and it serves to power their hopes and dreams. Every year, non-renewable resources become more and more scarce. Certainly not an immediate threat, but it is a threat. Each year there is less nonrenewable fuel and higher fuel demands. Renewable energy is the most viable energy option to use. There is an entire star, a fusion-factory in the sky dumping unfathomable amounts of energy into empty space, and into our planet. Supposedly, efficiency is dependent on many different factors such as economics, environment, and politics. In short: we are stuck. Consumers stop using fossil fuels because solar is still too expensive, but producers have to keep solar too expensive or else they lose profits from fossil fuels. The situation is fraught. One thing that the planet does have a whole lot of is rays, that big fusion reactor in the sky, as mentioned. The sun is the perfect renewable energy source. For all intents and purposes, an infinite source of energy. Humans need the sun already as much as they need food and water. With solar energy, there truly is not any wait time like the water cycle or food cycle, it just constantly provides energy. Energy sources that the world is using now are primarily nonrenewable. Since our consumption has raises alongside our exponentially growing population, consumers need a Student 2 renewable source to replace our current system. Something that can match out rapid growth, instead of depleting faster than we grow. Solar Power is increasingly becoming more efficient with the technology being developed today as well as the tax credits being offered to transition. With ease of acquisition for solar energy, consumers could power the world. But, industry could be monopolized. Power companies today are already dangerously close to monopoly-status. needed to remedy this issue is awareness. Power Rocks is committed to giving homeowners a clear picture of the policy, incentives, and investment returns on local solar panel says Oxford Michael Mackay, Sun produces an incredible amount of energy each and every day. There is enough to supply all the energy needs for everyone in the World in one hour to emphasize the (Why Solar Energy is Important 1). On Earth, there are few places that do not have sun rays hitting them on a near constant basis. Countries near the equator receive the most sun rays, so those countries would have a ludicrous amount of power. This ability to receive sunlight anywhere is great for technology; there are no limits to who can try their hand at developing new inventions and where. Another large selling point for solar power is its environmentally friendly status. Most renewable resources create a significantly less amount of harmful effects to the environment. Overall solar power can provide a long term energy source comparative, if not surpassing the abilities of others, fuel resources will last on the order of years, yet, and burning them generates human-made carbon dioxide (CO2) and is responsible for changes in the Earth, such as global warming and Arctic ice loss. Carbon dioxide concentration has reached a level approximately 50% above that of the last 800,000 years, which has happened only in the most recent 100 years. (Why Solar Power is Important). Imagine how much climate change would Student 3 slow down. In addition to ease of use, there is safety. Oceanic oil rigs, desert oil fields in warzones, these are all dangerous working conditions that put workers in constant danger from their equipment, their surroundings, and the fuel itself. Many oil field workers develop health problems as a result of working in the field. Solar power sometimes kills birds that land on the hot panels. A core issue is the funding for technology and advancement in the field of solar energy. There is a nefarious trend of misinformation that solar power technology is incredibly incompetent and unrealistic. If a consumer takes a look at a Tesla, a car run on 100% electricity that has solar powered charging systems, they will notice the great incentive to not have to pay for filling up the their tank once a week. Overall, public ignorance is creating a rocky road between consumers and producers of solar power, at the behest of major oil and car manufacturing companies. Not nearly enough subsidies and overall money from taxes have been put in place to change this, is clear... that Renewables have not received as many subsidies as the others have, particularly Biofuels which have recently received a huge influx of (9). With lack of subsidies, fossil fuels tend to seem like the cheaper option for fossil fuels. Consumers that have a budget and make a less than favorable income are scared away by the installment and equipment prices. According to Vaughin, energy is free, but it is not accurately sums up the major hurdle for the solar industry. There are no technical obstacles per se to developing solar energy (Vaughin Nelson 213). If someone is a difficult financial situation, it is definitely a deterrent. Overall if just solar energy is used, energy with proper planning of wind and solar installations, along with transmission lines, carbon emissions from electrical generation can be reduced by 80% (compared with 1990 levels) Student 4 without increasing ( Elizabeth Weatherhead et. Al 21). This realization of efficiency of solar power can save our planet! If consumers are not worried about the efficiency or their environment, they should consider their kids. At the very least, parents ought to want their children to live better than them. Parents should want to give their kids an option of what energy source to use. Rather than eliminating a whole energy source because of over consumption. Future children may not even have the option to enjoy the luxuries their parents had because of the depleted fossil fuels as well as the environmental devastation that will occur with the prolonged dependency of said fuels. Most people want future generations to be set up with all they need to be successful civilization and no one wants that not to be responsible for environmental damage that is irreparable. Unfortunately many others either do not believe such problems will arise, or do not care as they will not feel the effects in their lifetime. In a popular documentary, unemployed American worker, a Tea Party activist, and a Chinese solar entrepreneur race to lead the clean energy (Catching the Sun). Why all consumers rise up to the challenge and join the race? Maybe if the race is bigger and more publicized, more consumers would join. The bottom line is everyone uses energy whether it be renewable and nonrenewable so why not make it a renewable energy source that already has developed technology for it out that is decreasing in price. God forbid we make the world a better place for no reason. Making solely solar powered cars was an ineffective solution or trying to make a complete switch from fossil fuels. A gradual solution always works better. The world will eventually run out of fossil fuels which leaves the option eradicated for future generations. Oil companies will eventually switch to solar, and maintain their billions of dollars. But we need to get there faster. There is an immense environmental consequence of relying on fossil fuels as our primary source of energy. Student 5 Invest in solar as soon as possible. While expensive now, increasingly becoming inexpensive for both installation and the actual product. Once investing in solar power is easy and cheap, many consumers will fall in line. Overall solar power is an efficient and environmentally friendly solution to the energy crisis consumers are encountering every day. Solar power works, and it is a great option financially and environmentally. People should and will at least consider that solar energy is a viable option instead of just focusing on fossil fuels. Solar energy is being developed constantly as well as more people making the switch whether it be putting up solar panels or an electric car using solar powered charging stations. As Piccard once said, is going to be made out of all the possible lines that go in all the possible directions in three dimensions. And pioneering spirit will be each time we allow ourselves to explore this vertical (My Solared Powered Journey- Ted Talk). Be a pioneer, and join the race to cleaner and more effective energy. Student 6 Works Cited BP Global.  Bp.com. Bp Global, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <http://www.bp.com/en/global/corporate/sustainability.html>. Catching the Dir. Shalini Kantayya. Spyro Gyra, 2015. Film. Curley, Robert, and Educational Publishing Britannica. Fossil Fuels, edited by Robert Curley, and Educational Publishing Britannica, Britannica Educational Publishing, 2011. ProQuest Ebook Central, https://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/usf/detail.action?docID=688243. Foster, Robert, Majid Ghassemi, and Alma Cota. Solar Energy: Renewable Energy and the Environment. Boca Raton: CRC, 2010. Print. Here Comes the Sun. V Pro Documentaries. 2012. Film Jaccard, Mark. Sustainable Fossil Fuels, edited by Mark Jaccard, Cambridge University Press, 2006. ProQuest Ebook Central, https://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/usf/detail.action?docID=255020. Mackay, Michael E. Why Solar Energy is  Solar Energy: An Introduction. : Oxford University Press, 2015-06-01. Oxford Scholarship Online. 2015-08-20. Date Accessed 27 Mar. 2017 <http://www.oxfordscholarship.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/view/10.1093/acprof:oso/97801 99652105.001.0001/acprof-9780199652105-chapter-1>. Piccard, Bertrand . My Solar Powered  TED. July 2009. Lecture. Solar Power. National Geographic. 2015. Film Student 7 SolarPowerRocks. Our  Solar Power Rocks. Solarpowerrocks, n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. <https://solarpowerrocks.com/our-mission-statement-and-contact-info/>.d  TED. July 2009. Lecture.