Reinke 1 Ashley Reinke Kirsten Rouisse ENC 1102.35 13 April 2017 Call to Action: Save the Future by Vaccination In 1798, Edward Jenner was the first to administer a smallpox vaccine to a child dying of cowpox Historic Dates And Events Related To Vaccines And ). Following this event, the vaccine was a massive jump in medical advancements. It enabled humanity to actively combat new and developing diseases at an astonishing rate as well as lead to the current understanding of germs. Vaccines have greatly increased the ability to survive and thrive. However, vaccine dosages around the United States in recent years has come under scrutiny. More parents now than ever before are choosing to exempt their child or children from being vaccinated thus, putting the rest of the public at risk for disease. For the support and maturation of the United future, educating any known family and friends with children about the dangers of refusing vaccines will create a steadily growing chain effect that can lead the children to a healthier tomorrow. Although many may be aware, vaccines are readily and easily available. Yet a minority of the public is choosing to opt out of these vaccinations. Recent evidence shows that 99.3% of parents are choosing to vaccinate their kids and 1% is choosing to refuse such medical treatment (Brown, 2). However small, this minority is still a very large problem. Statistically speaking, this Reinke 2 leaves nearly 3.189 million children in the United States without any kind of vaccinations 2014 National Population Projections - People And Households - U.S. Census ). Not only does this put that specific child in danger, but it also compromises the health of many other individuals whether they be grown adults or small children. For example, the measles virus has the potential to infect 90% of all healthy individuals that encounter a diseased person Measles Transmission ). Now imagine all the people that one comes into contact during the day. If the infected individual contaminates 10 new people every day, then those people contaminate 10 more the next day the numbers of sickened people become very scary very quickly. If all 3.189 million children had been denied access to the measles shot because of their wishes, those who had grown up to be healthy adults that had also been denied this vaccine would be the gateway to a modern epidemic that could easily kill a majority of the United States. Furthermore, the parents that are hesitant to vaccinate their children fear of the materials that can reside in almost all vaccines. Most commonly these vaccines include aluminum and thirmerosal and are both found naturally in breast milk, water, and soil. In fact, a child is exposed to more aluminum in breast milk itself than when given a vaccine Should Any Vaccines Be Required For ). However, thirmerosal has been accused of the development of autistic characteristics because of the type of mercury that is found in it. Nevertheless, years of scientific research has shown no correlation between exposure to the low levels of thirmerosal found in vaccines and the development of autism What Goes Into A Vaccine? ). Thirmerosal is included into the vaccine with the purpose of preserving it until its use and protects the vaccine from contamination of outside pathogens that could possibly hinder Reinke 3 its effect. But for those that are still fearful of this chemical, there are thirmerosal free vaccines at request of a local physician. This leaves no excuse as to why children should not be vaccinated since there are thirmerosal free options. For parents Megan and Chris, their 10-month-old child catching the measles turned into a very serious experience for them. While coming to pick up her son from day care, she noticed that he had a fever and quickly rushed him to the hospital where he was tested positive for the measles virus (Measles: Unprotected Story 1-2). son made a slow but successful recovery back to health with fever reducing medications. During this time, Megan was able to identify that a woman had brought her sick son who also had measles into the waiting room of a office. That woman had chosen not to vaccinate her son and had put life and, most likely, many others at risk. But since son was 10 months of age, he could not receive the measles vaccine since the required age is listed at 12 months old. The fact that sickness could have been prevented was a shock to both parents and encouraged them to share their story with the CDC (Center for Disease Control). When doing this, they strongly emphasize that this a simple coincidence for them and that this can happen to any family. Until we change the stigma that has been attached to vaccines, all families will be in the same danger of debilitating sickness like son. But these instances have to continue occurring. By simply doing own research about vaccines, one can gain further knowledge about this subject and then pass on that knowledge to parents that may be on the fence about whether or not to vaccinate their child. To begin research on vaccines, one can visit the website cdc.gov, where there are countless links about statistics on flu shot to the ingredients used in the chicken pox vaccine. Reinke 4 Another website that is useful is http://www.publichealth.org/public- awareness/understandingvaccines/; here one can access a complete timeline of vaccines as well as myths about vaccines. Family members that vaccinated their children or vaccinated themselves can be a very easy way to get started in this movement. Speaking to someone close will make one more confident in the knowledge they have gained and prepare them for interactions with strangers as well as helping to support the movement itself. Spreading knowledge is more powerful than the public thinks and is the spark of the fire that gets serious issues brought to light. But public speaking a trait that every individual is an expert at. However, most individuals today are experts at social media. For an alternate or additional way of supporting this fight, create a pro vaccine support group on Facebook. This is a great way to connect to people around the world that one could not reach by word of mouth and offers up the chance for those that are far away to start pro vaccine organizations of their own in their own neighborhood. Just by turning to social media, one individual is connected with millions of others that share this common interest. One person can make a difference in the war against vaccines. Be the person that sparks the fire. Vaccinations are too large of a medical advancement to pass up when it comes to the children of the United States. minds have been twisted to believe that the cons of vaccines have outweighed the pros. But scientific studies have proven with years of research that the opposite is actually true. With this in mind, the public needs to seriously consider stepping up to join this movement. All around the United States there are cases just like son that, unfortunately, have such a happy ending. Stand up for the countless children that have a voice against their wishes. One help can begin a butterfly effect of changes in the way that this country views vaccines. Reinke 5 Word Count: 1222 Reinke 6 Works Cited 2014 National Population Projections - People And Households - U.S. Census . Census.gov. N.p., 2014. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Brown, Ari. Clear Answers And Smart Advice About Your Shots. 1st ed. 2017. Print. Historic Dates And Events Related To Vaccines And . Immunize.org. N.p., 2017. Web. 13 Apr. 2017. Measles Transmission . Cdc.gov. N.p., 2015. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Measles: Unprotected Story. 1st ed. 2013. Print. Should Any Vaccines Be Required For . Vaccines.procon.org. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. What Goes Into A Vaccine? . PublicHealth.org. Web. 15 Apr. 2017.