Butterfield 1 Brittany Butterfield Ms. Heiser ENC 1102 069 23 April 2017 Join the Fight: Comprehensive Sexual Education a win for all. Preteens across the nation are being taught a controversial curriculum called sexual education. Sexual education, commonly known as is the teaching of human sexuality topics. There are many branches of sexual education, but the two most prominent are comprehensive sexual education and abstinence-only sexual education. Comprehensive sexual education advocates for abstinence, but also teaches about condoms and other contraceptive methods to lower unplanned teen pregnancy rates and risks of sexual transmitted diseases (STDS), human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), and acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS). On the other hand, abstinence-only sexual education teaches the restraint of all sexual activities until marriage and stresses the morality of different forms of sexual expressions in teenagers. As time has progressed, public opinion agrees that comprehensive sexual education should be taught in educational facilities and needs to be fought for more. Over the years, the need to inform adolescents about sex and reproductive health has become a priority for many family members and school board officials. As of 2011, United States ranked as one of the highest among developed nations for teenage pregnancy, abortion and sexually transmitted diseases (National Institutes of Health). In an attempt to lower United ranking, organizations have formed to educate young adults about sex; these organizations promote comprehensive sexual educational programs and act as an outlet for teens, which leads to teen pregnancy rates decreasing and lower rates of STDS/HIV/AIDS. Sexuality Butterfield 2 Information and Education Council of the United States, SIECUS, is an organization that actively advocates for comprehensive sexual education. Their website states that has the right to accurate information and age and developmentally appropriate education about (www.siecus.org). SIECUS believes that comprehensive sexual education is a critical course of study that should be taught regardless of the background of each child. Topics including human development, sexual relationships, sexual expression and sexual health are all taught. Human development educates adolescents about puberty; this enables them to understand their body more and become more comfortable in their own skin. Sexual relationship teaches about abstinence being the only 100% method to avoid pregnancy and sexually transmitted diseases. It also instills in adolescents that if they choose to partake in sex, they are safe and feel comfortable about it and with their partner of choice. Additionally, it informs adolescents about the signs of a (sexual) abusive relationship and how to seek help. Sexual health guides adolescents of modes to stop the transmission of STDS/HIV/AIDS. Also, it educates them about other sex organs infections acquired from issues such as poor hygiene. These topics are positively expressed, encouraging adolescents to be open with their sexuality, sexual orientation, and with themselves. In furtherance of ensuring accurate and respectful teachings, SIECUS has a training program for teachers. The teachers learn exactly how to present sexual education information and remain well up-to-date on emerging information. Consequently, adolescents become more prepared for when they choose to partake in sexual activities. Despite the acceptance to comprehensive sexual education programs, federal government refuses to endorse a comprehensive sexual education program which would teach the importance of abstinence and effectively address the serious health concerns associated with unprotected (Amy Schwarz). The reality is, all young adults should have the Butterfield 3 opportunity to be able to have all the facts on decisions regarding their body. Sex is an everyday factor in life; therefore, it should not be so controversial to partake in. Programs advocating for comprehensive sexual education opens the conversation to get people talking; this not only educates others but also allows people to become more comfortable with the subject to desensitize sex. Furthermore, comprehensive sexual education has shown to have long-lasting results. It helps educate adolescences about the importance of life decisions, emotionally and physically. It gives adolescents a strong foundation; this foundation can be later used to guide them to building healthy relationships and more comfortable in their sexuality, overall positively affecting adolescents in more ways than one. Dr. Christine Markham, University of Texas Prevention Research Center in Public Health employee, explores the positive effects of comprehensive sexual education programs in middle schools. In the article, Behavioral and Psychosocial Effects of Two Middle School Sexual Health Education Programs at Tenth-Grade Follow-Up, Dr. Markham reveals that comprehensive sexual education delayed sexual intercourse and reduced other sexual risks in ninth and tenth graders. This was uncovered through extensive studying of fifteen middle schools and the conduction of follow-up surveys of the same students that took the course previously. The students were asked how well the sex education was in reducing sexual risks, which all agreed that it played a great role in. This exemplified the importance of continuing the education in high school to increase the success rate of delay of sex and reduced sexual risk behaviors. Society needs to help tear down barriers for affirmative sexual health to be able to continue this success rate nationwide. Since sexual education is still not permitted in many schools, multiple organizations and forums have begun to emerge giving people ample opportunities to get involved. If interested in Butterfield 4 becoming part of this national movement, there are many ways to. One way is to get involved in with the local school district, especially if a parent to a young adult. Parent involvement is key in changing the way a school or district functions. Most schools have PTA (Parent, Teachers, Association) meetings that gather often to as a type of forum where parents, teachers, administrators, and other concerned adults discuss ways to promote quality education, strive to expand the arts, encourage community involvement, and work for a healthy environment and safe (5103). Another way to get involved is to contact the state representation. In order to do this, one can visit the United States House of Representatives website. The website allows citizens to find their representative based on the state they reside. Locating state representatives is important because education varies per state. Reaching out to particular state representative is the most effective way to get the message out. From emailing, calling, and even voting, citizens can push their agenda to support comprehensive sexual education programs. Many grass root organizations, like SIECUS, have petitions available calling for state representation to support laws that enforce schools to teach comprehensive sexual education. Being apart an organization will also exemplify to representatives that there are other like-minded individuals that see the importance of important comprehensive sexual organizations are. In conclusion, comprehensive sexual education teachings in schools have been polarized greatly by politicians and the media, causing a great divide between people. Sex education standards help one partake in sexual activities in an empowered and responsible way. Without any form of sexual education, adolescents have a strong foundation. This strong foundation can be later used to guide them to building healthy relationships and more comfortable in their sexuality. Comprehensive sexual education gives adolescents their voice back, it finally puts Butterfield 5 them in charge of their own bodies. This allows them to make the best choice for them and educates them on all their options to do so. The more comprehensive sexual education is taught the lower the teen pregnancy rate and rate of STDS being carelessly spread. Butterfield 6 Works Cited Palm Parents / PTA, www.browardschools1.com/Page/5103. Accessed 3 Apr. 2017. Markham, Christine M., et al. and Psychosocial Effects of Two Middle School Sexual Health Education Programs at Tenth-Grade Journal of Adolescent Health, vol. 54, no. 2, 2014, pp. doi: 10.1016/j.jadohealth.2013.10.204. Schwarz, Amy. Current Public law and Policy Issues: Comprehensive Sex Education: Why Youth Deserve the Truth about  Hamline Journal of Public Law & Policy, vol. 29, 01 Oct. 2007, p. 115. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login? url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=edslex&AN=edslex041223D 1&site=eds-live. - Comprehensive Sexuality SIECUS - Comprehensive Sexuality Education, www.siecus.org/index.cfm?fuseaction=Page.ViewPage&pageId=514. Stanger-Hall, Kathrin F. and David W. Hall. Abstinence-Only Education and Teen Pregnancy Rates: Why We Need Comprehensive Sex Education in the  Plos ONE, vol. 6, no. 10, Oct. 2011, pp. 1-11. EBSCOhost, doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0024658.