Zhao 1 Ming Zhao Angelica Aranda ENC 1102 1/March/2017 Blizzard Entertainment Since video games became popular entertainment among young people, the methods of creating video games in order to attract people to play are multitudinous. Some video game companies devote themselves to design games for the interests, and it is true that working for earning money is their primary goals. However, some firms such as Blizzard Entertainment prefer to do something else beyond simply earning money. Although, Blizzard Entertainment does care about the profits, but this company more considers on the experiences of players. After establishing in 1994, Blizzard quickly became one of the most popular makers of video games. The mission statement of this company is dedicated to creating the most epic entertainment experiences for players (Blizzard Entertainment: Mission Statement). Based on creating the experiences, this company sets up a sense of incorporation for players and people who want to work for them. Blizzard Entertainment successfully attracts people by using two images that bring people to participate in the community of them via building the sense of incoporation through rhetorical appeals such as ethos, logos, pathos and kairos. Blizzard entertainment attracts people to join in their community via two images by building the sense of incorporation. More specifically, the sense of incorporation means a strong feeling of being into the circumstance which is built by Blizzard, and not only people can feel it so real, but also it closely relates to the real world through interaction. The first Zhao 2 image exhibits hiring poster. In the left of this poster, there is a gray statement YOU WITH and this statement is from one of famous games named Overwatch. Basically, the purpose of this picture means Blizzard Entertainment is in the stage of hiring now, and the kairos is used here. Additionally, on the right side of the statement, there are a dozen different characters which also originate from Overwatch. The reason why this hiring poster uses the game Overwatch as the way of propagandizing is because Overwatch represents a recent high achievement of Blizzard Entertainment. This game gets approval from the public by winning the top honor from Game of the Year at 2016 Game Awards (Totil). Blizzard Entertainment is trying to make a statement that Overwatch is their recent successful masterpiece in order to attract people to join in them on game designing. Speaking of the audiences, this image is not only for the people who want to find a career or are already working on game designing domain, but also for the people who are students or recent players and have not chosen the careers. Then, if anyone is interested at working on Blizzard, he or she could go the website link which is provided under their gray statement. This supplied website link exhibits the credibility which means the ethos for the audiences as well. In addition, it makes people who are not familiar with the video games industry have a different view on video games. In other words, it makes people feel that the video games industry is not something for kids or something lower than other industries anymore. So, Blizzard uses this image set up the sense of incoporation not only for players, but also for public by showing a common topic: employment which is as same as in other fields. Nevertheless, another image made by Blizzard shows how the video games could Zhao 3 relate to the real world. The second image are not simply demonstrates the connection between video games and the real world, but also proves how the video games industry can support the world in a special way. The style of the second image is quite similar to the first one in that the statement on the left and one relevant subject on the right. The statement on this picture is posting a big green and a smaller sentence under the big one is $2.5 million raised for On the right beside the statement, there is a black cat with green lights sitting on the grass. The interesting thing is the green lights throughout the cat body is as same as the color of the sentences, and it gives the audiences a feeling that it is this little cat saying the statements to people. Thus, this is how Blizzard uses the pathos to attract people by a little cute cat saying and adorable pets always arouse mercy. Additionally, the reason why this cat saying that is because the raise for Make-A- Wish, which is a non-profit organization related to health, is just over 2.5 million dollars. The quantity 2.5 million dollars for raising shows the credibility to people, because they know they will receive the negative consequences if they put a fake statistic, and the accurate statistic using means ethos to audiences. According to personal investigation, this little cat is a virtual pet which can be adopted by players via purchasing it, and then players can own it on the game World of Warcraft, which is another famous game published by Blizzard in 2004 and still popular even for now. The price of the little cat is 10 dollars, and Blizzard states that of the purchase price will be donated to (Adopt Mischief). It is exciting that so many people have participated in this public benefit Zhao 4 activitiies. Moreover, this image not only says to people who helped this non- profit organization but to everyone. The children who have the illness and now are accepting the treatment from Make-A-Wish express the thankfulness to the whole world, and it means logos. Here is the sense of incorporation which is utilized by Blizzard Entertainment for drawing people to get involved to their community. For example, people who have seen this picture and try to figure it out, they will finally realize how Blizzard Entertainment build the connection with the real world. In conclusion, these two images both show the rhetorical appeals that Blizzard Entertainment uses to attract people to understand through establishing the sense of incorporation. In other words, Blizzard Entertainment is a game maker but not only emphasizing on game designing, and also insisting the process of constructing the atmosphere between the video games world and the real world. In addition, this sense gives people strong empathy no matter when they are playing games or when they are working in the real world. It powerfully encourages people when they face the obstruction in life. It is just like what one creator of Blizzard said on the awards scene game and the world that we are building has a message and it is a message about heroism, diversity, bright and positive and hopeful (Totilo). Zhao 5 Works Cited Adopt Mischief Today and Support -  World of Warcraft. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Blizzard Entertainment: Mission  Blizzard Entertainment: Mission Statement. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Totilo, Stephen. Overwatch Wins Game Of The Year At The 2016 Game  Kotaku. Kotaku.com, 01 Dec. 2016. Web. 05 Mar. 2017.