McKinley 1 Dillon McKinley Instructor Ryan ENC 1002.097 18 th April, 2016 Proposal The presence of student debt in America is very dangerous. As of right now, most young Americans in college are walking around with debt obligations thanks to loans. It is a shame that the American education system has become such a monopolistic structure that the standing point of continuing your education, no matter how academically qualified you are, is whether you can afford it. The issue may seem of non-importance to those not affected, but to those who are affected, student loan factors such as defaulting could have serious implications on the economy. Because of the increased tuition costs caused by student loans, the financial aid system should have less distribution power on college campuses. In the past couple of decades, we have seen a rise in the amount of money students are paying for college and the amount of loans students are having to take out. According to research at MIT in Peter the Dual tuition rates have increased by 250% (Temin 36).To put in perspective, the National Center of Educational Statistics article labeled Costs of Colleges and in 1985, the cost of yearly tuition for a 4-year university was averaged at $5,160. As of 2015, that has increased to $25,409. These two forms of evidence show that since the early stages of financial aid till now, there has been an increase in tuition costs. Some may connect it to inflation, but the real connection that can be seen between tuition rates and student loans is found in Jungmin article Does Merit-Based Aid McKinley 2 Improve College Affordability? Testing the Bennett Hypothesis in the Era of Merit-Based . In this research paper, multiple schools tuition rates were observed in comparison to previous college costs or neighboring state costs, and they found that many schools had raised tuition rates after more subsidized loans were implemented (Lee 63-68). This research paper was supported by Bennett theory, which theorizes that as more subsidies are used to pay for student loans, the more likely universities are to raise tuition rates. With the inundation of college debt present in the college and working community, this proposal is not for those who have already surpassed college, but only to those who are in it or are about to be. The increase of subsidized loans causing tuition rates to increase can be reduced by putting a lower cap on the amount of loans a student can take out, and lowering the interest rate on student payment plans. By doing this, colleges would have to recognize the fact that since less subsidies are coming in to cover tuition costs, that means in order to keep students from dropping, they will either dispense more scholarships or lower tuition rates. For those who have to take out loans, low interest rates will make monthly payments more affordable and less of your monthly income, making it more likely for the student to pay back their student loans and less likely for them to default. For connecting evidence as to why it is a potentially good idea for lowering the cap on the amount of student loans you are able to take out, take into consideration Mathieu carticle, debt and hardship: Evidence from a large sample of low- and moderate-income In the article, the two statements, cost burdens have shifted, lawmakers have increased accessed to student and, rising borrowing rates may be leaving borrowers with unmanageable signaling possible repayment troubles for borrowers and are perfect compliments in showing how a lessened loan amount can help alleviate McKinley 3 student loan problems and reverse tuition costs (Mathieu et. al. 8-9). By limiting the amount of money students can borrow, it keeps colleges from allowing the tuition cost to rise in order to keep students from opting out of school. On top of this, it allows students to pay back loans faster since they are at low values. To support the implementation of low interest rates, in Susan article, Perspective on Student Loans in the United lower interest rate will make loan payments more manageable for marginal borrowers and thereby reduce is stated with evidence from the Stafford loan office of information (Dynarski 15). With the inclusion of lower loan amounts to take out, this can make it easier for present and future students with debt obligations to pay off loans. When interest rates are lower, that means monthly payments are lower, making it easier to pay back what they already owe. A common counter argument to a lower cap on student loans is that it is actually students who take out less loans who have a higher chance of defaulting loans. This was made famous in this topic from Mark 1994 article, Defaults on Student Loans? Findings from the National Postsecondary Student Aid which was one of the first real research papers to use statistical evidence to show that the popular narrative of high loans equaling high default is in fact not true and that it is the opposite (Dynarski 60). Where this is true, the factors that also attribute to this is a constant increasing tuition rate that has almost doubled since the introduction of this research. The factor at attributes to low default rates is not the amount of debt you compact. As of the same research Dynarski and many more articles since then, it is features such as high pre-college testing scores, family income, and positive socioeconomic background that make up characteristics of low default rates (Dynarski 59). If you lower tuition rates, the people with these characteristics are still going to have positive loan returns because of their sense of education as an investment for the future. This connects to the symmetry of student loans and McKinley 4 tuition rates because if these students are still able to access loans in low quantities, on top of lower interest rates, they will still be able to pay it back but even faster with less chances of defaulting. What I ask of all students on any college campus is to act now. The sooner the situation is brought to the attention of the masses, the sooner we can make student life easier for those in it or are about to be in it. The first call-to-action is to find your state legislator that is concerned with addressing this issue and email them. In the state of Florida, representatives like Alcee L. Hastings make student loans a part of his many concerns as one of the state representatives. Contacting him on his website via email is a great way to bring this issue more attention at the federal level. Another thing you can do as students is find ways to reduce your payments as much as possible while these actions implemented. Actions such as applying for as many scholarships as possible or going to the school that gives you the most money possible are both great concepts. This reduces your chances of accumulating debt tremendously and helps you focus more on academics rather than focusing on paying for school. A website you can go to for professional scholarships is careeronestop.org, a webpage connected to the Department of labor that helps students find a broad range of scholarships. Another option is starting off at a community college. If the universities you applied for willing to maximize your reduction in payments, then starting off at a community college can help reduce debt or keep debt away so that way attending a 4 year university becomes less expensive. hard to debate that student debt is a serious issue for young Americans and the consequences of allowing students to continue increasing their debt can only lead to economic problems in the future. With the connection between student loans, an apparent need to revise the student loan system, and a proposition for students to act upon it all show that this issue can be McKinley 5 taken with legitimacy. In the future, hopefully, we can see an exponential decrease in student loan debt, where only a minority instead of a majority of students are obligated to pay for it. The time has come where the education system needs to focus more on the progression of future generations rather than focusing on profiteering on the youth. McKinley 6 Work Cited Despard, Mathieu R., et al. Student Debt and Hardship: Evidence from a Large Sample of Low- and Moderate-Income  Children and Youth Services Review, vol. 70, 01 Nov. 2016, pp. 8-18. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.childyouth.2016.09.001. Dynarski, Mark. Who Defaults on Student Loans? Findings from the National Postsecondary Student Aid  Economics of Education Review 13.1 (1994): 55-68. Web. Dynarski, Susan. An Perspective on Student Loans in the United  Economic Studies at Brookings (2014): n. pag. Web. Kliesen, Kevin L. Low Interest Rates Have Benefits... and  Low Interest Rates Have Benefits ...and Costs. Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, n.d. Web. 19 Apr. 2017. Lee, Jungmin, Does Merit-Based Aid Improve College Affordability? Testing The Bennett Hypothesis In The Era Of Merit-Based  Journal Of Student Financial Aid 46.2 (2016): 51-78. Education Source. Web. 11 Feb. 2017. Temin, Peter. The American Dual  International Journal of Political Economy, vol. 45, no. 2, Apr. 2016, pp. 85-123. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1080/08911916.2016.1185311. Tuition Costs of College and  Fast Facts. National Center of Education Statistics, n.d. Web. 19 Apr. 2017.