Roberts 1 Alexandria Roberts Martha Heiser ENC1102.069 5 April 2017 Captive Elephants and Their Permanent Home Zoos have been a favorite past time for many people around the World. It is an iconic thing that when most people think of the word they think of elephants. But over time, there has been some controversy about the zoos ability to meet the needs of the largest land mammal on Earth. Elephants have been kept in zoos for over a century, but some recent scientific studies prove that it may not be the best place for their species to thrive. Elephants were originally put into zoos to help the species, but it may have made the problem worse and they living as long as a result. Recent scientific research shows that there are other solutions and ways people can contribute. Help from the public would ensure that elephants have a permanent place to live without the threat of extinction. The history of elephants in captivity was dated back to the initial poaching and hunting of an elephant for their ivory tusks. According to the Woodall website, have always been an important source for ivory and, during the late uncontrolled elephant poaching pushed the species to the brink of (Woodall). A way that zoological facilities save elephants from wild endangerment and profit from it, is to have them be attractions for the public in a controlled area called an enclosure. The majority of the money from guests goes into the well- being and zoo-keeper costs that comes with caring for the elephant. Even though the idea sounds great on paper, it becomes more difficult when rules and restrictions are involved and require that Roberts 2 certain needs are being met. The Association of Zoos and Aquariums (AZA) sets guidelines that every zoo must follow to operate legally. These rules and regulations are necessary to keep a standard for every zoo, however not strict enough for organizations like the People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) who believe that elephant care needs to be taken more seriously. PETA is a non-profit organization whose goal has always been to help animals. They have done extensive studies and countless investigations that have benefitted all types of animals in some form. According to the PETA website, zoos have pitiful standards for their elephants even by AZA rules, and lack the much-needed space that sanctuaries provide. PETA has shown the public that the for elephants today have still left many suffering in an inhumane way. The organization puts out many petitions regarding welfare, that anyone can sign. These petitions have changed laws and improved the lives of many helpless animals. They are working towards getting elephants out of zoos and into sanctuaries instead, in hopes that they will have a better life and the species suffer from it. A sanctuary is defined as a place of refuge or safety (Merriam-Webster). Animal sanctuaries are different from zoos, where most animals spend the entirety of their lives without moving to another facility. The biggest difference between sanctuaries and zoos is space, but it the most important. According to Jordan Carlton Schaul, there is controversy over space for elephants in zoos, it would be unfair to say that space is the critical factor in providing elephants with the kind of we deem (Schaul). Sanctuaries tend to be much larger than zoo enclosures and the way they operate it is slightly different. According to an article comparing and contrasting sanctuaries and zoos, elephant offer hundreds of acres of space through which elephants can at some urban zoos are maintained Roberts 3 in considerably smaller areas (one acre or (Hutchins). In a zoo, it is also common that animals will be moved to different facilities throughout their lives when a zoo decides they want them anymore. Animals in a sanctuary are usually there for life unless it has a medical condition that prevents it. As disturbing as it is, zoos will attempt to impregnate their elephants multiple times to produce a new reason for people to go there. According to the PETA website the Woodland Park Zoo in Seattle, an elephant named Chai was subjected to traumatic artificial insemination 112 times, with only one successful birth: a calf who later (PETA). Sanctuaries are different because they do not breed their animals and their intention to gain new guests by mutilating a living creature. But sanctuaries do have their own flaws. A problem that sanctuaries usually have is that they required to meet AZA regulations because they zoos. They do have their own regulations called the American Sanctuary Association (ASA) but their rules could be judged in the same way that the are. Another flaw that sanctuaries have, that zoos is the collection of funds. Zoos and sanctuaries obtain money in different ways. According to Hutchins, AZA zoos are non-profit entities, but still have solid business plans to ensure that they are not solely dependent on unpredictable (Hutchins). This refers to the fact that accredited zoos are making stable funds which will carry the business forward, whereas sanctuaries will sometimes rely on donations and volunteer work to keep it running. The fact that many zoos are accredited does help their side of the argument because they have standards they need to follow, unlike sanctuaries. These things aside, sanctuaries still could be a better option for the welfare. Roberts 4 The best solution for saving elephants is actually mentioned in an article by Jeffery P. Cohn. This solution may not be realistic, but it is a solution that would work. If this became a reality, it would revolutionize a new combination of zoos and sanctuaries as one. He writes, should create their own sanctuaries for elephants. Zoos could buy large areas in southern states away from cities, yet still accessible to visitors, with enough space to house herds of zoo-run sanctuaries would be a better, and probably more successful, venue for breeding elephants than their current facilities (Cohn, 4) The only way to save elephants from going extinct is to get involved. Elephants live as long in zoos as they do in the wild, but in sanctuaries they have a chance to live more happily, even if they have had some traumatic experiences in the past. Without the help of the public, elephants could go extinct when there was a possibility of saving them. There are many ways for the public to get involved, besides donating money. Websites like PETA who are against elephants being in zoos, will provide a petition of some sort that will encourage a change. The problem is that signing them guarantee any sort of change, even if they have made improvements in the past. petitions usually get a lot of attention and often make a real change in the World. Another way to help elephants get out of zoos is to write a letter to the AZA and tell them that their standards need to be raised for elephant care, or else they need to be sent to a sanctuary. The best way to support sanctuaries overall would be to volunteer at a local one. It would mean everything to the elephants to have support, and it would literally save their lives. They say an elephant never forgets, and elephants would always remember the change that could be made in their honor, and save their species from extinction. Roberts 5 Works Cited Cohn, Jeffrey P. Do Elephants Belong in  BioScience 56.9 (2006): 714. Web. 3 Apr. 2017. Hutchins, Michael. Zoo Vs. Sanctuary: An Ethical Consideration - Zoo Vs. Sanctuary: The AZA Position: An All Creatures Animal Rights Article: Justice, Peace, Love, Compassion, Ethics, Organizations, Bible, God, Lord, Jesus, Christ, Holy Spirit, Grass Roots, Animals, Cruelty Free, Lifestyle, Prolife, Pro Life,  Zoo Vs. Sanctuary: An Ethical Consideration - Zoo Vs. Sanctuary: The AZA Position: An All Creatures Animal Rights Article: Justice, Peace, Love, Compassion, Ethics, Organizations, Bible, God, Lord, Jesus, Christ, Holy Spirit, Grass Roots, Animals, Cruelty Free, Lifestyle, Prolife, Pro Life, P. Http://www.all-creatures.org/index.html, 3 Oct. 2004. Web. 03 Apr. 2017. Merriam Webster. N.p., n.d. Web. 5 Apr. 2017. Newkirk, Ingrid. Get Elephants Out of  PETA. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, 7 May 2014. Web. 03 Apr. 2017. Synergize. The History of Elephant  Woodall Addo. Woodall Country House and Spa, 12 Sept. 2016. Web. 05 Apr. 2017. Schaul, Jordan Carlton. Elephants in Captivity: A Perspective from Former AZA Director/William Conway Chair of Conservation &  National Geographic Society (blogs). National Geographic, 07 Oct. 2014. Web. 03 Apr. 2017