Crisp 1 Matthew Crisp Instructor Ryan ENC 1102.001 17 April 2017 Struggles with Animal Captivity Zoos are very common place in society. They have been around since Ancient Egyptian (www.nationalgeographic.org, times, and have often been viewed as a fun and interesting way to spend the day, as they contain a litany of unique animals that can be overseen from a safe viewing distance. Some zoos even go as far to allow people to come into contact with the animals, providing a very close experience with animals that you might not otherwise find in your native region, like zebras and elephants. That being said, what is usually not known is how the animals feel in captivity. Studies show that most zoo animals, regardless of species, usually feel distressed and uncomfortable in a manufactured environment surrounded by people gawking at them day in and day out. This is because most animals kept in zoos are wild animals and do not want to be held captive in a small corral and desire rather to be roaming the plains of Africa or exploring the Amazon. Organizations like PETA and CAPS are among the few companies that actually stress this information to the public, resulting in a large lack of people knowing the effects that zoos have on animals. Essentially, if more people knew about the consequences that zoos create for wild animals, then there would be less animals suffering from mental issues in zoos, so it would benefit society and the zoo animals if there was a way of spreading the information through a program or advertising service. seems kind of general to make the claim that zoo animals feel distressed and upset while held captive in zoos, so the real information lies in the details. Take Gus the polar Crisp 2 bear for, example. Gus was a part of the Central Park Zoo in New York City since 1985 up until 2013. He became a very significant example of how zoo animals are affected by being held in captivity, as he started showing signs of depression in the and began neurotically swimming in figure eights in his pool for up to twelve hours a day, and was the first zoo animal in history to be given Prozac (www.nytimes.com, Farewell to Gus, Whose Issues Made Him a Star). Similar behavior can be found in other types of zoo animals. Large cats like tigers and panthers pace back and forth in their corrals, elephants and rhinos will behave sedentarily, monkeys will even regurgitate and eat what they regurgitated because so stressed out (www.bornfree.org.uk, Zoochosis: Abnormal and Stereotypic Behaviour In Captive Animals). behavior that is rarely witnessed in the wild, showing that it must be related to the zoos. Zoos will sometimes deny this and say that what they do is actually beneficial to an species, as they claim that they keep the species from danger and harm and allow it to breed in a safe location free from poachers and harsh diseases. This would be a nice thought if the zoos then go an exploit the species for profit in a small, caged off area. It would be better, if instead, there were organizations that viewed the animals in their natural habitat from a distance, and jumping in every now and then to prevent poaching or to rescue the species from a disease. Another byproduct of zoos distressed behavior could be danger to those visiting a zoo. There have been many reported cases of zoo aggression towards people attending a zoo, such as monkeys attempting to attack bystanders, tigers growling at kids, and elephants stomping rampantly around in a circle. While there have been instances where those attending the zoo have instigated this behavior out of animals, the general reason for the animals to be acting in such a fervor is because they are in zoos. Crisp 3 So, now that evident why zoos are bad for animals, how is that relevant to humans? Why would people care whether or not animals were suffering mentally and physically? easy to say that animals possibly feel the pain that humans do, but that is wholly incorrect. If you administer the same pain a human receives to, for instance, a bear or a gorilla, they will feel the same dosage of pain, it make any sense why it would hurt less. On top of that, really difficult to say that animals feel mental pain because they show it quite evidently in the behavior that they exhibit in the zoos they are held captive in. Another way to prove that animals feel mental pain is by observing the purposeful neglect of a loyal dog. The dog will feel very confused as to why being ignored, and ultimately display sad behavior. If the dog continues to be neglected, it may end up traumatized for the rest of its life. Knowing these two things shows that animals feel the same pain that humans do, no matter the type of pain, so the claim that animals feel less pain quickly becomes false. So, next to knowing that animals basically feel the same as humans, the easiest, and not to mention the most common method of understanding the animals point of view, is to try and be put in their situation. If a human being was put in, say, a position waking up every day to the same routine of being fed the same bad food, entertaining all the same types of people, and being confined to a corral that is limited in size that person may start going insane as well. While it sounds corny, after analyzing that situation and the fact that animals feel the same pain that humans do, easy to see that animals are very akin humans. That being said, why would people want to knowingly venture to their local zoo to watch animals struggle? Well, exactly the point, if more people knew about the ramifications of animals being held captive in zoos, chances are that they but as aforementioned, it seems that not many people actually know the truth. Crisp 4 If the problem is a lack of information being divulged into the public, then how can that be solved? Well, the simplest form of solving the issue is simply taking the issues discussed in this paper and conversing about it to other people, thus increasing the amount of people that recognize that zoos are actually pretty dangerous places to keep animals, not just for the animals, but for the people as well. A larger scale solution would be to support animal rights organizations like PETA and CAPS in their mission to abolish zoos and educate the world on the truth of zoos by volunteering, or even working for them. If removing the zoos completely is the main goal, then there is a fact that may help that. The AZA, the Association of Zoos and Aquariums, can accredit select zoos and aquariums so that the accredited zoos and aquariums can receive benefits like grants and extra funding (www.aza.org, Benefits of Accreditation). However, these AZA accredited zoos and aquariums receive 47% of their funding from the United States government (www.marketwatch.com, 10 Things Zoos Tell You). With that in mind, if there were enough people that were passionate about abolishing zoos, then they could establish a petition that would be asking the US government to halt the funding for the zoos, and then add the reason as to why they should do so, which would include the research that proves zoos are toxic to the animals being held captive in them. After analyzing everything, it seems obvious that zoos are a bad choice for animals and people and that the given solutions should at least be attempted as a way to end the stress and danger between animals and people. It would be best if the wild animals were back in their native habitat doing what they should be doing naturally rather than being contained in small enclosures being forced to be entertainment, and the sooner people realize that, through a large diffusion of facts and knowledge, the better animals will fare. Crisp 5 Works Cited  www.Nationalgeographic.org. National Geographic, n.d. Web. 28 Apr. 2017. Zoochosis: Abormal and Stereotypic Behaviour In Captive  www.bornfree.org.uk. Born Free Foundation, n.d. Web. 28 Apr. 2017. Benefits of  www.aza.org. Association of Zoos and Aquariums, n.d. Web. 28 Apr. 2017. Grant, Kelli B. 10 Things Zoos Tell  www.marketwatch.com. Market Watch, 30 May 2011. Web. 28 Apr. 2017 Kleinfield, N. R. Farewell to Gus, Whose Issues Made Him a  Www.nytimes.com. The New York Times, 28 Aug. 2013. Web. 28 Apr. 2017.