Huynh 1 Tuan Huynh Robert Ryan ENC 1102 18 April 2017 Nuclear Energy The advent of nuclear power left nothing but destruction in its wake. The bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki were devastating and showcased the pure destructive power of the nuclear bomb. So, it is understandable to see the fear in harnessing such power. The fear of the destructive force of nuclear power should not blind people from seeing full potential. Since the bombings, however, naysayers have come up with even more ridiculous arguments against using such an energy source in the energy industry. In fact, nuclear energy is the future of the industry, yet big energy companies are still hesitant to invest and develop this energy source because of the fallacious arguments against it. If big energy companies can see pass these misconceptions and capitalize on current innovations, they can seize an opportunity to revolutionize the entire industry. A common misconception is that nuclear energy is more dangerous than coal. This idea is driven by our psyches skewed perception of risk. According to a psychology article written by Discover Jason Daley, we are, the mercy of deep-seated emotional associations and mental These shortcuts tend to emphasize big memorable events. Of course, people are going to remember the 38 deaths at Chernobyl over the 200,000 early deaths related to coal-emissions in the United States every year (Chu). A study from NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies and Columbia University Earth Institute calculated that, nuclear power Huynh 2 has prevented an average of 1.84 million air pollution-related (Pushker A. Kharecha and James E. Hansen). This is because nuclear energy disposal is done underground while coal emissions release toxic pollution into the air each day. We should not be worrying about using nuclear energy as much as we should be worrying about pumping poison into the air. Studies from Kurzgesagt showed that 64 gigatons of harmful gas emissions have not been pumped out since 1973 due to the rise of nuclear energy. In fact, nuclear energy is the necessary evil to our very prevalent coal crisis. A much bigger incentive for big energy companies to buy into nuclear energy is its commercial potential. Nuclear power has proven to be commercially viable. According to AENews, 75 percent of energy generated in France is from nuclear energy (Is Nuclear Energy a Viable Solution). This is because nuclear power plants have an extremely high energy load. This just means nuclear power plants are much more efficient in making energy than coal plants. According to data from Nuclear Fissionary, coal plants only generate 9 kWh per Kg of coal. This is nothing compared to the 123,056 kWh per Kg of natural uranium generated by a light nuclear water reactor. In terms, it takes less to get more. The rise of commercial nuclear energy in the United States is making a comeback recently. According to the World Nuclear Association, the industry is projected to grow 81 percent from 2011 to 2035. The major issue spearheaded by nuclear critics is that nuclear power plants are expensive to build and replace. Well, the facts show that the payout outweigh the buy-in. As long as a nuclear power plant is up and running, they will produce more energy faster than its competitors; that means more money in the bank. The problem is, however, that when accidents such as Fukushima and Chernobyl happen, it leads to a huge loss in investment and an expensive clean-up. Fortunately, new Huynh 3 technologies are emerging that promise to make nuclear energy cheaper, safer and more efficient. The biggest, new advance in nuclear energy is Thorium. It is an element found abundant in nature, more so than Uranium. Not only is there plenty of it, but it also generates more energy than Uranium. One tonne of Thorium generates as much as 200 tonnes of Uranium or 3,500,000 tonnes of coal (Kurzgesagt). The demand for this resource is steadily increasing, and, according to the World Nuclear Association, the United States is estimated to have the third largest supply of Thorium with 595,000 metric tons behind India and Brazil. Big electric companies in the United States can answer the high demands for Thorium and, as a result, make much profit. There are only 5 types of reactors that are compatible with Thorium. These are Heavy Water Reactors (PHWRs), Gas-Cooled Reactors (HTRs), Boiling (Light) Water Reactors (BWRs), Pressurized (Light) Water Reactors (PWRs), and Fast Neutron Reactors (FNRs). Still, all of these reactors have the aforementioned problem of being expensive to build and dangerous. This is due to the fact that most nuclear innovation stalled out during the during the peak of nuclear paranoia. This means that most nuclear reactors are outdated. But, the recent rise in interest of nuclear energy has produced some very promising conceptual schematics of a new type of reactor called Molten Salt Reactors (MSRs). This modern-age reactor is still being developed, however, it is making a lot of progress and has already been receiving investments and research from smaller energy companies such as ThorCon Power in Florida. Molten Salt Reactors are conceptually cheaper to build and was designed with priority in safety. Molten Salt Reactors are also designed to generate electricity from Thorium, considering that it is the most profitable resource. Unfortunately, the breakthroughs of this technology can Huynh 4 only go as far as the money can take it. It seems like only small or international companies are taking part in this breakthrough in the industry. This is a shame because big electric companies such as Duke Energy and NextEra could really push this technology into their wealth and resources. The progress is already there and the concepts are certainly tangible, but, with further research and investment from a huge company, they can hasten the advancement of the industry. This is a lifetime opportunity for big electric companies. If they can start developing this new era of nuclear energy in a time when nuclear energy is on the rise, they can profit immensely. My proposal is for big American power companies to develop and support these new innovations in nuclear energy; it will save the environment, make energy cheap, and make everyone involved richer. Huynh 5 Works Cited Daley, Jason. May  Discover, July-Aug. 2011. Web. 18 Apr. 2017. Chu, Jennifer. Study: Air Pollution Causes 200,000 Early Deaths Each Year in the  MIT, 29 Aug. 2013. Web. 18 Apr. 2017. Pushker A. Kharecha and James E. Hansen, Mortality and Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Historical and Projected Nuclear Environmental Science and Technology. American Chemical Society. March 15, 2013. Web. Feb 12, 2017. Kurzgesagt. Energy Explained: How does it work? YouTube. March 26, 2015. Web. Feb 12, 2017. Is Nuclear Energy a Viable  Environment and Sustainability Future Technology, 10 May 2009. Web. 18 Apr. 2017. World Nuclear  World Nuclear Association, n.d. Web. 18 Apr. 2017.