Nodarse 1 Luis Nodarse Professor Bianca ENC 1102 Why the death penalty has to stop Since the 1970s when the death penalty was re-implemented there has been over 3000 executions in the US and it seems not to be stopping (theguardian.com). Criminals are getting executed all around the country and no matter how bad a crime anyone has committed, no one deserve to die because of mistakes they have committed. Therefore, the death penalty should be stopped and people that are undecided about this cause should join against the death penalty because killing is never right under any circumstances. The death penalty is the punishment done in the United states (US) for a very long time and it has taught us that no matter whether the death penalty is implemented or not it has not changed the crimes done in the US. People keep committing crime no matter whether they are being executed or not and what is the point of executing people if other men are going to keep repeating the same crimes they will. Which makes the death penalty obsolete the point of implementing something that is not even going to affect the rest of the criminals to not keep doing these wrongful acts. Also a lot of inmates that are sentenced to the death penalty are later exonerated meaning that the death penalty has been implemented and people even getting executed which makes it pointless to have something like that still in the US when it even being done in the proper way it should be done, the death penalty needs to be stopped because the way it should actually be done is not being done right now so the US needs to take a break Nodarse 2 from killing men until a way of being found can be fixed. Also men are getting psychologically hurt because of being accused of the death penalty and then later on said that they are free to go that just seems to be a faulty system in how the US is doing the death penalty . Some men in death row do not even get executed for years to come for example Lee Giles, then 19 years old, was sentenced to death in Blount County, Alabama. Nearly 40 years later, he is still waiting to be it seems even inefficient to have all these men in jail for years and years before even getting executed like if they are going to get executed what is the point of waiting so long (slate.com). According Los Angeles Times investigation, two dozen men on death row require walkers and wheelchairs, and one is living out his days in bed wearing This is what the death penalty is like in the US it is inefficient, it seems purposeless because what is the point of executing men that are in their 90s when they will eventually just die of natural causes, the death penalty is a waste of money for men that already in wheelchairs and diapers that will be dying pretty soon and it causes the inmates to psychologically suffer, which although some of these men did cause terrible crimes that is the reason for jail torture should not be done on any human being no matter the circumstances for example Rebecca McCray states death row inmates are housed alone for years in tiny concrete cells even as a growing body of evidence suggests the psychological burden of solitary confinement is tantamount to The jail system should be used when people break the law to be put in jail and it be decided later whether they are fit to be back into society or not as a way of reform for prisoners not to be thrown in there and later be killed by the system (slate.com). The death penalty is a serious matter and problem in the US. Families of the men getting killed think that the death penalty is the right thing for the killers and that is why it is a serious problem because some families find that it does not bring closure after all. For example, Nodarse 3 Missouri executed Jeff Ferguson in 2014 for the rape and murder of Kelli Hall the hall family believed the myth that execution would close our emotional At that time, Jim Hall told reporters over, thank  But, he now says, it In an op-ed in the Columbia Daily Tribune, Mr. Hall writes that his family has come to deeply regret  and appeals to Governor Jay Nixon to commute the death sentences of the 25 men remaining on the death (deathpenaltyinfo.org). This is an example on how the death penalty does not seem right, after such a heinous crime like rape and kill of their daughter the hall family saw that killing is not right it would be better if the man just be stuck in jail. There is a quote from Gandhi that states this very well eye for an eye makes the world meaning that we should not look for revenge just because of crimes others have committed. That is why one must get involved against the death penalty. Ways to get involved require the effort of everyone in the US to make a change. There has already been changed in a lot of states around the country for example New York, Michigan, Minnesota and many more, the people in those states tried to write to their senators and mayor of the state that they elected and they did this by writing petitions constantly. For example, in the International Commission Against Death penalty the USA, a governor of a state may also have powers to grant clemency to condemned prisoners and to sign or veto a bill to abolish the death penalty once it has passed by the legislature. State governors played an important role in these petitions make it very possible for the state the people live in to make it banned because the people of the state like the mayor and senator are there to hear the people that voted for them and if they want the death penalty to be banned they might actually listen (icomdp.org). One can find their senators at nationalpriorities.org they give you your representatives contact info based on Nodarse 4 your address so you can contact them and try to make a difference. Another way for this to happen is be active and join organizations that are active members in this community of people against the death penalty for example the National coalition to abolish the death penalty (NCADP) which does active protest and have articles on how the death penalty is terrible for the country and have a calendar of all the executions happening and how everyone can join together against the death penalty (NCADP.org). One can donate to make a change and join a pledge they are doing so all together we can make a difference. In conclusion the death penalty in the US needs to be stopped indefinitely. Taking the life of a man no matter the circumstances is wrong and just because the country does it officially does not make it right. The prison system needs to be reformed instead of just killing men. That is why people should all join together and try to make a difference together by protesting and uniting in organization against this matter. Because if people do not come together and see that there is a problem then this problem will never be solved. Word count:1250 Nodarse 5 Works cited Abolish the Death  National Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. 50 Facts About the Death  50 Facts About the Death Penalty Death Penalty Information Center. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Contact Your  National Priorities Project. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. McCray, Rebecca. The to Execute Death Row Inmates Is Itself  Slate Magazine. N.p., 07 Mar. 2017. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. NEW VOICES: Regretting Execution, Murder Family Urges Governor to Commute Death  NEW VOICES: Regretting Execution, Murder Family Urges Governor to Commute Death Row Death Penalty Information Center. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Part I: History of the Death  Part I: History of the Death Penalty Death Penalty Information Center. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Rogers, Simon. Death penalty statistics from the US: which state executes the most  The Guardian. Guardian News and Media, 18 June 2010. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Sarver, Vernon Thomas. Abolition of the Death Penalty in the United States: An Untested  SSRN Electronic Journal (n.d.): n. pag. Web. Nodarse 6