Muthiah 1 Sarina Muthiah Ms. Hannah Lay ENC 1102 12 March 2017 Sioux Tribe Fighting Back National headlines constantly read of disastrous oil spills ruining environments often taking months and possibly years in a hope of recovery. A stakeholder known as the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe fears that this will happen in their own backyard. This tribe has been in opposition with the Dakota Access which is a company overruling the Dakota Access Pipeline. This pipeline is set to run through the Missouri River which would ruin the water supply and the land that surrounds it if a spill were to occur. The Standing Rock Sioux Tribe is to promoting the environment for the self-sufficiency of all tribal Rock: . The tribe has stated before that they would not want the pipeline to be rerouted, but to be stopped all together. The purpose of these images set forth by the Sioux Tribe is to stand alongside them in opposition of this pipeline. Through the use of the rhetorical appeals of pathos, logos, and karios, these images showcase the negative light in which the people of the tribe view the pipeline, and advocate for individuals to stand in solidarity with them to oppose this threat. The stakeholder being analyzed within this essay is the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe. The Standing Rock was originally a part of the Great Sioux Reservation. This Reservation compromised all present-day South Dakota west of the Missouri River As Muthiah 2 the years went on there were many executive orders which reduced the size of this once large reservation Rock: In the year of 1889 Congress at the time reduced the reservation into six separate reservations, one of which is the Standing Rock Sioux Reservations Rock: The Sioux Tribe is known to be one of the Firsts Nations people in North America Rock: The Standing Rock Sioux Reservation is in North and South Dakota. Standing Rock land area is 2.3 million acres long and 1,408,061 is owned tribally Rock: Considering recent events this tribe has been receiving much attention due to the fact of the protest of the Dakota Access Pipeline, also known as the DAPL. Many Native people across the country of having been traveling to stand by the sides of their people to fight against this pipeline ruining the land that they believe to be sacred. These images portray the fight against Dakota Access that the people of the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe are facing. In the first image the appeal to pathos is very clear and effective (Dakota Access Facts). The image asks the audience to stand with the tribe in attempt to fight back against their opposing threat. Pathos is an appeal to an emotion by a way of convincing an audience of an argument. The image shows what is assumed to be the teepee homes of the Sioux Tribe with the Missouri River running through the tribe. Behind these teepee huts is the Dakota Access Pipeline cutting through the river but not the tribe. The images show the pipeline bursting and causing a massive spill within their major water supply (Dakota Access Facts). This image was designed to create sympathy toward the tribe and channel anger toward the Dakota Access company for wanting to build this pipeline near them. This image foreshadows a possible reality for this tribe if the pipeline were to burst. Within the first photo the colors depicted in it also does a great job Muthiah 3 as conveying emotions. For example, the words in red and the teepee huts in red could represent the anger that the tribe is feeling and the blood of the tribe that has been shed in order to keep the land and the river safe as well. In the second image one can see a woman of Native American decent possibly holding her fist in the air as a sign of solidarity and fighting back. Behind her are outlines of horses and men which represent her native people protecting their land in which their ancestors and fought for and died for (Dakota Access Facts). The audience for both images are those who do not necessarily support the Sioux. This reasoning comes from the fact that the way in which each image is set up to make individuals feel sympathetic towards their cause. These images would not have been created for those who do not support their cause in attempt to have more people in their corner. Throughout both images, the appeal to kairos is quite clear and easy to catch. Kairos is an appeal to timeliness in which a concern is being spoken to the audience. In the first image in red bold letters WITH STRONG is written across the top of the image (Dakota Access Facts). This statement enforces the idea that the hearts of the people lie within the land that has given them a home to flourish on. Along the bottom of the image written in black and outlined in yellow is DAKOTA ACCESS This stresses the fact that the people are in complete opposition to the fact that the pipeline will be built near their land. It also reinforces the idea that the people are not just against the Dakota Access Pipeline but in pipeline all together. The second image depicts WITH STANDING ROCK STOP THE DAKOTA ACCESS (Dakota Access Facts). With these words, the people of the tribe are asking the for a call of urgency in some sorts. They are calling those who not a part of their tribe to come stand alongside them in protest and help preserve the land in which it is our duty to protect. Also at the bottom of this image is THE LAND PROTECT THE Muthiah 4 These words are calling people to protect the greatest gift given to us which is the resources that the earth has given us. Through these words the people are trying to extend to a wider audience in an attempt have a larger group of people in opposition towards the Dakota Access Pipeline. Without logos, there would be no point in creating advertisements because the creators of the ads are attempting to persuade the readers through their logic and reasoning. Logos is an appeal to logic and a way of persuading the audience through reason. In the first image the appeal of of logos can be easily deciphered (Dakota Access Facts). For example, the DAPL can be seen cracked with the oil from the pipeline spilling into the Missouri River and the river turning black. Also The logic behind this is that if the Sioux Tribe get a large enough support from individuals in opposition of the pipeline then they will have avoided a possible tragedy of an oil spill occurring. The second image displays the appeal with protesters in the background. The logic behind this is that the people will fight for they you believe in if they truly support the cause and will not stop until they win (Dakota Access Facts). As depicted within the photos the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe are attempting to stop the Dakota Access Pipeline from being built in an area that would compromise their land. The reason that one should care about this topic is because how we treat this land is how it will treat those who reside on it. If you pollute the land and allow others to taint it, we will receive resources that will not be able to be used due to pollution. If we treat is with respect and fight for the protection of the land then the resources of the land with be at our use without worrying of detrimental affects of pollution. The Sioux is opening the eyes of people nationally and their call to action has pushed not only their people, but others as well to fight the DAPL.Their idea and points of view are illustrated through the rhetorical appeal of pathos, logos, and kairos. Muthiah 5 By analyzing and applying these three appeals to the images it gives the audience a broader understanding as to why the tribe is against the pipeline. Muthiah 6 Works Citied Dakota Access Pipeline  Dakota Access Pipeline Facts. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <https://daplpipelinefacts.com/>. Corporate  EnergyTransfer.com - Home Page. 2017 Energy Transfer Partners, L.P., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://www.energytransfer.com/>. Standing  Standing Rock. KK BOLD, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <http://standingrock.org/>. Muthiah 7 Muthiah 8