Pennell 1 Melissa Pennell Professor Drugan ENC 1102 072 16 April 2017 Project III Intermediate Draft Sex Work Sex Work is a complicated and taboo subject within the United capitalist society. It is a form of work that involves sex in exchange for money or other favorable items. People in this profession are unable to receive help without the fear of being prosecuted or murdered. 1975 and 1980, 13 women, 7 of whom were sex workers, were murdered in the North of England. Aside from the femicide itself, the case was infamous for police failings, misogyny, and victim (Wattis, 1). Due to the stigma around prostitution, the people did not feel the need to discuss justice or even recommend it. Furthermore, prostitution is embedded into the structure of most economic systems in the World. The removal of this profession would require society to respect women and value them for more than their physical appearances as well as make sure that women get the justice they deserve. The goal of this essay is to educate, engage, and empower to audience to act. Therefore, the action taken by the citizens of the United States to decriminalization sex work is essential to society due to the increase in STI rates, the unresponsiveness of police, and drug use among prostitutes. The ability of sex workers to seek help is very limited, the purpose of this paragraph is to discuss the reality of increase in drug use and HIV among prostitutes and the decrease of help. of prostitutes throughout the world have contracted the HIV virus [and the murder rate 204 for every 100,000 (1). In the United States, prostitution and sex trafficking is a serious crime that has consequences for both ends of the exchange (i.e. the person buying the Pennell 2 service and the person performing the service). Sex workers do not have the luxury of seeking help for health issues and because of that, the government continues to be against prostitution. The stigma around the decreased help may be associated with the misidentify of sex trafficking with sex work. Less than 6% of sex workers are trafficked. migrants prefer working in the sex industry rather than the and sometimes exploitative conditions they meet in non-sexual (Mai,  (English Collective of Prostitutes). There is no correlation between sex work and sex trafficking. Furthermore, sex workers face tremendous pressure to keep their lives secret and away from the police. is another important feature because people are more honest when their identities are concealed. The one-time nature is worth incorporating because people tend to more closely follow their true preferences when they do not expect future (Sohn, 1). Honesty is not a life that these sex workers can live, especially when their family members would ridicule them for being in this profession. Matt Lopez states in his article that one wants to legalize coercion, violence, or fraud in the sex industry, or the use of sex workers who are not adults. But some organizations campaigning against trafficking have come to an understanding that when sex work is illegal, it is much riskier for sex workers to complain to the authorities when they are enslaved, beaten, or (1). However, if prostitution was legalized, then sex workers could seek help for any situation they have that requires assistance and they would not have to hide anything. In countries, such as Germany and the Netherlands, prostitution is legal. In Germany, it is highly regulated by requiring sex workers to be registered. In the Netherlands, prostitution has been legal since 1988. Today, sex workers pay taxes and contribute to society. Therefore, sex work should be legalized in the United States with the help of United States Citizens. Taking this Pennell 3 a step further, Germany recently enforced a law making it illegal to have sex with a prostitute without a condom. This will help reduce the spread of and HIV. Furthermore, in the Netherlands, it is much easier for the police to obtain information and to establish contacts within the prostitution  (Stanford University 1). This contact is important for demographic evidence as well as a stronger case to legalize prostitution. The sex workers that contribute to society will allow prostitutes to be safe, the government to benefit, and the people of the United States to feel safe and innovate. If the rights of sex workers are guaranteed, this will help reduce the stigma around prostitution and lead to the idea that women have rights to her body and to seek help if needed. According to a study in Indonesia, accepting the idea of fairness for all regardless of gender, social status and position, such as that championed by the social contract approach, Nussbaum critiques the lack of cultural understanding and demographic awareness among those where the approach may be (Riswanda, Corcoran-Nantes, and McIntyre-Mills, 520). Furthermore, the study provides information for the benefits of legalizing prostitution and the progressiveness of Indonesia. The application of the legalities in other countries could help the United States make a formal declaration to legalize prostitution. The authorities have a duty to protect and serve the citizens of the United States regardless of their level of status. A case in England that was mentioned previously, involves the death of seven prostitutes. The women would often be referred to as and would only be referred to as that. The detective even degraded the women as to say that some of the women who are victims who had loose morals were targeted so the other three women were misidentified (Wattis, 1). This is unacceptable, those people were daughters or mothers. They had families and people who cared for them. the course of the murders, police failed to Pennell 4 follow up on a series of vital clues, which could have led them to Sutcliffe (Wattis, 1). This shows that the police did not feel that they needed to respect these women due to their professions. This is unacceptable, these women deserve more. Which then brings the essay to the steps for this call to action are noticing that criminalization of prostitution is a state law rather than a federal law so the house of representatives or the state senator are the people to contact. Next, this law has been around for a while, the government will be stubborn to change it due to the religious beliefs this country was founded on. Take a survey on the general opinion. If the people in your area do not agree with this try to make a video! Use facts and emotion. Following this, find people who agree, there is strength in numbers. After you figure out how to capture your audience, start your petition and let the law take its course. People may not change, but eventually, the law will. In conclusion, prostitution should be legal to protect the rights of people who enter this profession. The law should only apply to people of a certain age and if they are consenting to this type of work. The goal of legalizing sex work is to discourage and reduce human trafficking as well as increase the connection within the industry. Sex work has become an integral part of society, with the help of prostitutes the government could shut down crime rings, reduce drugs, and minimize trafficking. That woman could be important to you in some way, let her live her life and support herself. (WC 1233). Pennell 5 Works Cited Risk Among Persons Who Exchange Sex for Money or Nonmonetary CDC. https://www.cdc.gov/hiv/group/sexworkers.html Lopez, Matt. Case to Legalize University Times. 7 December 2016. Web. http://csulauniversitytimes.com/8576/lifestyle/the-case-to-legalize-prostitution/ Milrod, Christine, Monoto, Martin. Use, Sexual Risk and Self-Reported STI in a Sample of Older Male Clients of Heterosexual Prostitution in the United University of South Florida. 06 Jan. 2016. Web. 10 Apr. 2017 http://journals.sagepub.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/doi/abs/10.1177/1557988315623990 Moloney, Katherine. Legislation: Toward an Ethical Christian University of South Florida. 1 September 2014. Web. Moret Draughon, Jessica E., Carrico, Adam, W., Evands, Jennifer, L., Stein, Ellen, S., et al. impact of violence on sex risk and drug use behaviors among women engaged in sex work in Phnom Penh, University of South Florida. 01 Apr. 2016. Web. 10 Apr. 2017. http://www.sciencedirect.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/science/article/pii/S037687161600058 2 Reid, Melanie. ProCon.org. 16, May 2008. Web. http://prostitution.procon.org/view.answers.php?questionID=000120 Riswanda, Corcoran-Nantes, Yvonne, McIntyre-Mills, Janet. Prostitution in Pennell 6 Indonesia: A Critical Systemic 05 May 2016. Web PDF. Scott, Michael. COPS. Web. Shively, Michael, Kliorys, Kristina, Wheeler, Krisitn, Hunt Dana. National Overview of Prostitution and Sex Trafficking Demand Reduction ABT Associates. 30 April 2012. Web. https://www.ncjrs.gov/pdffiles1/nij/grants/238796.pdf Sohn, Kitae. revealed preferences regarding ages: evidence from University of South Florida. 04 Jul. 2016. Web. 10 Apr. 2017. http://www.sciencedirect.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/science/article/pii/S109051381600004 0 Prostitution Statistics You Have To LAWS. 10 Feb. 2017. Web. http://sex-crimes.laws.com/prostitution/prostitution-statistics Wattis, Louise. the Yorkshire Ripper University of South Florida. 08 Sept. 2015. Web. 10 Apr. 2017. http://journals.sagepub.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/doi/abs/10.1177/1557085115602960