Williams 1 Joseph Williams ENC 1102 Professor Ryan 19 April 2017 The Importance of Alternative Energy Today, energy is necessary to keep society running as efficiently as possible. The current energy source that is being used is fossil fuels. This type of fuel is nonrenewable, which in other terms means it should not be a resource that we fully depend on. Resources like fossil fuels have a negative effect on the environment via pollution. There are many sources of energy, but finding a renewable resource that is both environmentally and economically friendly is the real challenge. Alternative energy is equal to, if not better than fossil fuels. If cities and the residents that live in them make the jump to environmentally friendly energy, it can make a great positive impact in their own lives and the world around them. There are many forms of energy that help run society, but the best energy source has little to no negative impact. The current source of energy is fossil fuel, which is the remains of organisms found in the ground. These plants and animals that are buried in the ground slowly convert to fossil fuels by heat and pressure of the crust over hundreds of millions of (Science Daily). The three main types of fossil fuels are crude oil, natural gas, and coal. Since these are all nonrenewable resources, it means that once it is depleted it will no longer exist on earth. Another important fact about fossil fuel is that when they are burned they produce emissions that harms the environment. This pollution can cause health problems to organisms that live in this environment, and it can even cause certain species to go extinct. Although it does this, fossil fuels are the most abundant source of fuel at the moment. However, society should not be dependent on an energy source that cannot be re-used. There are more negatives than Williams 2 positives when using fossil fuel, furthermore people should consider using alternative sources of energy that have more pros than cons. Alternative energy is any form of energy that does not deplete natural resources or have a negative impact on the environment. There are many forms of alternative energy that are being developed and some that are already developed. The main sources of alternative energy currently are solar and wind energy, biofuels, and hydroelectricity. Solar energy is collected by using solar panels to collect the radiant energy produced by the sun. Solar energy is the largest form of alternative energy used today. Wind energy is gathered by wind turbines, so when they rotate (by the wind) they produce kinetic energy which is then transferred into usable energy. Biofuels are created by using plants and natural oils to produce a form of energy that can be used to power technology today (How Biofuels are Made). The last major form of alternative energy is hydroelectricity. The most common form of hydroelectricity is dams, water is held behind these dams and flows through them to spin turbines to create electricity. Biofuels is the only one of these that produce pollution, but this pollution is still less than that of fossil fuels. All of these sources of fuel produce little to no emissions, is renewable, and has the ability to replace fossil fuels. When fossil fuels are burned, they produce pollution in the air that can have a great impact on your life. This pollution can cause health problems such as increase the risk of a heart attack, asthma, and even cause cancer if you are exposed to it for a long enough period. A real- world example of air pollution is smog and the Great Smog of London of 1952 (Haynie). In Beijing, the smog caused schools to close, flights to cancel, and even construction to stop. This smog not only causes health problems but also causes cities to slow in productivity. In London 1952, many people were burning coal to stay warm, but this caused a great crisis. This Williams 3 not only caused transportation to stop (due to the smog restricting vision), but also was lethal to the elderly and children. Since there was a lack of vision crimes also increased in the city which caused people to not only fear the smog but also criminals. This lethal air pollution caused around 12,000 deaths in London. All of this pollution was caused from burning fossil fuels for energy. Overall it is clear that using fossil fuels has the potential to cause great harm to humans, whether it be their health or jobs (Klein). There are many positives to using alternative energy instead of fossil fuels. It does not necessarily need to completely replace fossil fuels, it is possible to use both (50/50). This can allow a slow but smooth transition to alternative energy in cities and even homes. There are many inventions that allow consumers to use alternative energy to do their part in helping the environment. There are commercial solar panels that consumers can install on the roofs of their homes which can completely replace the use of electricity from the grid. These solar panels are environmentally friendly since they do not rely on the electricity from the grid (which is produced by coal being burned to create energy. Although the installation of solar panels is expensive, but in time they eventually pay for themselves, which can save consumers a great deal of money. Another way for individuals to contribute to the environment is by using vehicles that run off electricity. Since they little to no emissions, it can help preserve the environment considerably. Just like solar panels, their initial cost is quite expensive, but over time the cost of electricity versus gasoline will save you money in the long run. On average a typical yearly gasoline bill is $1,400 and an average bill for an electric car is $350, so you save about $1,050 when driving an electric car (Chambers). Whether it be solar panels or electric cars, it is clear that being environmentally friendly will actually save you a great deal of money in the long run. Williams 4 There are many reasons why individuals should care about alternative energy. This form of energy creates little to no pollution which can prevent a volatile environment that can cripple communities, cause health problems, and even cause death. Financial stability and growth is something that appeals to many. When using these environmentally friendly energies they can also help save a large sum of money. Since it is inevitable that there will be a future without fossil fuels, we need to find a form of energy that is renewable while being environmentally friendly. The negative impact done to the environment from fossil fuels is still reversible, we need to act now when we still have time to undo the damage done before it is too late. Individuals who value their health and financial stability should realize how beneficial alternative energies are to them and the environment. Williams 5 Work Cited Alternative  Merriam-Webster, Merriam Webster, www.merriam- webster.com/dictionary/alternative%20energy. Accessed 19 Apr. 2017. Chambers, Nick. How Much Will Driving an Electric Car save You? Experimenting with Flat-Fee Charging  Plugin Cars, Recargo, www.plugincars.com/how-much- will-driving-electric-car-save-you-experimenting-flat-fee-charging-rates- 53613.html.Accessed 22 Apr. 2017. Fossil  Science Daily, Accessed 20 Apr. 2017. Klein, Christopher. The Killer Fog That Blanketed  History, A&E Television Networks, 6 Dec.2012, www.history.com/news/the-killer-fog-that-blanketed- london-60-years-ago. Accessed 22 Apr.2017. Haynie, Devon. The Clear Thing about  U.S. News, U.S. News/World Report L.P., 13 Jan.2017, www.usnews.com/news/best-countries/articles/2017-01-13/ the-health-effects-of-beijings-smog. Accessed 22 Apr. 2017. How Biofuel Is  New York State, www.dec.ny.gov/energy/44157.html. Accessed 20 Apr. 2017.