Aboderin 1 Cherelle Aboderin ENC 1102 Professor Ryan 9 April 2017 Project 3: Composing Multimodal Arguments About two decades ago, while studying embryos, it was discovered that their cells were pluripotent. This means that, because they had not been differentiated into the various types of body cells, they could be manipulated into becoming any of these cells. This gave rise to the field of stem cell research. Although this has proven to be quite useful, such as in treating disease, a controversy sparked up over the use of embryos for this research. This is because, in order to obtain the stem cells, the embryos have to be destroyed. Thus, after further research was conducted, pluripotent stem cells were found in certain parts of the human body, even after differentiation and development had occurred. Going one step further, a way of changing non-stem cells normal adult somatic cells back to their embryonic, pluripotent states was discovered. As this allows for pluripotent cells to be obtained without having to destroy embryos, it is necessary for awareness to be raised for these induced pluripotent stem cells (iPS cells). However, before awareness can be raised, it is essential that as much accurate information as possible is known about these stem cells. Next, those who must raise awareness must be shown why this matter is of importance to them. Finally, people must be empowered and shown that they have the ability to make a difference, where stem cells are concerned. This is the best way to move this research from its experimental phase to the next level because, the more attention the iPS cells receive, the higher the research budget and funding for it will be, making treatments more readily available to the public. Aboderin 2 With advancements in technology and new scientific discoveries, it has become possible to study and educate people on induced pluripotent stem cells. It was originally believed by most that embryonic stem cells were necessary for stem cell research and that they presented enough benefits to overlook the unethical nature of the research. However, due to the discovery of two new types of stem cells, adult and induced pluripotent, some have changed their stance on the continuation of embryonic stem cell research. When adult stem cells were discovered, scientists realized that there were still some pluripotent cells left in certain parts of matured humans, for example, in bone marrow (Neirinckx, 2). However, the destruction of embryos continued because ES cells were more pluripotent than adult stem cells. Also, adult stem cells were very few in number only a small fraction of the stem cells obtained from embryos and this did nothing to encourage scientists to stop using embryos. Then, in 2006, a Japanese scientist, Dr. Shinya Yamanaka of Kyoto University in Japan, and his team discovered induced pluripotent stem cells. These stem cells were regular somatic, or body, cells that had been manipulated in a way that reverted them back to their embryonic, pluripotent phase. A major point in the favor of these stem cells is that, unlike adult stem cells, their supply is limitless since they can be created from any type of cell Cell This is especially important since most stem cell treatments, such as skin regeneration, require a vast amount of stem cells. Another pro of using cells from the patient is that the likelihood of his or her immune system believing that the cells are pathogens and rejecting them is greatly reduced Cell The immune system usually works by identifying matter that does not have the genetic makeup of the rest of the body. Thus, it is essential that the stem cells injected into the patient are as genetically similar to the own cells as possible. Another reason to raise awareness for the stem cells is that they have a lot of medical benefits. Induced pluripotent stem cells have already shown some interesting signs Aboderin 3 of promise. In 2014, an eighty-year-old woman in Japan underwent a procedure to prevent the loss of her sight After the removal of the damaged retinal tissue, iPS cells, which were developed from the skin cells, were inserted into her eye, where they differentiated into retinal cells Although her sight was not restored to its former state, its deterioration halted Another use of induced pluripotent stem cells, which is currently being investigated, is the manufacturing of life-size, fully functional organs without the use of supporting molds Beating When the process of creating organs with stem cells was first attempted, these molds were required because, during cell growth, cells naturally display anchorage dependence and, thus, grow to cover any basal surface they are placed on. The molds acted as walls and kept the cells growing in certain areas only. The organs are grown without the support of molds, but they are miniscule Beating This means that, they are too small to be used in patients. Hence, scientists are using them to study the effects of various diseases on human organs Beating For example, the microscopic hearts that were created were used to study the effects of a drug used to combat morning sickness and the results showed that the drug, thalidomide, actually causes heart defects in fetuses Beating Hence, iPS cells can be used to study and tailor the treatment for various diseases, even on a genetic level. Also, iPS cells have proven useful, as they have made it possible to obtain cells, which could not originally be cultivated from living specimens (Chi, 67). There are certain somatic cells that cannot easily be obtained when the person is still alive. For example, it s much easier to obtain skin cells than brain cells. Thus, iPS cells make it unnecessary to obtain brain cells as the skin cells can be manipulated into becoming them. Despite these groundbreaking achievements, a lot of attention is still given solely to embryonic stem cells in the field of stem cell research. Aboderin 4 If iPS cells are to receive the attention deserving of a Nobel-Prize-worthy discovery, graduate students on the path to becoming stem cell scientists need to act now. A college education at the graduate level is rather costly, so it would be beneficial for graduate students to not squander their money on the science of the past. By focusing on induced pluripotent stem cells and studying them now, graduate students have scientists who are already in the field at an advantage. Unlike those scientists, graduate student would not have to relearn what they thought they knew to be the truth; that embryonic stem cells were the only stem cells capable of performing all the functions required in stem cell research and therapy. This advantage is important as it could counteract the advantage of experience that scientists have over graduate students. As aspiring stem cell scientists, graduate students would want future generations to have access to the best that medical research has to offer. Induced pluripotent stem cells are the best type of stem cells; they are better than both embryonic and adult stem cells because they have the pluripotent nature of the embryonic stem cells but can be obtained from mature individuals, like adult stem cells. They have the added bonus of being created from somatic cells, which are far more abundant in the body. For graduate students to gain possession of this advantage, they need to let their voices be heard by raising awareness for induced pluripotent stem cells. By simply talking to their peers about induced pluripotent stem cells they are moving stem cell research closer to the future that lies hidden in these cells. Should these students wish to move forward in their field, they can persuade their professors and faculty to change the syllabus to focus more on induced pluripotent stem cells rather than embryonic stem cells. The once valid points made in support of the destruction of embryos for scientific gain have become obsolete. Thus, there is no reason for more attention to be given to embryonic stem cells because, all factors considered, iPS cells are the better option. Science-related fields are dynamic, as new discoveries are constantly being made. The syllabus needs to be flexible to accommodate Aboderin 5 these inevitable changes. As more attention is given to induced pluripotent stem cells, more avenues for funding could open up for research. With an increase in the budget for researching these stem cells, more improvements can be made to the techniques used in administering treatments with them. This will, in turn, increase the success rate of experimental trials where the iPS cells are used to treat various ailments ranging from spinal cord injuries to cardiomyopathy, a disease in cardiac muscles. These treatments can then become sanctioned and available to patients worldwide, leading the way to a healthier future for the human race. Aboderin 6 Works Cited Chi, Kelly R. Human Stem  Scientist, vol. 30, no. 9, Sept. 2016, pp. 67- 70. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db =gft&AN=117415598&site=eds-live. Coghlan, Andy. Stem Cells Create Tiny Beating  New Scientist, vol. 227, no. 3030, 18 July 2015, p. 17. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db =a2h&AN=108379295&site=eds-live. Coghlan, Andy. Stem Cells Save  New Scientist, vol. 233, no. 3118, 25 Mar. 2017, p. 14. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db =gft&AN=121988793&site=eds-live. Neirinckx, Virginie, et al. Adult Bone Marrow Mesenchymal and Neural Crest Stem Cells Are Chemoattractive and Accelerate Motor Recovery in a Mouse Model of Spinal Cord  Stem Cell Research & Therapy, vol. 6, 04 Nov. 2015, p. 1. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db =edb&AN=110779206&site=eds-live. Cell College Students for Life of America, 8 July 2014, college.studentsforlife.org/stem-cell-research/. Accessed 9 Apr. 2017.