Fields 1 Serene Fields William Drugan ENC 1101 19 April 2017 Project 3 Intermediate Draft The United States has flourished for centuries through its encouragement of multi- culturalism and diversity. Part of the reason this country has been so successful in keeping up with the identity of a cohesive is due to the various cultures and values that it integrates within our society. Continuously expanding through aspects food, music, dance and literature, the arts have played a valuable role in this generation and that role should not be taken for granted. by Congress in 1965, the National Endowment for the Arts is an independent federal agency whose funding and support gives Americans the opportunity to participate in the arts, exercise their imaginations, and develop their creative Not only should fellow citizens take advantage of these opportunities to preserve its positive influence but also do their part through research to discover other means of sustaining its existence. The NEA is one piece of the federal government that understands the immense amount of power the arts hold in our society and they work together tirelessly to ensure that its influence may be appreciated across the globe. Despite their best efforts, the FY 2018 budget blueprint suggests the complete elimination of this agency and its resources. If one were to identify the amount of disastrous consequences that would surface if we (as a nation) were to let that happen, then not only would our freedom of speech and expression be on the line, but our chances for economic-growth and an increasing capacity to learn would be put to the most challenging of tests. Fields 2 Though some could claim that private funding could be the primary means of support for the arts, this is a common misconception. The Endowments role is to guarantee that all citizens have direct access to the arts despite their, background, heritage, and economic status. In order to ensure that there is an equitable distribution of funds across the country the money must be matched with additional resources and public funding provides that. If one were to break down the balance of funding that the NEA provides yearly, nearly percent of NEA grants go to small and medium-sized organizations, which tend to support projects that benefit audiences that otherwise might not have access to arts programming. 40 percent of NEA- supported activities take place in high-poverty neighborhoods. 36 percent of NEA grants go to organizations that reach underserved populations such as people with disabilities, people in institutions, and veterans. More than half of NEA-funded art events take place in locations where the median household income is less than From this use of extensive budgeting and expansion, not only do all 435 congressional districts benefit from this system but in this effective attempt to build upon a stable foundation of resources, these communities are given the opportunity to grow and thrive through the arts. Keeping this in mind, though there are more than enough artists and organizations receiving these benefits, each community member helps make the difference by stepping up and doing their part. Whether donating privately or sponsoring full projects spreading awareness is the key to allowing the NEA to continue to thrive. Though the NEA has the statutory authority to receive donations, this money cannot be used to supplement grantmaking or to advocate for the agency both directly or indirectly. NEA research shows that arts education is key to creating the next generation of arts participants. Arts education and arts exposure in youth are the two biggest predictors of arts participation in adulthood, much more so than other factors such as Fields 3 education level, urban/rural location, gender, or (NEA Big Read) Ultimately, this suggests that there are various forms of investments that the American population can take the time to research and become knowledgeable if one wanted to actively participate in its safeguarding creativity and expression for the future. Apart from the communication of political professionals with congress and the multimedia information provided on the National Endowment for the Arts website (arts.gov), a few ways one could seek to get involved in everyday advocacy, would be to discover ways to see the amount of influence the arts have on our society first hand. Following them on social media and posting about the artistry events happening in your community would be the most efficient way to have a constant stream of information and involvement at your fingertips. A chairman or board member may be visiting a neighborhood near you to readily address the concerns of our artists in town meetings and campus-based events. Also, giving signage and credibility to the NEA for the events that are hosted and funded by the NAE would also be effective in the fact that it spreads awareness on how much the agency truly contributes to the local theaters and small businesses that these communities are composed of. Over and a half citizens participate in the arts or are financially sustained through the amount of jobs that the arts provide in work force. partnerships with state arts agencies, local leaders, other federal the NEA supports arts learning, affirms, and celebrates rich and diverse cultural heritage, and extends its work to promote equal access to the arts in every community across The NEA believes that art is important and it is imperative that we all are on board with these standards for artists and those who provide the beauty we see in creativity. Both on media-television and in the streets, we cross every day, whether it is subliminal throughout our homes, or the hearts of people who surround Fields 4 us- there is always an explanation of how the arts have made a difference in some way or another. and that is something that should be acknowledged in its entirety. Fields 5 Works Cited FAQs on FY 2018  Frequently Asked Questions (2017). Arts.gov. National Endowment for the Arts. Web. 20 Apr. 2017. National Endowment for the  About Us. N.p., n.d. Web. 20 Apr. 2017. NEA Big  NEA Big Read. Web. 20 Apr. 2017.