Diess 1 Carly Diess Prof. Drugan English Comp 2 17 April, 2017 Intermediate Draft Animal Testing in Cosmetics: An Underappreciated Issue year, millions of animals are poisoned and killed in barbaric and outdated tests that attempt to evaluate the hazards of consumer products and their (PETA). Huge manufacturers, including SC Johnson, and CoverGirl are driven by a fear of lawsuits, but continue to poison, burn, and blind animals by the tests. To measure the effects of each cosmetic, rabbits, rats, monkeys, and many other animals are forced to have chemicals rubbed on their skin, have their eyes clamped open while scientists drip substances in them, or have to inhale huge amounts of the tested material. Most of the time, the outcome is extremely revolting and the test subject is either harmed or killed. Animal testing in cosmetics and household products is inhumane and cruel because not only is it extremely harmful, it is also expensive, and can be banned simply like it is in some countries. Cosmetics have recently taken a whole new role in dermatology because of all the current skin disorders that are evolving. The array of techniques that are available to help skin responsively brought a new era in cosmetics and dermocosmetic based understanding of skin physiology and its responses to environmental insults (Dreno, 2014). More and more people are starting to use more skin products without looking at the label to see how it is tested. Since testing on animals nearly accurate, humans can get severely injured from some products. ingredient in a facial lotion, especially if it is lipophilic, might move through the upper layer Diess 2 of skin, travel through the bloodstream, heart, and lungs, and eventually reach the (Mone, 2014). Both humans and animals are getting injured because of this issue when there are other ways goods can be tested. Every year millions of animals die or get severely injured from humans testing products on them that most likely safe. When scientists test cosmetics on innocent animals they stick needles in their mouths, eyes, and bodies. As soon as it is injured, the animal is not useful anymore, therefore they are killed. The tests that are applied to eyes to determine toxicity usually causes blindness and/or death (Zuckermar, 2015). Scientists buy animals such as rabbits, rats, or even guinea pigs in mass amounts, then they apply the makeup, shampoo, soap, hair spray, and other products which can harm, blind, or kill the animals. Next, they check to see if any of them get skin irritancy or eye tissue damage. If the animals do have those problems, they send the product back to the company and they try to make it differently. Although animals are severely tested on to keep humans safe, nervous systems are different from humans and can have different reactions. Generally, when products are tested on animals, humans with skin diseases end up getting rashes or inflammatory skin diseases (Dreno, 2014). If the tests can potentially injure humans, then why even bother killing innocent animals. Scientists should stop because the animals deserve to suffer especially if a high chance of these tests being indefinite. There are many alternatives companies can use so they have to injure or kill innocent animals. Contrary to popular belief, there are alternatives that are more accurate than animal testing because animals and humans have completely different genes. research suggests that protozoa may be a key to developing cruelty-free makeup because cheap and abundant Diess 3 and has enough genes in common with humans to make them good trial (Zuckermar, 2015). Many non-animal testing organizations go with the three rule. This rule is, replace the use of animals in scientific procedures with non-animal alternatives, reduce the number of animals used in any animal-testing procedure, and refine procedures so that animals experience less pain, suffering, or discomfort. companies have been using computational tools to evaluate toxicity for years and these methods look at the structure of the chemical compound, run it up against a database of chemicals, and search for substances with similar chemical (Mone, 2014). Since there are many different alternatives that are more accurate and are harm-free, animal testing should be banned worldwide. Not only is animal testing in cosmetics harmful, it also is extremely expensive. It costs the American Public over $136 billion annually. Taxpayers are putting money into animal testing in cosmetics and household products. tests take too long and are too expensive, they say, often requiring several years and millions of dollars or more to carry (New Models in Cosmetics Replacing Animal Testing, 2014). Even though we are spending money on animal testing to save more humans lives, some companies including Avon, The Body Shop, and Mary Kay are spending less money by testing their products without animals. They are making more of a profit because they are selling more than they are spending. The companies that use alternatives replace animal abuse as well as limiting costs and make the testing time shorter (Piersma, et all, 2014). Why is the American Public spending billions of dollars on products that kill animals and are potentially dangerous for humans if there are alternatives? Many countries already banned animal testing on all cosmetic products manufactured. Products that are produced in other parts of the world that are tested on animals are not allowed Diess 4 in Europe. Many believe that this was a major step because animals were suffering and there are many alternatives that can prevent this. PETA, which stands for People of the Ethical Treatment of Animals, accepts donations to save many animals lives and to ban animal testing for worldwide. The next country to ban animal testing could be America, along with many more countries to make it illegal everywhere and shut these companies down for good. What needs to be done is, customers of businesses that test on animals need to stop buying their products or protest. By doing either of these options, companies will be forced to declare bankruptcy and shut down, or cooperate and find a better alternative. This process is very simple and will save many animals and humans lives. Picture a world where no one has to worry about getting an infection from their makeup or hurting animals in the process of creating cosmetics. combination of powerful models and robust lab tests, though, will reduce that risk to safe (Mone, 2014). By using different molecules to test products, it is safer for humans to use because testing on animals always accurate. Testing on animals is dangerous to not only them, but also to us, it also costs millions of dollars, and there are many alternatives to this issue. People nowadays stopped looking at the labels to products even though it can harm them which is becoming a huge issue in todays world. Animal testing in cosmetics and household products is both inhumane and revolting since it can harm or even kill them. The government and taxpayers should not be paying billions of dollars to murder animals with chemicals. Over the years, manufacturers have created many different alternatives that involve injuring or killing anything. Some countries already started using different ways to test products, so why this happen worldwide? Humans should stand up to pro animal testing companies by boycotting their products and it can save many lives. If Diess 5 scientists are okay with taking an innocent animals life, they deserve the right to make products and sell them for a profit. Diess 6 Works Cited Product Testing: Toxic and  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 11 Apr. 2017. Dreno, B., Araviiskaia, E., Berardesca, E., Bieber, T., Hawk, J., Sanchez Viera, M., & Wolkenstein, P. (2014, November). The science of dermocosmetics and its role in dermatology. Journal of the European Academy of Dermatology & Venereology, 28(11), 1409-1417. doi: 10.1111/jdv.12497 Mone, Gregory. New Models in Cosmetics Replacing Animal  ACM. N.p., 01 Apr. 2014. Web. 28 Feb. 2017. Zuckermar, C. (2015, July). Easy on the eyes. National Geographic, 228(1), 30. Retrieved from Academic Search Complete database (103413553). Piersma, A. H., Ezendam, J., Luijten, M., van der Ven, L. T. M., van Benthem, J., J.J., A., & Rorije, E. (2014, November). A critical appraisal of the process of regulatory implementation of novel in vivo and in vitro methods from chemical hazard and risk assessment. Critical Reviews in Toxicology, 44(10), 876-894. doi: 10.3109/10408444.2014.940445