Rogers 1 Quinton Rogers Professor Drugan ENC 1102 04/19/2017 Free Health Care? In recent years one of the most controversial topics that has constantly been brought up is that of health care in the United States. Back in 2010, the Affordable Care Act, usually called Obamacare, was drafted up and passed while President Obama was still in office. The passing of the bill spewed all types of disagreements among members of the Democratic and Republic parties, it even caused many citizens to speak out against it. What seems to be the main problem for identifiers of the Republican Party is the fact that it is The problem for many citizens is that the ever since the bill was passed, health care has become too expensive for some citizens. With all of the challenges that has been products of installing the ACA, came multiple cases of the Republic party have spoken out against the bill. One goal for the specific party has been to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act with a more suitable health care plan. In current times, the Republican Party took it one step further after Donald Trump was elected president. The party followed through with their plans to repeal replace the ACA by sending their health care to congress back in March. Even though the Republic Party pointed out many problems with the ACA they failed to capitalize; the bill, noted as was disapproved and denied the opportunity to become the new health Last Name 2 care law of the nation. With all of the friction caused between the parties and between the government and citizens, one would think no way to solve this issue. But, there is a way everyone could become satisfied and that way would make health care for the population. Free health care in the U.S would reach the goal of having a true universal health care problem and would end disputes. Statistics show that the spending on health care is expected to increase quite a bit within the next eight years from its current position. Just as an idea of where it is heading; according to the author of Issue Brief: Health Care, are projected to rise to 25 percent of GDP in 2025. This amount was 48 percent higher than in the next highest spending country Back in 2010 almost 50 million people were living without health care. The majority of people living with health care receive it through their employers which ended up being a problem. Many companies that once were health care providers ended up cutting health care due to how expensive it was becoming. This action by companies cause controversy, because without this option to receive health care many families do not have it because too expensive or unavailable. Also, with the new bill a tax was put in place to serve as a penalty to those individuals who chose not to pick up a health care plan. This is where the unconstitutional argument comes into play. With the this tax being in place for citizens it basically forces the population to either buy a plan or face a penalty, which goes against the constitution (gives the government too much power). The audience of this essay should be intrigued by the information presented for various reasons. The health care topic has affected groups of all ages significantly over the past seven years have been affected by the ACA. For young adults, ages 18-27, the Last Name 3 most notable areas the ACA impacted was the cost aspect. After the ACA went into full effect. For young adults the out of pocket cost for health care was the same no matter if they were insured or uninsured. Specifically for 27 year olds insurance premiums more than doubled over the course of a year (2013-2014). The ACA also affects senior citizens in major ways. According to Robert Morfitt, that 25 percent of Medicare providers could face profit margins by 2030 and 40 percent could face negative profit margins by many Medicare providers would not be able to sustain such losses and would have to withdraw from the Six of the Affordable Care Act: Mounting Problems). Another affect for the elderly is that Medicaid does not reimburse money for services such as personal care, which many older people utilize once they get to a certain age. A direct hit for all ages is the fact that money spent on multiple prescriptions is not reimbursed by Medicare. But, despite all of the knocks against Obamacare, there is some positive light to shed. For all age groups the percentage of uninsured Americans have steadily dropped. Making health care free would be the savior for the nation and end the riff between the two political parties. If health care was to be made free for all it would encourage more families to get a health care plan because then the cost of having health care will no longer be a worry. Also the health care policy be deemed as since the tax set for it be needed. Having free universal health care something that is unattainable, there are plenty of countries that have universal health care including: Germany, The United Kingdom, and France; in fact the U.S is one of the few developed countries that do not have a universal health care policy in place. In order for a new (free) health care plan we must join together and take Last Name 4 action. If we all took the information shared plus more and spread it among each other and hopefully those who are unaware could possibly lead to a change. Spreading awareness is the first step towards getting a free/universal health care policy. All it takes is a simple 5-10 minute conversation with valuable information including to help the next person. Next time you are out, take action and spread the word of the current health care issue and what it could be like with free health care in place for the nation. Last Name 5 Works Cited -Moffit, Ph.D. Robert E. Year Six of the Affordable Care Act: Mounting  The Heritage Foundation. N.p., 01 Apr. 2016. Web. 12 Apr. 2017. -Bennette, Jill A., and Marna K. Flaherty-Robb. Issues Affecting the Health of Older Citizens: Meeting the  Http://www.nursingworld.org. N.p., 03 May 2013. Web. 19 Apr. 2017. -Oberlander, Jonathann. The Future of  Http://www.nejm.org. N.p., 6 Dec. 2012. Web. 19 Feb. 2017 -bMiller, Jake. Issue Brief: Health . Cbsnews.com. N.p., 2017. Web. 30 Jan. 2017.