Patel 1 Krishna Patel Professor Ryan ENC 1102 14 April 2017 Composing Multimodal Arguments The word beauty is so simple yet it has so many meanings attached to it. Over the years, society has given it a new meaning as trends and in turn, perspectives, have been altered. Before makeup or photoshop was even invented, everyone was considered beautiful in their own way. However, with an increase in technology and new ways to make models look slim and society is learning to follow instead of lead. Trends are created by the audience of media portraying women way they are supposed to Popular magazines such as Vogue and Glamour, advertisements on billboards on the side of the road, and reality T.V. shows such as Next Top Model portray women with skinny, long legs with an hourglass- shaped and a face full of makeup with a message saying 20 pounds in two giving a whole new meaning to beauty and presenting it to the female of society. Exposing more and more of this through everyday sources of media can not only deteriorate the mental health of a woman with low body and self-esteem, but it could also affect her physical health. Society should focus more on how to maintain a healthy body rather than a skinny, underweight body and give it the of beauty. The goal is to change perspective on different body types, including their own, and accept all types equally through social campaigns, portrayal of media, and knowledge about the ongoing issue. With fashion trends being to less cloth and more skin exposure, females are being tempted to lose weight in order to look like the ideal model wearing these trendy clothes. Patel 2 Body and self-esteem is a major issue among women of all ages, especially in this time period. This desperation is making the female embodiment starve themselves to the point of developing eating disorders such as anorexia and bulimia, causing an effect on their mental health. According to the article, image in patients with mental disorders: Characteristics, associations with diagnosis and treatment researchers studied a group of patients with different psychological disorders such as post-traumatic stress disorder, eating disorders and sexuality and their association with body acceptance. After a brief survey/ questionnaire, the results came out to be the group of patients with eating disorders having the lowest body acceptance rate (Scheffers et al.). The main cause of eating disorders is the feeling of body shape not looking good enough in comparison to models portrayed in media. In reality, these models are just like any regular female and they should not be the reason behind a broken body. Therefore, as a strong community of women, the goal is to reduce any type of mental disorder or negativity that is getting in the way of happiness and lifestyle by spreading positive thoughts in return. Overall physical and mental health are necessities that need to be promoted throughout the community. Because of physical health, in this case body shape, mental health in turn can be affected. For example, teenagers are going through depression so early in their lives as in and making friends has become such a task just because of how they look. In the article, Association Between Body Dissatisfaction and Depression: An Examination of the Moderating Effects of Gender, Age, and Weight Status in a Sample of Chinese researchers found a association between depression and body dissatisfaction among all weight groups of adolescents. With depression rates increasing along with low body so are suicidal rates (Gui et al.). The main target of this issue are teenagers - the children of millions of parents. People are slowly tearing them apart by making Patel 3 them believe they do not belong to society if they have a thigh gap or are not a size zero. The main goal as a community should be to work together in unison to make one another feel accepted and be able to either through teaching one another about tolerance and how to accept oneself, or equity and how to accept one another without judgment and false expectations. With new trends being introduced, judgment and expectations are continuing to increase. These expectations may be to help one another or tear each other down. In era, it goes both ways as the fashion industry along with other multimedia industries are drastically growing, however, there has been a shocking change in fashion: the introduction of plus sizes in retail clothing stores. The main motive is to eventually spread this trend to all stores and advertise more of it in order to convey the message that all body shapes and sizes deserve to be shown off in new, fashionable clothes. Taking part in campaigns, support groups, and health and programs are also solutions to this major issue of negative body image. A perfect body may be important to some, but maintaining health is a priority. It should be taken care of before anything else no matter what people think. That is why The Dove Self- Esteem Project has created a movement throughout the globe for the purpose of educating females about self-esteem and body including the maintenance of health (Becker et al.). As a community full of humanity and education, our goal is to empower the nation through kindness, belongingness, and love for one another along with helping each other overcome obstacles. By properly raising awareness and thoroughly cooperating with one another, the goal of achieving body satisfaction can be accomplished among all women throughout the world. generation has a a lot to offer; with technological advances, health and resources can be applied at very home. Support groups and health classes are now being Patel 4 offered in schools across the globe at no cost along with healthier food choices. With retail clothing stores offering a plus-sized clothing section, more and more stores designed for this size are gradually opening. Many advances concerned with this issue are becoming effective, however, there is not enough to completely deplete these rates of suicide, depression, and eating disorders just yet. Increased involvement within the female community and the spread of awareness is the main source of empowerment of keeping a positive body image and is up to the people to make a difference because after all, human body is the best picture of the human - Ludwig Wittgenstein (BrainyQuote.com). Patel 5 Work Cited Becker, Carolyn Black, et al. Stakeholder Communities as Body Image Intervention Partners: The Body Project as a Case Eating Behaviors, 2016, doi:10.1016/ j.eatbeh.2016.03.015. Chen, Gui, et al. Association Between Body Dissatisfaction and Depression: An Examination of the Moderating Effects of Gender, Age, and Weight Status in a Sample of Chinese Journal of Psychologists and Counsellors in Schools, vol. 25, no. 02, 2015, pp. doi:10.1017/jgc.2015.6. Wittgenstein BrainyQuote, Xplore, www.brainyquote.com/quotes/quotes/l/ ludwigwitt139240.html. Accessed 30 Apr. 2017. Scheffers, Mia, et al. Image in Patients with Mental Disorders: Characteristics, Associations with Diagnosis and Treatment Comprehensive Psychiatry, vol. 74, 2017, pp. doi:10.1016/j.comppsych.2017.01.004.