Shabbir 1 Moiz Shabbir William Sayers Drugan Composition II 16 April 2017 Project 3 intermediate Euthanasia: Death with Dignity Euthanasia, one word associated with the end of life debate. It refers to the practice of ending the life of the patient, who is very sick or injured to prevent any more suffering. The word euthanasia comes from a Greek word that can be translated as (Katherine B, Leslie V, Tischauser 59). The idea of euthanasia was first presented in1623 by Francis Bacon. He proclaimed that the mission of medicine is not only to restore health but also to sweeten the pain and suffering caused by disease and could for the sick patient when there is no hope, a sweet, quiet death (Roberts and Martha Gorman 281). The motive of euthanasia is to relieve comatoseness, physical suffering, anxiety or a serious sense of burdensomeness to self and others. Euthanasia is not murder; it is performed under certain extreme condition only after the consent of the patient or legal guardian is taken. Euthanasia is ending a life prematurely to end pain and suffering, whereas, murder is killing someone with intentions to harm another. Euthanasia means different things to different people. There is a lot of controversy surrounding the issue of euthanasia, whether it should be legal or not. The American law categorizes mercy killing as a criminal homicide. The practice of euthanasia is not an issue that can be easily settled. Therefore, this paper explores the argument that euthanasia should be legalized but only under certain circumstances. It also challenges the ultimate laws, that do not allow the terminal Shabbir 2 ill patients the right to choose to end their life and give relevant points to support the legalization of euthanasia. For some terminally ill patients, life is so painful that it is not worth living. Euthanasia is an option to end their suffering and have a peaceful death. Euthanasia may be classified into three different ways of giving consent: voluntary, non-voluntary, and involuntary. These types of euthanasia raise significantly different issues, so it is important to distinguish them carefully. Voluntary euthanasia is conducted with the conscious consent of the patient, while non-voluntary and involuntary euthanasia cases includes individuals who are incapable of giving consent or, conducted against the will of the patient. The strongest argument for voluntary euthanasia is based on respect for individual autonomy. The argument claim that every person has the right to shape their end of life plan and that must include the certain circumstances of pain or disability (Gray and Grey 20). Netherland is the only country that has established suitable legal and medical policies to practice euthanasia called Termination of Life on Request and Assisted Suicide Act. Under this Act, physicians who perform an act of euthanasia or assist in the suicide of patient are not punishable under the law if they followed specific guidelines (Barbuzzi 17). Through this system, all the patients, willing to practice euthanasia are examined by at least two medical experts, and legal and ethical experts analyze each case afterwards. This act ensures the autonomy of the patient form ethical breaches (Barbuzzi 18). Therefore, it is important to study the case of the patient for authorization of consent and follow the legality of euthanasia, and avoid the argument through the following ruling of the euthanasia laws. Legalizing euthanasia also arose different debatable issue, which resist the government to implement law in favor for euthanasia. According to John Keown, the case for legalizing Shabbir 3 voluntary euthanasia is undermined by two kinds of slippery slope argument, which he calls empirical and logical, respectively According to empirical slippery slope arguments, there is good evidence to believe that the legalization of morally permissible acts of euthanasia would in fact lead to the performance of morally impermissible acts of euthanasia. In particular, the practice of voluntary euthanasia would lead to the practice of non- voluntary and involuntary euthanasia (Lillehammar 545). Euthanasia is entirely a matter of the judgment that death would benefit the patient. Non-voluntary and involuntary euthanasia are sometime considered as killing a person because it involve the informed consent. There are multiple reasons of legalizing euthanasia everywhere, such are, it saves the life of patient in the way that it prevents the suffering of unbearable and incurable pain and allow the patient to die with dignity. It improves the quality of life and it makes economic sense, that it is better to spend the cost on curable patient than to undergo expensive treatments for terminal sicknesses that has no cure. Non-voluntary euthanasia also has a strong argument for its defendant. Some patients are incapable of giving consent, still suffering from pain and living life on support machine. It is appropriate to take consent from their very close ones under the will. In 1983, California had a case of barber versus Supreme Court, two physicians had honored a family request to withdraw respiratory, feeding tubes and dehydration tubes from the patient. The physicians were charged with murder, despite the fact, they were doing what the family wanted. Later, the court withheld the charges because the court realized that the treatment had been ineffective (Steven 1). Hence, the patient should have the right to make final choice for his life and there should not be complete legalization of non-voluntary euthanasia. Shabbir 4 The major drawback, the patients faced to practice euthanasia is the legislation and law. In the United States of America, only five states out of forty-two states have given the rights to the patients to plan for the end of the life. The government failed to sense the actual pain of the terminal ill patient and categorize this activity as criminal homicide. As a human being, we should understand the restraints of the patient and their respective families. We should raise a voice for euthanasia and convey the support and message to the government to act for it. The government should realize that people have a right to choose to live or die. let someone suffer it they have no way out. We should contribute ourselves to support the campaign through internet and social involvement for the legalization of euthanasia. Instead of spending millions of dollars for the treatment of terminal disease, the government should spend it on poor and needy people, children die due to starvation, who have sufficient money to eat, who have cloths to wear and who have funds for education of their children. Many countries already legalized the practice of euthanasia under certain circumstances. Netherland is the only country that allow both active and passive euthanasia under the law passed in 2002. This paper concludes that, if a quality of life is poor due to extreme pain, and she has no hope for improvement of health, then she has the right to die. It also gives some information about the types and credibility of euthanasia. Thus, limiting the euthanasia law will resolve the argument that are put up by the people who are against it as they will not be able to misuse the euthanasia law anymore. Moreover, and perspective is also very important while making decision about euthanasia. As they are the ones who are going to practice it on the ill patients. Shabbir 5 Work Cited Barbuzzi, Miranda. Who Owns the Right to Die? An Argument about the Legal Status of Euthanasia and Assisted Suicide in  Penn Bioethics Journal, vol. 10, no. 1, Apr. 2014, pp. 16-20. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=a2 h&AN=99017902&site=eds-live Frederich, Katherine B., PhD and Leslie V., PhD Tischauser.  Medical Guide (Online Edition), January. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=er s&AN=89093401&site=eds-live. Gray, William and William Grey. Right to Die or Duty to Live? The Problem of  Journal of Applied Philosophy, vol. 16, no. 1, Apr. 1999, p. 19. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx ?direct=true&db=hus&AN=4374092&site=eds-live Lillehammer, Hallvard. Voluntary Euthanasia and the Logical Slippery Slope  The Cambridge Law Journal, no. 3, 2002, p. 545. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ed sjsr&AN=edsjsr.4508931&site=eds-live. Post, Steven (1 January 1999). Euthanasia and Sustaining . Bioethics for Students: How Do We Know Right?. 1. Retrieved 31 March 2013 Shabbir 6 Roberts, Carolyn S. and Martha Gorman. Euthanasia : A Reference Handbook. Santa Barbara, Calif. : ABC-CLIO, c1996., 1996. Contemporary world issues. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=c at00847a&AN=usflc.023016211&site=eds-live.