Zapata 1 Melanie Zapata Professor Ryan ENC 1101.57 29 April, 2017 Animal Abuse in Factory Farms: How Public Awareness Can Reduce the Unethical Treatment of Livestock Most of the meat, eggs, poultry, and dairy found on the shelves of supermarkets come from megalithic factory farms that produce a cheap plentiful supply of food, at the cost of animal suffering and human health. These farms can each house hundreds of thousands of animals, usually in confined, dark, and unsanitary conditions. While documentation regarding the atrocious conditions animals endure on these farms is readily available, the public still remains relatively unaware of the scope of the abuse. While the public may remain unaware, this is not to say that they do not care. A recent survey showed that 95% of participants were very concerned about the welfare of farm animals (Lempert, 1). This disparity between consumers who care about animal welfare and the continuation of factory farming is due to a combination of public ignorance and deceptive campaigns by factory farming companies to rebrand their products with misleading titles such as cage free, or free range. In order to prevent future abuse, there needs to be an increase in public education about the effects of factory farming, the ways meat and dairy distributors mislead consumers, and choosing alternatives to meat produced by these facilities. Factory farms have long been known to be environmentally harmful due to the large amount of waste they produce as well as the amount of resources it takes to keep them running. Zapata 2 A farm with 800,000 pigs will produce 1.6 million ton of waste in one year, this is more waste than the entire city of Philadelphia produces in the same amount of time (Hribar 2). This waste often is never removed from the farm and contaminates local ecosystems. Much of the damage that this causes is irreversible and makes factory farming unsustainable in the long run. Not only do factory farms damage the environment by leaching animal waste, but they also have a negative ecological impact due to agricultural practices needed to produce the vast quantities of food necessary to feed these animals. The two main crops subsidized by the US government to make them cheap for feed are corn and soybeans (Industrial Livestock Production). The production of these two staple crops requires the use of chemical pesticides and fertilizers to ensure a good yield. The runoff water containing these chemicals pollutes local lakes and rivers leading to algae blooms, which kill local populations of fish and underwater invertebrates. If these crops were diverted and instead used to feed people instead of livestock, experts estimate that an additional 4 billion people worldwide could be fed (Cassidy et al. 13). As the public has become more aware of the animal and environmental abuse of factory farms the distributors of their products have taken measures to improve this sullied image. Their most common way to avoid the negative press associated with their practices is to label meat and eggs as cage free, or free range. While these labels make the product more appealing to consumers, often times they are so vaguely defined that factory farms are still abusing these animals. An example of this misleading rebranding is chicken meat labelled as free range. Most often this meat comes from farms in which the chickens are held in densely packed warehouses where they are free to move around, but conditions are still poor and the increase in animal welfare is minimal The Meat To ). This is not to say that there are no effective rating or labeling systems to communicate to customers how the meat they are purchasing was handled. Zapata 3 The gold standard rating system used in the chicken industry is an example of how a comprehensive analysis of living conditions and handling can be conveyed to the public in a simple and easy to digest manner (Lempert 1). As detailed in this paper factory farming has a profoundly negative effect on the welfare of farm animals. The consequences of this practice are not just limited to the wellbeing of livestock and the environment but the health of the human consumer as well. In order to keep animals alive in such poor and unnatural factory farm conditions they are given routine doses of antibiotics as well as hormones to increase their rate of growth. These chemicals are then stored in their tissues and consumed by people even after the meat is cooked. In addition to the tainting of the meat by antibiotics and hormones there is also the possibility of bacterial or viral contamination. An example of how factory farming conditions lead to the spread of disease is the infamous outbreak of mad cow disease in the 1990s. Due to the cramped and unsanitary conditions of factory farms scrapie, a disease normally found in sheep was spread to a few cows. These few cows alone were not enough to cause an outbreak. Unfortunately due to the factory farming practice of making meat-and-bone meal from cows with the disease, and feeding it to other cows, spread the disease and caused the deaths of hundreds of thousands of people who consumed tainted meat. Not only is factory farmed meat contaminated with unnatural chemicals, but the quality of the meat itself is lower than animals raised in environments with less stress. Several studies have shown that cattle, which were handled without the use of electric cattle prods in less stressful environments, have tenderer and better tasting meat (Grandin). In addition to the taste and texture of the meat, the nutritional contents of sustainably raised livestock are superior to factory farmed animals. Ethically produced meat has lower fat content as well as more essential Zapata 4 omega-3 fatty acids, vitamin E, and beta carotene among other nutritional advantages The Meat to ). With this knowledge, how can one make a difference in preventing factory farm abuse? Fortunately there are lots of measures one can take to avoid contributing to this exploitation. Perhaps the easiest and most effective way an individual can make a difference is to avoid buying and financially supporting products that come from these factories. Instead consuming meat that is labelled as grass feed, pasture raised, and organic should be promoted as these are all regulated labels that can only be branded on meat products that were sustainable produced. While these meats are more expensive than factory raised meat, they are healthier and can be consumed with a cleaner conscious. There are other methods in addition to being more selective when buying meat that can reduce the abuse of livestock. By pressuring local, state, and federal government organizations responsible for consumer safety to more strictly regulate and outlaw the destructive and unethical practices of factory farms, animal welfare can be improved as well as public safety. Public pressure can even convince the companies managing factory farms and distribution to improve animal safety and living standards as this allows them to be paid more for their meat as it is of higher quality and helps companies to avoid the negative stigma associated with animal abuse. In Latin America increases in government legislation mandating better handling of animals has produced an increase in both meat quality and animal quality of life (Costa et al. 223). All in all factory farms have been shown time after time to endanger the safety of animals, humans, and the environment. As detailed in this paper careless and abusive behaviors exhibited by factory farms produce low quality meat that is then passed off as a better product my deceptive product labelling. By educating the public about these facts and choosing Zapata 5 sustainable and ethical alternatives to this outdated and immoral method of producing meat, the abuse of livestock can be drastically reduced and human health can be improved as well. References About  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. N.p., 10 Feb. 2015. Web. 26 Apr. 2017. Cassidy Emily, Paul West, James Gerber, and Johnathon Foley. Redefining Agricultural Yields: From Tonnes to People Nourished per  Environmental Research Letters 8.3 (2013): n. pag. Web. Costa, Mateus J.r. Paranhos Da, Stella M. Huertas, Carmen Gallo, and Osmar A. Dalla Costa. Strategies to Promote Farm Animal Welfare in Latin America and Their Effects on Carcass and Meat Quality  Meat Science 92.3 (2012): 221-226. Web. Grandin, Temple. The Effect of Economics on the Welfare of Cattle, Pigs, Sheep, and  Colorado State University, n.d. Web. 26 Apr. 2017. Industrial Livestock  Sustainable Table. GRACE Communications Foundation, n.d. Web. 25 Apr. 2017. Lempert, Phil. Why Factory Farming What You  Forbes. N.p., 16 June 2015. Web. 26 Apr. 2017. The Meat to  Sustainable Table. GRACE Communications Foundation, n.d. Web. 25 Apr. 2017. Zapata 6 Hribar, Carrie. Concentrated Animal Feeding Operations and Their Impact on Communities. Ed. Mark Schultz. Bowling Green: National Association of Local Boards of Health, 2010. Print.