Schilling 1 Mia Schilling Professor Karen Hanson ENC 1102 15 April 2017 Ending Animal Experimentation time will come when men such as I will look upon the murder of animals as they now look upon the murder of stated a hopeful Leonardo Da Vinci in his early journals. (Jones) Animal experimentation occurs every day in the world around us, but what we fail to see are the effects that it causes to our everyday lives. According to the latest figures from the United States Humane Society, approximately 25 million animals are used for experimentation, research, and education each year. The Humane Society of the United States) Experimenting on animals is meant to further scientific findings for the benefit of human progress; however, that how these experiments always play out. The use of animals for experimentation affects each and every one of us on a daily basis, and it should be brought to an end. With your help, animals can be given a voice that they voice themselves. A director of the National Cancer Institute, Dr, Richard Klausner, states history of cancer research has been a history of curing cancer in the We have cured mice of cancer for decades and it simply work in Truth About Animal Over 12 million animals are used for research each year by European Union researchers. This is the equivalent of 137 animals being forced to suffer in cruel and painful experiments every 10 minutes The sad truth is that animal experimentation is often hidden behind Schilling 2 closed doors, so the outside world cannot see what is occurring. The suffering these animals endure during research is scientifically unsound and morally ECEAE) This experimental research is supposedly one of the primary ways by which science advances (Wienclaw), but the whole truth shown by this. When independently reviewed, these animal tests predicted less than 50% of the results found in humans. Truth About Animal A health and human services secretary for the FDA (Food and Drug Administration), Mike Leavitt, has stated that nine out of ten experimental drugs fail in clinical studies because we cannot accurately predict how they will behave in people based on laboratory and animal You Can These results make it unclear why animal experimentation is still being widely supported. Vivisection is defined as the practice of performing operations on live animals for the purpose of experimentation or scientific Mohandas Gandhi, who is known for his nonviolent philosophy and inspired movements for rights and freedom stated, abhor vivisection with my whole soul. All the scientific discoveries stained with innocent blood I count as of no ECEAE) Some believe that animal testing is crucially necessary to further medical science, but this can be misleading if we continue to be about the topic. In March of 2006, six human volunteers were injected with TGN 1412, an experimental therapy created by TeGenero. Within minutes, the human test subjects were writhing on the floor in agony. The tests were conducted on several different species of animals, and they still could not accurately predict how it would affect the human body. The compound was designed to dampen the immune response, but it had supercharged theirs and sent all six people to the hospital. Several of the men suffered permanent organ damage, and one head swelled up so horribly that British tabloids refer to the case Schilling 3 as the man This product (TGN 1412) was tested in mice, rabbits, rats and monkeys with no ill effects, but humans had a different outcome. (Akhtar) Another example occurred in 2003, when Pharmaceuticals had to stop trials of an vaccine that had cured the disease in after the substance caused brain inflammation in humans. (Akhtar) This shows that the testing of animals correlate with the results in humans. The experiments done on these helpless animals are meant to further science, when in reality, despite the animal testing, side effects of prescription drugs are still one of the biggest causes of premature deaths. We In addition to this, misleading animal tests can lead us to throwing away cures. An editorial in Nature Reviews Drug Discovery describes how tamoxifen, one of our most effective drugs against certain types of breast cancer, would have been abandoned for causing liver tumors in rats, a problem that does not carry over to humans. (Akhtar) The leukemia drug Gleevec was also almost lost because it causes severe liver toxicity in dogs, but not in humans. Fortunately, the manufacturers persisted with development of this drug because it seemed so promising in human cell culture tests. Dr. John Pippin, director of academic affairs for the Physicians Committee for Responsible Medicine (Khorrocks), says that is a success of rational drug design and human-based drug testing a life-prolonging success that would have been lost if the results of animal research had (Akhtar) Of every 10,000 potential drugs tested in the lab, only about five pass on to clinical trials. Many pass the animal tests because of species-specific results. (Akhtar) One help but wonder how many people would have been saved if human-based tests took place instead. Along with this, time and money continue to be wasted on Animal Experiments, when it could have been directed into more fruitful human-based tests. On average, it costs a company more than $1 billion to get one new drug to the market. National Institutes of Health alone spends almost half Schilling 4 of its funding (up to 14.5 billion of our tax dollars yearly) on animal experiments. (Akhtar) Former U.S. National Institutes of Health director Dr. Elias Zerhouni admitted that experimenting on animals to help humans has been a major failure. He stated, have moved away from studying human disease in humans. We all drank the Kool-Aid on that one, me included. The problem is that [animal worked, and time we stopped dancing around the problem. We need to refocus and adapt new methodologies for use in humans to understand disease biology in to Animal These facts and statistics show why it is crucial that animal experimentation should be brought to an end. Studies published in prestigious medical journals have shown that animal experimentation wastes lives, both animal and human. Fortunately, new cutting-edge non-animal research methodologies promises a brighter future for both animal and human health. Testing is Bad You can now see how animal experimentation affects us all, but what can we do to change this? First, you can become more informed. No one can assist a cause if they know the information behind it. You can do research on your own to further your knowledge, but you can also reach out to others. PETA (People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals) offers a TeachKind Program, in which you can adopt a classroom and send the teacher a free curriculum kit, along with free lesson plans, posters, stickers, videos, and other resources. For little or no money, you can spread the good news about animal rights. Things You Can Do Today to Help Secondly, you can help spread the word. Social Media has taken over our lives. You can get the information to more people and make a difference by getting the word out there. The more people that know the truth means more people can work together to make a change. If they see the effects on a daily basis, it can be easy to ignore. You can also put up fliers or other sources of advertising to force people to see what is truly Schilling 5 going on. You Can Thirdly, you can be active. You can donate through several organizations, such as PETA, or organize a protest to get the support of others. One donation or one signature may not seem like much, but it can truly make a difference if everyone joins in. You can also help by lobbying your city council or other legislative bodies. No effort is too small as it is our job to speak up for those who speak for themselves. To conclude, animal experimentation has been going on for quite some time, and now it should be brought to an end. The experiments and research done on these defenseless animals are meant to further scientific findings for the benefit of human progress, when it has been proven that this is not the case. The use of animals for experimentation affects each and every one of us on a daily basis, and will continue to affect people in the future if we start making a change. Schilling 6 Works Cited About  The European Coalition to End Animal Experiments, 29 Jan. 2017, http://www.eceae.org/ About The Humane Society of the United States, Web. 29 Jan. 2017, Akhtar, Aysha M.D. The Top 3 Ways Animal Experiments Hurt  The Huffington Post. TheHuffingtonPost.com, 11 Nov. 2013. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. Alternatives to Animal  PETA. Web. 13 Apr. 2017. http://www.peta.org/issues/animals-used-for-experimentation/alternatives-animal- testing/. Animal Testing Is Bad Science:  PETA. Web. 13 Apr. 2017. http://www.peta.org/issues/animals-used-for-experimentation/animal-testing-bad- science/. Eight Things You Can Do Today to Help  PETA. Web. 19 Apr. 2017. http://www.peta.org/living/other/eight-things-can-today-help-animals/. How You Can  PETA. Web. 13 Apr. 2017. http://www.peta.org/about-peta/learn-about- peta/helping-animals-in-hampton-roads/resources-hampton-roads/. Jones, Jonathan. Leonardo da Vinci unleashed: the animal rights activist within the  The Guardian. Guardian News and Media, 30 Nov. 2011. Web. 29 Apr. 2017. Schilling 7 <https://www.theguardian.com/artanddesign/jonathanjonesblog/2011/nov/30/leonardo- da-vinci-animal-rights-activist>. Key  The European Coalition to End Animal Experiments, 29 Jan. 2017, http://www.eceae.org/ Khorrocks. John Pippin, M.D.,  The Physicians Committee. 29 Oct. 2015. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. http://www.pcrm.org/media/experts/bios/john-pippin-md-facc. Mohandas  History.com. A&E Television Networks, 2010. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. http://www.history.com/topics/mahatma-gandhi. The Truth About Animal  The European Coalition to End Animal Experiments, 29 Jan. 2017, http://www.eceae.org/  Google, 29 Jan. 2017. https://www.google.com/webhp?sourceid=chrome- What We  The European Coalition to End Animal Experiments, 29 Jan. 2017, http://www.eceae.org/ What You Can  The European Coalition to End Animal Experiments, 29 Jan. 2017, http://www.eceae.org/ Wienclaw, Ruth A. Experiments  Research Starters: Sociology (Online Edition) (2015): Research Starters. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.