White 1 Zaria White Sarah Basil ENC 1102 13 April 17 Beauty: How will you define it? Since birth, there are always comments being said on how a person looks, whether they are pretty, beautiful, or neither. People in society often strive to accomplish whether that be having the ideal body or just becoming more beautiful in general. But what is beauty truly defined as? In society, we often equate physical beauty to how one looks; being thin and having symmetrical features are some of the aspects you must have to achieve it. However, the images that we are exposed to are often false and have been manipulated to enhance a features or assets. This leads to people resorting to other means necessary to achieve the look. We as a society are responsible for some of the results of these negative beauty standards that have been set, and it is up to us to help redefine the definition of beauty in America. To raise awareness and to help make a difference in the way beauty is seen and portrayed, many USF students can support social media pages, like Fat Activists (FA), that help people struggling with self-esteem and beauty/body related issues, as well as joining, donating and volunteering with many companies such as Dove who holds campaigns and camps. Beauty is an aspect of life that everyone wishes to achieve, but with beauty standards set so high they are often sometimes hard to accomplish. This leads to both women and men having many dissatisfactions with themselves and their bodies. In the year 2013, a study showed that percentage of women in the United States who experienced dissatisfaction with their bodies more than doubled in [the 30 from 23% to 56% since 1972 White 2 Weight-related comments, teasing/bullying, encouragement to diet, and unachievable beauty standards set by society are among the list of factors that lead to this dissatisfaction. With social media and various advertisements being a part of most daily lives, society is always exposed to the standards of beauty, attractiveness, and perfection. However, the standards set by society can be seen as unrealistic and unachievable. With the creation and advances of Photoshop, advertisements and photos are able to have an image of an average person edited to make them (Brown). These images are displayed on billboards, social media, in magazines, and in various other ways saying this is the ideal body or beauty, if you are anything else you are seen as less attractive. Beauty standards are always changing, making them hard to achieve and hence forcing people to resort to unhealthy behaviors that can be detrimental to their life. Today, prevailing cultural standard in the United States equates attractiveness with thinness This thinness is portrayed on television, billboards, in magazines and throughout social media. This being said, analysis of characters on television sitcoms found that 76% of female characters were below average (Balcetis). With T.V being a big part of most lives, we are all exposed to this portrayal of thinness and makes us compare ourselves to those depicted in the media. With thin being the ideal body image, people who are not thin resort to many ways of trying to achieve the image; binge eating, bulimia, anorexia, and psychological problems are the result of these standards. Though some individuals may view themselves as attractive because they fit into the ideal beauty standards, there are people around them every day that may be affected by these same standards. Most people believe that their words or comments will not affect the way a person sees their self, but those words and comments can have a big impact. It is up to us to make a difference and help redefine what White 3 society considers to be the ideal image. Everyone, has at least once in their life, had a comment said to them that really hurts their feelings or self-esteem, comments like these can easily be kept to self and be refrained from being said or written. In college, many people become very conscious of their body image; you often hear people talking about something that someone is wearing or their weight. Even before entrance into college you often hear warnings form people about gaining the freshman 15; creating a very anxious nature about what you eat and how you exercise when you finally get there. If we, as USF students, start to accept everyone for how they look this anxious nature and pressure to look a certain way would not occur as much. Even for those who do fit into the category of being beautiful it is often still hard to be satisfied, for beauty standards are always changing. Perfect body image and beauty is often exposed to everyone of all sizes, ages, races, and genders. These images of beauty and body image usually consist of women who are fair skinned, with light hair, light eyes, slender body build, and all symmetrical features. This exposure may influence young girls dealing with self-esteem issues or body image related problems. An advertisement that was created by self-esteem campaign stated that one in five girls will consider plastic surgery, at least once in their lifetime. When we look at this statistic and you think of all the girls and women in your life, whether that be friends, girlfriends, daughters, nieces, mothers, aunts, grandmothers and so on, you realize that these very women around you can be struggling with these same beauty related issues. It may not affect you, but it can affect those that you care about. Supporting companies and activists groups can be the first step in helping to redefine the image of beauty set by America into a more accepting and diverse one. In both the United States and Canada, women have become involved in the fat acceptance movement, where Fat Activists White 4 (FA), through online discussions of beauty and body image, help women build their confidence in who they are (Afful and Ricciardelli). One of their goals is to help people of the community, to not use the words obese and overweight and see the term fat as a positive rather than a negative. This has resulted in many people to become happier with who they are and feel more confident in themselves. We can help by supporting those who are of the fat community, by not bringing them down and saying negative comments, but by supporting them and if they want to make the change for themselves and not society then so be it. If we do not comment mean or negative things on profiles or photos, we can start to help reshape how America views beauty. On the other hand, companies like Dove have set up campaigns in order to help women overcome their low self-esteem and see themselves as the beautiful person they truly are. These campaigns incorporate the use of real models of all sizes, shapes, and ethnicities into their advertisements, allowing for women and young girls to see these women who are beautiful but not the typical version of beauty that America normally sees. By supporting these companies and donating to their campaigns you can have a positive effect on the lives of those who are in the programs which they support. Becoming a supporter or participating in events like Walk for Beauty held by organizations such as The Ward Melville Heritage Organization can also have an impact. These are a few of the excellent ways to get involved and to help redefine the beauty standards of America. Beauty is something that most everyone wishes to achieve. However, beauty standards are hard to come by with unrealistic and unachievable photos and advertisements being an example of the ideal body or beautiful person. Though people know that Photoshop is used to enhance the features and assets of models and celebrities in the images that we are exposed to, they still look towards these images being what America wants us to look like. It is up to us as a White 5 society to help redefine the way that America sees beauty, because many people have fallen into unhealthy habits to achieve these standards. College students, USF included, are among some of the people who are most affected by beauty standards due to comments made about weight and looks upon entering school. These comments have an impact on all of mentally and may cause some self-esteem and confidence issues. By supporting companies who use real models and untouched photos for advertising, joining and donating to campaigns that help build self-esteem and redefine beauty, and by joining movements that help redefine beauty and raise awareness on how the current beauty standards have affected people, we can help redefine what beauty looks like in America. Beauty is in all of us and we have all achieved it. White 6 Works Cited Afful, Adwoa A.1 and Rose2 Ricciardelli. Shaping the Online Fat Acceptance Movement: Talking about Body Image and Beauty  Journal of Gender Studies, vol. 24, no. 4, Aug. 2015, pp. 453-472. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1080/09589236.2015.1028523. Balcetis, Emily, et al. Searching out the Ideal: Awareness of Ideal Body Standards Predicts Lower Global Self-Esteem in  Self & Identity, vol. 12, no. 1, Jan. 2013, pp. 99- 113. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1080/15298868.2011.639549. Brown, Ashley. Picture Photoshop Redefining Beauty in Cosmetic Advertisements, Giving False Advertising a Run for the  Texas Review of Entertainment & Sports Law, vol. 16, no. 2, Spring2015, pp. 87-105. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ap h&AN=108802574&site=eds-live. Robinson, Beatrice E. and Jane G. Bacon. The Only I Were Treatment Program: Decreasing the Stigmatizing Effects of  Professional Psychology: Research and Practice, vol. 27, no. 2, Apr. 1996, pp. 175-183. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1037/0735- 7028.27.2.175. TOMAS-ARAGONES, Lucia and Servando E. MARRON. Body Image and Body Dysmorphic  Acta Dermato-Venereologica, vol. 96, 2016 Supplement, pp. 47-50. EBSCOhost, doi:10.2340/00015555-2368.