Yost 1 Mike Yost Professor Heiser ENC 1102 22 April 2017 Gun Laws in the United States Gun laws in the United States of America (USA) has been a huge topic of discussion and debate over the last twenty years. Currently there are many American citizens that think that by making stricter guns laws on the second amendments right (the right to bear arms) of the US Constitution the country would be a safer place. However, there are other American citizens that believe that these gun laws should not be implemented because they would be violating their constitutional rights as per the second amendment. Their arguments also being that it is their right to bear arms that makes this country a safer place for them because their guns provide them their protection. Enacting stricter gun laws does not have to be in direct opposition of a citizens second amendment right. Stricter gun laws can improve the overall safety of all American citizens, those who chose to bear arms and those who do not. While there is a strong case against guns and for stricter gun laws, there is always the fact that stricter gun laws would abolish citizens second amendment rights. The second amendment states that every citizen has the right to bear arms, meaning that citizens can own guns to help protect themselves. Pro-gun activists think if gun laws are harsher, they will not be able to protect themselves. Even though this may sit as a problem with some pro-gun activists, the smartest decision is still to make gun laws stricter. If gun laws were stricter the number of criminals and those who are mentally incapable of handling a gun would have a tough time getting a gun if they were able to at all. Yes, it would make the system of getting a gun and a Yost 2 license to own a gun much harder, but it would most likely decrease gun violence and the amount of deaths and injuries caused by guns. This theory is backed on the statistics of other countries gun violence and how they handle their gun laws compared to how much violence the US has when it comes to guns and how easy going the gun laws are. For example, since the US has the most guns in a country in the world, citizens in the USA are 10 times more likely to be killed by a gun than anywhere else in the world (CBS News). Many American citizens currently aware of the percentage of Americans that would be affected if the second amendment rights were abolished and very strict gun laws were implemented into our government. In the USA, there are about 88 guns per 100 people. This means that there are about 270 million guns in the USA making this country the biggest country in gun total in the world (Gun Control ProCon). Having so many guns in the country makes it easier for criminals and average citizens who mentally healthy enough to own a gun, to get one. This could easily be to blame for why there are so many shootings when it comes to gang shootings, different types of public shootings, or terrorist acts. In 2012, the US had nearly 30 times the amount of gun murders compared to the UK (BBC News). Citizens who are against guns and who are for gun laws will argue that this is because the United Kingdom has very strict gun laws and that if the USA would make stricter gun laws the number of deaths would decrease significantly. When thinking about the topic initially it may not be super important to anyone. But, then when citizens bring up tragedies like what happened in Newtown Connecticut they seem to think that these laws are important. A man who mentally stable went to an elementary school with a rifle and two pistols and ended up killing six adults and twenty children (The Washington Post). This tragedy shocked the whole country. It was such a huge tragedy, that Yost 3 right after it happened the president of the USA had to address the entire country so that such a tragedy would never happen again. Other tragedies include a shooting in a Colorado movie theater when a man went into a movie theater during a movie and shot the audience. There were 12 casualties in this shooting and again the country was devastated. The man who committed the crime bought the murder weapons at a local sporting goods store and bought over six thousand rounds of ammunition online (CNN). Both these tragedies and many others like it should be a huge reason why citizens and the government should start questioning the gun laws the USA has implemented, and helping to change them. A scholar by the name of Ladd Everitt also strongly agrees that gun laws should be stricter to protect American citizens. Lad Everitt is the director of Pulse for which is a gun violence group that was founded after a mass shooting in Orlando. Everitt compares the USA to other countries that are wealthy and states that cause crimes, but they do make crimes more While this statement is very true Everitt states that a great solution would be to require background checks on every gun sale. Doing this would help cut down the number of criminals with guns and citizens who mentally able to handle them. (Everitt) There are many ways and organizations anti-gun activists can get involved in to help the gun control cause. One way of getting involved is to get connected with the Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence. This organization gives an outstanding amount of information for anyone to see about anything that must do with guns and gun violence. Also, they have a great amount of information on the second amendment and the state and federal gun laws in the USA. This organization not only lets citizens get connected with other anti-gun activists who are fighting for the same cause, but can also give a great amount of support for someone who has been affected Yost 4 in the past by guns. On this organizations website, they have a place where anyone can donate money to help the organizations cause. This money would go to things like different events to make the public aware with how important the topic of gun violence and gun laws are. There is also the option to sign up as a member of the organization on their website so a person could be able to volunteer for the organization. As a volunteer a person could help the organization with different events to make the average American aware (Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence). In conclusion, the topic of gun laws in the USA of America should not be taken as a joke. There have been so many tragedies in this country due to the gun laws not being strict enough that it needs to come to an end. Helping make stricter gun laws will decrease homicide rates by guns drastically and can also make the citizens of the USA feel safer knowing that it is a lot harder to obtain such a dangerous weapon. Helping such a case like this is what the USA needs to put effort into. Yost 5 Works Cited Background of the Issue - Gun Control -  Should More Gun Control Laws Be Enacted in the United States? N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Apr. 2017. Colorado Theater Shooting Fast  CNN. Cable News Network, 04 July 2016. Web. 05 Apr. 2017. Everitt, Ladd and Erich Pratt. Does the U.S. Need Tougher Gun-Control  New York Times Upfront, no. 12, 2015, p. 22. EBSCOhost, Guns in the US: The statistics behind the  BBC News. BBC, 05 Jan. 2016. Web. 05 Apr. 2017. Payne, Daniel. Yes, Hillary Wants to Get Rid of the Second  National Review. N.p., 12 May 2016. Web. 05 Apr. 2017. Preidt, Robert. How U.S. gun deaths compare to other  CBS News. CBS Interactive, 03 Feb. 2016. Web. 05 Apr. 2017. Vogel, Steve, Sari Horwitz, and David A. Fahrenthold. Sandy Hook Elementary shooting leaves 28 dead, law enforcement sources  The Washington Post. WP Company, 14 Dec. 2012. Web. 05 Apr. 2017.  Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Apr. 2017. Everitt, Ladd and Erich Pratt. Does the U.S. Need Tougher Gun-Control  New York Times Upfront, no. 12, 2015, p. 22. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=edsgao& AN=edsgcl.412684868&site=eds-live. Yost 6