Adair 1 Paul Adair ENC 1102 Sensei Drugan 19 April 2017 Project 3 Intermediate Draft On November 6, 2012, Colorado and Washington State legalized marijuana use recreationally for the public over the age of 21. This was the first step in the legalization process: breaking the barrier. History has slowly unraveled the polar nature between the government and marijuana use in the United States. By being the first two states to legalize the use recreationally, Washington and Colorado sparked the flame for the marijuana revolution. Due to its high importance in society and good benefits, national legalization would benefit the lives of millions. Marijuana can save lives, better the economy, and better the quality of living for the children of America. Many citizens have already chosen to take action and volunteer their own time and donations to support groups for the legalization of marijuana, such as NORML (National Organization for the Reform for Marijuana Laws). These groups work for the legalization of marijuana in the United States by funding projects and creating bills to push through congress. Marijuana is not something new to society. In fact, marijuana has been used for many years by Americans. the third most popular drug in America. to government surveys, some 25 million Americans have smoked marijuana in the past year, and 14 million do Adair 2 so regularly despite harsh laws against its (About NORML) The drug has far more health benefits than others that are legal such as tobacco, which happens to be killing roughly 400,000 people a year. 1 Many people abuse alcohol and tobacco to relax and relieve stress. According to WebMD, a web site with articles written by professional doctors and researchers, marijuana provides a very similar sensation. a much safer, less addictive alternative to other drugs that are killing Americans from day to day. Weed also has benefits for people in the hospital with cancer and could help save countless lives if legalized. It can be used as anything from a pain reliever with minimal side effects to relieving muscle stiffness for people with cancer. Marijuana pertains to life in some way or another. Many people believe the legalization of marijuana is not an important part of their own life now and choose not to act. Think about the numerous children and people that you know who have suffered from cancer, severely painful injuries, or multiple sclerosis. Support the cause to not only save yourself and family in the future, but also to help the community. Organizations such as NORML work to help better society as well. Ultimately their goal is to legalize marijuana recreationally. With the full recreational legalization of marijuana, the state government would have more taxes to allocate towards public schooling, roadwork, and finding more environmentally safe ways to treat the environment. By voting yes, it helps better the community. Also, the legalization bill that is currently being worked on does include reforms to the marijuana laws regarding possession. People will stop being unrightfully put in jail for having a miniscule amount 1 Norml.com/about Adair 3 of a drug that has the potential to change the United States. About 700,000 people are arrested every year for marijuana related issues. All those arrests are costing taxpayers 10 billion dollars that could be used for something more useful than charging citizens for possession left and right. Recreational legalization is going to take a long time to achieve, but within the next decade, the drug will be an integrated part of society like alcohol. There are so many steps left towards legalization that all help is needed to push the ballot for legalization. By educating the public more about the benefits of marijuana and the significance it will have in the economy when legalized, be more inclined to vote yes. To help make an impact in the community around you, join an organization or host your own information session to educate others about the cause. Taking action is the key to legalization. The more people who educate others and support the cause, the more people that will vote yes when the bill is being voted on. The legalization process is extremely complex and is not something that can be completed by just one person or organization. Many states in the US did not fully complete the legalization process, and instead, prefer to settle for decriminalization or legalization just for medical purposes. Full decriminalization entails of the legalization of private possession, cultivation, and the exchange of marijuana for money. It comes with innumerable benefits, so your engagement in the issue is crucial for the process to be smooth and successful. With the 12.9% tax on all transactions at dispensaries in Colorado, the state raised more than 14 million dollars in the first months of sales that have been used for public services such as youth prevention services and drug abuse programs (Meredith). According to Governor John Hickenlooper, the taxes are estimated to rise to a total of nearly a billion dollars within the next Adair 4 year. more than a 7,000% increase within a year. No matter how well off the state is, any of the 50 in the United States could benefit from all those taxes, and so could the US as a whole. Without the action of the citizens of the United States, the society around us can continue to degrade itself while the solution waits for someone to step up. Legalization will provide an upgrade to public services and give more money for the local government to improve society. Helping others around you now and for the future is a key element of the American dream. Marijuana is the future and the future is now. Vote yes to pass legalization! Adair 5 Works Cited Anonymous. Legalization of  Legalize Marijuana, Legal Weed, Marijuana Facts. N.p., 2015. Web. 21 Apr. 2017. Colorado. Marijuana Legalization on the  CNNMoney. Cable News Network, n.d. Web. 21 Apr. 2017. Unknown. About NORML. 29 June 2013. 26 Februry 2017. <http://norml.org/about>. Unknown. Medical Marijuana - Topic  WebMD. WebMD, n.d. Web. 21 Apr. 2017. Meredith, Charlotte. Colorado Has Made A LOT Of Money From Cannabis This  The Huffington Post. The Huffington Post, 11 Mar. 2014. Web. 21 Apr. 2017.