Morgan Craig ENC 1102 Professor Ryan Here at USF, safe say we are all familiar with the protests that happen right outside of Cooper Hall. On one side, people are yelling and asking how you feel about their graphic pictures of aborted fetuses, and on the other side you see students writing, is on the sidewalks and arguing why the graphic pictures are wrong. But what about you? Are you the one that walks with your headphones in, head down, blocking off any form of confrontation as you walk through this controversial fiasco. Maybe not sexually active, on birth control, or not pro-life or pro-choice; you barely know what that means. You might think that abortion affect you at all, right? Wrong. According to the Guttmacher Institute, in 2014, more than half of all U.S. abortion patients were in their twenties, and twelve percent of abortion patients were adolescents (Jerman, et. al.). Abortion could have more to do with you than you realize. These statistics could represent your friends, family, classmates, or coworkers. While you have to go to any extremes and stand up in front of students calling them to repent, you should make sure that you and the rest of your student body understand all of the aspects of abortion because it is not purely black and white. Women do have the right to choose whether to have an abortion or not, and they do not deserve to be shamed or condemned for this personal decision. By joining and expanding the USF Bulls Against Bullying club to offer support for choice and opposition to the bullying protestors, you can put an end to the pro-choice shaming on campus. Craig 2 It is crucial to make certain students understand how important the right to choose an abortion is. Abortion, which is claimed to be one of the safest medical procedures to date, was once responsible for thousands of deaths and disease among women who were desperate to have the right to make decisions for their bodies. According to writer Jessica Ravitz, before the mid- nineteenth century, abortion was part of life in the United services were openly advertised, and abortion-inducing drugs were a (Ravitz). As the suffrage movement emerged in the late 1800s, the anti-abortion supporters were making themselves know via U.S. legislation. According to the Our Bodies Our Selves website, part of the abortion advocacy was in response to the rights movement. The anti-abortion backlash was effort to control (Blanchard). Much of the legislation concerning abortion was aimed at scaring practitioners into refusing to perform abortions which ultimately, led to many women attempting self-induced abortions and physicians risking their licenses to perform secret abortions. It was not until the late and early that things started to change. In the famous Roe V. Wade Supreme Court Case the court decided the right to abortion fell in line with the right to privacy under the Fourteenth Amendment (Reuters). Students can learn a lot from the history of abortion. They are being bullied everyday into believing abortion is not a right or a choice. Thousands of people suffered and put their lives and reputations on the line to fight for the legalization of abortion and the right to choose. The new branch of Bulls Against Bullying can promote the notion that students do not deserve to be shamed for taking advantage of their legal rights. Making a difference in the USF community can also mean employing the help of some pro-choice organizations. The pro-choice movement stands behind the notion that women have the right to choose abortion. According to the Pro Choice Action Network, the Craig 3 movement and abortion providers are in the business of protecting and respecting human rights, their moral autonomy, and their (Arthur). Organizations such as this one can support Bulls Against Bullying and help its members learn how to become advocates for their peers. There are numerous pro-choice organizations that work to cater to and protect right. The National Abortion Federation works with clinics, hospitals, offices, and organizations such as Planned Parenthood to ensure safe abortions for women and provide them with all of the options available. List is an organization that works to elect pro-choice Democratic women into office in order to ignite change in the government. The National Network of Abortion Funds aims to financial and logistical barriers to abortion (National Network Of Abortion Funds). All of these organizations support the choices and legal rights of women and are great sources to refer to for facts about abortion that students cannot get from the advocates standing outside of Cooper Hall. Expanding Bulls Against Bullying and teaming up with pro-choice organizations can result in a great deal of positive change within the university. With all of the resources out there for you to learn and understand the facts about abortion, you have the power to change and inspire your student body. Join forces with other students who just walk past the abortion fiascos, and encourage each other to get educated on the topic. With a topic as controversial as abortion, it may seem very difficult to believe you could ignite a great change in your school. However, change starts with just one person. The expansion of Bulls Against Bullying will help the student body have a reliable resource for information and advocacy. The next time you see your school being flooded with pictures of aborted children, Craig 4 be the person who just walks by thinking abortion does not affect them. Be the educated person who starts a club to help educate others on abortion. Be the person who stops the people walking by and lets them how abortion is relevant to them. Be the person who creates a safe haven for students and lets them know they have options when it comes to pregnancy, planned or unplanned. Be the person who changes the reputation at USF. Craig 5 WORKS CITED  National Network of Abortion Funds. Themify WordPress, n.d. Web. Apr. 2017 Arthur, Joyce. What Pro-Choice Really  THE PRO-CHOICE ACTION NETWORK. N.p., n.d. Web. Apr. 2017. Blanchard, Kelly. History of Abortion in the  Our Bodies Ourselves. OBOS, 28 Mar. 2014. Web. Apr. 2017 Jerman, Jenna, Rachel K. Jones, and Tsuyoshi Onda. Characteristics of U.S. Abortion Patients in 2014 and Changes Since  Guttmacher Institute. N.p., 10 June 2016. Web. Apr. 2017. Ravitz, Jessica. The Surprising History of Abortion in the  CNN. Cable News Network, 27 June 2016. Web. Apr. 2017. Reuters, Thomson. Roe v.  Findlaw. N.p., n.d. Web. Apr. 2017.