Hernandez 1 Carlos Hernandez Robert Ryan ENC 1102.059 16 April 2017 Truths of the Animal Based Clothing industry For the better part of the written history of humanity, clothing has been used to keep warm and protect the human body from the harsh environment. However, in the more present times, there has been outcry about the inhumanity of the treatment of these animals for their skin. Organizations such as but not limited to, PETA (People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals) believe that the and of innocent animals for their fur and skin is inhumane and unjust. Yet what PETA fails to announce is that this is an incredibly small portion of the shearing and hide industry that does this (mamamia.com). Shearing is a gentle and mostly non-harming procedure and hide is a by-product of our food. This misrepresentation of information has led to a following of PETA riddled with lies. It is our job as a society to expose PETA for the myriad of lies (such as: showing false information in their ads (mamamia.com), overlooking the use of animal based products by the celebrities that star in their ads to gain fame (consumerfreedom.com), that they have put out, so the shearing/hide industry can regain their reputation among their consumers. Throughout time, people have rallied to get things done. In the early people rallied for equality between the sexes, however there was truth and reason behind those rallies. Peta on the other hand, rallies and protests the use of leather as it is a and form of Hernandez 2 making clothing. In their opinion, we have alternatives such as synthetic materials, why use it (Peta.org)? The reasoning behind leather is simple, it is a byproduct of our meat industry (nothing-to-hide.com). Yet, PETA still attacks it saying that inhumane. What they fail to realize is that they are harming the whole industry instead of pinpointing the actual problem. Foreign countries who have lax animal treatment laws are the main problem. According to Dr. Phil Hadley, senior regional manager of the beef and lamb association, the meat and leather industry directly proportional (nothing-to-hide). The higher the demand for food, specifically meat, is the more byproduct of hide you have. It would wasteful and unwise business-wise to not produce leather out of these hides. PETA argues that the industry is slaughtering animals for their hides and leaving the rest to rot. Yet, there is not one shred logic or evidence to back this claim up, as the demand for food outweighs the demand for leather (nothing-to-hide). Yes, the industries are directly proportional, however they are not completely equal. The need for food for the seven and a half billion people in the world greatly outweighs the need for leather (census). Also, the shearing industry has faced attack from PETA for its cruel and unusual punishment. defense for slandering the industry is that animals have rights just as we do and they will do everything in their power not to let them be violated (PETA). The organization, on its website, shows graphic videos of sheep being tossed around, having its throat slit while still conscious, and generally being abused. PETA says that these are the atrocity that the shearing industry commits daily. Once again, upon further research this is incorrect. What they are showing you on their website, is a group of shearers that are performing the act of shearing completely incorrectly. They cannot represent the shearing industry, as they are a small niche compared to the enormous industry. They are the black sheep. PETA states that in 2016 Hernandez 3 in Victoria charged a minimum of six shearers with at least 70 counts of cruelty towards this further emphasizes the minority of people in the industry committing these atrocities (PETA.org). Of the hundreds of shearers in the world they are only able to prove roughly 6 abusing sheep. This extreme exaggeration is why PETA has such a horrendous reputation among the animal industry. They bloat many of the things that happen in the industry; any mistake that happens they are watching and they cry animal cruelty. It is identical to someone watching over a driver and reporting any traffic infringement possible, whether it be circumstantial or accidental, to the authorities. The headlight out on the vehicle, the lane switch with no turn signal, tires beyond the legal threshold, all tickets. Then whomever is watching now assumes that everyone in that age and sex is an equivalently bad driver because of the tickets that one driver has. Too many fallacies in their argument against the clothing treatment of the animals. These outright lies are not where the untrustworthiness of PETA ends. PETA has been documented to have hundreds of animals put down because either they do not have space in their shelters, or simply do not think they have a chance at being adopted. If this is not cruel and unusual punishment I know what is (consumerfreedom.com). Aside from blatant hypocrisy, they also do things against their own ideals to get publicity. For example, in their ads they appoint very well-known celebrities to say that they are against anything that has to do with animals. However, the minute the photoshoot for the ad is over it is seen that the stars revert to their lifestyle of lavish in their high dollar sports cars with full leather interiors and eating their fillet mignon, ironic it (consumerfreedom.com)? This directly proves how necessary animal products are in life. With a lack of meat provided from the animal industry we as species lose a vital source of protein in our diet. Without the meat industry, we would have to Hernandez 4 slaughter animals for their skin to make clothes to protect us from the winters, everything is connected. goal of total animal liberation is completely unnecessary and nearly impossible to execute. In behalf of illogical arguments, I believe that as society, we need to fight the destruction of our established infrastructure. The unjust threat that PETA poses to the shearing and hide industries can eventually take them out of business. If the shearing industry were go out of business, many sheep would die. Sheep have been bred across generations to have an incredible amount of wool, if left to grow without being shorn the sheep will eventually die of heat exhaustion (sheepandgoat.com). There would be mass genocide of sheep throughout the world. PETA is blatantly lying to their audience to gain support for something that necessarily true. In one of ads with Jona Weinhofen, guitarist of Adelaide, he is seen holding a bloody lamb saying, the rest of your wool However, once again PETA is blatantly lying. The lamb in the picture is fake, it is a stuffed foam prop (mamamia.com). Also, lambs are not shorn for their wool, because they do not have any (mamamia.com). This is another clear example of PETA lying to its audience to gain support through sheer graphic imagery. The slandering of the shearing and hide industries must stop. These industries are solely there to take a byproduct of something natural. Sheep grow wool naturally, in the wilderness they are groomed by each other, however why not use this natural byproduct to further humanity? The meat industry has the same situation, to get to the meat of the cow they must be skinned. There is no reason not to use the natural byproduct of this and use it. There is a food chain in our worldly ecosystem that PETA is trying to disrupt. They realize this; therefore, they cannot play this game fairly. They promote untruthful things about the industries to get people to Hernandez 5 boycott them. As a society, we must stand up and fight will to animals. They are a lying and manipulating group that wants to create a cult like following. They cannot be trusted, and for that reason I believe that as a populous, there must be a movement to end support. The lies must be exposed to its followers, it must be spread through all of social media and through newspapers. The organization is trying to abolish all animal products and cruelty; however, even they cannot follow this. If the organization that preaches this ideal cannot follow it, how can it be expected to be possible? Hernandez 6 Work Cited Things the Leather Industry Want You to PETA, PETA, www.peta.org/features/leather-industry/. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. Used for PETA, www.peta.org/issues/animals-used-for-clothing/. Accessed 25 Feb. 2017. Bureau, US Census. Census.gov, www.census.gov/. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. Consumer Freedom. things you know about Consumerfreedom, Consumerfreedom, Oct. 2008, . Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. Sheep Killed, Punched, Stomped on, and Cut for PETA Investigations, investigations.peta.org/australia-us-wool/. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. Small Ruminant Maryland Small Ruminant Page, www.sheepandgoat.com/heatstress. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. industry: byproduct Nothing to hide, EBLEX-AHDB, www.nothing-to- Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals. Weinhofen: the Rest of Your Wool PETA.org, Dan Howe, PETA, 2 April 2015, http://www.peta.org.uk/blog/jona- weinhofen-heres-the-rest-of-your-wool-coat/. Hernandez 7 Ratliff, Elissa. PETA, shearing sheep Mamamia, 16 Apr. 2015, www.mamamia.com.au/peta-shearing-australia/. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017.