Cabal 1 Manuel Cabal April 19, 2017, ENC 1102-072 Project 3 Intermediate Draft Be an Active Member in Society This pass election for the United States Presidency was one of the most talked about election there has been due to the candidates that were running for the opposing parties. Given that the election was so widely talked about and tending all over social media, yet when it came time to vote for the candidates there was only a 55% outcome of the eligible voters. Then when Trump won the election there were protest and all sorts of upraises. The problem we are facing in society is citizens are not taking advantage of their right to vote, and then complain about the outcome of the elections or any laws being placed by the person who won the election. Being an active member in society and knowing how your government work is crucial and can change the future of the country. If the people of the United States want to change the direction of this country the first step is to research about how the government works and figure out what candidates share the same views and goals as them. So later on when it comes to elections citizens are well educated and know who would be the best choice to help improve the country. Many Americans have been lacking when it comes to knowledge about history and politics of the United States. This has been causing issues and even up roars all over the country due to certain elected officials or laws being passed in the past years. What people understand or just simple believe anymore is that they have a say in what goes on Cabal 2 in our government. Citizens in America have started to believe that their one vote matter or heard, but that is the complete opposite. There are other elections that can make a difference in the way things work not only nationally but also state and locally that people realize they can be a part of or simply choose not to be. Even voting for local officials such as local representatives or mayor can make a differences in cities and counties which will help make it a better place to live. Being an active and knowledgeable voter will help make choosing a candidate much easier, because know whether they do or do not share the same views you want to be implemented. Citizens of the United States of America are given the right to vote at the age of eighteen in world, but this was not the case back in the early 1900s when woman and African Americans were not allowed to vote. Both groups fought and some died for the right to vote and citizens today still take advantage of their right to vote. According to Turnout the total number of Americans eligible to vote in 2016 was 218,959,000 and out if that only 146,311,000 number of Americans registered to vote. Out of the people that were registered to vote only 129,235,000 actually went to the poles and voted for the 2016 Presidential election. It is so detrimental that we are active members of society and vote to better our country and find the candidate that is best fit to fill majority of the populations need. If America continues the trend of not being interested in what goes on in our government or who is being elected to represent the people the country can turn into something like a monarchy where the people have no say and the government controls everything. belong to the people. their decision. If they decide to turn their back on the people and burn their behinds, then they will have to sit on their Direct quote from former President Abraham Lincoln. When he says this he means elections are decided by the people Cabal 3 but if the people choose to turn their back on the elections and the right to vote the people will have to deal with the outcome of the election whether it be good or bad. If people do use the privilege to vote for in their best interest then who will speak up for the interest? A democracy is run by the people because the people are the ones who voted the elected officials in to office so they can represent what the people want. If people choose not to be involved they see their ideas and views be implemented. When you choose not to vote you could be possibly be standing by and watching the country go in the wrong direction that later on in life the next generation will have to deal with. Getting involved is in your community is a great way to start learning and making a difference in the way the government around you is run. Reading and watching the news can show you what is going on around the country involving politics and the government. When there are any types of elections coming up a good way to get involved is research all the candidates and read their platforms to see which one you agree most with and want to support the most. Try to find out if you can join the campaign and help support whoever the representative is for the position that is up for election. Small things like this will help the country become more active and know what is going on in our government and making sure what majority if the population wants rather than what we have now which is a small percentage of what the population wants due to lack of participation of voters. In America we have started to lose appreciation to for the right we are giving and so fortunate to have unlike some countries around the world. Voting and having an actual voice in our government should be something every American should be passionate about and use it to its full ability. People complain about having Trump in office and what he has been doing so far, yet there was only 55% of eligible voters came out and voted for who they Cabal 4 thought would be the best person to lead our country. There is a simple way to change an outcome of any election and for everyone that is able to go and vote, so that whoever ends up winning the election will share the same views as majority of the population rather than it being the majority of only 55% of the population this past election. Voting for a certain candidate or law just effect present day it effects the future and generations to come. When citizens vote they not only make change happen but they now become a part of history. Benjamin Franklin once said have we got, a republic or a then he answered, republic, if you can keep If we use the right to vote we can keep it that way. Cabal 5 Work Cited Voting Turnout Statistics - Statistic . Statistic Brain. N. p., 2016. Web. 23 Apr. 2017. Millennials Now Rival Boomers As A Political Force, But Will They Actually Vote NPR.org. N. p., 2016. Web. 23 Apr. 2017. 10 Reasons To Vote - Follow My . Follow My Vote. N. p., 2015. Web. 23 Apr. 2017. -1965, Sound. Voting Rights Act - Black History - . HISTORY.com. N. p., 2017. Web. 23 Apr. 2017. Our Documents - 19Th Amendment To The U.S. Constitution: Right To Vote . Ourdocuments.gov. N. p., 2017. Web. 23 Apr. 2017.