McDavid 1 Althea McDavid Instructor Robert Ryan ENC 1102 017 27 January 2017 Project 3: Composing Multimodal Arguments Wearable baby monitors are the newest technological breakthrough in the baby monitoring industry. Most of them involve a device attached to an article of baby clothing, such as socks or onesies, which connects to a mobile device to give readings to the parents. These products are thought be more convenient and provide a useful service to parents with infants. However, there are several medical parties that are concerned about the true purpose and benefits of these products. While this topic may directly concern parents or prospective parents, it is important to realize that persons who are close to these individuals, regardless of whether or not they want or will have children, will also be affected by any negative outcomes. It is the intention to persuade this particular audience, i.e., those that deem themselves uninvolved and unaffected, that this topic affects their lives more than they may think and encourage them to act and make a difference in this topic for themselves and for those close to them. The first step is to provide information that may not be readily known and may be shocking to those who may have certain predispositions about baby monitoring technology. For instance, several medical professionals have written about the lack of medical support that these products have. They have illuminated the public to the fact that the products are mostly commercial. Knowing this, they are concerned about the effectiveness of these products. Pediatrician David King, in his article wearable home baby monitors: real peace of reveals that many of the companies who have created these baby monitors do not require McDavid 2 approval from the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). He states that they, admittedly, made modifications to their products so that they do not need to file for approval, as time and expense that this process would have required made it (King 349). This proves that the monitors in question do not have medical backing, decreasing their credibility. This also meant that the companies are not required to release the data they collected from testing the product to the public. How then, can consumers be able to establish a sense of assurance or identify a semblance of reliability in these products? Apart from them spending money on the device and putting their lives at risk to find out, there seems to be no reassuring answer to this question. Another point to consider, in this venture to educate, is the overreaching implications that these devices come with. King points out that although the companies advertise the products as non-medical, i.e., not made to treat medical conditions, the advertising techniques and lack of emphasis on their non-medical nature allow their audience to run away with the idea that they may be medically useful, especially when in fear of Sudden Infant Death Syndrome (SIDS) (349). SIDS is a medical condition where infants are known to suddenly die in their sleep. The American Academy of Pediatrics has stated that there is no documented evidence that home cardiorespiratory monitors, which wearable baby monitors can be considered, reduce the occurrence of SIDS They, instead, recommend several physical exercises and positions in their article such as safe sleeping positions for babies, that, unlike monitors, may actually reduce the occurrence. Therefore, not only do the companies, even if inadvertently so, exploit a fear that many parents and prospective parents may have, but they also put the children at risk; more so when there are more effective and inexpensive alternatives available. McDavid 3 Further information of interest is the evidence that these products provide false alarms from readings that may actually be normal in some infants. Another Pediatrician, Dr. Christopher Bonafide, commented on his experience with parents who use wearable baby monitors. Bonafide revealed that he has met with parents who came to visit due to alarms from their monitor which turned out to be false. Bonafide claimed that false alarms can occur due to changes in sleeping positions or by normal fluctuations in their vitals such as decreases in oxygen level which can occur occasionally but is harmless. He has stated, brought in on a false alarm are likely to undergo blood tests, X-rays and other procedures that are expensive and potentially question value of This, therefore, presents yet another serious consideration for parents thinking of investing in such a product. Are they willing, and able, to suffer the initial cost of such a device and any subsequent unnecessary costs that may come with this device in the hope of it preventing, unassuredly so, a major occurrence in their lives. With the previous information in mind, the second step is to answer the question that is now plaguing the minds; How does this affect their lives? The simplest answer is through those they care about. Someone who has no intention of having a child or does not see it happening in the near future may not directly have to think about the financial and emotional implications of investing in baby monitors. It is quite possible, however, that such a person has a close sibling or cousin or even friend who is or will be plagued by such things and by extension, this person will also be affected. First, consider a close family member. How might the topic affect them and hence those close to them,i.e., the seemingly uninvolved audience? Let us take a college student for example whose older sibling has a child but also helps support their younger sibling with college tuition. Imagine how this relationship would be affected if the older sibling McDavid 4 must invest at least $100 dollars on the monitor itself, as according to the article say new baby monitors may be harmful, should be the most popular wearable baby monitors are not below this threshold price. Consider also, the approximate cost of $160-$180 for pediatric consultation and anything from $15 - $600 for any diagnostic tests and lab services Costs for common medical Of course, these costs may vary with the clinic or hospital in question. Can the financial implications be seen in this instance? Although this situation is specific, it can be remodeled in several ways, each involving varying levels of financial strain which will affect both the engaged and unengaged parties of the topic. Similarly to family, friends can also have a rippling effect on an unengaged party, affecting that lifestyle indirectly. Friends too can experience the same financial strain as family, but more than that, an unengaged person may feel an emotional effect from the situation. This concept could apply to family as well, but it is more likely that more time is spent with close friends, sharing secrets, worries and burdens, than with family. According to Psychologist Sherrie Carter, exposure to other emotions in a social environment can cause people to unconsciously mimic those emotions. She also states that it is easier to negative emotions as opposed to positive ones (Carter). In other words, if a close friend of an unengaged party had a child and was stressed by any repercussions that came with investing in baby monitors, it can be inferred that this unengaged party will be induced with similar feelings. Would a good way to handle this not be to become engaged in the topic? The final step, if the audience is now persuaded, is to provide actions that can be taken to change the situation. The simplest way to help prevent any repercussions from this topic is to spread awareness. The audience should take it upon themselves to share the information they would have learnt from this literature or from any further research they may be motivated to McDavid 5 embark on. They may also choose to learn the recommended techniques suggested by the AAP to help prevent SIDs. This particular action will provide a skill that they can physically implement in aid of those close to them when needed. Information is power and having, sharing and acting on that information can protect loved ones and the lifestyle that they and those close to them have become accustomed to. Wearable baby monitors may seem like convenient, revolutionary and useful products, but it may be prudent to take the time to do a bit more investigation on these products and what it may really mean for any and all parties involved. McDavid 6 Work Cited Carter, Sherrie. Are Your Company 20 th October 2012. https://www.psychologytoday.com/blog/high-octane-women/201210/emotions-are-contagious- choose-your-company-wisely. Accessed 8 April 2017. King, David. Marketing wearable home baby monitors: real peace of . BMJ: British Medical Journal (Online) 349 (2014). Accessed 8 April 2017. Mole, Beth. say new baby monitors may be harmful, should be 24 th January 2017. https://arstechnica.com/science/2017/01/think-the-latest-baby-monitors-are-a-good-idea- think-again-experts-say/. Accessed 8 April 2017. question value of monitors in baby 25 January 2017. http://www.health24.com/Parenting/Child/paediatricians-question-value-of-monitors-in-baby- clothing-20170125. Accessed 8 April 2017. and Other Sleep-Related Infant Deaths: Updated 2016 Recommendations for a Safe Infant Sleeping Pediatrics November 2016, VOLUME 138, ISSUE 5. http://pediatrics.aappublications.org/content/138/5/e20162938. Accessed 8 April 2017. Costs for Common Medical April 2009. http://www.bluecrossma.com/blue- Accessed 8 April 2017.