Staton 1 Zachary Staton April 30 th , 2017 Adjunct Professor Ryan Composition II Composing Multimodal Arguments The meaning and the creation of life is a beautiful thing. Abortions in the United States are getting in the way of that. An abortion is legal, intervention, performed by a licensed clinician that is intended to terminate an ongoing of Disease Control). As Pro-life Americans time to take a stand against unnecessary abortion (an abortion that is not being preformed to save the life of the mother) and the taking of innocent lives. By volunteering and supporting local Pro- Life organizations can effectively reduce the number of Abortions being performed across, not only the U.S, but also the entire World. According to the CDC in the Abortion Surveillance of 2013, there were 664,435 abortions in the United States. Of all these abortions less than one percent were preformed to save the life of a mother. That amounts to nearly 664,435 lives that were taken from innocent babies that have a say on whether or not they got to live or die. Whether or not someone believes the human race developed from a single cell or that God is the giver and taker of all life, it is not human effort to create life and be a human decision to take it away. The typical meaning of a Pro-life American means that someone is against all abortions. However, it can be skewed a bit. Some Pro-life American believes that abortions are acceptable if the life is endangered. This is a simple understanding of what it means to be Pro-life, but there is so much more to the meaning. According to the American Center for Law and Justice, Be Pro-Life is to be Pro- Women and to Promote Human Flourishing for The abortion industry has successfully peddled the fallacy that in order to be pro-women one must be pro- Staton 2 nothing could be further from the Center of Law and Justice). Instead of encouraging an easy way out of an unwanted pregnancy, like abortion, Pro- life Americans encourage women to be strong and choose life for their babies. We tell women that they are valuable, contributing members of without childbirth there would be no society. (American Center of Law and Justice). Above everything the sole fundamental belief of a Pro-life American is that no matter who it is no matter how small or weak, every life is precious and worth saving. The CDC reports that out of all pregnancies in the United States, half are unintentional. This means that one of every two pregnancies supposed to happen. Out of these unintended pregnancies four out of ten will be aborted. This comes out to about 21% of all pregnancies in the United States resulting in abortion. Being not only Pro-life, but also simply human this is unacceptable. Motions need to be set into place to stop unnecessary abortions. Motions such as laws that protect babies who have a say for themselves while in their wombs or simply someone to speak up for them like while they physically cannot. Women all over the United States get abortions simply because they are not ready to have a child or support a baby. Less than one percent get abortions because lives are endangered. Well, if a woman is not ready to have a baby she be engaging in sexual activity because there is always a chance, although very slim if using proper contraception, that a woman can get pregnant when she engages in intercourse. It comes down to choices that a woman makes. If a woman and a man decide to engage in sexual activity they need to be prepared for the possible outcomes. Every action has a consequence whether good or bad. Women across America have the right to kill a baby because she made a bad choice. Although many Pro-life Americans get their basis from a religious belief, there are many other ways that statistically and scientifically back up the reasoning of Pro-life Staton 3 Americans. A major grey area in the abortion debate is deciding when life actually begins. Since Pro-life Americans believe abortion is murder, they believe that life starts at conception. The Research Council backs up the claims of Pro-life Americans with the fact that at conception, when the sperm penetrates a human ovum or egg, a new cell comes into existence called the Zygote. A zygote is in fact composed of human DNA, undeniably making it human and very much alive. not an alien or a monkey or some sort of bacteria. a living, growing baby. human! In order for anything to be considered biologically alive it must meet four components; growth, reaction to stimuli, and Science clearly proves that a zygote is own organism and undeniably human. Not only is a zygote a living being, but also according to Endowment For Human at just 22 days after conception a heartbeat can be detected by ultrasound. Most women even know pregnant at 22 days after conception, considering that it typically takes a missed menstrual cycle (typically about 28 days) to hint that a woman may be pregnant. As previously stated, many Pro-Choice activists (pro-abortion) will claim that the beginning of life is a grey area that no one really knows when life begins or that it begins during implantation, which typically happens around nine days after ovulation. This claim is given simply to try and claim that the zygote is not alive and essentially eliminate any guilt of an abortion. However, the zygote is scientifically proven to be alive. Continuing along the lines of opposing views and arguments, must first look at the data from the Research In a survey conducted during late November and early December of 2016, researchers found that 69% of Americans would vote to not overturn the Roe v. Wade law. This law makes abortion legal within the first three months of pregnancies, or so most Americans think. According to ushistory.org and the Family Research Counsel abortion is undoubtedly legal within the first three months. But what most Americans understand is that a clause was put into place allowing for Staton 4 abortions after the first trimester if a doctor deemed it necessary due to a health. Mental health falls into this category, allowing doctors to perform abortions because women say they are mentally unstable and unable to have a child. Seeing how most Americans favor a restricted abortion right, Roe v. Wade actually allows for unlimited abortion rights, thus countering an argument that the law has contained second and third trimester abortions. Pro-choice activist also state that an abortion is acceptable because a body. up to the woman to decide what she wants to do with her anatomy. They would be right, if the baby alive. Since, once again, proven that a zygote is very much alive the decision of abortion just between a woman and her body, but between a woman and another living being. A human being is as alive when they are one week old as when 20 years old. The difference is that a mother get to kill her child when he or she is 20, so why should she be able to when still a zygote? simple, they because their own separate being who deserves a chance at life as much as someone already been alive for 20 years. The human race must take a stand against abortions. By accepting abortions we as a race are accepting murder. Before long who knows what will be considered acceptable. Will killing elderly people who fend for themselves be considered normal? Will it be considered them out of their This seems extreme but the same concept as abortion. Americans must get involved in the Pro-Life movement. Go out and volunteer at different organization in your community that supports the Pro-Life movement. Many organizations need people to just talk to mothers considering abortion and help them learn that abortion is not the only option. Above anything just spread the word and the beliefs that are Pro-Life. If one person tells another and then they tell another it creates a chain reaction and more and more Staton 5 Americans will learn what it means to be Pro-Life. This can ultimately lead to more and more lives being saved across the nation. The facts on abortion are clear. Over half a million innocent babies are killed each year. Although the numbers have dropped slightly since 2013 still not enough and be until every child has a right to his or her own live. The numbers will not continue to drop unless people take a stand and fight for the right of those human beings that fight for themselves. Above all the biggest way to help Pro-life Americans is to simply share your beliefs. Present people with the facts and encourage them to consider how each person no matter what stage of life they are in has a right to live. Get up and be heard as a Pro-Life American. Staton 6 Works Cited  Fact #8: Less than 1% of all abortions are performed to save the life of the mother. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. <http://www.abortionfacts.com/facts/8>. Abortions In  Operation Rescue. N.p., 19 Sept. 2016. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. <http://www.operationrescue.org/about-abortion/abortions-in-america/>. CDCs Abortion Surveillance System  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 06 Jan. 2017. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. Family Research Council. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. <http://frc.org/arguments>. Fingerhut, Hannah. About seven-in-ten Americans oppose overturning Roe v.  Pew Research Center. N.p., 03 Jan. 2017. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. <http://www.pewresearch.org/fact-tank/2017/01/03/about-seven-in-ten- americans-oppose-overturning-roe-v-wade/>. Prenatal Form and Function The Making of an Earth  3 to 4 Weeks Prenatal Overview. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. Roe v. Wade and Its  Ushistory.org. Independence Hall Association, n.d. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. <http://www.ushistory.org/us/57d.asp>. What Does It Really Mean to Be  American Center for Law and Justice. N.p., 17 Aug. 2016. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. <https://aclj.org/pro-life/what-does-it-really- mean-to-be-pro-life>.