Nguyen 1 Anh Nguyen Professor Ryan ENC 1102 19 April 2017 create a fossil fuels free environment Energy is a very important matter in today society. This is the age of technology and fossil fuel is the primary source of producing energy for the last 200 years. Unfortunately, the world is currently in a crisis because fossil fuels are non-renewable; once they are gone, they are gone. Fossil fuels are even scarcer and limited every day. To be able to rest easy, humans need to get ready for post fossil fuels future. Renewable energy is a great substitution to this unsettle issue. It is not an easy task but the earlier people act the more humans will help to keep their living home The Earth, last longer. First of all, people need to understand what fossil fuels are and why human should reduce the use of fossil fuels before it is too late. Fossil fuels formed several hundred million years ago, today three major forms of fossil fuels exist; coal, natural gas, and oil. Coal was formed as the remains of plants that lived in swamps hundreds of millions of years ago where covered with sediment, and as ocean levels rose, layers of sediment condensed the plant remains, and heat and pressure within the crust caused coal to form. The majority of coal in the United States formed concerning 300 million to 250 million year ago. Millions of years ago at the bottom of the ocean lay tiny marine organisms, as these organisms decayed and their remains where buried by sediments, they were heated until they became complex energy-rich carbon molecules, through time, these molecules then migrated into the porous rock formations that now contain Nguyen 2 them which are used to create Oil and natural gas. In the United States the most oil and natural gas found in Alaska, Texas, California, and the Gulf of Mexico (Weiss and Vasquez). The oil spills have been a grave impact to the world, the leakage of petroleum or petroleum products have injured or killed thousands of marine animals. The damaged caused to wildlife was extensive and relentless, despite the damages caused to wildlife the costly and heroic cleanup efforts have been an impact to the people as well Hidden Cost of Fossil Coal, also known as Dirty Fossil Fuel is the most accountable for carbon dioxide emissions, exceeding even petroleum. Nonetheless, coal runs most of the power plants in the world that generate electricity. Today, coal is responsible for 40 per cent of worldwide electricity production. In china, a coal plant is built every week, the heat created goes back into the atmosphere as waste energy contributing to global warming Fossil fuels caused many harmful effects, they include lung disease in humans, water pollution, and acid rain. Scientists claimed that if the current levels of carbon dioxide keep on rising, the Earth will become warmer this century. This phenomenon results in many threatening environment impacts. Additionally, many glaciers around the world are melting and the more they melt, the more sea levels will rise. As this continue to happen, coastal areas are likely to suffer because of flooding and inundation. There are many troubles one after another. In order to reduce if not to stop this degrading the Earth environment, there is only one solution; generate more renewable energy to detain the use of fossil fuels. Renewable energy is the right solution since it is not depleted after its use, it is infinite and more sustainable than any other source in energy history. To initiate the clean energy movement is expensive, but there are countless benefits ranging from individual to global impacts in going completely renewable. The first recorded use of renewable energy was harnessing wind power to drive ships Nguyen 3 over water about 7000 years ago (Darling). However, renewable energy has been around as long as Earth has existed: wind, sun, geothermal, biomass and many more. Clean energy sources can be harnessed to produce electricity, process heat, fuel and other chemicals with significantly less impact on the environment. In 2014, renewable energy sources accounted for fourteen percent of total electricity use Energy a four percent incline from the prior year. Completely diverting from fossil fuels to renewable energy clearly is not a new concept for a select few of innovative countries. A few countries, for example, are Costa Rica, Norway and Iceland, all of whom have ran on renewable energy for the entire 2015 calendar year, diving deep into their own resources and utilizing volcanic presence to produce energy (Rosecrance & Thompson 7). Following in the footsteps of Costa Rica and a few other third world countries, major economic powerhouses and biggest users of fossil fuels like the United States should convert to clean energy as a way to benefit the economy, environment and overall health of the country. The renewable energy is beneficial in many kinds of ways. It creates more than 119,000 worker at the solar-related industries in 2012, while wind energy development employed 75,000 full-time workers across the U.S., including 30,000 jobs at manufacturing facilities throughout the country. In fact, renewable energy creates three-times more jobs than fossil fuels. Furthermore, wind power made up 42 percent of all new U.S. electric capacity additions, representing a $25 billion investment in the U.S. economy and all of these were achieved in 2012. The wind projects in Iowa, which now generates more than 20 percent of its electricity with wind, provided more than $19.5 million in annual property tax payments to state and local governments in 2011. As well as helping the environment and wallets, renewable energy can help with health. By cutting the emission of greenhouse gasses and fossil fuels, air pollution Nguyen 4 decreases. Air pollution, primarily those contributed through coal burning power plants emitting fine-particulate pollutants, is most associated with causing health problems, chiefly lung cancer. The Environment Protection Agency (EPA) predicts that conversion, or even standards, will prevent at least 100,000 heart attacks and asthma attacks per year. Additionally, EPA also estimates a projected 1,100 billion dollar income in health benefits due to avoiding illnesses and deaths (U.S. EPA). As a form of partnership, the health industry could invest a portion of this money into the clean air movement due to its beneficial health impacts and help make installation cheaper. A majority of these pollutants are associated with dangerous levels of climate change, this biggest threat to human health. Climate change, a change in global climate patterns, increasingly jeopardize the fundamental requirements for health, including clean urban air, safe and sufficient drinking-water, a secure and nutritious food supply, and adequate shelter (World Health Climate change is the main contributor and accelerator towards global warming. Global warming increases the risk of two deadly diseases: Plague and Ebola, to name a few. For Plague, changes in temperature and rainfall will affect rodent populations as well as the infected fleas they carry. Additionally, Ebola outbreaks tend to follow serious downpours or droughts, a likely result of climate change (Biello). The movement would not only lower the pollution rate and risk of infection, but also save countless lives across the globe during the process. Taking all these points into consideration, it is important for everyone to assure that renewable energy is an efficient energy source for the world. It is harmless to the environment and can be used to power the world. Fossil fuels exist in limited amounts, and when they are all used there will be none left. So people need to act as soon as possible, humans need to grab the little hope left before it is too late. If everyone join and fight together for a fossil fuels-free Nguyen 5 environment, it will be more rewarded than anyone can think of. Do it for the loved one and the future generations. Nguyen 6 WORKS CITED Darling, David. Encyclopedia of Alternative Energy. N.p., n.d. Web. 18 Apr. 2017. Energy Sources Energy Explained, Your Guide To Understanding Energy Energy Information EIA. US Energy Information Administration, 17 Mar. 2015. Web. 18 Apr. 2017. Rosecrance, Richard, and Peter Thompson. Trends in Sustainable Energy Review of Political Science 6.1 (2003): 7. UNEP. United Nations Environment Programme, 13 Oct. 2014. Web. 19 Apr. 2017. U.S. EPA. Up Toxic Air Benefits and Costs of Cleaning up Toxic Air Pollution (n.d.): n. pag. EPA. Environment Protection Agency. Web. 18 Apr. 2017. World Health Organization. Renewable Energy (n.d.): 7. WHO. World Health Organization, 2012. Web. 19 Apr. 2017. Perera, Frederica P.1, fpp1@cumc.columbia.edu. Multiple Threats to Child Health from Fossil Fuel Combustion: Impacts of Air Pollution and Climate  Environmental Health Perspectives, vol. 125, no. 2, pp. 141-148. Feb. 2017. 19 Apr. 2017 Dorsey, Inc. Piccirilli. Fossil  EESI - Environmental and Energy Study Institute. N.p., 20 Feb. 2016. Web. 19 Apr. 2017. The Hidden Costs of Fossil  Union of Concerned Scientists. N.p., 26 Oct. 2015. Web. 19 Apr. 2017. Biello, David. Due to Climate Scientific American. N.p., 8 Oct. 2008. Web. 9 Apr. 2016. Daniel J. Weiss and Valeri Vasquez. Fossil Fuels: A Legacy of  Center for American Progress. N.p., 19 Apr. 2011. Web. 24 Apr. 2017.