Emrick 1 Ashley Emrick Prof. William Drugan ENC1102.072 19 April 2017 See It to Be It: the Case for Equality in Theatre Theatre is an integral part of our society and is used to raise awareness of issues, further acceptance of those considered different, and to tell the stories of all kinds of people. While theatre is a beautiful and meaningful art form there are still issues within the industry, specifically in regards to gender quality and diversity. It is vital for theatre to have representation from all perspectives whether they are female, male, LGBTQ+, differently abled, or people of color, in order to be truly inclusive. Gender inequality is a prevalent problem in the theatre industry and affects every aspect of a production including: playwrights, directors, designers, musicians, and performers. Action for Women in Theatre conducted a study that found that only 7% of directors and playwrights working in off-Broadway and regional theatre between 1969 to 1975 were women (HowlRound). In 2012 that number was 24% (AmericanTheatre.org). In off-Broadway productions, only 30% of designers are women and female orchestra musicians are 50% more likely to be hired when it is a blind audition (Playbill). Why is it that female artists are passed over in favor of a male artist so often? One could argue that the financial backers are concerned with profit. However, a study found that in the last ten years, shows by women sold 16% more tickets a week and ended up being 18 percent more profitable during their runs (NYTimes). The statistics for artists of color are even more disparaging: 14% of all available roles went to black actors, 3% to Latino Emrick 2 actors, 3% to Asian actors, 1% to other minorities, and the remaining 79% of roles went to Caucasian actors. Why is it so important to have gender equality and diversity in theatre? Does it matter to a story who written, directed, or performed by? Absolutely, as it by showcasing a diverse population that a diverse population can be inspired and empowered. Jeanine Tesori, who composed the Tony Award winning musical Fun Home, said in regards to female artists in the theatre industry, have to see it to be it. We stand on the shoulders of other women who have come before us This belief that have to see it to be is a compelling reason to strive for gender equality and diversity in the stories being told and the perspectives from which they come. Girls need to see women in positions of power and doing interesting jobs to know that they are also capable of such things, boys need to see depictions of men being emotional and kind in order to know that it is okay to be that way, children need to see people of color depicted as character beyond maids and criminals to know that people of color are just as capable and accomplished. Maya Angelou said, diversity there is beauty and there is Diversity in the arts also promotes a wider understanding and acceptance of cultures, lifestyles, and abilities that differ from our own. Allegiance, a musical by Jay Kuo, is about a Japanese family that lived in America during World War II and was forced into internment camps; the musical Ragtime tells the stories of an upper-class white family, a poor black family, and a Jewish Latvian immigrant and how they were all connected; the Deaf production of Spring Awakening utilized a cast deaf performers and marked the debut of a performer in a wheelchair on Broadway; Next to Normal is a musical that presents an honest and intimate look at mental illness and its affects; and the musical Fun Home is the true story of artist Alison Bechdel, a lesbian who struggled with Emrick 3 her sexuality and dealing with her closeted suicide. Presenting such a large range of stories and backgrounds can help audiences understand perspectives other than their own and to be more accepting of people with experiences that are different from theirs. Supporting diversity and equality in theatre is vital in order to get more works by female and people of color produced. Even though it is an art form, it is still an industry and money is an extremely motivating factor in what is produced. By seeing shows that are new, that are written by people of color, that have female directors, that tell stories of the disenfranchised, one can support diversity and equality in theatre. Children need to be able to see people like themselves in such roles in order to know it is possible to grow up and do the same thing, teenagers need to see characters struggling with the same issues as they are to know that issues can be overcome, and all people need to see stories similar to their own in order to feel that they are not alone. That is what theatre can do when it encompasses the diverseness of humanity. Emrick 4 Works Cited Bader, Jenny Lyn. A Brief History of the Gender Parity Movement in  HowlRound. N.p., 04 Mar. 2017. Web. 18 Apr. 2017. Evans, Suzy. Women Push for Equality On and Off  AMERICAN THEATRE. American Theatre Wing, 15 July 2015. Web. 15 April 2017 Cohen, Patricia. Rethinking Gender Bias in  The New York Times. The New York Times, 23 June 2009. Web. 18 Apr. 2017. Paulson, Michael. Study: Diversity in New York Theater Roles Rose in 2014-15  The New York Times. The New York Times, 02 May 2016. Web. 19 Apr. 2017. Hetrick, Adam. Girls, You Have to See It to Be The Historic and Powerful Fun Home Tony Acceptance Speeches You See on  Playbill. PLAYBILL INC., 08 June 2015. Web. 19 Apr. 2017.