Beck, 1 Nicholas Beck Professor Drugan Comp. 2 21 April 2017 Ending Animal Abuse Every year, over 100 million animals are burned, crippled, and poisoned in U.S. labs Animal Testing Innocent animals endure a lifetime of pain, and abuse, to serve as a test for household products and cosmetics. While being force-fed or injected with pharmaceuticals, industrial chemicals, and pesticides among other substances, the test subjects are slowly poisoned while fully conscious. Consumers turn a blind eye to the abuse of animal experimentation, purchasing products from animal-testing companies such as cosmetics, Johnson & Johnson, Clorox, and Colgate Companies That Test On Animals Americans are likely familiar with the bulk of brands that test on animals, but are unfamiliar with what this actually entails. Shifting towards products that are cruelty free and getting involved in petitions/ protests , are essential steps to ending to this inhumane practice. Various species, such as mice, rabbits, dogs, and primates to name a few, live out lives of maltreatment in confinement to small cages. They lack the freedom to express natural behaviors, and most never see outside their laboratory walls. The animals are subject to being infected with disease, chemically burned, addicted to drugs, and are sometimes even poisoned as a company tests various harsh physical state, accompanied with emotional stress, have been shown to result in Beck, 2 chronic inflammatory conditions, as well as stress-induced psychosis. The labs are experimenting on these animals without regards to humane methods, literally driving them crazy ( Animals in Science / and 1). The Animal Welfare Act (AWA) is the only U.S. federal law that regulates the treatment of animals in research, exhibition, and transport, but does so minimally: it excludes 99% of animals like rats, birds, fish, reptiles, and amphibians. Experiments on Animals: Overview 1). These are the creatures most used test subjects because they have a voice. are not any laws in place mandating veterinary care for these suffering animals either, so they go untreated, and are left to die either forcefully or on their own. Experimentation on animals, especially for nonscientific purposes, is not a tolerable or necessary practice. A change needs to be made. Organizations such as PETA and the Humane Society of the United States, are world-renowned, and collectively act as the voice, advocating a common goal: to end animal suffering by publically projecting the reality that goes on behind closed lab doors. Torture and abuse of animals are brought to light, having eyes sewn shut, spines crushed, and skulls surgically cut open, all without the use of pain medication Cruelty to Animals in Additionally, PETA has noted that these methods have numerous alternatives, proven to not only provide more accurate results, but also not at the expense of innocent animal lives. In Vitro testing has become a recent alternative to experimentation on animals. Small chips, similar to those found in an average smartphone or computer, contain cells which mimic structure and cellular function within humans. These chips have been Beck, 3 proven to human physiology, diseases, and drug responses more accurately than crude animal experiments Alternatives to Animal Another noteworthy alternative is computer modeling (in silico). Computer modeling simulates various diseases on technological models, showing how progression would occur in the human body, and even predicting how certain drugs will react on a basis of similar substances and human biology Alternatives to Animal These alternatives eliminate the suffering of animals, and provide data more applicable to possible hazards on human health. Although these alternatives are accessible, large companies, as well as federal officials, defend their use of animals in research/ testing. They claim that there have been provisions made to meet ethical standards and satisfy animal activists, while mentioning that there is only so much they can adjust before research (U.S. Officials Defend Animal Research, 1). It is required that each establishment taking part in animal testing must have Institutional Animal Care and Use Committees (IACUC), to review and approve each experiment. The require that researchers provide documentation of all procedures, and a consultation with a veterinarian must be made if there is any suspected momentary stress or pain induced to the animals Animal testing ,1). These are also mandated to inspect all animal experimentation sites every 6 months. However, 82 percent of membership within comprise of experimenters and laboratory veterinarians, with 98.6% of leadership positions also being held by experimenters Experiments on Animals: These statistics demonstrate that the enforced oversight process is Beck, 4 undermined. Rather than protecting animal well-being, they approve studies, and therefore limit the effectiveness of any clauses of oversight. of mutilated rabbits and cats, videos of monkeys screaming in agony, as well as the remains of tortured animals have made the lack of provisions evident. clear that the ethical requirements of large companies differ from those of any rational human being. When there is profit to be made, and risks of being sued minimized, methods used can be quite nefarious. Those who oppose an end to animal testing want to preserve the The data resulting from animal testing has shown to be inaccurately used as a model for symptoms and effects expected to be experienced by consumers. Most drugs administered on animals during experimentation, roughly 92% that were deemed safe, fail in human trials. These drugs either work, or are labeled as when given to humans in clinical trials U.S. Food and Drug Administration This alarming statistic proves that animal testing provides misleading information, at the expense of millions of abused animals. Not only is this at the expense of animals, but also at the expense of the general public. Nearly 16 billion dollars in taxpayer money a year, is allocated to the cruel, inhumane practice PETITION: Reduction of animal testing to reduce government waste at the U.S. Department of health, an individual agency known as the National Institutes of Health (NIH), has been termed the primary agency for health related research. This government agency appropriates 47% of their funded grants towards animal experimentation, which equates to a monetary amount of over 10 billion. This mismanagement of federal funds is unacceptable, and be Beck, 5 tolerated. Instead, these extensive funds could be allocated to extend the use of sustainable energy; by building wind turbines and installing solar panels on a widespread scale, improving public schooling, or refining healthcare for veterans. Every purchase made by consumers, counts as a vote to the policy and regulation of the products they choose. Buying products that experiment on animals, is like saying approve of animal testing, and I vote to continue the Shifting towards more natural products, free of extensive chemicals, and researching brands that do not test on animals, helps save millions of lives. Simply changing the product purchased, contributes to the extent to which animals are suffering. Additionally, the voice can help reshape the approach of testing harmful substances, Reforms in public policy regarding suffrage, segregation, and equality, have all been made possible by the voices of many, uniting under a common cause. time for everyone to get involved, and put an end to animal testing. Participating in petitions, taking part in animal rights rallies, or making donations to PETA to aid animals, are all ways to get involved. turn a blind eye, be the voice for those who speak up, contribute to the end of animal testing today! Beck, 6 Annotated Bibliography Animal Testing N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Apr. 2017. This source detailed the shocking statistics of animal testing, stating that 100 million animals suffer and die due to the inhumane practice. This article also includes government agencies involved in animal testing, which prompted me to research prominent agencies, such as the NIH. This provided me with evidence to introduce key points, such as the amount of animals tested on annually, and contained a video displaying the suffering of animals. I was able to use the statistic that 99% of animals are not covered by regulations set by the AWA, making such regulations ineffective. This article really helped back my message to end animal testing. Peta2. Alternatives: Testing Without Torture Peta2, 09 Mar. 2017. Beck, 7 This article provided information on the alternatives to animal testing. It detailed In-Vitro, as well as computer modeling. Studies have shown that these alternative methods provide accurate data, and are reliable to show possible adverse effects a drug/ substance has on humans. I was able to use this article to provide evidence of alternatives, and prove that animal testing can, and needs to be eliminated from scientific research. Having information on the alternatives, strengthened my paper, detailing that other methods are accessible and how they exactly work. Companies That Test On Animals N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Apr. 2017. This article detailed which companies test on animals, and promoted an end to purchases of their products. This extensive lists of companies who are responsible for animal testing. I included some of these companies into my paper. I used this source to provide examples of companies who partake in animal testing. It was useful to strengthening my call to action, by showing the audience, they are familiar with brands that are in a common household. Brands that hide the cruel torture of innocent animals. U.S. Officials Defend Animal  N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Apr. 2017 This article provided the opposing views. It listed statements made by U.S. officials to preserve the of animal testing. This source Beck, 8 provided information from those who oppose alternatives, stating that provisions have been made. This was easily one of my favorite sources I used to strengthen my argument. The statements made within the article provoke emotions in the audience, having thoroughly explained the reality that is animal testing. Providing the views of those in favor of animal testing allowed me to present both sides, inducing reactions in my audience that these so called still allow for the inhumane treatment of innocent animals. Animal Welfare States Department of N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Apr. 2017. U.S. Food and Drug Administration  N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Apr. 2017. PETITION: Reduction of Animal Testing to Reduce Government Waste at Tax  N.p., n.d Cruelty to Animals in  N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Apr. 2017. Animals in Science /  and N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Apr. 2017. Experiments on Animals:  N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Apr. 2017. Beck, 9