Li 1 Runmin Li William Drugan ENC 1102.072 April 19, 2017 Aviation Emissions and Bio-Jet fuel Environmental quality has been the top topic around the world in recent years, and most people consider the road transportation emissions as the main contributor to greenhouse gas emissions in the United States. However, the aviation emissions have become a large contributor to air pollution in decades and is responsible for half of worldwide carbon dioxide emissions (AIRPLANE EMISSIONS). accounts for about 12% of transportation emissions, or 3.36% of total CO2 emissions in the (Aviation Emissions, Impacts & Migration: A Primer). Also, the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) predicts that demand for air transportation will increase rapidly to support human development and economic growth in future (Aviation & Emissions A Primer). Consequently, aviation emissions will increase dramatically as well and exceed the emissions produced by road transportation, and the environmental problem will get worse, such as global warming. Fortunately, the Aviation Transportation Action Group(ATAG), which is a not-for-profit association that represents all the aviation firms and industries, comes up with an alternative method to reduce aviation emissions via bio-jet fuel. However, bio-jet fuel cost is high and the firms and industries has no incentives to use it instead of petroleum-based fuel. Therefore, the ATAG and the government need to educate people and workers in aviation field about the aviation emissions and improve their awareness of environmental quality; also, the ATAG and the government Li 2 need to encourage aviation firms and industries to use more bio-jet fuel to reduce the emissions and other pollutions via policies and programs. It is important to demonstrate the aviation emissions and its negative effect on the environment and human health to those people and workers in aviation field. According to the article Emissions, Impacts & Migration: A Aircraft engines produce almost 90 percent of carbon dioxide (CO2), water vapor (H2O), nitrogen oxides (NOx), oxides of sulfur (SOx), carbon monoxide (CO), hydrocarbons (HC), and particulate matter (PM) into the air above 3000 feet. In addition, some of the emissions would fall below 3000 feet. Also, the aviation industries produce a large amount of air emissions as well, and some of them goes up to higher altitudes. Then the emissions accumulate at the altitude and make the global warming worse by absorbing the sunlight and re-emit into the surface of the earth to cause the rise of temperature (A blanket around the Earth). The Goddard Institute for Space Studies (GISS) provide the data that shows the average global temperature has increased around 1.4 Fahrenheit since 1880 (World of Change: Global Temperatures: Feature Articles). With the increase in temperature, there are many social and environmental issues come up and threaten the survival of all species on the earth. For examples, the percentage of megadrought, a drought existing at least three decades, increases from 12 to 80 in the United States without controlling the emissions (Megadroughts in U.S. West Projected to be Worst of the Millennium). Also, Arctic sea ice is melting at an average annually rate of 13,500 square miles since 1979, which it exceeds the increase of sea ice in Antarctica; and, this results in a rise of sea level (NASA Study Shows Global Sea Ice Diminishing, Despite Antarctic Gains). Those issues have a negative impact on human and other animals in food supply, habitats, Li 3 fresh water supply, and so on. An inappropriate environmental quality would increase the difficulty of survival for all species that live in the planet. Therefore, the people and workers in aviation field need to consider the consequences of ultimate utilizing air transportation for maximum profits and production and try to find out a substitute for petroleum-based fuel. To avoid the increase of aviation emission and the environmental and human development issues in the long-run, the ATAG points out the alternative way to achieve it via bio-jet fuel. Bio-jet fuel is a high-technological renewable resource made by combining alcohol with animal fat, vegetable oil, and recycled cooking grease (Biofuels Basics). It can reduce 80% of aviation emissions, and the rest of the emissions can be absorbed by nature system and the land used to grow vegetable for biofuels (Facts & FIGURES). This new resource is supposed to be the perfect substitute for aviation firms and industries to reduce the usage of petroleum-based fuel. However, the price of bio-jet fuel is three or more times than regular jet fuel. According to the date collected by Doc. Wang, the price of bio-jet fuel is from 10.88 dollars per gallons to 98.8 dollars per gallon depending on different material and processes. Besides, the price of jet fuel is from 2.15 dollars per gallon to 12.37 dollars per gallon (Fuel price report). By comparing the two different fuels, the firms and industries would rather use jet fuel than paying high cost on bio-jet fuel. Therefore, the government need to make policies that impose a high tax on jet fuel per gallon and give subsidies for those firms and industries that use the bio-jet fuel. Also, the ATAG need to promote aviation firms and industries to improve engine technology for best use with bio-jet fuel. After these activities, aviation emissions can be at the steady state point, that the emissions growth rate will be zero; and it is possible to reduce the total emissions when biofuel spreads out around Li 4 the world. In conclusion, current aviation emissions have threatened species survival and environmental quality; thus, the education of aviation emissions for the firms and industries becomes important and necessary. Also, the environmental awareness is raising with the effects and facts of current environmental and social issues. Furthermore, the ATAG and the government need to lead aviation firms and industries to reduce emissions via better policies and programs. With the three aspects, it is confident to say that aviation emissions will draw back dramatically in future while aviation firms and industries keeping the maximum production and profits. This is achieve the goal of human development which is to be sustainable with high living standard and high environmental quality without taking any advantage of resources of future generations. Li 5 Work Cited AIRPLANE  Biologicaldiversity.org. CENTER for BIOLOGICAL DIVERSITY, n.d. Web. 19 Apr. 2017. Aviation Emissions, Impacts & Migration: A  Faa.gov. Federal Aviation Administration, Jan. 2015. Web. 19 Apr. 2017. Aviation & Emissions A  Faa.gov. Federal Aviation Administration, Jan. 2005. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. A blanket around the  Climate.nasa.gov. National Aeronautics and Space Administration, 18 Apr. 2017. Web. 19 Apr. 2017. Biofuels  Nrel.gov. U.S. Department of Energy, n.d. Web. 20 Apr. 2017. Facts &  Atag.org. Air Transport Action Group, May 2016. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. Fuel price  Airnav.com. AirNav, LLC, 19 Apr. 2017. Web. 20 Apr. 2017. Megadroughts in U.S. West Projected to be Worst of the  Svs.gsfc.nasa.gov. National Aeronautics and Space Administration, 12 Feb. 2015. Web. 20 Apr. 2017. NASA Study Shows Global Sea Ice Diminishing, Despite Antarctic  Nasa.gov. National Aeronautics and Space Administration, 10 Feb. 2015. Web. 20 Apr. 2017. Regulations for Greenhouse Gas Emissions from  Epa.gov. United States Environmental Protection Agency, 2016. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. World of Change: Global Temperatures: Feature  Earthobservatory.nasa.gov. NASA Goddard Space Flight Center, n.d. Web. 20 Apr. 2017. Wang, Wei-Cheng, et al. Review of Biojet Fuel Conversion  Nrel.gov. National Renewable Energy Laboratory, July 2016. Web. 17 Apr. 2017.