Hall 1 Samantha Hall Ms. Heiser ENC 1102.069 05 April 2017 Outing College Athletics and What Can Be Done Whether people realize it or not, college athletes are a huge part of their lives in many more ways than one. People also may think it is a simple process: athlete plays their whole life, talks to scouts, get a scholarship, play in college, and then go to the major leagues. But, a lot more to it that anyone else know. The organization of the National Collegiate Athletes Association (NCAA) sets the rules and regulations of college athletics across America in regards to paying college athletes. They are the ones who have control of college athletes and who have cheated them of opportunities that they may not even realize. People should become engaged in this topic because they revolve around college athletics. Most likely, there would not be major leagues without college leagues and if happening now keeps up, we may lose it all. However, there are actions that can be taken to resolve and help the managements of college athletics by not only the fans and everyday people, but the athletes themselves. To begin, the NCAA has created many rules and regulations that are placed on college athletes. These rules were created to keep athletes well sufficed but instead have actually limited opportunities they could have had. The first set of rules are based off the term of This is basically saying that any athlete coming into the collegiate league, must have no previous experience of professional play or any type of payment for their abilities in their sport. Under the perspective of keeping all athletes equal to each other, this fully accommodates that standard. Hall 2 However, these restrictions on not allowing athletes to be payed can also be what keeps them from other things available to them such as education. It is very rare to come across a college athlete that is not all-in dedicated to their sport. Between practices, games, and workouts, it already must be hard to find time for school work. Sometimes, athletes can even obtain special treatment in their classes, for example, extended deadlines. With this, they can begin to lose motivation and dedication to their school work. If some athletes were to be given a salary, it would drive their attention towards their sport and only their sport. This coincides with another of goals of making a quality education any student-athletes first priority. Graduation rates in the country for college athletes are high but also seem to be a problem because athletes will leave college to get drafted into the majors. Although, according to a news article by Paul Steinbach, graduation success rate is not the same metric as is used for the general student (Steinbach). In fact, the overall gap between Division I basketball players and the general full-time male student is a difference of 20.6 points. With this information, it does not seem like the goal of education coming first is being demonstrated very well. A lot of people think that during the process of being a student athlete, there is not much to it. Of course all of their extracurricular activities can put a lot of stress on them, but getting free college so okay, right? Wrong. The pay-to-play issue in major college sports is usually a no brainer to people for that exact reason. Some people struggle just to get in to college let alone having to pay for it; so, having a free ride through it seems like a pretty good compensation. However, as journalist Greg Johnson explains in his article, student athletes are in a situation that the rest of us cannot truly relate too (Johnson). The NCAA is basically a fully commercialized, multi-billion dollar industry that regulates their players to the point of Hall 3 exploitation. Out of all the events, commercializing, branding and promoting that come along with the job of a college athlete, you would think they would get some of its worth out of it. Michael Wilbon of ESPN College Sports has been analyzing college sports since 2001 and focuses solemnly on the fact of how much money college sports bring in for each university. According to Wilbon, there is an $11 billion dollar deal between NCAA and CBS for March Madness between the years 2011 and 2024. The athletes, in which this even happen without, got none of it. 11 billion dollars the athletes are being cheated from. There is even an entire journal comparing college athlete to poverty conditions. This claim seems elaborated but in this journal they further describe how basketball and football players are valued at hundreds of thousands of dollars annually while the NCAA restricts the value of their scholarship to a level of compensation below poverty level for majority of athletes (Huma and Staurowsky 6). The main reason to be engaged within what is happening is because the athletes people cheer for, the athletes that are child, the athletes that are going out of their way to be the best they could be, are being cheated from right under nose. Not only are athletes being cheated from the money they bring into the school, but the NCAA is believed by some to be violating Section 1 of The Sherman Act. Section 1 emphasizes the actual nature of constraining interstate commerce or constraining the free market (anti- trust.laws.com). This is done when the athletes name, images and likenesses are being used without the athletes being compensated. This was taken so seriously amongst athletes and involved people that the case was brought to court in 2009 by a former basketball player and several other athletes. According to a journal report by Marc Edelman, he argues there are two ways a plaintiff could challenge the no-pay rule: The first is to contend that the no-pay rules represent a form of Hall 4 wage fixing that harms not only the market for student-athlete services but also the quality of college on-field product. The second is to argue that the NCAA rules constitute an illegal group boycott of those colleges that would otherwise compete in a free market to recruit student-athletes (75). These reasons become very real when it is making a huge impact on a college athletes life. It is not fair for them to be working so hard and providing their abilities to the university and NCAA organization in whole and have no compensation in return. Yes, these students are receiving a scholarship and having free college, but playing at the collegiate level deserves so much more. With all of the insight on the NCAA regulations, and empowering on why people should care, there are ways for people to take action in these scenarios. The actions against this issue alone can create a major corruption to the system that has been intact for many, many years. One of the calls to action that reporter Jemele Hill of ESPN Sports explains is that the athletes should organize a massive boycott (espn.com). Even though this is a very risky action, he further explains that players have unprecedented leverage, especially in the big time (espn.com) giving them a lot of leverage to get what they want. Without players, college football and basketball alone be generating the billions of dollars from licensing, television contracts, video games, etc. that keep organizations running. Boycotting puts all of this at risk giving the athletes power to petition almost anything they want. The NCAA and universities would most likely be willing to fulfill extreme measures in order to get their athletes cooperating again. But of course, nothing can actually be passed in regards to changing college athletics regulations without going through the NCAA and government themselves. If they were to see that not only the athletes cared about these rules, but their people of Hall 5 did as well, it may make an even greater impact. This is clearly not an easy process, but every little bit of fight helps to make sure our athletes are getting treated with the rights and regulations they deserve. In conclusion, most of America revolves around sports. Major league players are supplied from college leagues so it is only right that these college athletes are treated right. one amazing opportunity to have a full ride college scholarship but does it really suffice all the hard work put in by these athletes? The ability to pay our college athletes could help them stay in school, motivate them to do better, and open opportunities to future careers in and out of sports. It can ensure they uphold the educational part in their college career. Whether these athletes are part of peoples favorite sports team, or child that they hope to get that scholarship to their dream, it is right for the people to take action to regulate the rights that they have been stripped from. Hall 6 Works Cited Edelman, Marc. A Short Treatise on Amateurism and Antitrust Law: Why the No-Pay Rules Violate Section 1 of the Sherman  Case Western Reserve Law Review, vol. 64, no. 1, Fall2013, pp. 61-99. EBSCOhost Hill , Jemele. Call to Action for College ESPN, 6 Apr. 2011, Huma, Ramogi, Staurowsky, Ellen J. Price of Poverty in Big Time College NCPA, p. 6 Johnson, Greg. StudentNation NCAA Makes Billions and Student Athletes Get None of The Nation, 29 June 2015 Steinbach, Paul. NCAA Graduation Rates Tell The Whole Athletic Business, Dec. 2011 Is Section 1 of the Sherman Antitrust Anti Trust, LAWS, 14 Mar. 2014, Wilbon, Michael, Athletes deserve to be ESPN College Sports, 18 Jul. 2011