Castaneda 1 Mariana Castaneda Professor Ryan ENC 1102 30 April 2017 Project 3: Composing Multimodal Arguments The fight for women equality and rights has been a heavily debated and prominent issue for many years. Despite the constitutional legality of abortion in the United States, millions of women have nonetheless found themselves fighting for the right to agency over their own bodies. Women were first granted the constitutional right to abortion in 1977, with the U.S. Supreme decision in Roe V Wade. The Ruling held that a right to privacy under the Due Process Clause extended to a decision to have an abortion, but that this right must be balanced against the interests in regulating abortions: protecting health and protecting the potentiality of human life. v In the latter case, Planned Parenthood v Casey, the court ruled that a woman has a right to abortion up to fetal viability, which in most cases comes at about 23 to 24 weeks. However, subsequent court decisions and state rulings have put numerous burdens on women in hopes of restricting their access to abortion. The Hyde Amendment, for example, bans federal dollars from being used for abortion coverage for women insured by Medicaid. Similar restrictions operate to deny abortion coverage to women with disabilities, Native Americans, prison inmates, poor women in the District of Columbia, military personnel and federal employees. [Guttmacher The court has also held that states may use their own, nonfederal funding to provide abortion coverage for women. Although seventeen states have policies requiring the state to provide abortion coverage under Medicaid, only fifteen appear to be doing so in practice. Furthermore, by 2016, twenty-seven states had at least four types Castaneda 2 of abortion restrictions and were therefore considered hostile to abortion. It is because of the more well-known federal laws, the ones that legalize abortion, that most people realize how vulnerable their rights are. Every day, legislators impose more restrictions and restraints on rights over their own bodies. And because of that, it is vital that the population is informed of who they vote for, who will protect their rights, and what the current laws are. Certain legislators seem to think that imposing harsh laws and restrictions upon women will lessen the number of abortions. However, it has been shown that the number of restrictions placed on abortions has caused an increase in the number of illegal abortions throughout the world. The World Health Organization defines unsafe abortion as a procedure for terminating a pregnancy that is performed by an individual lacking the necessary skills, or in an environment that does not conform to minimal medical standards, or both. In the United States, the number of illegal abortions during the 1950s and 60s ran as high as 1.2 million per year. Today however, abortions are amongst the most commonly conducted clinical procedures, and the death rate from abortion is about 0.6 per 100,000 procedures. Seeing the shocking decrease of deaths caused by abortion is clear evidence that its legalization decreases risks and complications by allowing women to obtain them in a timely and safe manner. Research conducted by the Guttmacher institute also explains that highly restrictive abortion laws are not correlated with lower abortion rates. So, if restrictive laws do not lead to a decrease in the number of abortions, but instead to higher death rates caused by an increase in illegal abortion practices, why is it that more than one-half of the United States is considered hostile to their practice? It simply does not add up. When it comes to college students, many individuals see the issue from an outside perspective. Many want nothing to do with the topic because they are sure that they will never be in a position Castaneda 3 where abortion might be the best option for them. easy to think that way, simply ignore the facts, the protests, look down at their phones and walk faster when the activists (usually pro-life, as they are an outstandingly outspoken minority) approach them. However, when considering the experiences of those who have been there, done that, this serves as a reminder that ignorance is not always bliss. As the future of this country, a college biggest responsibility is to inform themselves and those around them. Information inspires action. And that is the only thing that will help solve this issue. might surprise some people, but most unplanned pregnancies are not to teens but to unmarried women in their said Andrea Kane, senior director of policy and partnerships at the National Campaign. in 10 pregnancies among single women in their 20s are unplanned. When you start to think, can we make a difference, and where are these young The answer is that a growing number of them are now community college [Inside Higher This serves as proof that college students are in fact one of the main groups affected by unplanned pregnancies, and although it surely affect everyone, chances are it will at one point hit close to home for many. For this reason, it is important that students are informed of the vulnerability of the laws currently protecting their rights, as well as what influence they can have on the issue. The problem with unplanned pregnancies amongst college students is that the numbers do not add up to success. To put things into perspective, statistics show that young women who give birth during their college careers are about 65% less likely to complete their degree than women who do not give birth during this time. It is an easy assumption that it is likely that the women who finish their degrees are those who either planned their pregnancy or otherwise accepted their situation and had the resources to continue with their careers. But the odds leave little to no room for hope for the opposite case. As the number of abortion restrictions on these students rises, so Castaneda 4 will the number of drop outs, which will in turn rise the number of families living below the poverty line, as well as the crime rate, and therefore the amount of money that will need to go towards social welfare programs. To prevent these catastrophic effects, it is of major importance for individuals to be informed of who their votes are going for, and what those people will do to protect or in this case, infringe upon their rights. The abortion issue is one that needs to be addressed promptly and efficiently, realizing who these laws affect most, and the effects that they have in the lives of thousands of women, it is clear that there is no time to waste. As explained in a Hastings Center Report by Nancy K. Rhoden, given the current socioeconomic conditions in the United States, restricting abortions means imposing pregnancy on those least capable to cope with it, and render young girls more likely to become single mothers, who thereby remain trapped in the cycle of poverty. This should come as no surprise, seeing that federal laws have posed restrictions on abortion funding for Medicaid programs, which insure the majority of low-income Americans. Some 75% of abortion patients in 2014 were poor or low-income. 26% of patients had incomes of of the federal poverty level, and 49% had incomes of less than 100% of the federal poverty level. [Guttmacher As mentioned previously, although a majority of Americans do in fact favor at least some access to abortion, those who are an extremely vocal minority with strong arguments on their side. Their argument that a fetus becomes a human from the moment of conception can seem bigger and stronger than the pro-choice view that a fetus has no standing prior to birth, or that its standing increases throughout the pregnancy. However, it is only logical that if late abortions are less morally accepted and more problematic than earlier ones, then abortion restrictions that lead to women having late abortions, such as waiting periods, parental permissions, etc., are surely similarly problematic. From a moral standpoint usually taken by pro-life advocates, it should also Castaneda 5 be logically immoral that denying a right to abort affirmative Samaritan-type duties on women that are not imposed on anyone else in any analogous Forcing women to continue unwanted pregnancies imposes physical and psychological burdens not imposed on anyone else. Another argument commonly made by the opposition is that women or couples who take the risk of getting pregnant should therefore take responsibility for the consequences of their actions. However, research by the Guttmacher Institute showed that 51% of abortion patients in 2008 were using a contraceptive method in the month they became pregnant, most commonly condoms or a hormonal method. Furthermore, this standpoint does not take into account the pregnancies resulting from rape or incest, in which women did not willingly take that risk. Although it may seem easy to place blame and point fingers, it is of utmost importance to take into consideration the situations of these individuals before making mistaken assumptions. It is not asked of college students to change legislation to protect rights over their own bodies. Not yet, at least. But it is acknowledged that college students are the future. One day, it will be in their hands to vote for or against issues that may not affect them personally, but that unfortunately, do and will affect many people they will meet throughout their lives. At that point in time, it will be crucial for them to be informed of the facts about abortion rights throughout the world. For now, all that is necessary is that they inform themselves of the laws, the individuals in charge of protecting those laws, and who the laws affect, and pass that knowledge around to others in preparation for the future. For now, change can be made by voting for government officials and legislators who will protect the rights of women at all costs. In the future, the millennial generation will be in charge of the population. Informed individuals will make the most impact. By realizing that information inspires action, and that action is necessary to protect rights to choose, a difference can be made. Castaneda 5 Works Cited Impact of Illegal Our Bodies Ourselves, 23 Mar. 2014, www.ourbodiesourselves.org/health-info/impact-of-illegal-abortion/. Accessed 19 Apr. 2017. Abortion in the United Guttmacher Institute, 17 Jan. 2017, www.guttmacher.org/fact-sheet/induced-abortion-united-states. Accessed 19 Apr. 2017. Moltz, David. Different Kind of Pregnant Inside Higher Ed, 25 Nov. 2009, www.insidehighered.com/news/2009/11/25/pregnancy. Accessed 19 Apr. 2017. Rhoden, Nancy K. Compromise on The Hastings Center Report, vol. 19, no. 4, 1 July 1989, pp. JSTOR, www.jstor.org/stable/10.2307/3562300?ref=search- gateway:96f52f30f5480e80e94dc4860a96ba6f. Accessed 19 Apr. 2017. v. Wikipedia, Wikimedia Foundation, 12 Apr. 2017, Accessed 19 Apr. 2017.