Betti 1 Alexandra Betti Professor Drugan April 18, 2017 ENC1102 Freedom from Hunger: Growing Starts Here Freedom from Hunger does not just focus on helping with the poverty and hunger that millions of people are suffering from in Africa, India, and Latin America; it pays specific attention to the women in these villages. They believe that what holds families and communities together are mothers, daughters, grandmothers, sisters, and aunts and that by educating and helping them their villages and home towns can begin to live prosperous lives again. Joining and donating to Freedom from Hunger ensures the participant that they are not just helping the lives of many suffering families, but making sure that the communities that are receiving the help are getting the chance to start over and build from the ground up. In the sub-Saharans of Africa many people live off of $1.25 a day and are expected to support families on just that. There are several reasons that banks and governments have a hard time trying to help these people in severe poverty is that banks they, Murad Ali and his three co- writers gives an example saying constraint faced by rural poor to microfinance programs is simply their inability to reach or make access to financial (Ali 338). Freedom from Hunger offers women education, specifically on financial literacy, this helps them understand how to make large portions of money out of the small loans they are given. One thing Freedom offers these people is the chance to participate in which is when Betti 2 rather than a bank offering an individual person an account their it offers a whole village an account and gives them all lower fees, better benefits, and more discounts. One village women who benefitted from this is Aminata Diarra. When Freedom from Hunger offered her and her family the opportunity to be a part of group banking she was able to take out money to care for her children which allowed them to go to school and for her to buy food to feed them. Another financial opportunity offered by Freedom is women can come and attend sessions where the financial advisors teach them how to ration their money and how to save it. They teach them how saving money now can help in the long run and can prevent future poverty. That way these third world populations do not have to worry about it being difficult for banks to reach them as stated in Microcredit & its Significance in Sustainable Development. From this poverty comes health and nutritional issues, 71% of children reported health Biswas and his colleagues report from a study done in rural India. Fortunately, Freedom from Hunger also specializes in teaching women about disease prevention and malnutrition. They use microinsurance to give health loans and insurance to people in serious need of it. But when they are not helping save those dying of life threatening diseases, they are spreading the word on prevention and different medical treatments to all women listening and willing to become health professionals in their home villages. An example of this is Nandini Nath who sought her own health training after losing all of her money to a loan shark. After finishing her training, she was made the in her village and now cures people of simple but deadly illness that can spread easily in large groups of people, such as a sexually transmitted disease. Participants who join Freedom can attend meetings were people like Nandini come and speak about their experiences and how their time in this organization has benefited their own lives as well as their Betti 3 The final focus for this institution is agriculture. Freedom from Hunger helps these women use the money they have saved up through group banking and savings groups to generate more food. This way they are fighting off malnutrition and starvation while also making a profit from the food they produce and sell. For one women this was her chance to eliminate starvation for her nine children and to start a family business that would last generations. Sebastiana, a widow living in the Andes Mountains, took out a loan of $64 dollars to start a business entirely based off of the growing and selling of pigs. She hopes this business can continue long after she is gone by her children to ensure that they will not have to worry about food or money ever again. The main problem with poverty in Latin America is that the small percentage of those who do manage to get out of debt and poverty tend to fall back into it. In Poverty, vulnerability, and the middle class in Latin America, Pablo writes of the extreme poor and 78% of those that were moderate poor in 2003 experienced chronic poverty between 2004 and (16). So for Sebastiana to start a family business, that will prosper for years to come, is an immensely intelligent idea because she is then establishing that in the future her family will not have to worry about falling down the social class ladder. If participants had not been there to offer these types of services to people like Sebastiana, then families like hers - and ones in much worse conditions - would still be undergoing hardships. By joining Freedom from Hunger you are not just metaphorically a helping through your donations, you are educating, growing, strengthening, and encouraging the women of these three communities. By doing this you are making sure that their lives are fruitful and lucrative, you are making sure that they are happy and healthy just as you are in your home town. Growing starts here, with solicitous people like you. Betti 4 Works Cited Ali, Murad; Jan, Farzand Ali; Saeed, Gohar; Zeb, Alam. Microcredit and its Significance in Sustainable Development and Poverty Alleviation: Evidence from Asia, Africa, Latin America, and Europe, 2016. This journal discusses how microfinance aids countries suffering from high poverty rates and goes into depth on the actions that are being taken by the government, banks, and people. The four authors discuss the controversy between the banks loaning people money and the people not being able to pay it off. Then they go into detail on how governmental constraints are making poverty worse because they offer as much welfare as they should and helping the banks or the people. Ways to help these various people start with schooling and end with group-loaning, topics discussed and used by Freedom from Hunger. Ali Murad is a neurological surgeon who has been working with and caring for the people living in Pueblo for several years now. His partner Farzand Jan has a doctorate in and is head of the Management Science Department at the university he works at. Gohar Saeed is another doctor but he specializes in cardio and has been awarded twice for his work. Alam Zeb has published five other works featuring research done mainly based off of plants and health conditions, he is considered influential by more than four of his colleagues and continues to conduct successful research studies. Betti 5 Bake, A.; Brouwer, I.D.; de A.W.; Giller, K.E. Agronomic biofortification of crops to fight hidden hunger in sub-Saharan Africa. Global Food Security, 2017. Insufficient crops cause malnutrition in the sub-Saharan of Africa and these four researchers believe that using agronomic biofortification will help solve this problem and grow more prosperous amounts of crops for many years to come. Though crop deficiencies are only part of the health problem in this part of Africa starting their will make a huge difference. This journal talks about how eliminating starchy foods from the diets and beginning organic crop rotation will immensely improve health conditions and is will help save villages money. A Bake is an engineer and sociologist, he works at the University of Wageningen and continues to conduct research studies based on agronomics at his university. His second partner, Brouwer has written forty-five other articles and focuses on biological sciences and economics. A. W. de is an environmental science professor who has only written one article but focuses highly on global security of food. Lastly is Giller, he has participated in co-writing three-hundred and ten other articles that focuses mostly on agriculture and biological sciences but he also dabbles in energy and planetary sciences as well. Biswas, Animesh; Dalal, Koustuv; Sahoo, Dilip Kumar; Mondal, Sourav. Characteristics of Child Labor and Their Health Problems: Findings from Rural Community of India, 2016. Betti 6 After cross-sectional research was done in India on how child labor effects the children and their families, the results that were found supported that of there being a lack of education to the children and their parents. Several graphs and surveys were taken of the child laborers and the authors found that a large percentage of the child workers chose to work on their own for their sake and that their money goes towards their house hold, a much smaller percentage found that the kids were forced into labor or were orphans to begin with. The lack of education only further suggests that less children would have to work if their parents were educated and that having high rates of illiteracy only fuels industries to continue tricking children into working for less money and nearly no benefits. Animesh Biswas has a PhD in Epidemiology and specializes in Public Health, he has written fifty-one other articles and journals and has participated in fifty-nine research studies. I trust his work because he has skills and experience in health, community, focus groups, injury prevention, meta-analysis, and qualitative research methods. His second partner, Koustuv Dalal is a professor of health economics and also public health with epidemiology. He has participated in five other projects similar to this one, dealing with families and the effects family life has on children. He specializes more in statistics and child development and focuses on health outcomes and disparities. Dilip Sahoo is an economics professor and has studied the cross section between equality and economics, on top of that he has worked in the Agricultural Crop Production and Rural Environment Department at a Greek university. Lastly, Sourav Mondal who has a PhD in Chemical Betti 7 Engineering from Oxford and who has participated in seven other research projects. His contribution to this journal is trustworthy because his job requires him to study is surroundings and find how best to make them more fit for the people living within that environment. Pablo; Nadin; Robles, Marcos; Mayra; Stampini, Marco. Poverty, vulnerability, and the middle class in Latin America. Latin America Economic Review, 2016. Despite the reduction of poverty in Latin America a large portion of people are still differing from the effects of poverty. The people who managed to rise into the middle class have down falls back into poverty after only a couple years, and those who never managed to get out of the lower working class are living on less than $4 a day. This paper talks about how safety nets need to be implemented into the system to help people who are falling back into debt or who cannot get out. It discusses the difference that urban and rural land makes in these tough times for people and how setting up long term support for people will eventually give them the leverage they need to support themselves and their families. Pablo specializes in social and economic protect and has been apart of organization supporting this protection for the last five years. He worked for several years in the Office of Strategic Planning and Development Effectiveness after receiving his degree in economics and has had his works published in three different magazines world Betti 8 wide. His co-researcher, Nadin focuses more on poverty and the housing and banking that is being offered to suffering people. He has worked for the Inter-American Development Bank for nearly a decade now and has written fourteen other journals focusing on stopping poverty. Marcos Robles has also worked for the Inter-American Development Bank for a couple years and has conducted other studies on poverty conditions in countries such as Peru, Honduras, Nicaragua, Jamaica, Ecuador and the Dominican Republic. He has earned his masters in economics and is also professor of quantitative methods at a university overseas. Mayra is a decently known author of other works that pay close attention primarily to poverty and inequality in Latin American countries and what causes these crises. Their last co-writer is Stampini who is a social protection specialist that works with people who have bad health conditions. He has worked with the UN on Food and Agriculture developments and has had several of his other works published in Italian journals and newspapers.