Catalano 1 Matthew Catalano Instructor Ryan ENC 1102 19 April 2017 Written Argument: College Athlete Payment The denial of college athlete payment is a law that should finally be abolished once and for all. In the United States, college athletes are considered more than just boring amateurs below the professional level. Athletics in general are a cultural phenomenon in the U.S and millions tune in to see college athletes perform every day in every sport, sometimes more than pro athletes. These young men and women are responsible for so much in the name of American entertainment, so why they receiving their fair share of the millions of dollars they generate every year? Well, once an athlete commits to competing for a school obligated to be a certified amateur, which excludes payment of any kind. The College Athletes Players Association (CAPA) is an organization that looks to overturn these rules and push for college athlete payment. In comparison, I feel that college athletes deserve to be paid a fair salary because of the effort they put into the game, and the vast amount of money they generate for their schools every year. For too long, college athletes have been deprived of money that should be Unfortunately, the schools that accept these students who are robbing them blind. currently in a period of college sports that entitles high expectations. The people want more from student athletes, bigger, faster, stronger. For the fanbase in college sports all about the traditions and entertainment, for the schools all about dollars and cents. Many public Catalano 2 universities are even investing in bigger stadiums for college football, the most popular college sport there is. California-Berkeley is a part of this had been reducing its athletic subsidies, but then incurred $445 million of debt to renovate its football stadium and build a new student athletic California-Berkeley is just one of many schools that has rebuilt, or renovated its football stadium. This is money that could be going to those football players, and better yet, the rest of the D1 athletes at that university. Colleges and universities everywhere are spending too much money for their soul benefit when only a small fraction would need to be deducted to pay their athletes. Now for a student like me who has never been the slightest bit competitive, I do know my fair share on sports from the college level to professional. However, I have never been more intrigued in anything other than college sports. The atmosphere and intensity that comes with college athletics is something to remember. It just goes to show that these are truly the best years of a life, that includes the athletes. I believe more to this money debate than just the wealth of the student athletes. Many of these students are from low income households. According to sportingnews.com, percent of college athletes live below the poverty (sportingnews.com). I think this is blasphemy. College athletes have to endure so much more than the average college student. not even able to acquire a part time job because of school, practice, and competition. Some may say that there is a fair line between college athlete payment because of scholarships. However, not all scholarships are the same, and not one scholarship gives an athlete spending money for personal use. This is an unjustified system that college athletes are exposed too, and time to end it. This debate over student athlete payment has really escalated in the 21 st century. because college sports are on a level like never seen before. More people are tuning in to Catalano 3 view these highly-anticipated games, and the stakes are at an all-time high. And yet, not just the fans who are getting in on the action, but also the major television stations. According to SB Nation in 2010, NCAA and CBS/Turner agreed to a 14-year, $10.8 billion deal that will run through This comes just two years before the NCAA signs another deal with ESPN in 2012 that runs through 2024, total price tag for the 12-year deal reached approximately $5.64 billion, about $470 million This comes as no surprise to me. March Madness, and the College Football Playoffs are huge sporting events for profit. So, there is no doubt that the student athletes responsible for these events should be paid their fair share. not saying that college athletes should be paid like professionals, but they should be paid by the hour over minimum wage. There are those who feel that this salary idea is unjust and not suitable for college sports, such as the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA). The NCAA is an association that regulates college athletes in every sport. Athletes who participate in sporting events regulated by the NCAA are obligated to abide to the rules of amateurism. As said on the NCAA website, student-athletes are required to adhere to NCAA amateurism requirements to remain eligible for intercollegiate (ncaa.org). That means rules such as no salary, no benefits from a prospective agent, not even prize money above actual expenses. The NCAA will say that doing this in order to preserve the academic environment, and right. However, many of these athletes come in to college with their mind set on playing sports. After all, sports are what has driven some of these students throughout their entire life, and many of them are not so privileged. I think wrong that the NCAA will throw in all these excuses about education and player eligibility, when they themselves are driven on the aspect of college sports and making money. In 2016 alone, the NCAA accumulated nearly 1 billion dollars in revenue. Not long Catalano 4 before that, million in total revenue in fiscal (usatoday.com). This money just going towards the athletic scholarship fund. time to end this money debate and start paying these students what rightfully earned. On the positive side, college athletes are not alone in this heated money debate. There are few organizations that look to stop the hypocrisy and believe in the wellbeing of student athletes everywhere. These organizations are the College Athlete Players Association (CAPA), and the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA). They both work side by side in promoting the rights of student athletes, and the wrongdoings of the NCAA. I urge all my readers and peers to take the time to look into these organizations and maybe consider donating to their cause. The CAPA and NCPA are not well funded, especially compared to the NCAA. Millions of college students and graduates love college sports, so the least we can do is support those representing our school for what they rightfully deserve. As the years have gone by, college sports have risen into an empire for entertainment. We are all witnessing a new age of competitiveness in college sports and the demand is at an all-time high. This is fun to watch as a fan, but tiring and complicated to deal with as a student athlete day after day. College athletes need more than the average student. People realize the time and effort college athletes are putting in to perform on and off the field, and time they receive their fair share. I think the NCAA needs to completely eradicate the rules of amateurism and stop this political hypocrisy that reigns upon their athletes. No student athlete be able to pay for his or her own personal use. I urge all of you to not be fooled by the NCAA and their positive collegiate demeanor. time to fight back and support those who will. Please be a voice for the voiceless and donate to the CAPA and NCPA to support college athletes and college payment. Catalano 5 Work Cited Page Jcoram.  NCAA.org - The Official Site of the NCAA. N.p., 24 Apr. 2014. Web. 20 Apr. 2017. http://www.ncaa.org/amateurism Jerry Hinnen @jerryhinnen. ESPN Reaches 12-year Deal to Air College Football CBSSports.com. N.p., 06 Apr. 2017. Web. 20 Apr. 2017. http://www.cbssports.com/college-football/news/espn-reaches-12-year-deal-to-air-college- football-playoffs/ Sports, Steve Berkowitz. NCAA Nearly Topped $1 Billion in Revenue in  USA Today. Gannett Satellite Information Network, 11 Mar. 2015. Web. 20 Apr. 2017. https://www.usatoday.com/story/sports/college/2015/03/11/ncaa-financial-statement-2014-1- billion-revenue/70161386/ Sirota, David, and Andrew Perez. College Football: Public Universities Spend Millions On Stadiums, Despite Slim Chance For  International Business Times. N.p., 13 Jan. 2016. Web. 20 Apr. 2017. http://www.ibtimes.com/college-football-public-universities-spend-millions- stadiums-despite-slim-chance-2258669 Matt Hayes. Report Concludes 86 Percent of Student Athletes Live in  Sporting News. N.p., 15 Jan. 2013. Web. 20 Apr. 2017. http://www.sportingnews.com/ncaa- football/news/4465460-student-athletes-poverty-paid-scholarships-ncpa-texas-duke Sherman, Rodger. NCAA Will Now Make $1 Billion from TV  SBNation.com. SBNation.com, 12 Apr. 2016. Web. 20 Apr. 2017. http://www.sbnation.com/college- basketball/2016/4/12/11415764/ncaa-tournament-tv-broadcast-rights-money-payout-cbs-turner