Nguyen 1 Anh Nguyen Professor Ryan ENC 1102 30 April 2017 Create A Fossil Fuels Free Environment Energy is a very important matter in society. This is the age of technology and fossil fuel has been the primary source of energy production for the last 200 years. Unfortunately, the world is currently in a crisis because fossil fuels are nonrenewable; once they are gone, they are gone for good. They become scarcer and more limited every day. To rest easy, humans need to get ready for a post fossil fuels future. energy is a great substitute to this unsettling issue. It is not an easy task but the sooner people act, the longer they will help their living home - The Earth - last longer. First, people need to understand what fossil fuels are and why humans should reduce their use before it is too late. Fossil fuels were formed several hundred million years ago and today three major forms exist; coal, natural gas, and oil. Coal was formed from the remains of plants that lived in swamps hundreds of millions of years ago. These plants were covered with sediment and as ocean levels rose, layers of sediment condensed the plant remains, and heat and pressure within the crust caused coal to form. The majority of coal in the United States formed about 250 to 300 million year ago. Coal, also known as Dirty Fossil Fuel, is the most accountable for carbon dioxide emissions, exceeding even petroleum. Nonetheless, coal runs Nguyen 2 most of the power plants in the world that generate electricity. Today, coal is responsible for 40 per cent of worldwide electricity production. In China, a coal plant is built every week, the heat created from these plants goes back into the atmosphere as waste energy contributing to global warming Oil and Natural Gas also started forming millions of years ago. At the bottom of the ocean lay tiny marine organisms and as these organisms decayed and their remains were buried by sediments. They were heated until they became complex, energy-rich carbon molecules and through time, these molecules migrated into the porous rock formations. The oil and natural gas found today comes from those formations. In the United States, the most abundant sources of oil and natural gas are found in Alaska, Texas, California, and the Gulf of Mexico (Weiss and Vasquez). Many of the oil wells of today are found in the waters off the coasts. Situated as they are, oil spills have resulted. These spills have created a grave impact to the world. Leaking petroleum or petroleum products have injured or killed thousands of marine animals. The damage caused to wildlife is extensive and relentless. In addition to these damages, the costly and heroic cleanup efforts have had an impact to the people as well Hidden Cost of Fossil Fossil fuels cause many harmful effects; they include lung disease in humans, water pollution, and acid rain. Scientists claimed that if the current levels of carbon dioxide keep on rising, the Earth will become warmer this century. This phenomenon results in threatening environmental impact. For example, many glaciers around the world are melting and the more they melt, the more sea levels will rise. As this continues to happen, coastal areas are likely to suffer because of flooding and inundation. Nguyen 3 In order to reduce, if not to stop this degradation of the environment, the solution would be to generate more renewable energy and diminish the use of fossil fuels. Renewable energy is the right solution since it is not depleted after its use. It is infinite and more sustainable than any other source in energy history. Initiating the clean energy movement is expensive, but there are countless benefits ranging from individual to global impacts in going completely renewable. The first recorded use of renewable energy was harnessing wind power to drive ships over water about 7000 years ago (Darling). However, renewable energy has been around as long as Earth has existed: wind, sun, geothermal, biomass and many more. Clean energy sources can be harnessed to produce electricity, process heat, fuel and other chemicals with significantly less impact on the environment. In 2014, renewable energy sources accounted for fourteen percent of total electricity use Energy a four percent incline from the prior year. Completely divesting from fossil fuels to renewable energy clearly is not a new concept for a select few of innovative countries. A few countries, for example, are Costa Rica, Norway and Iceland, all of whom have run on renewable energy, diving deep into their own resources and utilizing volcanic presence to produce energy (Rosecrance & Thompson 7). Following in the footsteps of Costa Rica and a few other third world countries, major economic powerhouses and biggest users of fossil fuels, like the United States, should convert to clean energy as a way to benefit the economy, environment and overall health of the country. The use of renewable energy is beneficial in many kinds of ways. It created more than Nguyen 4 119,000 workers at solar-related industries in 2012. Wind energy development employed 75,000 full-time workers across the U.S., including 30,000 jobs at manufacturing facilities throughout the country. In fact, renewable energy creates three times more jobs than fossil fuels. Furthermore, wind power made up 42 percent of all new U.S. electric capacity additions, representing a $25 billion investment in the U.S. economy, and all of these were achieved in 2012. The wind projects in Iowa, which now generate more than 20 percent of its electricity with wind, provided more than $19.5 million in annual property tax payments to state and local governments in 2011. As well as helping the environment and wallets, renewable energy can help with health. By cutting the emission of greenhouse gases and fossil fuels, air pollution decreases. Air pollution, primarily that contributed through coal-burning power plants emitting fine-particulate pollutants, is most associated with causing health problems, chiefly lung cancer. The Environment Protection Agency (EPA) predicts that conversion, or even standards, will prevent at least 100,000 heart attacks and asthma attacks per year. Additionally, the EPA also estimates a projected 1,100 billion dollar income in health benefits due to a decline in illnesses and deaths (U.S. EPA). As a form of partnership, the health industry could invest a portion of this money into the clean air movement due to its beneficial health impacts and help make installation cheaper. A majority of these pollutants are associated with dangerous levels of climate change; this biggest threat to human health. Climate change, a change in global climate patterns, increasingly jeopardize the fundamental requirements for health, including clean urban air, safe and sufficient drinking-water, a secure and nutritious food supply, and adequate Nguyen 5 shelter (World Health Climate change is the main contributor and accelerator towards global warming. Global warming increases the risk of two deadly diseases: Plague and Ebola. For Plague, changes in temperature and rainfall will affect rodent populations as well as the infected fleas they carry. Additionally, Ebola outbreaks tend to follow serious downpours or droughts, a likely result change The movement would not only lower the pollution rate and risk of infection, but also save countless lives across the globe during the process. Taking all these points into consideration, it is important for everyone to assure that renewable energy is an efficient energy source for the world. It is harmless to the environment and can be used to power the world. Fossil fuels exist in limited amounts, and when they are all used there will be none left. So there is a need to act as soon as possible and humans need to grab the little hope left before it is too late. If everyone, together, joins the fight for a fossil fuels-free environment, it will be more rewarding than the mind can imagine. Future generations depend on it. Nguyen 6 WORKS CITED Darling, David. of Alternative N.p., n.d. Web. 18 Apr. 2017. Energy Sources Energy Explained, Your Guide To Understanding Energy Energy Information US Energy Information Administration, 17 Mar. 2015. Web. 18 Apr. 2017. Rosecrance, Richard, and Peter Thompson. Trends in Sustainable Energy Review of Political (2003): United Nations Environment Programme, 13 Oct. 2014. Web. 19 Apr. 2017. U.S. EPA. Up Toxic Air and Costs of Cleaning up Toxic Air n. Environment Protection Agency. Web. 18 Apr. 2017. World Health Organization. (n.d.): 7. World Health Organization, 2012. Web. 19 Apr. 2017. Perera, Frederica P.1, fpp1@cumc.columbia.edu. Multiple Threats to Child Health from Fossil Fuel Combustion: Impacts of Air Pollution and Climate  Environmental Health Perspectives, vol. 125, no. 2, pp. 141-148. Feb. 2017. 19 Apr. 2017 Dorsey, Inc. Piccirilli. Fossil  EESI - Environmental and Energy Study Institute. N.p., 20 Feb. 2016. Web. 19 Apr. 2017. The Hidden Costs of Fossil  Union of Concerned Scientists. N.p., 26 Oct. 2015. Web. 19 Apr. 2017. Biello, David. Due to Climate N.p., 8 Oct. 2008. Web. 9 Apr. 2016. Daniel J. Weiss and Valeri Vasquez. Fossil Fuels: A Legacy of  Center for American Progress. N.p., 19 Apr. 2011. Web. 24 Apr. 2017.