Kevin Fee Fee1 Mrs. Theodosiou Composition II February 26, 2017 The NRA The right for people to keep and bear arms in the United States, the second amendment, is one of the main amendments that has been around since 1789. Many citizens in the U.S believe in this right like a religion because owning firearms is custom in many areas of this country. The National Rifles Association(NRA) is a stakeholder that has been growing since it was founded in 1871 giving support to citizens owning firearms and holding a large political role. One major tactic the NRA gains support and influence is through the use of propaganda. The first image they use is a crime scene with caution tape blocking off someones house with the police everywhere. The second image is a woman leaning up against a truck with the words your hands off our They use these images to target Republicans, those who do not feel safe, and those who want to protect their rights to start actively supporting their cause. Appeals such as ethos, pathos and logos are used to persuade the reader. The National Rifles Association(NRA) has been around since 1871 and has been rapidly increasing in size ever since. Today, the NRA has as many as around five million members, so they have a lot of influence. This stakeholder has a large political influence in the United States. Most of the NRA have very similar political views which are very similar to the Republican This does not mean they are all required to have the same beliefs but most of their support goes to that party. The NRA is against most new laws regarding more gun regulation Fee2 partially because there is already many federal and local government gun control laws already. James D. Wright states, are more then 20,000 gun laws of various sorts already in the books in the United 4). The belief system is strongly built around the second amendment which is the right to keep and bear arms as well as have a regulated militia. On the main site, it states, widely recognized today as a major political force and as foremost defender of second amendment rights, the NRA has, since its inception, been the premier firearms education organization in the 1). Even though this primary goal is to try to reduce gun regulation laws, it also cares about the safety aspect of it too. This organization has firearm training and safety courses for people of all ages and are found all over their site. On the homepage one can find information on their firearm training and safety courses they offer. This makes it much easier and way more accessible for those who are interested in owning a gun or even those who are already owners. Most gun violence is on accident and from a lack of education especially from minors playing with their firearms. This is why the website has firearm education for minors and adults. This allows children to be taught at an early age that guns are not toys and should not be played with. The first image that is used is a home in a middle class looking neighborhood surrounded by caution tape with cops surrounding it. In big bold white writing it says let Hillary leave you The audience that this is directed towards is Republicans and even different political parties to try to sway their opinions because it is a political ad. It is also directed towards people who do not feel safe even in their own homes. The pathos or emotion Fee3 shown in the ad makes the audience feel fear or sadness because it shows that something terrible happened such as an intruder and how it might have been preventable with a gun for self defense. The logos which is the logic found in the image is that if you have a gun you could defend yourself against anyone who threatens you or your family in your own home. It is also that anyone can be affected by crime just like the possible family that could have been living in the middle class looking house in the picture. The ethos or credibility of the image is the National Rifles Associations mark found in the upper right corner. The image is supposed to give the audience insight if Hilary was elected president and began putting stricter regulation or even banning firearms. Pro gun organizations such as the NRA also make the claim that, gun ownership is made illegal, criminals turn in their guns. Gun control makes easy prey out of law-abiding 1). Information such as this is told to give the reader facts in order to convince them to support the cause. The second image that is used is a picture of a woman crossing her arms with the words your hands off our in bold. The background of this image is both rural and suburb parts showing that people everywhere should own a gun. The other intended audience that they seem to target is strong women, because the women in the picture has her arms crossed with a tough looking expression on her face leaning beside a truck. The image has a link below the woman that says . The cite itself is all about giving Bloomberg a bad image by putting out of context quotes by pictures of his face. The pathos shown in this image is a strong and independent emotion showing defiance. The logos of the image first begins with the audience being led to the large text in the center stated previously to begin evoking the chosen Fee4 audience a defiant mood, coupled with the image of the woman and light background of the image. These colors and great emotion the woman shows gives a positive attitude towards the image of defiance against the seen threat by the NRA. This image also uses an ad populum logical fallacy which is, emotional appeal that speaks to positive or negative concepts rather then the real issue at The image has a patriotic feel towards it because they want to target some of the more enthusiastic Americans. Both of these images by themselves show a lot of what the NRA represents. Just by understanding the messages the images are displaying gives the audience the knowledge of what the problem is and what they can do to help the cause if they choose to. In the first image the message given was to encourage the audience to not vote for Hilary but rather Trump. The second image had a link below the woman that says . The cite gives Bloomberg a bad image, which would be beneficial to the NRA. The images also show that the NRA and those who support that group that they strongly believe in their rights and will stand up and defend them. Overall, stakeholders use propaganda to influence the public for support using three main appeals. If these ethos, pathos, and logos are used well, then the message can be very affective, especially to the targeted audiences. The National Rifles Associations use of these appeals in the two images send a very strong message for those looking to protect themselves or just feel patriotic and have a love for shooting. These images use not only color but also images and font to make the reader feel passionate about whatever the cause is especially those targeted by the image. WC 1233 Fee5 Works Cited Ammoland. Fifteen Reasons You Should Own A  AmmoLand.com Shooting Sports News. N.p., 02 July 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. NRA  NRA About the NRA. N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Welcome to the Purdue  Purdue OWL: Logic in Argumentative Writing. N.p., n.d. Web. 08 Mar. 2017. Wright, J. D. (1988). Second thoughts about gun control. The Public Interest, 0(91), 23. Retrieved from https://search.proquest.com/docview/1298115845?accountid=14745 Fee6