XU 1 LEI XU ENC 1102 Professor Lay 13 February 2017 Charitable Institution in Social Media As social media being widely known and used by most people, charitable institutions are starting to advertise on social media to appeal to people to donate. The content of the advertisement is usually used ethos, pathos, logos and kairos strategies in order to make the audience feel guilty. In the article exploratory study of existential guilt appeals in charitable Michael Lwin and Ian Phau states: guilt is evoked through the advertisement, the individual no longer feels good, and as a result the advertisement induces a reaction (i.e. donation) to remove the negative (1468). Through advertisng vulnerable children in the world to stimulate the audience to have a guilty feeling, charitable organizations could receive more funds from donation. More importantly, attitude towards the charitable organization were shown to moderate the relationship between existential guilt and charitable donation intentions (Lwin and Phau 14688). Which indicate that well-known organizations may achieve high efficiency of subjective guilt advertisements. The United Nations International Fund is a government sponsored charity organization which aims to save and protect children with a disadvantage Because millions of children are suffering under different conditions, UNICEF sends out different messages to help people to better understand those issues that go unnoticed. All these messages have a common goal to encourage XU 2 people to donate and help vulnerable children living in poor conditions. In consideration to achieve their goals, the organization used many rhetoric methods, such as ethos, pathos, logos and kairos strategies in the advertisement posts. Each of them is aimed to appeal specific feeling from the audience: Ethos is to appeal to credibility or morality, Pathos is to appeal to the emotions, Logos is to appeal to logic and reason and Kairos is to appeal to timeliness. Image1 Image 2 Both images above are from the same charity organization called UNICEF, the logo stamp is shown in both images, which not only tell the audience the sources of the advertisement post but proved the credibility. The purpose of the first image is to appeal to the audience to help children who could not drink clean water and understand millions of children die every year from drinking polluted water. The second image is made for accomplishing the reader to donate and help children who live in the dirty and poor environment. Logos stamp of UNICEF organization and the link of its official website are shown in both images which relate to ethos strategy. Through the Logo stamp and the link of official website, the audience could make further research about this organization by themselves in order to get more information about this institute and be more clear about the issue shown on the advertisement. this also XU 3 means that credible charitable organizations may benefit more from guilt appeals than the less well-known because they are more credible (Lwin and Phau 1479). Pathos is a strategy designed to make the audience have a specific feeling, except the picture the on the advertisement post, the context is also crucial for achieving the purpose of the advertisement. Close-shot of a drop of clean water and context on the right states: million children die every year from drinking polluted Moreover, the context on the right indistinctly points out that many people are actually unaware of this issue. In modern society, people in cities normally use a huge amount of clean water every day. From the context of this advertisement, the audience would feel guilty by using clean water every day by comparing their personal life to children drinking polluted water. As (1980) stated that when someone anticipates the feeling of guilt or feeling guilty, he or she will attempt to reduce the feeling of guilt by making retributions. This is supported by the negative state model, which suggests that individuals will seek to reduce these negative emotions (Cialdini & Kenrick, (Lwin and Phau 1468). This strategy intends to encourage the audience to save water and help children who are still drinking polluted water and children suffer from the water related disease. In image 2, children with shabby clothes and dirty face marks live in a dirty and poor environment. And the context is my situation, think about the signals that there are more children like him who live in a bad condition maybe even worse This advertisement appeals to the audience guilty feeling by showing individuals are the less fortunate, in this case, the audience with putting themselves in the position as the fortunate. is being evoked within the fortunate group because it highlights XU 4 the social inequality between the two (Lwin and Phau 1468). Furthermore, the advertiser also provides the viewer a way to reduce the feeling of guilt which is a donation. As they write: donation raised are given to the children of the streets, the orphanages and the elementary and the website link for donation right under this sentence Through retribution, individuals will feel good because they are helping and reducing the feeling of guilt. In order to achieve the objective of the advertisement post, the always used specific strategies to appeals particular feeling from the audience. Specific elements supply information in order to promote the audience to think about things in a different position and logically which is a strategy labeled as logos. The UNICEF organization did not use the miserable scene as an advertisement, oppositely, they have designed neutral photograph which relates to the issue and uses short context to raise concern from the reader. Just like Michael Lwin and Ian Phau claim: must limit the use of horrific images that show children enduring the pain of hunger and thirst. More images may help create a more favorable attitude towards the charitable (1479). Moreover, even though both advertisements are for fragile children, they aimed at the different perspective. On the first image, the purpose is to reveal millions of children are suffering from water-related problems. On the other hand, the second image is to inform a lot of children are living a tough condition. evidence suggests that unified guilt appeals are less (Lwin and Phau 1479), so that advertiser used specific types of guilt appeals in each advertisement post. Kairos is a method concerning the audience feels an urgency, in the advertisement post from XU 5 the charity organization, it commonly used to make the reader realize more early they start to help those fragile children, more children could be saved by them. As in the first advertisement post, the advertiser used as a time range to give readers basic idea about how many children die in this range of time because of water-related disease. And promote the audience to start action now, since by doing the calculation, approximately 4,110 children die every day from drinking polluted water. Furthermore, according to the article published on the Global newspaper, report: 50 million children migrating, forced to leave UNICEF states: and migrant children in particular are at risk for sexual violence, human trafficking and being recruited by armed In the second post, advertiser used word to stimulate the audience to donate now to help children live under tough environment to get better life quality today. All in all, in modern society, social media provides a platform which allows public service announcement shared by the charitable organization can be viewed by more people. In order to appeal to the audience to donate, advertisers have to use strategies in the advertisement post. Normally they use methods like ethos, pathos, logos and kairos. In addition, they also use a specific strategy to appeal to guilt feelings from the audience more effectively. The mission of the charity organization UNICEF is to save more innocent children who live in a bad environment and suffer from starvation. The advertisement post they have made helped general population improved awareness of the poor situation those children lived in. Which allows they could receive more donation and better help vulnerable children in the worldwide. XU 6 Works Cited Dirty  Ads of the N.p., 01 Mar. 2007. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. Lwin, Michael and Ian Phau. An Exploratory Study of Existential Guilt Appeals in Charitable  Journal of Marketing Management, vol. 30, no. 13-14, Oct. 2014, pp. 1467-1485. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1080/0267257X.2014.939215. McGill, Natalie. UNICEF Report: 50 Million Children Migrating, Forced to Leave  The Health, no. 9, 2016, p. 15. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=e dsgao&AN=edsgcl.470228782&site=eds-live. UNICEF  :iconalilamhamed:. N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. UNICEF  Home UNICEF. N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Feb. 2017.