Gore 1 Maribeth Gore Sarah Basil ENC 1102 2 April 2017 Freedom of the Body Decriminalization of prostitution has been a prevalent conflict among first world countries in the recent years. America is one of the few first world countries in which prostitution is still criminalized. Some of you may agree with the criminalization of prostitution due to the immoral or gross nature of the sex trade; however, continued criminalization poses largely grotesque consequences on all of America. To increase the public awareness and protest the continued criminalization of prostitution, Body Freedom will be hosting a Street Walkers March on May 23 rd , 2017. Decriminalization is characterized by the government involvement and removes any law or regulation regarding, consensual (Rayborn 132). Decriminalization makes prostitution a legal trade, and a taxable occupation. The criminalization of sex work makes the trade very risky. Workers must expose themselves to consumers anonymously, without any guarantee of help form the public if they are harmed (National Sex Workers Project). They are at risk of a host of human rights abuses including rape, violence, trafficking, extortion, arbitrary arrest and detention, forced eviction from their homes, harassment, discrimination, exclusion from health services, forced HIV testing, and lack of legal redress (Amnesty International). One of the many draw backs of trying to decriminalize prostitution exists in the lack of discussion, and constant negative stigma against the industry. Sex work is viewed as immoral and gross due to the laws sanctioned upon it; however, it is a simple Gore 2 transaction of services, like getting a tattoo. The right to use body to make a living should be a decision they should be able to make for themselves. Often sex workers are involved in sex work due to economic struggles, not an enjoyment of the trade. Many of the women and men involved in the sex industry are using their finally resort. Sex workers are everyday citizens, friends, and neighbors (Sex Workers Outreach Project). With prostitution criminalized in America, these individuals have access to proper health care, public safety, or the availability to socioeconomic mobility simply because of their involvement in illegal actions. Some of these people are students who cannot get help from the police after they were involved in a nonconsensual sexual relation, then they are predisposed to great violations of rights. Decriminalization of Prostitution would not only decriminalize the act of engaging in sex work, but also decriminalizes the rights of individuals to their bodies. An individual is equal and able to do what they wish with their body if it does not endanger others, and engages in their task consensually. A sex worker is denied rights to the same resources you have, simply because of their profession, often in which is not one they wish to be holding. Not only are sex workers denied access to greatly needed resources, but they are also more prone to experiencing police abuse and violence when they do try to get help. Sex workers have little to no access to justice when they rightfully deserve it (Open Society Foundation). Additionally, the Decriminalization of Prostitution in America would help lower the rates of sexual violence, including sexual assault and sex trafficking, towards women and men. According to RAIIN 98 seconds, an American is sexually a shocking statistic, especially to individuals at the hotspot of the statistic college students. Decriminalization of sex work provides other outlets for individuals who are prone to committing sexual assault to express their sexual frustration in a Gore 3 safe and consensual environment. Also, Countries with decriminalized prostitution witness lower rates of sex trafficking due to greater and legal access to sexual services. Sex trafficking is an issue that is hard to track and end; however, through decriminalization, America could take one more step towards ending and preventing sex trafficking. This makes you safer in your country, as well as saves many individuals who would otherwise become trafficking victims. For many college aged girls, the risk of trafficking is very high, as is experiencing sexual assault. To lower the rates of sex trafficking and sexual assault on college campuses across America as well as in communities, by legalizing prostitution, would greatly improve the criminal state of America. As well as allow the police force, among other organizations, to focus on more pressing issue, as opposed to a simple preventing prostitution, or manipulating prostitutes. Criminalization of Prostitution casts a negative shadow across the industry, the body, and students like you. To increase awareness and protest the continued criminalization of prostitution in America, Body Freedom will be conducting Street Walkers March on May 23 rd , 2017 on University of South Florida Campus. The Street Walkers March is organized to cause mass conversation among the University of South Florida community to help begin a national conversation about the foundations of our country and why prostitution is not immoral in an updated state of mind that America needs. You can find more information about the march on Body website, https://maribethgore.wixsite.com/bodyfreedom. Additionally, Body Freedom along with the National Sex Workers Project and Sex Workers Outreach Project will be campaigning among local communities through local groups, nationally to raise awareness. Also, Body website provides more opportunity for involvement, including contact information for local representatives, petitions, donations, and more resources for extra information. Gore 4 Criminalization of Prostitution is an infringement on the rights of all American. Continuation can harm not only sex workers, but also the entire American population. The responsibility for Americans to protect themselves as well as those involved in sex workers is essential to continuing the freedom and democracy of America. The march aims to shed light on the issue, and educate the University of South Florida community. This demonstration is an opportunity for you to voice your opinion, to protect the rights of others and your own. The necessity to act against the criminalization of prostitution is vital to maintaining a free an prosperous society. Gore 5 Work Cited History of the NSWP and the Sex Worker Rights Movement: History of the Sex Worker Rights  Global Network of Sex Work Projects. N.p., n.d. Web. 11 Apr. 2017.z Home  Sex Workers Outreach Project Sex Workers Outreach Project. N.p., n.d. Web. 11 Apr. 2017. Open Society Foundation. 10 Reasons to Decriminalize Sex Work. New York City: Open Society Foundation, 2012. Print. Q&A: POLICY TO PROTECT THE HUMAN RIGHTS OF SEX  Interview by Amnesty Internationa;. AMnesty International. N.p., 26 May 2016. Web. 11 Apr. 2017. RAYBORN, JARED R. Regulated Prostitution as a Component in the Fight against Human Trafficking in  Willamette Law Review, vol. 50, no. 1, Oct. 2013, pp. 115-162.  Statistics RAINN. N.p., n.d. Web. 11 Apr. 2017.