Weng 1 Shengyu Weng Karen Hanson, PhD ENC1102 29 April 2017 The use of animals in biomedical research Some people may feel like animal testing are not related to their life in all cases. However, animal testing is close to our daily life. Nowadays, a great amount of American household own their pets. As a research of The American Veterinary Medical Association shows, 36.5% of American families own a dog while 30.4% of the family own a cat.  U.S. Pet Ownership ) However, it is a common accident that the pet get lost and unable find their owners. a cold fact that a part of the loss pets would be euthanized by the shelters which means sentenced to die. Moreover, many of the pets would be sold by these shelters to universities or some research institution for the use of animal testing legally. Sheet: Pets Used in ) The animal testing is Weng 2 known for its cruelty that most of the animals in the laboratories are forced to take testing frequently until they become monsters or die. As we love animals, we need to do things like sign a petition or donate to stop or decrease the animal testing so we can rescue the animals. Animal testing is a cruel experiment that cannot accept by most of the people. There is an excellent experiment to prove this point. A scientist Agell invited 262 students from different age group to participate in a role play game discussing the social problem animal testing. At very first, they had no knowledge about animal testing. After this role play game, students possess more knowledge about animal testing and when they learned how animals are trapped and abused in during the test. Most of the attitudes toward we need to stop animal changed from to An article from Humane Society International which is a famous animal testing organization shows, out of ten drugs deemed successful in animal tests fail in human clinical Weng 3 Nine out of ten statistics are taken out of ) This means most of the animal testing make no sense, and the reason for the low success rate is easy to understand. Assume there is a new drug passes the animal testing, it works on a puppy, and there is no abnormal condition with this puppy. However, nobody can judge how this drug works on a human because puppies and humans are two different species. Therefore, this new drug still needs to be analyzed by scientists for a long time and then test on the first human. the reason why most of the tests upon animals were useless. However, the pointless tests could cause millions of death. The research of organization shows the answer is more than 100 million animals each year, which contains numerous kinds of animals like mice, dogs, cats and fish. ( Experiments on Animals: ) We may have no idea about the number 100 million, shows the population of Spain in 2017 is less than 47 million. Spain is a flourishing country, however if we convinced all the Spanish to accept the testing in place of the animals, this test could only last for less than six months. All the lives should Weng 4 be equal, animals also have their families, they also could live in the world with happiness instead of birthing in a cage and growing up there until they are old enough to accept some cruel experiment and then die in the lab or become some scary monster. Birds were supposed to fly around the sky and the fish were supposed to swim in the river and sea. However, animal testing changes everything. Some of the audience may ask should we care about animal testing and stop One important reason is we are always using products which are relating to the animal testing such as cosmetics and drugs. However, before we use the drugs and the cosmetics, some companies were using animals to test their new products. Animals are infected by the virus which they can never normally suffer, mice in the experiment had huge tumors which are as big as themselves as well as some of the skulls forced to cut open in order to plant the electrodes. ( Cruelty to Animals in ) Lots of animals died poorly because of the new products we are going to use. we treat Weng 5 animals is a direct reflection of our character, both as individuals and a (Steve Cohen) We are living in an advanced society so we should care about the animals. Moreover, most of tests are unnecessary, for example, we already have enough useful eyedrop, hand soap, shampoo and we literally do not need more of them costing lives. Once there is one more eyedrops sell in the markets, there might be more than10 thousands of rabbits became blind for the rest of their lives. We have some simple and easy ways to help animals. In the first place, we could take few minutes to sign a petition online, like 2 It is easy for everyone to finish but it could help animals. The second way of stopping animal testing is we should stop buying products that related to the animal testing. Such as Olay, Avon and M.A.C Cosmetics. animal three companies are famous but they do carry out many animal testing every year. We may say to these three companies, an effective way to fight with animal testing, if more people could ban the products of companies which do test on animals, fewer companies will keep doing animal testing Weng 6 since they can make no profit. There is a helpful website from PETA named for Cruelty-Free we can easily figure out if one company is cruelty-free. Plus, a good suggestion to become a member of an animal protect organization like for the Ethical Treatment of and Human Society of the United after joining these organizations, we can get the newest information of animals and keep figuring out what we could do. Also, if we eager to help the animals, we could make a donate to these organizations in order to help their works. Besides, nowadays the social media is well developed and millions of people are using Facebook, Twitter and YouTube, so we can always share the articles and pictures which are relating to stop animal testing, to help our friends, families understand the fact of the animal testing and invite them to join resist the animal testing. Animals make our world colorful, they are our friends. are morally obligated to treat in ways that respect this (Rowlands) As human beings, our hearts should be full of justice and love. So, we need to do our own part to help the Weng 7 animals in the laboratories and let us do it from today! Sign a petition and say to the animal testing! Weng 8 Works Cited Agell, Laia, Vanessa Soria, and Mar Using Role Play to Debate Animal  Journal of Biological Education 49.3 (2014): 309-21. Web. Cruelty to Animals in  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Experiments on Animals:  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Fact Sheet: Pets Used in  The Humane Society of the United States. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Hate Animal Cruelty? You Should Probably Avoid These Cosmetic  One Green Planet. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. Rowlands, Mark. Animal rights: moral theory and practice. New York: Palgrave Macmillan, 2009. Print. Nine out of ten statistics are taken out of  Understanding Animal Research. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Steve Cohen, Animal Rights, USA.gov, 29 Apr. 2017  U.S. Pet Ownership  U.S. Pet Ownership Statistics. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.