Kang 1 Xinyu Kang ENC 1101 Project 3 04/02/2017 Outline I. Introduction: Oil extraction becomes an important industry in current society with support the development of economy, culture, and politics. However, the oil extraction obtains environmental pollution which is harmful to the marine and marine animals. Therefore, there are so many researchers are trying to find out the negative effects of oil extraction and how those problems influence the environment to tell readers how important to limit the oil extraction in the ocean. No matter oil extraction can bring how many profits to the world, protecting the environment is more important, because the environment is nonrenewable. II. Counter argument A. What is: Many organizations are working on the oil pollution which means people do not need to be to concerned about the oil spill pollution. B. Why: BP hires 3 thousands people to clean the beaches which have been polluted by oil spill every year. Moreover, there are a lot experts are working on invent the effective cleanser for solving the pollution problem. [McCauley, Linda and Health: Will the BP Oil Spill Affect Our III. Response Kang 2 A. Oil spill pollution is a serious problem which cannot be ignored but need to have action to change the situation. [Farrington, John W. Oil Pollution In the Marine Environment: Effects and Facts of Oil & [Mercer, K. Trevors, J. of oil spills in temperate and tropical coastal marine B. Oil spill pollutes the marine environment which is difficult to be cleaned. It is better to protect it to be avoid pollution than cleaning it after polluted, which is more economic. The people who are hired by some oil companies hurts by the trashes in ocean and have serious psychological problems after long-time working.[Welch, Craig. Gulf Oil Damage Over or Still & [McCauley, Linda A. and Health: Will the BP Oil Spill Affect Our C. Oil spill is not only harmful to the environment, but also the animals who are relying on marine. [Wiens, John A. Crist, Thomas O. Day, Robert H. Murphy, Stephen M. Hayward, Gregory D. Canonical Correspondence Analysis of the Effects of the Exxon Valdez Oil Spill on Marine VI. Conclusion Although some companies and people start protecting environment. However, the speed of pollution is much faster than recovering. Also, the people who are working in protecting marine environment which is polluted by oil spill have been found some diseases and psychological problems. In addition, the animals who rely on marine also suffer a lot from oil spill, such as wings get destroyed by oil and habitats have been taken by oil spill. Generally. Protecting the marine environment and limiting the oil spill activities are necessary. Kang 3 Environment Needs to Be Protected Before Destroying Spilled oil influences the environment where human and marine animals are living terribly. There are a lot researches focus on finding out how oil spills influence the environment and how those problems influence the the living of animals and humans. They would like to let people understand how important for human to control oil spills and protect the ocean. Humans cannot ignore the damages which were caused by oil spills and only focus on developing the economy. From 2001 to 2015, there were some scientists have found out the evidence that the oil spills are not only ruining the environment of marine and coasts but also influences health and marine living. To start with article, Pollution in the Marine Environment: Effects and Facts of Oil which introduces how oil spills influence the marine environment and the ecosystem (3-13). Farrington claimed: is obvious that oil spills that come ashore in coastal areas can make a mess of beaches, coat ships and boats in harbors and marinas, foul fishing nets and situ mariculture (23), he tells readers that the oil spills make the coasts and beaches mess and reduce the amount of fishing. The author also points out because oil spills influence the habitat of fishes which play the producer roles in the ecosystem, and the change also influences the higher level biological organization. His article uses a lot of pictures to show how oil spills influence the process of marine recycle and shows readers oil spills influence ocean environment. Also, article introduces how oil spills change the temperature of the ocean and influence the marine environment. The process how an oil spill changes the temperature is that the oil covers the surface of the ocean, and the heat of the water cannot be relieved, but the sunshine keeps transfer the energy to the ocean. Moreover, the author asserts that because the oil spills change the ecosystem and microorganism increase in the marine which therefore increases Kang 4 the temperature of the environment because of their activities (Mercer 341). Mercer stated: degradation of hydrocarbons can occur over a wide temperature range, though rates increase with an increase in temperature, where the most rapid degradation rates in soil occur between 30 and (342), microorganisms increase the temperature of the marine and the temperature can be increased up to 40 o C because the hydrocarbon is degraded. The temperature of the marine increase by spilled oil which decreases the amount of oxygen, nutrition, and salinity and pH, and changes the ecosystem of the marine because microorganisms and animals have significant influence from their living environment. However, oil spills not only influence the surroundings and the animals living inside the marine, but they also influence the seabirds who rely on the marine. Wiens, Day, Robert, Murphy, and Hayward discuss how seabird be influenced by the oil spills. First, the spilled oil ruins feather which makes them be not able to fly because their wings are covered by the spilled oil (828-839). Moreover, the spilled oil is difficult to be cleaned from their feather which also destroys the protection layer of their feather and makes them cannot float on the surface of the ocean. Wiens et al. Said: the spill had major, immediate effects on marine birds and their habitats... but impacts to avian habitats were probably greatest within the Sound, where the spill originated, and oiling of shorelines was (829), the noise forces seabirds leave their old habitats and they have to share a small area together which limit their activity and harvest of fishes. The spilled oil makes feather dirty, and also limiting their activity range. Not only the seabirds are influenced by the spilled oil, health also be influenced by spilled oil. According to article, the BP Oil Spill Affect Our when humans try to clean the coasts and sea which are polluted by spilled oil, they are suffering Kang 5 serious psychological and physical problems (54-56). First, the article points out people are easily hurt by the trash in the sea when they are cleaning the coasts and marine. Second, when they use the chemicals to clean the polluted coasts, their respiratory system is hurt by the chemicals. Moreover, when those people are helping seabird or other marine animals, they are under high pressures because they feel their abilities are not enough to help many animals, such as cleaning their feather or helping them go back to the centered areas. When some animals are dead for the oil spills, people who are working for oil company will be condemn by the public. The article points out that the psychological problem is more serious than psychical problem, but most people just ignore the importance of the psychological influence from the oil spills. Furthermore, according to the personal comment article, Gulf Oil Damage Over or Still which discusses whether oil spills will be solved one day, oil spills are a serious problem in current society and it influences the future development of economy. The article discusses the possibility of solving oil spills with an example of Mexico oil spills. However, the findings show that to stop the negative influence of spilled oil and clean the spilled oil entirely are impossible, because oil spills influence too many aspects of the environment and the influenced range is too huge to be controlled. He also claims that the oil spills have polluted not only the environment of the marine, but many valuable animals are also dead for the oil spills such as dolphins, tuna, and pelicans, and the decline of those animals might cause the decrease of biological diversity. His article shows that oil spills are difficult to be solved, people cannot ignore the importance of stopping oil spills and keep finding the effective method to resolved the spilled oil and environment give a clean and safe environment to the animals live in the marine or rely on the marine. Kang 6 Although there are many researches insist that oil spills are harmful to the environment and the animals who rely on marine, some people disagree with them that they think spilled oil can be cleaned and people should not have overreaction for the oil spills. With the development of science, some scientist found that the floating oil can be cleaned by some chemicals products, which make some companies have confidence that they can balance the importance of environment and profits, such as BP. BP hires many workers to clean the polluted coasts, including picking up trashes and using the chemical agent to split oil. According to article, he teaches students how to clean up the polluted ocean and coast with experiments (9-12). He said: work in teams, and after agreeing on how they will proceed, their method is tested by measuring the amount of oil removed and by rating the cleanliness of their (9), the result of the experiment shows that when people apply the chemical cleansers in a suitable range, the spilled oil can be resolved and the environment can be recovered. His article encourages people to find out the effective methods to solve oil spills problem with chemistry, but not persuades people stop using too much oil so that oil spills can be decreased by less productivity. In conclusion, being too confident to solve oil spills problem are not available, because oil spills influence many aspects, including the marine environment, animals, and ecosystem. However, humans still need to be positive to find out the effective methods to keep producing oil and supporting the development of the society and give a clean habitat to marine animals and seabirds. Therefore, I think that protecting the environment is more important, because the environment is nonrenewable. Kang 7 Works Cited Farrington, John W. Pollution In the Marine Environment: Effects and Facts of Oil Environment, vol. 56, no. 4, 2013, pp.3-13. Kauble, Christena A. Spill Science Activities, 2011(48), pp. 9-12. McCauley, Linda A. and Health: Will the BP Oil Spill Affect Our American Journal Of Nursing, 2010(110), pp.54-56. Mercer, K. Trevors, J. of oil spills in temperate and tropical coastal marine Environmentalist. Vol. 31, no. 3, 2011, pp. 338-347. Welch, Craig. Gulf Oil Damage Over or Still National Geographic. 14 April, 2015, http://news.nationalgeographic.com/2015/04/150414-deepwater-oil-spill- birds-gulf-macondo-louisiana/. Accessed January 29, 2017. Wiens, John A. Crist, Thomas O. Day, Robert H. Murphy, Stephen M. Hayward, Gregory D. Canonical Correspondence Analysis of the Effects of the Exxon Valdez Oil Spill on Marine Ecological Applications, 2001(11), pp.828-839.