Bula 1 Victor Bula Professor Basil ENC 1102 11 April 2017 USF takes on Eating Disorders Today the importance of body image has grown exponentially. The growing obsession with body image has contributed to the increasing number of people affected by eating disorders. Approximately 20 million women and 10 million men in the United States alone will suffer from a clinically significant eating disorder the Considering that the population of the United States is roughly 300,000,000 and it appears that every chronic disease is trying to get a piece of the pie; and eating disorders are definitely taking their toll. They are more prevalent between the ages of 12-25 and more than 50 percent of the USF community falls into that Many students remain unaware of the growing problem eating disorders are becoming. This emerging issue continues to be ignored because there is a great misconception that only models and people who are very skinny get them. Eating disorders do not discriminate and affect people of all ages and sizes. They continue to be one of the most underfunded diseases trailing far behind cancer and heart disease in terms of help. To increase public awareness and increase funding, the USF counseling center will be hosting the National Eating disorder awareness week starting on February 27 th, 2018 where there will be free food and information on how to be the best you can be with a variety of events. Eating disorders can be defined as a range of psychological disorders distinguished by abnormal or disturbed eating habits. Eating disorders are therefore classified as mental disorders Bula 2 and Anorexia Nervosa, one of the most common forms of eating disorders, has the highest mortality rate of any mental disorder. Eating disorders are often a result of dieting which is extremely common in the United States. In fact, according to Boston Medical Center an 45 million Americans diet each year and spend $33 billion annually on weight loss (weight management). This is huge possibility in why eating disorders are becoming a budding issue. Often many think that they will never develop an eating disorder because it sounds unrealistic but is very real and can happen to anyone. As described by CNN in an article, Eating Disorders on the eating disorders are creeping into our society little by little and starting off at an even younger age than expected. In the article, a 9-year-old developed Bulimia and Anorexia Nervosa because of an award system she had. The system included getting snacks when she behaved and being denied any snacks if she behaved badly eating Something as simple as a reward system can develop into a disease that you could struggle with the rest of your life as seen in the example of the girl who is now in her As the number of eating disorder incidents increase their funding appears to stay the same. These mental disorders are significantly underfunded compared to many other diseases. According to the National Institute of Health, research dollars spent on disease averaged $88 per affected person, Schizophrenia averaged $81, and Autism had $44. This is notably higher than that of eating disorders which only averaged $0.93 per affected person (National Institutes of Health 1). This shows the dire need of funding and awareness that is needed for those with eating disorders. Together as college students we should all care about eating disorders since it affects our age group so heavily. In a national study conducted on college students, researchers found that Bula 3 3.5% minority women and 2.1% of minority men reported having an eating disorder. In another research conducted on college students they also found that minority men and women are less likely to seek treatment when compared to their white counterparts Race, Ethnicity, and ). USF remains to be one of the most diverse college campuses in Florida with 7% of its 42,000 enrolled students being international students Meaning our very diversified student body is more susceptible to eating disorders and not seek help. Many students argue that they affected or know of anyone who has been affect. However, being very underweight is not the correct way of diagnosing eating disorders as many students associate them with. Putting on weight is a common sign of an eating disorders. Many students like to blame their weight gain on stress and depression, which are linked to eating disorders. However, college students unknowingly could be spiraling into an eating disorder or already have one. You might be quite familiar with these symptoms of eating when you are sad or stressed about school. Diseases do not come and give a friendly indicator that they are creeping up into your body. Therefore, it is very important for you to be informed on eating disorders before too late for you or someone you care about. We all like to consider ourselves as good people who like to help others. By being not practicing our freedom of speech and not acting against eating disorders you are not neutral but in fact contributing to the problem. When someone chooses to spread awareness they are spreading the possibility of saving life. If one more person knows about eating disorders, one more person knows what to do to help someone affected or might be affected. So, this is the chance for all students to take a stand and fight eating disorders together as one. To increase the awareness and funding for those affected by eating disorders, the USF counseling center will be hosting a National Eating disorder awareness week starting on Bula 4 February 27 th , 2018. There is an endless number of events going on during that week including your located on the MSC lawn where students spread awareness information on eating disorders while viewing a surprise display. One of the most anticipated events for students is the Eating Disorder Awareness Fair where there will be booths to teach students about the horrible diseases while having fun as they learn. To get a better understanding of the events and information on how to donate and learn more please visit their website at https://victorbula.wixsite.com/eatingdisorders. If you as a student would like to do more than just donate and attend the events, the counseling center is taking volunteers to help set up the event and help during the awareness week. The opportunities to help are endless and together we can rid the world of eating disorders. Eating disorders will continue to burden college students if we stand up and act. Each student has an obligation to care and try to help those affected by eating disorders since it affects college students predominantly. To keep those we care about protected we should participate in educating and spread the awareness of eating disorders. The Eating disorder awareness week was created for this very purpose, to spread awareness and help the cause. It is imperative for us as USF students to stand united against eating disorders while offering help to those who need or might need it. Bula 5 Works Cited Page eating disorders on the CNN. Cable News Network, n.d. 22 Aug. 2012. College Health and  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 09 Aug. 2016. Web. 11 Apr. 2017. Counseling  University of South Florida. N.p., n.d. Web. 11 Apr. 2017. Eating Disorders Among College  Walden Center. N.p., n.d. Web. 11 Apr. 2017.  University of South Florida. N.p., n.d. Web. 12 Apr. 2017. Get the Facts on Eating  National Eating Disorders Association. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. National Institutes of Health  National Institutes of Health. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Race, Ethnicity, and  National Eating Disorders Association. N.p., n.d. Web. 13 Apr. 2017. Weight  Boston Medical Center. N.p., 24 Oct. 2016. Web. 11 Apr. 2017.