Cheema 1 Mohammad Cheema Professor Basil ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Concussions Impact Students Playing sports is a huge part of many lives, especially when they are growing up. According to a 2014 research done, about fifteen million people participate in some kind of sport every year Sports The reality of playing any sport is the chance that the individual could be injured. An injury that has become a hot topic recently are concussions. Concussions are a serious and controversial topic recently because of the increased number of athletes being affected in the long haul, and even some dying. This injury cannot be taken lightly anymore, unless you want more athletes to die or be negatively affected for the rest of their lives. The way this topic affects you is because most students at the University of South Florida (USF) either have, or continue to, to play sports. You should be allowed to do that without being afraid of a concussion every single time you play. A way you can help is by raising money so that scientists can come up with an appropriate treatment plan that could reduce the chances of concussions, as well lessening the severity of symptoms that an individual has to deal with. It is necessary to increase awareness for this issue so that USF students can continue to stay in good health, and continue to enjoy themselves in sports that they play, without the fear of having to deal with a concussion. Cheema 2 Learning about concussions is crucial to understanding the detrimental effects they can have on a brain that is still growing. Many people have asked the question, how long does the brain develop for? Much research has been done and neuroimaging studies demonstrate that the adolescent brain continues to mature well into the Adolescent Maturity and the Brain: The Promise and Pitfalls of Neuroscience Research in Adolescent Health So, if a college student, either undergraduate or graduate, suffers a concussion while playing an intramural sport, they can injure a brain that is still developing. In the recent decade concussions have become a bigger concern around the world due to the findings of chronic traumatic encephalopathy (CTE), which is a degenerative disease of the brain found in athletes (and others) with a history of repetitive brain is This is significant because many people are dying from this disease and doctors have not found an effective treatment plan for CTE yet. A crucial thing to understand is that CTE can happen to anyone who suffers multiple concussions; they do not always have to be athletes. The data that can be found about concussions can be described by one word - scary - and that is because more research is being done, yet more people continue to die from CTE, or suffer long-term symptoms from a concussion they received playing several years ago. The first way to bring awareness to the concussion epidemic is to understand the injury and the effects of them. Bringing awareness is more than just knowing about an issue, but it includes letting other people know about the issue and alerting them to act. In college, many people pressure you to get involved on campus by partaking in something. There are many ways an individual could get involved, for example by joining a club, doing community services, or even playing intramural sports. Intramural sports are a great way to stay in shape, connect with new people, Cheema 3 and either continue to play a sport you played when you were younger, or even try a new sport you were always interested in. The only negative of playing intramural sports is the high risk of injury involved in playing. Intramural sports are supposed to be fun and engaging, not an activity that could result in a person suffering a concussion that will impact them for years to come. Not much of a sports person? The realization of concussions is that they can happen in places where sports are not involved. For example, a car accident, falling off a bike, getting punched in the head, or simply tripping while walking down the street can cause a concussion. If a concussion is something you have never experienced, just know that this injury does not discriminate against anyone/anything. Future parents should be concerned, because one day this could impact their child as well. If your child decides to play a sport and comes home with a concussion at such a young age, they are at high risk to endure what is called which is what happens when a person who suffered a concussion, endures another concussion What is a Second impact syndrome is terrifying because if someone is rushed back into a sport after suffering a concussion and gets another concussion, the impact on the brain could be so devastating that it could kill the person or cause life-long symptoms. Whether or not you play sports, you can suffer a concussion, even if you never suffered a concussion yet, you can suffer a concussion. Once you have a child, they can suffer a concussion and have that single injury impact them for several years in their lives. These are just some of the reasons why concussions need more awareness brought to the issue. Any person in the world can bring change on an issue they want, the only thing they need is a desire to help and passion for what they are going to try and change. Like the famous Bob Dylan once said, Times They Are Dylan was not speaking about technology, Cheema 4 but in the 21st century technology is as advanced as it will ever be. With high-tech technology, a treatment plan could be found. The first step is bringing awareness to the concussion issue. The world is changing, there are so many easy ways to get in touch with people across the globe, and even easier to get involved in an awareness event. USF recognizes of Injury Awareness which takes place in March every year. This event is hosted by Injury Association of Many people do not know about this association, which is why much awareness is not brought to this issue. Some of the events that will be hosted is hearing from scientist and doctors who have done much research on the concussion issue, participating in a walkathon which helps raise money for new treatment plans, and lastly meeting people that have dealt with concussions and hearing their stories and how hard it was dealing with a concussion. New treatment plans are needed for concussions; these treatment plans will reduce the amount of time it takes to recover from a concussion, and lessen the symptoms during and after the person has recovered from the concussion. Many people think that by going to this event, nothing will happen, which is not true at all. By going to this event, politicians will realize that this issue needs more attention/funding, and that would change everything. The reason for this event is to a platform for educating the general public about the incidence of brain injury and the needs of people with brain injuries and their is Brain Injury Awareness Many people do not know the basics of the injury, and if they do, they may not realize how serious this injury is because they may have never endured one themselves. The campaign also itself to outreach within the brain injury community to de-stigmatize the injury, empower those who have survived, and promote the many types of support that are is Brain Injury Awareness Concussions are deadly, and if you are lucky Cheema 5 enough to never have suffered one yourself, you should think about the other people who have. What if it was your son or daughter that suffered a concussion and had to live with the impacts for the rest of their lives? How would that make you feel? In summation, sports are something people do to enjoy themselves, take stress of their daily responsibilities, and to stay in shape. The down side about playing sports are the numerous amounts of injury a person playing any sport, can suffer. One of the most serious injuries one can suffer is a concussion. One simple concussion could impact you for the rest of your life, and can change the way you walk, talk, and even move. A concussion can impact anyone, not just a person playing sports, concussions very frequently happen in car accidents, and people tripping and hitting their head. One way you can get involved and bring awareness to this issue is by participating in the Injury Awareness events which take place annually in March across the country and even in Tampa. Awareness is needed for this issue, so that USF students can continue to stay in good health, and continue to enjoy themselves in sports that they play, without the fear of having to deal with a concussion. Cheema 6 Works Cited Facts: Sports Project Play. aspenprojectplay.org/the-facts. Accessed 03 Apr. 2017. Johnson, Sara B., Robert W. Blum, and Jay N. Giedd. Maturity and the Brain: The Promise and Pitfalls of Neuroscience Research in Adolescent Health The Journal of adolescent health : official publication of the Society for Adolescent Medicine 45.3 (2009): 221. PMC. Web. 27 Apr. 2017. March is Brain Injury Awareness  Brain Injury Awareness month.biausa.org/brain-I njury-awareness-month.htm. Accessed 11 Apr. 2017. What is  CTE Center RSS. bu.edu/cte/about/what-is-cte/. Accessed 10 Apr. 2017. What is a  Brain Injury Research institute.protectthebrain.org/Brain-Injury Research/What-is-a-Concussion-.aspx. Accessed 11 Apr. 2017.