1 Austin Peet Professor Hannah Lay English Composition 1102 25 February 2017 The Use of Rhetorical Appeals in Regards to Capital Punishment The death penalty is a heavily debated topic due to its controversial nature. The definition of capital punishment, according to Merriam-Webster, is by death; the practice of killing people as punishment for serious It is quite a contentious topic due to the fact that it involves the justice system deciding whether a person lives or dies. One organization that devotes its purpose to being against capital punishment is The National Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty (NCADP). The NCADP are considered oldest organization dedicated exclusively to the abolition of the death Their mission is abolish the death penalty in the United States and support efforts to abolish the death penalty (NCADP; About Us) Due to the fact that the death penalty is a heavy topic, there will be always people on either side of the argument, and also ones who are undecided or care about the issue. However, the NCADP incorporates factors into the images that provoke a feeling so that people can identify with their side. In image 1, they use a quote by and an image of Martin Luther King in order to add a sense of honesty to their cause. This, in turn, gives off the feeling of ethos because of the honesty and trustworthiness factor. In image 2, they pull at will to get involved by asking for people to a which incorporates a strong amount of pathos because it pulls at the heartstrings. 2 The images used by the NCADP are filled with ethos appeals. Ethos is used to the perception of the credibility or (Williams). Ethos is usually translated as a of or but it originally referred to the elements of a speech that reflected on the particular character of the speaker or the (Purdue). With image 1, ethos is used prevalently as it is trying to give off a sense of honesty and reliability. In image 1, a quote from the influential civil rights leader Martin Luther King is used. The quote, which is Punishment is against the best judgment of modern criminology, and above all, against the highest expression of love in the nature of states why King thinks that the death penalty is against morally wrong. Having such an influential person in history supporting the movement is a huge and reliable statement as to how being against the death penalty is a good thing according to the NCADP. Even though there is not much in image 2 that uses an appeal, the fact that a strong hand is holding up a torch as they are asking you to become a torchbearer can be seen as being or Also, in both images, they include the NCADP logo, which gives off the appeal that the organization is well-adjusted and trustworthy. In addition, the promotional images that are used by NCADP use patho appeals. Pathos is used describe the attempt to appeal to an sense of identity, their self-interest, and their (Williams). As explained in online writing lab, is frequently translated as some variation of but it originally referred to the elements of a speech that appealed to any of an (Purdue). This specific rhetorical appeal is used in image 1 due to the fact that it highlights the part of quote that tugs at emotions. It highlights complete different groups of words in the quote in order 3 to create a new group of words with an emotional tie to them. In this instance, the words Punishment and the highest expression of are highlighted. In image 2, the words a give the feeling of belongingness. They want you to feel like if you get involved with their cause, you will the in support of abolishing the death penalty. The feeling you get when you are involved in something that may help change a more-or-less dangerous and unnatural law such as sentencing someone to death could be a huge sense of accomplishment. These feelings are deeply rooted into the reason as to why Pathos is used consistently as a tactic or appeal by group and organizations. The NCADP also uses the appeal of logos in their images. Logos is considered use of the strategies of logic to persuade your (Williams). is frequently translated as some variation of or but it originally referred to the actual content of a speech and how it was organized Logos is most likely the least used rhetorical appeal within my images, however it is still incorporated. In image 1, the quote by Martin Luther King displays his logical argument as to why he is opposed to capital punishment. His views fall in line with the stance and purpose, which in turn helps the tone and cause of the image used. The words he uses are on the side of argument that the NCADP is on, which is why they use his quote to further build upon their argument and give people insight as to what the cause is about. For image 2, the logic behind it is that the message is telling you to get involved. With this persuasion of telling them to a it is showing that it is easy to become a volunteer with the organization and that you should make your voice heard against the death penalty. 4 Lastly, kairos appeals are slightly used in the images that NCADP use to promote their organization. Kairos is term that refers to the elements of a speech that acknowledge and draw support from the particular setting, time, and place that a speech (Purdue). It refers to the of an (Louisville). In image 1, Kairos is used due to the fact that Martin Luther quote was said at a time where he was living through injustice and was fighting against it. Martin Luther King is known to be very influential, as he was a leader of the civil rights movement in the The quote that Mr. King uses reflects significantly against the non-violent movements he was leading. He believes that capital punishment is unnecessary and is against human morality, and this is reflected from the time and place that MLK comes from, when African-Americans were punished with violence constantly. Martin Luther King was tired of the violence, and the death penalty under law was seen as just another way to perpetuate those violent tactics within culture. Martin Luther quote is still relevant due to the fact that the death penalty is still implemented in many states in America. Capital Punishment is still considered a divisive idea in the United States with many people and organizations for and against it. Organizations such as the NCADP use many appeals in order to try to make their argument more clear and accessible. As you can see in the example images, rhetorical appeals such as ethos, logos, pathos, and kairos are commonly used. These give the consumer or the reader a reason to identify with the organization or the cause when they see the image. Whether it is an emotional response or being able to tell if the company is trustworthy, these appeals usually work in getting people to get involved. 5 Image Image 2: 6 Works Cited: About  National Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty. N.p., n.d. Web. <http://www.ncadp.org/pages/about-us>. Rhetorical  Online Writing Lab. N.p., n.d. Web. Capital  Merriam-Webster. N.p., n.d. Web. Logos, Ethos, Pathos,  University of Louisville, n.d. Web. Williams, George H.  PBWorks, 8 Oct. 2008. Web.