Kago 1 John kago Mark Nusspickel Composition 1 April 2, 2017 Outline China Pollution Affecting The World I. Introduction Due to increase in the green house gases such as the CO2 emitted from the factories affects the atmosphere. The temperature rise in china, also around the world in general has happened due to suns warmth getting trapped in the earth. Due to the increase in respiratory deaths caused by inhaling polluted air, China needs to do more about its pollution levels. People do not think they need to do anything about the china pollution? People feel that China should focus on the economy and population in the country and they have done enough with pollution. China uses sufficient cars that pollute less and also less polluting machines in the factories. But their other people who feel that China should still do a lot more. than 100 million people live in cities where the air reaches levels considered In a survey of 341 major cities in China in 2003, the academy found that 27% suffered from serious pollution, 32% had light pollution, and Kago 2 41% enjoyed good air quality. The academy blamed air pollution for 411 000 premature mostly from lung and heart-related diseases. The World Bank had earlier estimated the toll at 400 000 at the beginning of economic reform in the 1980s, Chinese cities already suffered from black smoke from heavy industry and high levels of coal- burning by power plants and winter heating units. This activity created extremely high levels of acid rain pollution in southern cities (He, Huo, and Zhang 2002). But the pollution challenge grew worse after the 1980s as Premier Deng Xiaoping launched a new economic development strategy. air pollution pollution can drift across regions, just as industrial water pollution can flow downstream. In major urban cities such as Beijing and Hong Kong, much of the air pollution is caused by emissions from nearby strengthened measures by the central government to improve air quality in China, air pollution continues to haunt the country and areas beyond its borders. The severity of air pollution in China is partly attributed to its heavy reliance on coal for energy Kago 3 China Pollution Affecting The World. Due to increase in the green house gases such as the CO2 emitted from the factories affects the atmosphere. This leads to China increasing the temperature around the world in general, this happens due to suns warmth getting trapped in the earth. This later leads to melting of ice caps. Due to the increase in respiratory deaths caused by inhaling polluted air in China atmosphere, China in general needs to do a lot more about its pollution levels to be improved. People do not think they need to do anything about the china pollution? People feel that China should focus on the economy and population in the country and they have done enough with pollution. This because China is a very populated country that needs to reduce the number of children been born because its becoming over populated. China uses sufficient cars that pollute less and also less polluting machines in the factories. These are in some of the factories that feel the urge of improving the environment and for the others they done much yet. But their other people who feel that China should still do a lot more. Because of various reasons, they include Firstly, China has been having problems with the amount of pollution in the atmosphere increasing in a very high rate. As some of the research stated than 100 million people live in cities where the air reaches levels considered In a survey of 341 major cities in China in 2003, the academy found that 27% suffered from serious pollution, 32% had light pollution, and 41% enjoyed good air quality. The academy blamed air pollution for 411 000 premature mostly from lung and heart-related diseases. The World Bank had earlier estimated the toll at 400 000 (Wen 30). This quotes states that a survey was done within the country and found out that Kago 4 almost majority of the people stayed in states that had a high level of air pollution showing that still China is air polluted. The number of people living in those states suffers from serious lung and heart diseases showing that people are inhaling dangerous air pollution. Secondly, Another factor to show that China is still highly polluted, one of the research stated at the beginning of economic reform in the 1980s, Chinese cities already suffered from black smoke from heavy industry and high levels of coal- burning by power plants and winter heating units. This activity created extremely high levels of acid rain pollution in southern cities (He, Huo, and Zhang 2002). But the pollution challenge grew worse after the 1980s as Premier Deng Xiaoping launched a new economic development strategy. air pollution (Watts 2), this shows the reason why specific cities in China have been highly polluted over the years, because of the industries releasing a lot of black smoke. Showing that they had not been affected by pollution or think of industries are polluting the environment to use less pollutant machines. But since factories were playing a big role in polluting the environment with an increase in the CO2 level they have to do something with them to reduce the level of CO2 been polluted into the atmosphere. Thirdly, China has not just been air polluted but also through their city downstream as stated in a research pollution can drift across regions, just as industrial water pollution can flow downstream. In major urban cities such as Beijing and Hong Kong, much of the air pollution is caused by emissions from nearby 47) In other words people living in the major cities such as Beijing and Hong Kong were in danger of consuming polluted water supply. This shows that still happening. China Kago 5 looked for ways to probably treat the water or change location where the industries pollute their waste. Because this problem is mostly from the factories, this is because they release a lot of waste and know where to dump it and so they do that in the ocean. Fourthly, China is currently trying to do something about pollution as stated strengthened measures by the central government to improve air quality in China, air pollution continues to haunt the country and areas beyond its borders. The severity of air pollution in China is partly attributed to its heavy reliance on coal for energy 50) In this case the government is trying to do something but it still not enough because the rate of pollution is still high. When the government comes up and declares that pollution level is increases and changes are needed to happen. That shows that the pollution level is pretty high and the number of death happening are due to people breathing a lot of polluted air. So the government tries to make measures and also warn factories on the kind of machines they use in the factories. Because the machines used in the factories currently release a lot of CO2 into the atmosphere. Finally I feel that China still needs to do a lot in trying to reduce their pollution because been a problem. Through out the research been able to find out their still a lot more that china needs to improve their pollution. People might say that other countries such as America and other major pollutant countries need to do more, because china has done a lot. They say this because china has been able to improve the car pollution by providing green efficient cars and also improved some of their factories with non-pollutant machines. But this factors been done still make any major in the level of co2 polluted in the atmosphere. So China needs to do something because not only affects there country but also other countries. The pollutions Kago 6 affects the world temperature to rise and lead to increase in water level due to ice caps melting which leads to flooding around the world. Also affects the climate pattern of rainy season and dry seasons been longer than usual. Kago 7 Work Cited. LI, ANTHONY H. F. Hopes Of Limiting Global Warming? China And The Paris Agreement On Climate  China Perspectives 1 (2016): 49-54. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Qian, Zhengmin, Hung-Mo Lin, and Walter F. Stewart. Seasonal Pattern Of The Acute Mortality Effects Of Air  Journal Of The Air & Waste Management Association (Air & Waste Management Association) 60.4 (2010): 481-488. Applied Science & Technology Source. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Suk, William A., et al. Environmental Pollution: An Under-Recognized Threat To Health, Especially In Low- And Middle-Income  Environmental Health Perspectives 124.3 (2016): A41-A45. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Takarada, Yasuhiro. Transboundary Pollution And The Welfare Effects Of Technology  Journal Of Economics 85.3 (2005): 251-275. Business Source Alumni Edition. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Watts, J. China: The Air Pollution Capital Of The  Lancet 366 North American Edition.9499 (2005): 1761-1762. CINAHL. Web. 25 Jan. 2017. Wen, Zongguo, Fanxin Meng, and Min Chen. Estimates Of The Potential For Energy Conservation And CO2 Emissions Mitigation Based On Asian-Pacific Integrated Model (AIM): The Case Of The Iron And Steel Industry In  Journal Of Cleaner Production 65.(2014): 120-130. ScienceDirect. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Kago 8