Hardman 1 Victoria Hardman Professor Nusspickel ENC1101.901517 April 30, 2017 Outline I Introduction A. Thesis: Rather than being products of our circumstances or social location, humans are products of their own will power. B. Sociologists believe we are always evolving. C. Three types of Sociologic perspectives II Opposing Viewpoint: A. Fundamentalist would argue that you are who you are going to be for the rest of your life, and they there is no evolving. They will say that you are a product of your social location during the developmental years of your childhood. B. I disagree with the fundamentalist point of view because you are who you become. One cannot blame their actions and who they become as an adult because of where they come from. III Sociologist believe that although social location (Intersection of many different social positions/statuses- represent the intersection of multiple demographic characteristics.), we are also constantly evolving and who we are is who we choose to be. IV Three types of Theoretic perspectives Hardman 2 A. The Fundamentalist Perspective i. Durkheim- Functionalist perspective ii. Marco perspective B. Conflict Theory i. Marco Oriented ii. Carl Marx and Weber C. Symbolic Interaction i. Interaction is the most basic component to human life ii. Micro approach D. The Other Wes Moore E. Interviews i. Afton Ott ii. Bailey Ott V Conclusion A. Summary of main points or reasons B. Restate thesis statement C. Personal comment or a call to action. Hardman 3 Social Location and Human Development In the ongoing debate of Nature vs. Nurture, which one has a larger effect on a person. Not everyone born to highly educated parents, and grow up in affluent societies will end up in the same social class, and be just as successful. Along with a person who is born to uneducated parents, in a rural neighborhood surrounded by violence and drugs, destined to end up the same. To this end some may argue that personality a genetic trait, as they view it being something that individuals are born with and evolves through social interactions with the world. Rather than being products of circumstances or social location, humans are products of their own will power. While it may seem obvious that people are capable of making their own decisions and ultimately directing their path to life, there are others who truly believe that both circumstances and social location are the sole factors effecting an life. For instance, people who have a fundamental perspective, one that was introduced by Emilie Durkheim, would disagree with the idea that people create the life they live. They have a very and view of the world when looking at the development of a person. They believe that the social class someone is born into and their personalities from the beginning cannot change under any circumstances. These idealists would say that a person is a product of their social location during the development childhood stages. For example, if you are born into a poor family with uneducated parents, you are destined to become who your parents are. Taking this train of thought Emilie Durkheim states, cannot become attached to higher aims and submit to a rule if he sees nothing above him to which he (Durkheim) When he made this assumption of people he was not considering intersectionality within different cultures. If you agree with Durkheim, you agree that you will never grow as a person during any time of your life. Hardman 4 I would have to agree with the sociologist way of thinking that humans are constantly evolving. Sociologist believe that although social location can an effect on quality of life, it is not the only factor that plays in the outcome of their well-being. When people think of Karl Marx, they word comes to the minds of many. But he should also be recognized as a revolutionary socialist. He strongly believed that the working class were constantly being held down by the bourgeoisie, the middle class who possessed a large majority of the wealth, and that if they unite and work hard they will rise above. the ruling classes tremble at a communist revolution. The proletarians have nothing to lose but their chains. They have a world to win. Workingmen of all countries, (Karl Marx). Although most agree with the views of a Communist government, such as the idea of a class war, a lot of people do agree with their view of how each person should have the ability to climb the social latter through hard work. Symbolic Interaction is the basic component to human life and how we evolve. Through our social location, we all experience symbolic interaction in different ways, and it starts to shape the way we interact with other members of our society. George Mead, an American sociologist, explained how important interaction is to the development of humans. As explained when he stated gives it its human charter is that the individual through language addresses himself in the role of the others in the group and thus becomes aware of them in his own He is expressing how we as humans learn such things as social ques, what is appropriate and inappropriate for interacting with people, and social Through this we can also identify what is right and wrong depending on our social location and who we choose to surround ourselves with. But in the end, we are responsible for each of our actions. Hardman 5 Bailey and Afton Ott, two identical twins who grew up in an affluent society, well educated, and born to loving both took completely opposite directions with their lives after high school. In 2015, right after their graduation, their father informed them that he was leaving their mother to live with his new girlfriend. They both were asked the same question: has your separation affected response was; my dad told me he was leaving, I wanted absolutely nothing to do with him. I was disgusted by him. It took me months to be able to speak to him again. But when I did he told me his side of the story and I started to look at my mother differently. He deal with her constant self-loathing anymore, and now I either. Every time I go home I see it in Afton more and more and I am embarrassed by response was I realized that my mom and dad were splitting up, and my dad was moving in with his new girlfriend, I what anything to do with him. How could he leave my mom? I began to look at all men differently. I hated them but continued to search for something to fill the void from him leaving, in each relationship I had afterword. This caused me to hate myself and turn to cheap bottles of wine and Xanax. But I rather turn to that than remember how horrible my life is in In December of 2016, Afton went to New Mexico to visit one of her best friends, Shelby, who is also the first person to introduce Afton to Xanax. While in New Mexico, Afton and Shelby went to a casino, both were under the influence of alcohol, Xanax, and cocaine during this time. The last thing Afton remembers of this night is losing her phone, and the next morning waking up in jail. She is now facing three felony charges in New Mexico, and when asked about her current case, she continues to blame the security at the casino for her arrest. The drug that Afton once judge her friends for taking, has now taken over her life, and she refuses to believe that she has an issue or has lost control of herself. On the other side of the situation, Bailey has let the change of her Hardman 6 relationship be a learning experience and has kept life moving. She is currently living in Tallahassee, working and going to school full-time, studying to become a high school teacher. Reading the book, The Other Wes Moore: One Name, Two Fates, written by Wes Moore, has been a large inspiration to writing this paper. These are two men with the same, who grew up with very similar backgrounds and family dynamics but ended up becoming two completely different members of society. While the author was interview the other Wes Moore in prison he said everything you told me, both of us did some pretty wrong stuff when we were younger. And both of us had second chances. But if the situation or the context where you make the decisions change, the second chances mean too much, From this statement it is clear that humans have the ability to change their life for the better. Throughout my research, the only constant variable found when dissecting lives, is how they react to certain circumstances. Everyone has the ability to use their will power to become determined enough to give themselves the best possible life. I agree with the idea that everyone is constantly evolving. We are not the same person that we were when we were children, and some of us even the same people we were last year. Most people are working each an everyday to better ourselves. Your will power is stronger than any circumstance that comes your way. Rather than being products of circumstances or social location, humans are products of their own will power. It the cards you are dealt; how you play them. Hardman 7 Works Cited BrainyQuote.com Xplore Inc, 2017, 11 April 2017. Web Elwell, Frank W. Durkheim on Social Emile Durkheim on Social Evolution 2003. Web. 29, March 2017 Herbert BrainyQoute.com Xplore Inc, 2017. 11 April 2017. Web Mooney, Knox, and Schacht Three Main Sociological Understanding Social Problems, 5 th edition. 2007. Journal. 29, March 2017 Moore, Wes. The Other Wes Moore: One Name, Two Fates. New York: Spiegel & Grau, 2011. Print Ott, Afton and Ott, Bailey. Interview 1 Feb. 2017