Chauhan 1 Ayush Chauhan Prof. Jubalee Penuliar ENC 1102 011 20 March 2017 Every Child is Different A mind is said to be a A mind is said to be free of any evil or good. A mind is said to be malleable and should be molded with careful diligence. Many have taken notice to the idea that a mind requires cultivation of reason and imagination to create a worthwhile pursuit of excellence. Those people who believe in such ideas are part of an organization known as Freedom Works. An organization devoted to providing every child across America the opportunity to reach their full potential. The current state of k-12 education is due to the Common Core State Standard which has dramatically brought upon national education reform. However, Freedom works believe that common core created a false narrative and fairytale standards that many schools cannot meet. Freedom Works argues that the power of education should be taken out of the hands of bureaucrats in Washington and given back to parents and teachers that truly know what is best for a child (Freedom Works). The two images that are created on behalf of Freedoms Works encompass a very strong message that shows the Federal Government undermining diversity, overstepping political power, and creating manufactured learning. Education is the backbone of early childhood development. Between image one and image two, the audience is stringed through a series of emotions to highlight how common core has undermined diversity. In image one there are multiple empty desks, all of which have something written on them. The writings include, HOMELESS, ABUSED, Public perception of a classroom is a joyful and educational environment for all Chauhan 2 students. However, this image counters all of that. This image emphasizes that fact that every child has a different background, a different story, a different life. If children come to school because of what they go through daily, how are they expected to reach the standards set by the government? Freedom goal is to use such an image that calls for an empathetic response from the reader to show that every child is different. They all have different needs that must be met for them to reach their full potential. This image resonates with readers who may know a child who has gone through the same struggle and teachers who are not able to get them to succeed because their life is that intensive. Image two, shows a little girl in a classroom full of students looking out the window. Out the window, she sees a whole new world. A world of color. A world fueled by imagination. The world in which the possibilities are endless. If the reader takes a closer look at the face, it almost seems as if she is in awe of the world. It is if she has never seen anything like it. According to Anne Stone, Common Core prides itself on creating environments of diversity that helps fuel the imagination of children. Freedom Works counters that idea by showing the harsh reality of the classroom (Stone 2). This provides the reader with the insight that they would not have been able to find if they did not experience this situation themselves. Another key part the reader should focus on is the color. Outside the window, the world is full of color which represents a combination of freedom and creativity. However, inside the classroom, color has been stripped away and everything is black and white. The body is black and white but her face has a little bit of color. Freedom Works is symbolizing what happens when standards are introduced and are not tailored to the students. Classrooms lose their color. They lose their freedom and creativity. They lose free thought of the student. Once black and white takes over nothing will set these children apart they will all be stripped of their individuality. This image is Chauhan 3 disturbing and Freedom Works believes this is starting to become a reality. A reality in which common core has completely undermined diversity. Both images make the reader feel disturbed and frightened for the future. When viewing image one and image two the viewer receives an appeal to logic and is persuaded by reason. Immediately after viewing image one the reader can make out the politicians that have barged into a classroom with a handful of media personnel following them. With Majority Whip Rick Santorum leading the charge and Speaker of the House Newt Gingrich directly behind it seems that the bureaucrats are here to save the day. Freedom Works presents the counter to that claim. Behind the politicians and media, there is one person who is hidden. That hidden person has a face of awe as they take down notes of the reality of the situation. The bureaucrats are not here to help even though they ask ARE YOU DOING They are here to impose standards on students who even make it in the classroom. The reader promptly can deduce the real message of this image using logic. These bureaucrats are not in the classroom to make a difference. Image two shows an old man walking towards the little girl and says, AWAY FROM THE WINDOW! YOU WANT TO BE A CHILD LEFT BEHIND, DO The reader can reason that the old man is a politician since he makes a reference to No Child Left Behind act, the predecessor to the common core. Freedom Works is trying to show that politicians are overstepping their political power by being involved in every aspect of education. They are sending a logical message to the viewer to show that the power of education must be given back to the parents and teachers. If any image is not credible, no reader will take the message seriously. In image one, on the right-hand side you see a teacher facing a world of ridicule with an empty classroom. On her desk are her own school supplies and piles of paperwork with test schedules for standardized Chauhan 4 assessments. With all that teachers, must face, how are they supposed to push students to reach their full potential? Stan Karp, a known associate of Freedom Works, answers this question by providing commentary over the image, face hell but still give everything that they (Karp 2). Freedom Works is a strong advocate for rights. They believe that for students to be pushed, teachers must be given the adequate resources. Image one shows the reality teachers face every day. Image two adds on to the message conveyed in image one. Image two shows mind control devices placed on all the children as they take their test. They have eye blockers and their face has no expression. Freedom Works is showing that common core has created manufactured learning. These students are becoming robots, that just recite information to pass federal standards. Anne Stone of The Gale Group adds into the conversation saying, are becoming more like where students go to learn but come out only knowing only how to take a (Stone 3). Knowing that Freedom Works is such a well-known and reputable organization, the viewers of their images are most likely to accept their message. Also, having many credible researchers who agree with their claims increases Freedom following. Freedom Works has brought the fight to Washington to bring the power of education back to the parents and teachers. These two images advertised by Freedom Works show undermined diversity in classrooms, overstepping of political power, and the creation of manufactured learning. Image one shows the hardships that teachers must face and that all children are different. Image two shows that individuality is being stripped from students and classrooms are beginning to become factories. If Freedom Works is going to be successful then they must communicate their message if they wish to change the future of early childhood education. A Chauhan 5 mind is a and it should be molded it in a way that fosters reasoning and creativity. Freedom message is exactly that. Chauhan 6 Works Cited Works FW. N.p. n.d. Web. 27 January 2017. Karp, Stan. Problems with the Common Rethinking Schools, vol. 28, no. 2, 2013, pp. 1-10. Stone, Anne. Common Standards the The Gale Group, vol. 2013, no. 5, 2013. pp 1-4. Chauhan 7