Butz 1 Dana Butz Mrs. Penuliar Composition II 5 March 2017 Animal Testing Through Visual Rhetoric People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, otherwise known as PETA, understands the idea that pictures are worth a thousand words. In the report for the year 2016, PETA brags that the videos they released, which included investigations and celebrity received more than one billion views 2016 Annual Review). These investigations and celebrity ads are usually packed with rhetoric that lures the audience in. PETA has become known for releasing advertisements that are extreme, but effective. Ingrid Newkirk, the president of PETA, shares that extremism and of these advertisements are what fuels the movement PETA has created (Remorenko). Although there has been some feedback that PETA ads are offensive and vulgar, the brutal honesty presented forces the viewers to think about the issue at hand: animal cruelty. PETA argues against animal cruelty through two pieces of visual rhetoric that communicate the brutal reality of animal testing, target specific organizations that still use this method and use common sense to grasp the attention. Image 1 shows a gray kitten with big blue eyes. The words am not lab are stretched across the picture in blue letters. logo is presented in the corner of the ad to show that PETA supports it (Kretzer). Image 2 portrays a beautiful, blonde woman leaning against a mirror. Her reflection appears as if her skins has been treated with brutal chemicals. There is blood around her eye and lips. The phrase Cosmetics: The Ugly Side of Butz 2 is written across the bottom (Elliot). Through these two images, PETA effectively visualizes the brutality and unethical nature of animal testing. One aspect of animal testing that is easy to convey through pictures is the brutal outcome that results from the process. The rhetorical device of pathos is used the most when gory or harsh photos are used to grasp the attention. The audience will most likely respond by feeling sympathetic for the subject in the photo. The woman shown in image 2 appears to have been treated with harsh chemicals. Her eye is puffy and her lips look like they are oozing from being mistreated with some sort of harsh substance. The pathos comes in to play with this aspect because the audience should feel inclined to wonder why her face was mistreated. Since this is a PETA advertisement, and PETA works toward ending animal cruelty, the face of the woman is used to show what animals go through every day when they are used as test subjects. The tag line at the bottom, Ugly Side of confirms that, behind closed doors, the cosmetic industry takes advantage of animal subjects in order to release products that will help humans feel more beautiful. By showing a human with chemical burns instead of an animal, ethos forces viewers to give the idea of animal testing a second thought. No one wants to voluntarily feel pain, especially for the satisfaction of others; that is why PETA challenges consumers to think why should animals have to go through this? The main goal of using this aspect of brutality in this advertisement is to show humans how harsh and painful testing is on animals through the use of ethos. Logos is also used through showing exactly how cosmetic testing affects the subjects, in this case it is a human. The burn marks and oozing on the face is not an exaggeration; it is realistically what happens every day in the process of animal testing. By targeting a specific organization that is guilty of using animal testing, image 1 proves that this issue can be found anywhere. At the bottom of image 1, it states of Butz 3 Michigan: Replace cruel animal labs with modern day (Kretzer). This statement both accuses the University of Michigan of using animal testing, as well as offers a replacement method that will work equally as well. Logos is implemented in the suggestion to switch to using modern day simulators because, since it would be as effective as animal testing, it is a logical replacement, as well as ethical. As stated on website, some ethical and comparable alternates to animal testing include in vitro methods, in silico methods and experimentation with human volunteers, some of which PETA provides funding for (Alternatives to Animal Testing). By only targeting one party, this advertisement can be seen as motivation for others to stop their use of animal testing. The animal that the advertisement is referring to are labs used for emergency training courses for Survival Flight nurses at the University of Michigan (Keeping). After this advertisement surfaced and the university was accused of violating the Animal Welfare Act, the university argued that the availability of these procedures to be performed using live which is why live animals were being used (Keeping). PETA persisted in campaigning against the use of live animals and the University of Michigan finally agreed to use replacement methods. By targeting a specific organization in this advertisement, PETA achieved its goal by offering a logical replacement to the unethical method of animal testing. Common sense plays crucial role in both of these images. For instance, image 1 shows the phrase am not lab next to the picture of the kitten (Kretzer). When the audience first sees this advertisement with the sad kitten and this statement, the first reaction is intended to be confusion. This kitten is not a piece of equipment; therefore, PETA believes that it should not be found in a lab. Since no one sees a kitten and automatically compares it to lab equipment, this challenges the audience to think about how detrimental animal testing is to Butz 4 innocent animals like the kitten shown. Image 2 also uses common sense by showing how harmful animal testing can be to a human. Cosmetic companies perform tests such as rubbing chemicals onto bare skin, forcing animals to swallow large amounts of chemicals to determine if death is a side effect and force feeding all of which provide no pain relief for the animals involved (Fact Sheet: Cosmetic Testing). These types of tests are what this advertisement is attempting to mimic. By showing how much harm has been done to the skin creates a feeling that it would be common sense to stop using these types of tests and chemicals on any living thing. Comparing animal testing to using the same method on humans also shows how unethical and truly painful animal testing is. Since it is disturbing to see the face like that, it should be equally disturbing to see animals being put through the same circumstances. PETA also sneaks in the use of Kairos at the bottom of this image. postpone the EU urges the viewer to do two things: learn what the EU ban is and decide whether they want to be active in the process of banning it. Working with the brutal-looking image of the woman, the Kairos in image 2 places the EU ban on a timeline to convey the message that there is only so much time to do something about the issue of animal testing. main goal was to integrate logos and Kairos in order to capture the attention and include ethos to plainly show the harmfulness and unethicality of animal testing. Ethos, logos, pathos and Kairos are found and necessary in any piece of literature, whether it be a piece of writing or an image. Through multiple uses of these rhetorical devices, PETA has created advertisements that encourage viewers to reevaluate their view on animal testing. Emotion and logic are very important in order to clearly deliver the message in these images. Whether it be through brutal images, common sense or targeting a specific situation, Butz 5 PETA effectively delivers their mission to put an end to animal testing. Animals have no say, so be the voice for them. Butz 6 (Kretzer) (Elliot) Butz 7 Works Cited to Animal PETA. N.p., n.d Web. 19 Mar. 2017 Elliot, Annabel. The cruelty-free cosmetics  Daily Mail Online. N.p., 30 June 2015. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. Sheet: Cosmetic The Humane Society of the United States. N.p., n.d. Web. 19 Mar. 2017. Keeping, Juliana. University of Michigan response to PETA complaint: have nothing to be ashamed  The Ann Arbor News. N.p., 20 Sept. 2010. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. Kretzer, Michelle. Getting Cats out of Labs Goes  PETA. N.p., 15 Mar. 2012. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. 2016 Annual  PETA. PETA, 2017. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. Remorenko, Lisa Acho. Ad Campaigns: Effective or  Santa Barbara Independent. N.p., 23 Jan. 2009. Web. 24 Feb. 2017.