Gregory Portner 1 Gregory Portner 04/19/17 ENC1102 Adam Carter Bulls Put an End to Drunk Driving Drunk driving has affected millions of individuals and thousands of families for the past 20 years. After the National Drinking Age act in 1984, the amount of drunk driving accident has greatly declined but it still has room for improvements. There are still about 300,000 people who drive under the influence daily in the United States (MADD). Countless of these drunk drivers are college students who put their lives in danger. Not only are they endangering their life and the life of others but they are putting at risk their future. Finding a job with a DUI is extremely hard to let alone having jail time depending on the severity of the issue. A lot of these college students disregard the consequences before taking the wheel under the influence and it is time to put an end to it. Sign the petition to reach a 1000 signature so I can present the Designated Driver Bulls Program to the University of South Florida, to gain enough funds so USF college students can find a safe ride home around school without any questions asked. Binge Drinking is an American college culture that has been around for the last decade. Proven by research, college students in the United States are at risk for: psychosocial problems, antisocial behaviors, overdoses, high-risk sexual behaviors, negative academic consequences, injury and death (Martin 2014). More importantly, all these college students are at risk of drunk driving and are not aware of the true consequences that arise from them. In 2013, 28.7 million people admitted to driving under the influence of alcohol that is more than the population of Texas (MADD). More so, every day in America, another 27 people die from a drunk driving Gregory Portner 2 accident (MADD). Drunk driving is addicting, people tend to think that if they do it once they can do it another million times, however, it only takes one time for your whole life to end. On average, a drunk driver has driven 80 times before getting arrested the first time. Not only does drunk driving individual people and families but it costs the government 132 billion dollars a year (MADD). A study conducted researching the Rational Choice Theory found that an individual or someone they know has driven while intoxicated without being pulled over and/or arrested, they may consider their probability of being arrested as quiet (Mason 2010). Drunk driving is like a domino effect and it will take a lot of time, money and other resources to put an end to it. It is the job of college students and administrators to educate people on the dangers and to put an end to it. Drinking and driving can take a massive emotional toll on families, friends and everyone in a community. Found on the Mothers Against Drunk Driving website, this is an example of a typical drinking and driving is the story of Cody Dewitt: Cody was a high school senior with straight a girlfriend, liked by everyone in school with a bright future ahead of him. On December 24th, 2011, during winter break, him and his friends went to have beers in of their garages until they got kicked out a 1:11 am. best friend decided to drive under the influence until his lost control of the car, hit a tree and killed Cody instantly because of the impact. mother, Cathy, described the first year after her death as a blur, the second year she realized what happened that night and that the 3rd year she grieved. Because of drunk driving, Cody is dead, his best friend is locked up in jail for 6 Gregory Portner 3 years, girlfriend lost her first love and his mother struggles to live the rest of her life without her son (MADD). This is one of the thousands of families that get affected by drunk driving and as Cathy, Mother said, affects more people than ever know, EMT, hospital staff, bystanders, neighbors, friends, (MADD). Cathy wants young people to think of how many lives they touch every day (MADD). There are countless stories like and if you care about your family and the well-being of others, do not be a bystander. Educate your friends and family about the dangers and most importantly do not be a bystander. Even if you do not drink and drive, help stop someone else before he has the opportunity to hurt himself or other people driving on the road. It is your responsibility and your responsibility to prevent these tragedies and if you can prevent it do it. You never know whose life you can save by standing up to driving under the influence of alcohol. To prevent such events from affecting our communities, I propose to start a program called Bulls Designated Driver Program. This would help the Bulls community have a safe ride home from any party, bar or drinking event without them getting in trouble for underage drinking. Apps like Uber are available but some college students simply cannot afford it and would rather take the risk of drinking and driving. Instituting this program would take away the risk of someone endangering their life because they cannot find a ride home besides driving. This program would be fully run by student volunteers but cars would be provided by the school. Once the petition has over a 1000 signatures, it will be presented personally to the president Judy Genshaft. I believe this plan will work because Judy is known to Gregory Portner 4 listen to petitions. In 2016, Judy was presented with a petition called Undocumented, Muslim, and All Vulnerable Students at the University of South written by a faculty member and a USF student (Oracle). She sympathized with the student body and signed a letter along with 400 U.S. university presidents to support their cause (Oracle). This leads me to believe that our university president will care about our issue and will help support the Bulls Designated Driver Program. Act today and sign the petition to help get this program started to save the endangered of lives caused by drunk driving within our community. People die every day because of drunk driving whether they are the driver or a victim on the road. It is our duty as part of a community to educate and prevent the dangers of drunk driving. Even though more and more young men and women are being made aware of the dangers of drunk driving, there are still accidents happening. As a result by signing a petition to help start the Bulls Designated Driver Program, not only are you helping everyone find a ride home but you might be saving a life. Gregory Portner 5 Work Cited Blauth, Morgan. pushed for continued protection of The Oracale. http://www.usforacle.com/news/view.php/1026239/Petition-pushes-for-continued- protection. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017 Fatality Analysis Reporting System (FARS). 2014. Washington D.C. https://www- fars.nhtsa.dot.gov/Crashes/CrashesAlcohol.aspx. Accessed 29 Jan. 2017. Martin, Ryan., et al. and Computerized Implantation of an Impaired Driving Intervention for College American Journal of Health Studies, vol. 29, n0. 2, June 2014, pp. 172-17 Mason, Ashley and Elizabeth. Shaping the Decision of College Students to Walk or Drive under the Influence of Alcohol: A Test of Rational Choice Theory. Education, Prevention Vol 17, no.5, Oct. 2010, pp. 560-572 Gregory Portner 6