Vandebogart 1 Skylar Vandebogart Professor Hernandez Composition II April 29, 2017 What can be done to help? When people think about the term, more often than not, the idea of African people being bought and forced to work on plantations in the Yes, that is a form of slavery, but there is another form of slavery that still exists today. It is a less stereotypic version: human trafficking. Human trafficking is a form of slavery where people are taken and more often than not, made to be sex slaves and they are bought and sold like merchandise. to some estimates, approximately 80% of trafficking involves sexual exploitation, and 19% involves labor Facts about Human People of all ages and types are bought and sold in a variety of countries. It is estimated there are over 20.9 million victims worldwide Many people are abducted, forced, and blackmailed into it (Liam). Today, the average value of a human life is around 90 dollars and differs between age and gender. Human trafficking is a really tough subject to talk about, but it is something we need to talk about none the less. Many people realize that human trafficking is a real thing. Most people have a general feeling of distance from the subject; though it is not necessarily as publicized as say police brutality, abortion, or gun control, it is a very real threat that does exist in the United States. In fact, it threatens closer to home than most people believe. The top five states for the highest rates of human trafficking are as follows: 1. California, 2. Texas, 3. Florida, 4. Ohio, 5. New York. Most of these states have many Vandebogart 2 areas of tourism. Tourism allows many people to be in an area, making it easier to kidnap people. These particular people are also easier to kidnap because they are on vacation, meaning if they are gone for a few days, people will not consider them missing over a longer period of time (Top 5). This is a subject that is more relatable than perceived. In Fort Myers, a Floridian town just about two hours away, there was an incident involving a victim of human trafficking. She was treated horribly when trying to reintroduce her into school. She had been conditioned to think sexual favors were how to get around in life. Many people took advantage of her. This issue is real. The organization, Miracle Outreach is an organization in Tampa dedicated to helping victims of human trafficking, homelessness, and abuse find a home and helping them succeed in life. Miracle outreach is a nonprofit organization that has been around since 2000 (Miracles Out Reach). They have helped over 3000 kids and families with their services. Their goal is to make these victims successful in life. They offer housing for victims. They have housing available to girls ages twelve to seventeen that gives children 24/7 supervision by adults. They help reintroduce these children to normal every day society. They do this by helping the kids build self-esteem, teach them how to set realistic goals, and show them essential life skills. Many of their programs are dedicated to helping these kids achieve outside of school. Mommy and Me is a program that provides and resources for young mothers that have aged out of foster care to help create a circle of support in order to reduce the likelihood of their child or children entering the foster care (Miracles Out Reach). There are many other programs dedicated to mentoring these children and young adults. The salvation army is another organization dedicated to aiding victims of human trafficking. They have been actively battling the terrors of human trafficking since the beginning in London, England. It started with victims of prostitution and has now grown to helping those in need because of human trafficking. A husband-wife duo started the initial fight, opening a home to women and girls who found themselves victims. This has now grown to over 117 homes. Volunteers have also gone Vandebogart 3 undercover to rescue victims. This event caused the age of consent to be raised from 13 to 16 in 1885. The Salvation army annually holds a day of prayer dedicated to honoring those who have fallen victim to human trafficking. It is possible for any community to make an impact on these statistics. There are many easy ways to reduce the amount of human trafficking. The first is to learn indicators. Many victims cannot openly inform people they are victims. Learn the signs and try to aid them. If someone is suspicious, there are hotlines available or call 911. Be aware of consumer goods. Forced labor is also a branch of human trafficking. Volunteering and donating to local organizations is always a needed effort 15 Ways You Can Help Fight Human ). Many organizations have donation pages on their websites. Questioning the local or state government draws attention to the problem. Writing a letter or creating a petition is a good way to get the publicity. Local schools can educate parents and students on safety and how victims are targeted. Education is the biggest part and can also be done by paying attention to local and state news. Being informed is the most important thing a person wanting to battle human trafficking can do. Learn the signs and learn how to deal with them. This can be applied to businesses, healthcare providers, journalists, attorneys, etc 15 Ways You Can Help Fight Human ). Human trafficking is a crime and it is happening all over the world. 600,000 to 800,000 people are smuggled across international borders and 80% are women and children Facts about Human It is a hard subject to talk about. It is even harder for the victims. Communities should come together to try to help these people feel more at home and as comfortable in their own sin as much as possible. They have been beaten down and broken. The help they need could be less than assumed. A few dollars a month, a few hours a day, spare change and spare times can affect other people in a large way. Vandebogart 4 Works Cited Liam.MCLAUGHLIN. United Nations Office on Drugs and  What Is Human Trafficking?N.p., n.d. Web. 15 Mar. 2017. https://www.unodc.org/unodc/en/human-trafficking/what-is-humantrafficking.html Miracles Outreach Community Development  Miracles Outreach Community Development Center. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 April. 2017. The  Polaris. The Polaris Project, 14 Feb. 2017. Web. 15 Mar. 2017. https://polarisproject.org/facts The Salvation Army - Combating Human  The Salvation Army - Combating Human Trafficking. N.p., n.d. Web. 15 Mar. 2017. Top 5 Human Trafficking  Humanracetohumanrights.com. GeneratePress, 31 Dec. 2015. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. http://www.salvationarmyusa.org/usn/combating-human-trafficking 11 Facts About Human  DoSomething.org Volunteer for Social Change. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. https://www.dosomething.org/us/facts/11-facts-about-human-trafficking 15 Ways You Can Help Fight Human . State.gov. N.p., 2017. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. https://www.state.gov/j/tip/id/help/