Atkinson 1 RaeAnn Atkinson ENC 1102 Aranda March 24, 2017 Animal Cruelty For years now, people have debated the rights of animals. Some people have no problem eating, wearing and testing on all types of animals, but others believe that animals should not be used for human enjoyment. People for Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) believe that animals have rights and they are not ours too mess with. PETA spreads knowledge of how humans harm animals, but also create harm to ourselves by being cruel to them. This organization persuades many people to consider animals lives when making every day decisions. PETA states, have rights and deserve to have their best interests taken into consideration, regardless of whether they are useful to (peta.org). Animals are living things and the harm they are put through should not be taken lightly. PETA also acknowledges the fact that eating meat has harmful effects on humans as well. PETA uses logos, pathos and kairos to reach their audience of uneducated animal abusers and teach the world about what they stand for. are what you can sometimes be a comical phrase, but in some cases this is actually a true statement. Image 1 shows a small child smoking a cigar, saying let your child and smoking, eating meat and increase the risk of heart disease and Image 1 is saying that eating meat is just as bad as smoking. Evolving Wellness, a site for teaching people about food consumption, talks about eating meat, saying, Atkinson 2 being high in animal protein, which takes a long time to get fully digested, it tends to stay in our intestines the longest. This contributes to providing the right conditions for the creation and impact of carcinogenic compounds within and to the lining of the intestinal (Ochel). This gives us the knowledge that by eating meat we are setting ourselves up for improper digestion. Image 1 uses a small child smoking a cigar to imply pathos, to make meat eaters feel bad, because it is sad seeing a child doing something so destructive to their body, which is similar to what people do every day by eating meat. This image also implies logos because nobody would want to eat a food that can destroy their body and heart, if they knew the true effects of the food. The color of the shirt was intentional because main color is the same shade of blue. If anyone is familiar with this organization, they would think of PETA at first glance. There is some sense of kairos in this image because smoking harms the body from the first time you do it and it can get you addicted, the same thing can be similar with meat, so if meat eaters, stay away and quit as soon as possible, it will cause less harm to the human body. This image grabs the attention of meat eaters because it is shocking to see a small child holding a cigar and smoking. By doing this, PETA knows that they will get their message across about harming the body by eating meat. PETA is also against wearing animal skin and fur for fashion. Image 2 shows Megan Park, an actress, holding a dog, with a caption saying you wear your dog, please wear any fur or fur People around the world use animals for their own enjoyment, especially when it comes to clothing. Sheep, snakes, and pets are used to make fashion products around the world, but sometimes are mislabeled when sold in America so people do not feel as bad buying it. Mislabeling products is the reason many Americans are not informed about what type of fur or material their clothing and accessories are made from, which is why PETA is here Atkinson 3 to inform more people. PETA even mentions in one of their articles, fur from China is often deliberately mislabeled as fur from other species and is exported to countries throughout the world to be sold to unsuspecting customers in retail (Peta.org). Image 2 is trying to get fur-wearers to realize that if you would not wear your pet, why would you wear any other animal? No matter what animal, we should not allow them to suffer, or even die, because it is fashionable. According to Born Free USA, than 50 million animals are violently killed for use in fashion every (bornfreeusa.org). People know how many animals are harmed when they buy a fur coat or any other article of clothing made from animals. This image uses pathos because it shows a picture of a dog, which most people find very cute and innocent and would not want to harm. This makes people feel sad because they would not want him to be harmed. It is easier to say you will not harm a pet because you see them living inside homes and with families all the time, unlike other animals in the wild. Another way this image uses pathos is the use of an actress. This will make people feel encouraged, thinking that if a celebrity feels this way then maybe I should too. Also, there is a caption saying, only difference between our and animals killed for their fur is how we treat This means that all animals have the opportunity to be treated the same, but we are the ones who decide which ones can be pets and which ones we use for our own good. This advertisement makes us stop and think about each animal any time we want to buy that fur coat, snake skin boots, or any other type of fashionable item that harms animals in the making. Both of these images show how People for Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA), stands for animals and are against the abuse of all animals, whether it be by eating meat, wearing animal fur or even testing on them. Both advertisements for PETA are geared towards not only animal abusers, but also just the general public who should be informed on how to treat animals Atkinson 4 and the harm that we cause to them and to ourselves. Each image conveys a different message to the audience, one about eating meat and one about wearing animal fur, but overall each image is trying to convince the audience that animals are not for human entertainment. These advertisements show how we can harm animals without even knowing it, so we should be more cautious next time we decide what to eat or what to wear. We should either love animals or leave them alone. By mishandling animals, we are harming them and also ourselves. This is what PETA stands for and they show that through their advertisements. In conclusion, People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA), stands for the treatment of animals. They say that animals are not meant for human enjoyment. Consuming animals can be harmful to not only them, but also us. goal is to inform people of how animals are really being harmed because most people do not know the gruesome facts. Both of the advertisements do a good job of informing people and also using rhetorical appeals to persuade the audience. The visual rhetoric that PETA uses reaches out to the audience to get their attention and show them how animals are being treated and how we can help. Atkinson 5 Image 1: Image 2: I Atkinson 6 Works Cited Get The  Ten Fast Facts about Fur. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Ochel, Evita. 15 Reasons Why You May Want to Reconsider Eating  Evolving Wellness. N.p., 18 Apr. 2009. Web. 05 Mar. 2017 Peta.org