Zaid 1 Yossef Zaid Professor Karen Hanson ENC1102.084 30 April 2017 Animal Abuse Most people grow up with at least one pet in their household, around 75% of Americans to be specific (Shelter Intake). People think of their pets differently. To some, they are friends and family, but others think of them as objects or property. This attitude has been found to be one of the leading causes of animal abuse. Catherine Tiplady wrote a book titled Abuse: Helping Animals and in which she details what animal abuse is and why people commit it. Animal abuse has been found to have a link with other crimes such as domestic abuse, murder, and rape (Tiplady). It is a problem as old as the domestication of animals and it will not be solved in a matter of days (Beirne). Animal abuse is a serious problem that damages our society as a whole. We can work to fix this problem by learning about the effects, volunteering, and taking political action. This knowledge and action will not only change our communities but also inspire others to help out as well. If we wish to stop animal abuse we must know what it is and why it happens. Animal abuse is the act committing cruelty to an animal. People commit cruelty to animals for a number of reasons. People abuse animals for pleasure, control, fear, hate, and money (dog fights & etc) (Tiplady). One of the most common motives for committing animal abuse is their lack of ability to communicate. The perpetrators believe that they could not be caught because the animal could not tell on them (Tiplady). If animal abuse was not big enough problem, it has been found that it Zaid 2 has a correlation with other crimes. Correlation does not necessarily mean causation, but the correlation does exist that, if someone abuses animals they are more like likely to commit a different crime. In a study conducted on 354 murders, 21% of them admitted to abusing animals before their crimes (Tiplady). With this knowledge, it is possible to teach/show people that if animal abuse is stopped the amount of crime could also go down. This would benefit society as a whole. In order to stop animal abuse we need to care about it and the effects it has on us. In the year 2008, there were 1400 reported animal cruelty cases in the united states (Beirne). Those are only the ones reported imagine how many more cruelty cases are committed that no one will know about. That might seem like seem a big number so big in fact that it is hard to imagine. Every one of those cases has a story, one such story is the story of Caitlyn. Caitlyn is a chocolate pit bull mix that was found with her muzzle taped tightly shut (Melanie). Her muzzle was taped shut for so long that she almost died. She was found on the street one day with her muzzle taped and her tongue black and bloody from the tape. She needed surgery for cut cheeks and damaged salivary glands. She also had to have part of her tongue removed because the tissue had died. Since the time Caitlyn was found she has become the mascot for many animal rights organizations and now lives a comfortable life with a loving family (Melanie). This is one of many stories. It is possible to stop the cruelty so there be any more sad stories such as this. If that is not enough animal abuse also causes damage to the ecosystem and to the economy. Abandoned animals such as dogs and cats can cause stress on a local ecosystem by adding invasive predators. The dogs and cats begin to hunt for food while there is nothing to hunt them. This allows for the population of feral cats and dogs to rise and the population of other animals Zaid 3 to drop, 33 species of birds have gone extinct because of feral cats (Beirne). Economically speaking there are a lot of resources put into helping abused animals, but not that many that aim to end animal abuse. If animal abuse ended a lot of the money put into stopping the feral cats from wiping out the birds, saving abused animals, and sheltering them could be allocated for other things. Animal abuse a problem that will disappear overnight. The more we learn the more we can stop. Knowledge and intention are important to stop animal abuse, but with all of the knowledge and all of the intention in the world, nothing will be done if action is not of the more common ways to take action are donating, volunteering, and petitioning to the government to make laws. One more way to impact an life is to adopt it. Adopting a pet fix the root problem but it can make things better. If the rate of adoption went up shelters would be less likely to put animals down (Robinson). The act of adopting a pet not own helps the adopted animal but it can help the adopter as well. Owning an animal can lessen the stress someone feels and give them companionship (Robinson). Another way to make change is by educating oneself and those around them, by becoming educated on this topic people will be less likely to abuse animals and can educate more people Linyuan). This could cause a wave of knowledge to spread educating a community and causing the amount of animal abuse to drop Linyuan). Lastly, the most extreme measure for someone to take is to make it their career. They could become a researcher and try and find the solution to the overarching problem that is animal abuse. They be the first to try to do so and they probably be the last, but there is a chance that they may find the solution. No matter which action you take, you can make a difference. Zaid 4 Animal abuse is a difficult problem that affects society as a whole. Little by little the situation can get better. We have come a long way in terms of animal treatment and there is a lot more we can do. Information exists describing the negatives of animal abuse and the positives of reducing it. The reasons to make a change are there, and there are enough people to pitch in and help. The best solution is for us to do what we can. If you can donate, then donate. If you want to volunteer do so. If you have enough passion for making this your career go for it. Whatever we accomplish will make a difference. Animals need someone to help them. Now, what difference will we make? Zaid 5 Works Cited Beirne, Piers. Animal Abuse: Law, Criminology, and Human-Animal Relationships. Lanham, Md: Rowman & Littlefield, 2009. Internet resource. Linyuan, Duan-Bing Chen, and Tao Zhou. World Yields The Most Effective Information (2011): arXiv. Web. 9 Apr. 2017. Melanie. Caitlyn, the Dog Found With Her Muzzle Taped, One Year  With 01 June 2016. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. <http://www.lifewithdogs.tv/2016/06/caitlyn-the-dog-found-with-her-muzzle-taped-one- year-later/>. Robinson, I. Waltham Book of Human-Animal Interaction : Benefits and Responsibilities of Pet Kent : Elsevier Science, 2013., 2013. ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx ?direct=true&db=cat00847a&AN=usflc.034842365&site=eds-live. Intake And 9 Apr. 2017, homelessness/shelter-intake-and-surrender/pet-statistics Tiplady, Catherine. Abuse : Helping Animals and Wallingford, Oxfordshire : CABI, 2013. ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=ca t00847a&AN=usflc.031810956&site=eds-live. Zaid 6