McMahan 1 Justin McMahan Angelica Aranda ENC.1102.033 American Lung Association Against Smoking Since the invention of cigarettes, cigars, pipes, smoking has been a popular topic to debate when it comes to lung health. There are many organizations that are against smoking and its effects on lungs. The American Lung Association being one of them is the leading organization working to save lives by improving lung health and preventing lung disease through education, advocacy and research. For more than 110 years, the American Lung Association has led the fight for healthy lungs and healthy air, whether searching for cures to lung diseases, keeping kids off tobacco, or fighting for laws that protect the air we all breathe (American Lung Association). In 1904 Henry Martyn Hall, Edward Livingston Trudeau, Robert Hall Babcock, and Lawrence Flick came up with the goal of a world free of lung disease with the mission to save lives by improving lung health and thus the American Lung Association was founded (American Lung Association). This group gets their word out through many outlets, with advertisement images as their main voice. Two advertisement images the American Lung Association have made public are Image A and B. Both images demonstrate the motivation to improve lives by ending smoking. McMahan 2 Image A effectively articulates the goal to make the world free of lung disease. Image A shows an elephant on top of a man with a cigarette in its mouth and a cigarette in the mouth who is getting crushed with dialogue at the top that says 35 Million Americans have quit smoking and have taken a big load off their and and This advertisement is basically a way to get smokers to quit smoking. This image conveys that through several rhetorical devices, the primary ones being Logos and Kairos with minor ones being aesthetics, color, media and typography. The audience projected for this advertisement are fellow smokers but it can be anyone, from adults to teenagers to kids who understand what smoking is. for adults in the way that it shows an adult with a cigarette getting stepped on by an elephant, an adult might feel that weight on him/her if they smoke or knows someone that is feeling that weight if there smoking. for teenagers because the vibrant color blue could catch their eye and make them read and understand the ad, Vibrate colors catch teens eyes more easy then other sub groups .Lastly for kids through the elephant, this animal can peak a kids interest, most children love animals and so they could associate this ad with an show or toy. This image is a design that includes aesthetics, color, media and typography to convey the argument of stopping smoking to help with lung health. This ad shows aesthetics and color through that it is art, this is a drawing not a real picture with colors to convey the message, also this image shows media and typography. This is shown by this image getting out to the media and the style will appear in a printed matter but these are minor ways of promoting their goal, the major ways are logos and Kairos. This image appeals to logos in the way that it appeals to logic and reason (Lane, 32). Logic and reason are appeal to this design in the way that when you smoke the effect on your lungs, heart and chest feel like an elephant is on top of you and if you quit the effect of quitting is like that weight of the elephant getting off you, McMahan 3 so quitting smoking has great effects in the way it make you feel better. This image also appeals to Kairos in a similar way, Kairos is appeals to timeliness (Sawchyn, 41). Timeliness appeals to this in the way of the life, if you quit smoking now that elephant will get heavier or will step on the person smoking harder and kill them through its effects on the lungs mainly but if you quit you can save yourself now from smoking and its effect on your lungs. This ad is basically a way that the American Lung Association can get their mission across of preventing lung disease and improving healthy lungs and ultimately achieving their goal of a world without lung disease. Image B is a picture of two match boxes with drawings of lungs on them, with the American Lung Association logo and dialogue saying strike, another This picture is another way to get smokers to stop smoking and help with this goal. Image B though uses a stimulus of smoking which is matches and depiction of lungs to convey to the audience. This image uses many Rhetorical deceives to state a point, this image uses Ethos, Pathos, Logos, Kairos to show the audience what this group wants from them. The audience for this image ranges more towards adults and late teens who smoke. Essentially the message of the image is every match you strike to lit a smoke another scar will be on your lung and it is shown by the match strike on the lung on the second box. This image uses Pathos because it appeals to emotion (Lee, 37). Emotion is used in this ad because it makes the audience feel sad and depressed in the fact that if they smoke or know someone who smokes. Every time they they are scaring their lungs which can turn to Lung disease or death. Ethos is also a factor in this ad in the fact that there is an appeal to credibility (Mclntyre, 27), credibility is shown through how real this image is. This image is not childish, the main object is a real stimulus and the logo is on the ad. Logos is shown through the logic of this Image McMahan 4 (Lane, 32). The logic is every time you strike a match to start smoking you are striking your lungs, it is a correct play on words to what really happens to your lungs. Lastly, Kairos is shown through the timeliness of this ad (Sawchyn, 41). Kairos is used in the fact of every time you strike a match you are striking your life expectancy by striking your lungs. Timeliness can also be factored in this ad making you quit smoking because the sooner you quit the longer live. Image B is another way of advertisement for the American Lung Association to prove their mission and achieve their goal of a world free of lung disease. To summarize, the relationship between Image A and B are similar in their purpose and intent with the American Lung Association logo on both and they both are advocating against smoking and advocating for a world free of lung disease but are different in the fact that one is a real photo and the other is a design. These different narrative though pose the same answer to the issue at hand. The issue of lung disease because of smoking needs to be addressed, it is a major issue presently with more people smoking. Ads are one way the American Lung Association can demonstrate the motivation to improve lives by ending smoking. McMahan 5 Works Cited American Lung Association. Our History. 2017. 2017. 28 February 2017. American Lung Association. Our Mission. 2017. http://www.lung.org/about-us/mission-impact- and-history/our-mission.html?referrer=https://www.google.com/. 28 February 2017. Kendra Gayle Lee, Jessica McKee, and Megan Mclntyre.  2017. Myreviewers. Page 37. http://myreviewers.usf.edu/etext/rhetoricreallymatters. 28 February 2017. Lane, Jessica McKee, and Megan McIntyre.  2017. Myreviewers. Page 32. http://myreviewers.usf.edu/etext/rhetoricreallymatters. 28 February 2017. Mclntyre, Jessica McKee & Megan.  2017. My Reviewers. Page 27. http://myreviewers.usf.edu/etext/rhetoricreallymatters. Sawchyn, Allyson Hoffman & Alysia.  2017. Myreviewers. Page 41. http://myreviewers.usf.edu/etext/rhetoricreallymatters. 28 February 2017. McMahan 6 https://s-media-cache-ak0.pinimg.com/736x/04/b7/c7/04b7c7fd2d62fbcdfd90de6714895507.jpg Image A http://www.welovead.com/en/works/details/ca4ElqtE Image B