Ahmad Student Dr. Thorton ENC 1102 16 April 2017 The presentation of demanding money from another without expectation, was used as a representation of belief that the upper class is stealing from the lower class. Throughout this paper, uncertainties are used and assumptions are made based on evidence, this is done as a means of showing the uncertainty of the issue and the skepticism on the issue, whether the issue is real or conspiracy theory. Ahmad 1 Ahmad Student Dr. Thorton ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Marx was Right Everyone has heard the iconic saying that rich get richer, while the poor get well here is some facts to go along with that saying. Economic inequality, or the rich poor gap as it is commonly termed, is a prevalent problem in many nations (including China, Australia, and the United States of America). The rich poor gap is real and Marx predicted it would be an issue, the rich need to stop taking from the poor. The 2015 Baltimore riots, for example, can be attributed to the rich poor gap. The image Ahmad 2 above reinforces this reason by bringing to light the poverty situation in the Baltimore region before the riots ensued. Some may believe that the image only proves the financial situation of those in certain regions of Baltimore. Looking at the image below, one can dispel such thoughts. The neighborhood racial segregation of African Americans is more greatly focused on the regions in which a greater share of the population is below the poverty line (Berube). As Matt Moir stated in his article, the wealth gap is extremely prevalent in the cases related to the air pollution. Such as, the purchasing of better air purifiers and housing locations on higher ground or even relocating temporarily for the sake of avoiding high concentrations of pollution in China (Moir 98+). This article also shows that the issue of the rich poor gap is not limited to the United States, but is a global issue. This iconic saying is attributed to Karl Law of Increasing Poverty, which states that try to increase profit by keeping wages down and strengthening labor (Yi V.37.2). This statement is a classic ideal of belief that capitalistic society is doomed Ahmad 3 to fail because of the root from within. Much of the work done in factories today are done by machines on a conveyor belt as part of a production line. Easy and cheap labor that need rest, a prime example of what Marx claimed in his Law of Increasing Poverty. Marx was right, the rich poor gap is real and it is a growing concern that will not solve itself on its own. More jobs need to be localized, to revitalize the local economies and to prevent the rich poor gap from increasing. The rich need to focus more on the lower class than on efficiency. Those companies such as Charter Communications need to be limited to prevent a monopoly on services and to increase the number of available jobs through the decrease in automation. Works Cited Moir, Matt. The Luxury of Air: the liberalization of economy has widened the gap between rich and poor, rendering clean air and clean water a privatized  Briarpatch, Mar.-Apr. 2016, p. 28+. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. Sang-hon Yi (1973). Communism: A New Critique and . Freedom Leadership Foundation. Berube, Alan, and McDearman, Brad. Good Fortune, Dire Poverty, and Inequality in Baltimore: An American Story Brookings  Brookings. Brookings, 11 May 2015. Web. 25 Apr. 2017.