Edwards 1 Krystal Edwards Professor Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102. 093 April 16 th , 2017 Depletion of Freshwater Sources It comes as no surprise that people use water every day. They use it for almost everything they do and it can be found in almost anything an individual eats or drinks. Water is a vital resource in society and has since the beginning of time. However, what if the supply of water ran out today? Or tomorrow? What would anyone do? Unfortunately this has been happening in numerous countries all around the world. countries face extremely high levels of water stress meaning that more than 80 percent of the water available to agricultural, domestic, and industrial users is withdrawn businesses, farms, and communities vulnerable to (World Resources Institute).Due to the fact that the number of countries facing water stress is growing rapidly, shows that this is a global problem that needs to be addressed immediately. Thus, because of the rapid decline of freshwater on Earth, people who tend to use more water than necessary should be more conservative with the use of freshwater and donate to organizations like Horizon International Solutions. This will ensure that freshwater is left here on Earth for future generations. Water covers 70 percent of the surface and out of that 70 percent, 97 percent is salt water and only 1 percent is freshwater. Now of that 1 percent of freshwater, 70 percent of that goes into irrigation and 22 percent goes into numerous industries while only 8 percent is Edwards 2 used for domestic use (Rusnak). From this breakdown, it comes as no surprise that freshwater is already limited but most people are not aware of this. This is why people should limit their water consumption while they are doing various activities such as brushing their teeth, showering, and washing dishes. Many local governments now have laws that specify that water faucets, toilets, and showers only allow a certain amount of water flow per minute so that there can be some conservation of water (United States Geological Survey). According to the United States Geological Survey (USGS), the average person uses 80-100 gallons of water per day. This means that in an average week, a person that lives in the United States is using 560-700 gallons of water. If the United States population is roughly at 326,474,013, this means that over 26 billion gallons of water is being used per day. Of course this is a lot of water but the scary part is that this is only the consumption of one country. It might come as a surprise but one in eight people on the planet do not have access to clean water and yet the depletion of freshwater is at risk. There needs to be more of a proper management on how people use and consume water, access should be made easier to those who have any. Although the depletion of freshwater may not seem to affect people in developed countries such as the United States, Canada, United Kingdom, etc. it can affect them tremendously because water is a resource that everyone on Earth uses. The people in these countries need to imagine themselves in shoes and think about how it would be if water at their fingertips every time they needed it and how it would be if they had to go miles to sustain both themselves and their families. Failing to actively confront this problem would be that freshwater is not viable anymore thus; it would make it much harder for people to get. According to the Nature Conservancy, if action is not taken towards fixing the freshwater ecosystems, within about 10 years most people on the planet will face life with water shortages. Edwards 3 Now half of the major rivers are being seriously polluted and/or depleted (Natural Conservancy).It might be hard for people in developed countries to imagine having such a reliable resource gone but it is definitely possible especially since freshwater is low in reserves in the first place. Although people are doing some damage when it comes to the depletion of freshwater, agriculture also plays a major role in this problem as well. It is estimated that, farms use 2,000 to 10,000 gallons per day depending on the size, and this is just in the United States alone (Penn State Extension). This is a huge number especially since there are farms located all around the world. On farms water is not only used for crops but they are also used for things such as feeding the animals, bathing them, using it on miscellaneous equipment and etc. Although most farms now incorporate an irrigation system where there is a controlled amount of water used for their agricultural crops especially when rainfall is absent, there still needs to be a way where farms can still use less amount of water a day. Now that more and more people are finding out about this problem, there have been numerous attempts in trying to find ways to possibly get less water to go a longer way. There are plenty of organizations out there that are coming up with solutions every day to fight this problem and have water available for everyone. Organizations such as the World Health Organization (WHO) and Horizon International Solutions (HIS) help this cause on two levels. The first level would be that they try to find a solution that would benefit the Earth, meaning that they try to see how they can get back rivers and other sources that have been depleted. The second level would be that they help people across the globe that does not have easy access to freshwater to get access. This means that they build wells and become innovative with helping people. Just like how organizations are solving this problem in multiple ways, so Edwards 4 can people in their regular day-to-day routine. They can confront this problem by monitoring their everyday use of freshwater and also teaming up with in going and helping people in under developed countries get access to freshwater. People should be more conservative when using water such as limiting the use of it while taking a shower, washing dishes, and doing other things that might use up a great amount of water. By limiting this, they can save hundreds and even thousands of gallons of water a day. By volunteering with an organization or simply donating to that organization they can help less fortunate people who do not have easy access to freshwater. Small definitely appreciate all the help that they can get and because there are so many out there supporting this cause it makes it simpler for people to choose the perfect one they can connect with. In conclusion, although there may seem like there is plenty of water to go around and that there might not be an end to it people should still be wary that there are some people on this Earth that even get water every day. As long as people donate to organizations like the World Health Organization or Horizon International Solutions so that freshwater can remain here on Earth, everyone can access it just as easily as people in developed countries do. Everyone wants to ensure a safe future for themselves and for their children and accessing freshwater have to be a hassle for anyone in this generation or the next. Edwards 5 Work Cited HORIZON INTERNATIONAL SOLUTIONS  The Effects of Population on the Depletion of Fresh Water HORIZON SOLUTIONS SITE. N.p., 2013. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Perlman, USGS Howard. Water Questions & AnswersHow much water does the average person use at home per  Per capita water use. Water questions and answers; USGS Water Science School. N.p., 2016. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. U.S. Population  U.S. Population (2017) - Worldometers. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. System Planning-Estimating Water Needs (Water  Water Quality (Penn State Extension). N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Why is Our Water in  Rivers & Lakes Impacts Freshwater Conservation The Nature Conservancy. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. 36 Most Water-Stressed  36 Most Water-Stressed Countries World Resources Institute. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Water, health and  WHO. World Health Organization, 2017. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.