Schook 1 Bay Schook Kristen Rouisse Project 3 Written Final Draft 10 April 2017 Legalizing Physician-Assisted Death in America The practice of physician-assisted death (PAD) is the assisting of ending life by request of that patient. When the physician accepts the request, the patient is given a lethal pill to take that which will then cause death. The patient has the control to take the pill whenever they want (Quill and Sussman 1). In 1990, the first assisted suicide occurred. Since this time, individuals have had their opposing beliefs about the whole idea of physician-assisted death. The nonprofit organization, Death With Dignity, enacted laws about PAD which then led to the legalization of it in a few states in America. This act was created in the hopes of expanding the freedom of all qualified, terminally ill Americans to make their own end-of-life decisions (About Us N,p). The main issue is to eliminate the stigma that PAD is perceived as a to individuals who are against PAD. Assisted suicide is not for everyone and only certain individuals are eligible for it. Whether terminally ill patients should have the option to consider such help from a physician is what concerns people who are not supportive of assisted suicide. It is important to emphasize why patients choose PAS as a way to die. For state legislators, family members, the media, and all other individuals who are uninformed or oppose PAS, it is important to show the benefits of assisted suicide and why certain individuals are in favor of it. The act of PAS can best be defined as a physician providing a lethal medication to a terminally ill patient who has requested it. From the time between 1993 to 2003, the Death with Dignity Act was trying to enforce the effectiveness of legalizing assisted suicide. In 1997, assisted Schook 2 suicide was first legalized in Oregon, then followed by Washington, District of Columbia, Vermont, California, and Colorado under the Death With Dignity Act (Quill & Sussman N,p). Under the Death With Dignity law, there are certain requirements needed before a patient can choose to go through with PAD. To even be considered for PAD one must be: terminally ill with six months to live, a state resident of the legalized states (for at least 6 months), and mentally competent to make own decisions. The debate whether or not PAD is moral is because of the it may have (Jaret N,p). This potentially means that some believe that if PAD were to become more available, it would lead to more assisted deaths than there needs to be. Studies have actually shown that in Oregon where PAD was first legalized, that out of around 10,000 people who had died in the state, only a small amount of people actually used PAD (Jaret N,p). Even where it is legal, not everyone is offered it and people who are eligible for it, usually do not request it. PAD is really only used in situations where it is really needed and wanted by a patient (Smith N,p). Coming from another standpoint, another reason why this is a controversial debate is because some individuals say it goes against The Hippocratic Oath. This is the oldest oath of time that says healthcare professionals have the responsibility to take care and do no harm to patients. In the situation of using PAD, the physician is actually tending to a needs and taking away their pain by ending their suffering. The biggest opposing view of PAD although is that humans should simply not want to end their own lives and just die naturally (Jaret N,p). This issue deserves more recognition than it has gotten. Where assisted suicide is legal, it gives terminally ill patients an option so they do not have to suffer any longer. Patients can have the opportunity to die with dignity and also are more likely to experience a less painful death. Although, in states where PAD is not legalized, some individuals wish they could have this option available. Legalizing physician-assisted death is beneficial to individuals who have terminal Schook 3 illnesses with six months or less to live. Having the option to PAD would potentially alleviate the pain of suffering patients. It also shows that we are in complete control to how we die, and as humans, we have the full right to choose how to end our own life. Instead of prolonging the days to watch someone die, having the choice to fasten the process may be easier for the patients and their loved ones. Having to see a family member in such pain and suffering is extremely depressing to watch. Terminally ill patients suffer a huge amount and wish they could live life differently and healthier. Some terminal illnesses such as cancer, change our lives and ultimately can slowly deteriorate us if it turns fatal. It is than at this point a patient could request for PAD (Smith N,p). One of the most known cases of physician-assisted death is the story of Brittany Maynard. She was a 29 year-old woman who was diagnosed with terminal brain cancer (Bever N,p). She chose to go through with assisted suicide and changed the perspective of it since. Her illness made her aware that she was not going to live that much longer and would only get worse (Bever N,p). With any terminal illness also, patients are given plenty of treatment to extend their life as much as possible. Although, taking the medication to end life prescribed by a physician may cost the same or even less as other healthcare treatments would. Having to find treatment plans for a dying patient sometimes may put a burden on the family. Choosing to go forward with PAD is not something that is a quick and easy decision either. It is a decision that not only the patient makes, but the people around them as well. For patients who are uninformed about PAD could lose out on the opportunity for it. It is the mission of the Death With Dignity Act to present all individuals of what physician-assisted death actually is and how it can actually be a positive way to end life. The Death With Dignity Fund is a 501(c)4 nonprofit organization that legislates laws, and also campaigns, lobbies, and advocates Death With Dignity in states where PAS is not active (About Us N,p). The act works together with other advocates and organizations to bring the work Schook 4 of Death With Dignity to other states in the hopes of gaining support for PAD. The organization seeks to promote dying with dignity and works to spread the goal of showing how choosing own fate of dying is important (About Us N,p). People who are not support of PAD or do not quite understand it have the chance to see how the process actually works through the Death With Dignity Act. Physician-assisted death is legalized in the five states mainly because the organization have proved its mission statement to state legislators and residents that it is effective in certain cases. Donating to the Death With Dignity National Center will help to advocate for the organization. What needs to be understood is that assisted suicide is a type of end-of-life care that a patient should have the option to. It benefits the patient with a terminal illness who cannot sustain life anymore. Gaining support from more people would ultimately change view on PAD. In turn, this would potentially increase the chances of having a law that would legalize assisted suicide in more places than there are presently. Word Count: 1245 Schook 5 Schook 6 Works Cited About  Death With Dignity. N.p., n.d. Web. 11 Apr. 2017. Bever, Lindsey. How Brittany Maynard May Change the Right-to-die  The Washington Post. WP Company, 03 Nov. 2014. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. Jaret, Peter. Physician-Assisted Suicide: Is It  @berkeleywellness. N.p., 26 Apr. 2016. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. Quill, Timothy E., and Bernard Sussman. Physician Assisted  The Hastings Center. N.p., n.d. Web. 11 Apr. 2017. Smith, Nicole. The Positive Aspects of Physician Assisted  Article Myriad. N.p., 15 Dec. 2011. Web. 30 Apr. 2017.