Zakhary 1 George Zakhary Professor Bianca Hernandez ENC1102 30 April 2017 Healthcare in the United States In the United States constitution, it states that its purpose is to the general to the people. All people deserve the right to attain medical attention without worrying about if they can afford to be healthy. As many as 37 million Americans lack adequate insurance against health care cost, and many others who have insurance still dread the financial impact of a serious disease. The current healthcare system is lacking the ability to cover all socioeconomic classes and this has led to many Americans not receiving medical attention. All Americans deserve the right of medical attention but unfortunately many cannot due to expensive monthly premiums. Recently under the Obama administration the Affordable Care Act was enacted but still many Americans could not receive healthcare. There are a multitude of organizations that strive to assist the American people in enrolling in healthcare. Enroll America is an organization that constantly works to enroll Americans in healthcare under the Affordable Care Act. The United States is currently in the middle of a healthcare transition. Universal healthcare in the US is in the progress but has a multitude of challengers like the insurance companies who still want to gain profit. Universal healthcare is achievable and can be very successful in the United States. The United States is lacking a healthcare system that is unified and can be effective for the population as a whole including all socioeconomic statuses. Lower income people are struggling to receive healthcare due to the extreme monthly premiums that insurance corporations charge but many organizations are assisting people in finding the perfect Zakhary 2 plan that can fit into their budget. Enroll America is an organization Enroll America, is an organization that is committed to maximizing, educating, protecting, and ensuring the population of the United States. Countries like Sweden, Germany, and Japan have constructed healthcare plans that covers all its citizens while providing them with very low monthly premiums. Enroll America strives to maximize the number of Americans who retain and enroll in any type of health coverage under the Affordable Care Act. Enroll America believes that everyone deserves healthcare that can cover them and is affordable for all socioeconomic classes. Enroll America is a volunteer based organization that aims at enrolling people in the US in a healthcare plan that is best suitable for them. Enroll America describes their vision as, America works with more than 6,700 partners in all 50 states and the District of Columbia to create cutting-edge tools, analyze data, inform policy, and share best practices in service of its mission: maximizing the number of Americans who enroll in and retain health coverage under the Affordable Care Act (Enroll Enroll America works under the Affordable Care Act to provide healthcare for all socioeconomic classes. Many health coverage plans today are extremely expensive especially for low-income households. Enroll America works with a multitude of organizations to ensure more people with healthcare. The United States health care system has improved over the past decade but still is lacking its full ability. Unlike other countries around the world who have one uniform and universal health care for the whole population, the United States does not have one uniform health care plan but multiple. In countries like Switzerland and Germany healthcare is universal and covers everyone but in the Unites States nearly 10.4% of the population still lack health care (FiveThirtyEight). Although within the past decade the US government has put in plans like ObamaCare that has opened healthcare up to everyone it still needs some improvement to cover Zakhary 3 the general population rather than low-income households. The United States has so much potential and the ability to create a health care plan that covers the whole population and that can be effective for all socioeconomic classes. If the more volunteers join the movement in enrolling people all around the Unite States they will have a greater effect in enrolling more Americans while working towards their individual goals. The idea of Universal and affordable healthcare for all socioeconomic classes is possible in America and can be achieved if fellow people in the US go out and volunteer to work together to achieve the main goal of providing security and health coverage to all Americans. Many Americans go about their day-to-day lives being uninsured, partially insured, and struggling to maintain their healthcare premiums. This is majorly due to the lack of healthcare implementations within the United States. When compared to other countries such as Canada, Switzerland, and France who have a universal healthcare implemented, this may be something to consider within the United States. Universal healthcare not only can benefit Americans, but will provide stability throughout other aspects such as the standard of living and the economy. This can also directly be in course due to the size of the United States of America. Many people are engaged or do not know of this growing issue within the United States. As the future face of America, young adolescents and young adults, such as college students, should take a stand to implement something beneficial and have a voice in this subject at hand. Enroll America is the leading health care enrollment coalition. An independent nonprofit, nonpartisan organization, Enroll America works with more than 6,700 partners in all 50 states and the District of Columbia to create cutting-edge tools, analyze data, inform policy, and share best practices in service of its mission: maximizing the number of Americans who enroll in and retain health coverage under the Affordable Care Act. Zakhary 4 Nobody plans to get hurt or sick, but most people need medical care at some point. Healthcare and insurance covers these costs and provides many other benefits. As the future of America, millennials and younger generations are the people that will make a difference for future. Spending time and creating genuine thoughts on this issue is one of the best things to do. You can also sign a petition by going online and bring awareness to American healthcare and its flaws. time that the American youth take care of its country, instead of not knowing. We all have a healthcare plan envisioned, if we make our voices heard then our dream can become a reality. Ultimately, total cost for health coverage would decline and expenses on healthcare will also be reduced. Sign the petition below and raise awareness to better the future of America. Shirley Chisholm an American politician, educator, and author once stated, is a human right and not a privilege to be This quote by Chisholm should be the framework of healthcare that covers all people in the United States. Zakhary 5 Works Cited Dicken, John E. of Health and Human Services: Solicitations of Support For Enroll GAO Reports (2014): 1-11. Business Source Premier. Web. 13 Apr. 2017. Our  Enroll America Our Mission Comments. N.p., n.d. Web. 1 Feb. 2017. Rosenthal, Meredith B., et al. for Performance in Medicaid: Evidence from Three Natural Health Services Research 51.4 (2016): 1444-1466. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 14 Apr. 2017 Spithoven, Antoon. Influence of Vested Interests on Healthcare Legislation in the USA, 2009-2010. of Economic Issues (M.E. Sharpe Inc.) 50.2 (2016): 630-638. Business Source Premier. Web. 13 Apr. 2017.