Artemyeva 1 Ekaterina Artemyeva Professor Adam Carter ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Euthanasia Is Not a Choice In a modern world, people tend to overestimate the quality and value of opinion, especially if it is a opinion. What would you do if you find out you are sick and you are in need of medical help? Probably, you are going to go see a doctor and ask what are your options, meaning that you will probably rely on the opinion of the doctor. Patients who suffer from illnesses such as cancer tend to give their whole life under control. If patients understand that no medicine can cure such a disease and the only option for them is wait until they die, some patients consider euthanasia or assisted suicide as an option; but, is death an option? It is true that sometimes people with cancer suffer so badly and it is easier for them to die than endure a pain. However, there had been too many people who died in results of assisted suicide without knowing that they had the wrong diagnosis. It is a common practice for doctors to advise euthanasia as an option for terminally ill patients and an enormous amount of people died because of it. Moreover, a huge amount of sick people were able to live and get better; however, because of suggestion combined with pain from illness, they chose to die, losing the opportunity to live longer (Broussard). The medicine gets more advanced each year and if doctors will not be stopped from advising euthanasia to patients, too many people will die due to the lack of knowledge. Therefore, since the modern community still does have moral principles, euthanasia should be banned on a governmental level. Moreover, we want you to take Artemyeva 2 place in participation to prevent assisted suicide or euthanasia. We are asking you to become engaged in such an issue by attending The 1 st Annual Global March to Stop Euthanasia. In the case of Washington v. Glucksberg (1997), the Supreme Court ruled or criminalizing assisted suicide was a matter of (Washington v. Glucksberg). Since then local governments were in charge of deciding whether euthanasia is legal or not in particular state. Because of this decision, six states including California, District of Columbia, Colorado, Oregon, Vermont, Washington, and Montana made euthanasia legal. As a result, in 2013 the number of people of people who died due to assisted suicide in Oregon was 77 patients (0.21 percent of all deaths in the state) and in 2014 the number of victims in Washington was 170 patients (0.33 percent of all deaths in the state). Estimating a rough average mean of all euthanasia victims as 0.25, approximately 6, 492 people would be dead each year if assisted suicide will be legal in all 50 states (Carter). spread the awareness of such an option as euthanasia and if more states will legalize the assisted suicide, than more sick people will be aware of it. When the assisted suicide becomes even more common, it may be considered is an easy and cheap option to stop fighting for life and suffering from uncured illness. People may stop trying to live with sickness because if others chose to die and this option is common and available, why should not they do so? You should care about the issue, because the sick patient might happen to be your loved one or your close friend or member of your family. Euthanasia is not only a horrible thing for one individual who is sick and their loved ones, but also it creates a huge issue for whole society. If suicide laws give societal approval to then that allows people to end their lives automatically creates incentives to seek death as a cost-saving (Broussard). Some elderly and infirm people, grandparents, are at risk to be seen as Artemyeva 3 burdens and can easily be disposed of, which makes assisted suicide the easy way out of life. There are various organizations that support the prevention of euthanasia and Euthanasia Prevention Coalition (EPC) is one of them. This is a non-profit organization, which is spreading awareness about assisted suicide and its risks throughout campaigns. This is a great source to get more educated on such a dangerous and important topic and, luckily, this organization is not the only one. Every year hundreds of groups are created on Facebook, tons of articles are published both online and print and these all made to spread awareness about such a horrible thing as assisted suicide. Even though the euthanasia seems to be an personal choice, in real life it is not always like this. In the article Groups Opposed to Assisted Suicide Marilyn Golden starts a discussion about disabled individuals who do not have adequate rights to deny or refuse the assisted suicide. Illnesses such as psychiatric disabilities or depression make people want to die despite the fact that it can be cured. It is a common practice that patients with diseases mentioned above are more tend to agree that assisted suicide is what they need, and some of the patients decide to die due to loss of hope or support. Moreover, if a doctor refuses to give such patients lethal drugs, the sick person can easily look for another doctor who will provide them with the euthanasia. Not only patient, but also his or her family may decide that the assisted suicide is the best option among others, cheap and fast, and, unfortunately, people tend to choose it. There is nothing in the law that can protect patients when family pressures, financial or emotional, distort patient choice. Ari mentioned a mind blowing case in his narration about why the euthanasia should be banned. In Canada, Tracy Latimer, a 12-year old girl with developmental disabilities was euthanized because of her decision. Technically, the girl was murdered by her Artemyeva 4 father who decided that euthanasia is an option in her case. At the beginning, the father was about to go to jail, but was not convicted. Because of the legalization of the euthanasia, suicide advocates have been adept at using an incremental strategy by focusing on people who are terminally ill, but their broader policy agenda is already well It made father not only avoid going to prison for second-degree murder but it also prevented doctors from any penalties. It was announced by the executive director of the Toronto chapter of Dying with Dignity that parents should serve no sentence because they already lived under a sentence during the 12 years that Tracy was On June 15, 2017, the first huge event against euthanasia called The 1st Annual Global March To Stop Euthanasia will take place in many cities and countries across the world including the USA. June 15 is World Elder Abuse Awareness Day and the USA locations are going to be announced very soon. The organizers of this march are mainly family members of involuntary euthanasia victims, who were deliberately killed by medical staff and doctors in various places such as nursing home settings, hospitals, home-care or hospices. Even though you might never face this tragedy and hopefully it will never happen to you or your family members, all march participants need your support and obviously, the number of people attending this event matters. By simply showing up you will contribute to saving lives of thousands of people. It is so essential to march to honor people who lost their lives in such horrific circumstances. Rising awareness about this event may not only protect potential euthanasia victims from death, but also advocate a change of laws at the state and federal levels. If you willing to participate, share your story, volunteer or you just need more information about this event, do not hesitate to reach organizers via hotline (650) 285-1149, or email globalmarch2stopeuthanasia@gmail.com. Artemyeva 5 Work Cited Broussard, Ben. 10 Reasons to Ban Assisted  TFP Student Action. N.p., 4 May 2016. Web. 12 Apr. 2017. Carter, Joe. 5 facts about physician-assisted suicide in  ERLC. N.p., 08 Oct. 2015. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. Ari. Groups Opposed to Assisted Suicide Not Dead Yet. N.p., 22 Feb. 2017. Web. 12 Apr. 2017. Golden, Marilyn. Groups Opposed to Assisted Suicide Not Dead Yet. N.p., 22 Feb. 2017. Web. 12 Apr. 2017. Washington v. Glucksberg. The Supreme Court. 26 June 1997. Print. 1st Annual Global March To Stop  Eventbrite. N.p., n.d. Web. 15 Apr. 2017.