Lanier 1 Shamond Lanier Professor Aranda ENC 1102- 033 March 26, 2017 Gatorade: The Best Sports Drink Everyone, especially athletes, have tried one or two sports drinks in order to replenish their energy and continue working out. Gatorade is a company based on supporting athletes everywhere with the nutrients necessary to compete at an elite level. Gatorade, a sports drink which has been developed since 1965, often helps elite athletes as well as everyday people replenish carbohydrates along with electrolytes in order for energy levels to stay high. Since the introduction of the worldwide drink, Gatorade has become the leader of all sports drinks that replenish athletes and downgrade the impact of water. Gatorade claims water does not deliver all of the necessary nutrients and does not have the best benefits that Gatorade employs. Gatorade uses images A and B as well as the rhetoric appeals of ethos, pathos, and logos to arrive at the conclusion that water is the inferior refreshment. Image A includes a man holding a large bottle of Lemon-Lime Gatorade accompanied by a list of sentences explaining what ingredients water does not have. The purpose of this image is to say that water is not sufficient enough and lacks the necessary nutrients that Gatorade uses. The visual employs the use of ethos in order to persuade the customer to buy the well-known sports drink. Ethos, as described by professors Stacy Weida and Dr. Karl Stolley, is ethical appeal based on the character, credibility, or reliability of the (owl.english.purdue.edu). Image A cites that Gatorade has completed years of research and that research has been most likely Lanier 2 provided by the Gatorade Sports Science Institute (GSSI) since 1985. Image A uses facts to establish credibility that water lacks electrolytes and other nutrients that Gatorade has. The image says, is the original, most researched sports drink. A scientifically proven blend of carbs and electrolytes that fuels muscles to go This suggests that Gatorade is appealing to the future customer hoping they believe in reliable research from personal scientists. Image A also uses logos which is an appeal to reason. Logos is literary device that can be defined as a statement, sentence or argument used to convince or persuade the targeted audience by employing reason or (literarydevices.net/logos/). The appeal usually relies on logical reasoning which is either inductive or deductive. Image A states the support of years of research to support its claim that Gatorade has more usefulness and value than water. The advertisement continues by saying that that water has no carbs or electrolytes, thereby suggesting that water is inferior. The second image that Gatorade uses is a bottle of Gatorade defeating a bottle of water. Both bottles are accompanied by a set of boxing gloves thus alluding to the boxing metaphor. The bottle of water has no cap and the liquids are on the boxing mat which suggests that the water is drained because it lost the match. The Gatorade bottle is above the water bottle which alludes to its superiority. Image B relies on the rhetoric appeals of both ethos and pathos. In regards to the appeal of ethos, Image B employs Gatorade winning a boxing match because boxing has long been used to show the feeling of strength and superiority to another. People who have won boxing matches have long been regarded as strong and respectable people. Enduring a boxing match and out the competition is the message that Gatorade is trying to send. Regarding pathos, an appeal to the emotions, image B uses boxing as a metaphor to describe Gatorade beating water to show how powerful it is. Those who see the advertisement Lanier 3 will feel that a winner of a boxing match is a better narrative. Although pathos most often accompanies sad images, image B invokes a more positive, victorious emotion for the winner of the match. Together these two Gatorade advertisements use rhetoric appeal to convince their customers of buying their product. Similarly, image A and B suggest Gatorade is the outright winner when compared to water and is superior. Both images also use a bottle of Lemon-Lime Gatorade, most likely showing a popular flavor. The color also may have the subliminal message that water is bland and not tasty enough to compete with the likes of Gatorade. The differences between the images includes image reliance on a more wordy approach by stating the ingredients water lacks within its bottle. Image B simply says, always which allows the boxing metaphor to stick out. The backgrounds of the images are also different because image B indicates that there are many spectators looking at Gatorade defeat water in the ring. Image B also uses the slogan, Replenish. as a way to grab the attention. images have helped establish a worldwide narrative that water is not the superior drink. 52 years of research and production have propelled them into the front of the market of sports drinks everywhere. Lanier 4 Image A Image B Lanier 5 Works Cited About GSSI. (n.d.). Retrieved March 01, 2017, from http://www.gssiweb.org/about and Examples of Literary Devices, Literary Devices, 11 Mar. 2015, literarydevices.net/logos/. Accessed 11 Mar. 2017. False Advertisement. (2012, May 07). Retrieved March 01, 2017, from https://isitreallyinyou.wordpress.com/false-advertisement/ Gatorade G Series Sports Drinks for Energy, Hydration and Recovery. (n.d.). Retrieved March 01, 2017, from http://www.gatorade.com/company/heritage Gatorade Sports Ads. (n.d.). Retrieved March 01, 2017, from http://pelfind.me/p/3576370/gatorade-sports-ads Weida, S., & Stolley, K. (2013, March 11). Using Rhetorical Strategies for Persuasion. Retrieved March 01, 2017, from https://owl.english.purdue.edu/owl/resource/588/04/