Sustek 1 Nicholas Sustek Maria Theodosiou ENC 1102 26 February 2017 Rhetorical appeals in PETA advertisements Cosmetic products are tested on animals to see if they are safe for human use. There are many better alternatives that are cheaper and harm animals yet some companies are hesitant to make the switch from the methods of animal testing. People for Ethical Treatment of Animals, otherwise known as PETA, is the largest animal rights organization in the world and their goal is to get rid of animal testing by showing people that there are alternative products that were not made at the expense of an animals physical or mental health. PETA has made many advertisements displaying their beliefs about animal testing while providing people with information about how they can help save animals that would be tested on. PETA is the largest animal rights organization. The organization was founded in the year 1980. Since its creation, PETA has saved the lives of countless animals, brought awareness to different forms of cruelty towards animals, and researched alternatives to products to inform the population of different ways they can help the fight against animal cruelty. mission statement reads, are not ours to eat, wear, experiment on, use for entertainment, or abuse in any other PETA is against the testing of cosmetic products on animals for ensuring the safety of human consumers and have helped to develop cruelty free methods of ensuring the safety of humans such as, vitro testing. Sustek 2 The pictures created by PETA bring awareness to the issue of animal testing and show that there are alternative products out there to use. PETA informs, not only, the public but the cosmetic companies as well about different alternatives to animal testing. All-creatures.org is on the same side with PETA and believes companies should be informed about alternatives to animal testing. All-creatures.org made a webpage showing the cost comparisons of vitro testing, an animal testing alternative, to animal testing and showed it to companies to encourage them to stop testing on animals. By informing people that there are cruelty free products it will increase the sales of cruelty free supplies and decrease the sales of products that were developed using animal testing. What this does for PETA is it saves many animal lives that would have been the victims to animal testing and could possibly abolish animal testing as a whole. The abolition of animal testing would be another victory for PETA in their mission of protecting animals that cannot protect themselves. Logos, according to Purdue Owl, is the evidence and logic that goes into the argument. The audience that the images are addressing is people that buy cosmetic products. The text in the image is an element of logos explaining the details of what kind of cruel acts are enacted upon the animals that are tested on such as blinding poisoning or even killing the animal subjects. The next part of the picture is the celebrity Dave Navarro with a miserable expression followed by his body with many cuts and injuries. The previous parts of the picture leads to the overall message that PETA wants to spread that can be seen in the text at the bottom that says cruelty This text shows the audience that there are different products that they can buy that do not put animals through any cruel treatment. In the second image, it has similar elements of logos to those Sustek 3 of the first image. The audience of the second image is again, people who buy cosmetic goods. The similar element is the presentation of the step the audience should take to abolish animal testing which is to buy cruelty free cosmetic products. The picture starts off at the top of the image with the happy expression of Tamannaah Bhatia following the presentation of her holding a bunny. The text a comes after the presentation of the bunny and the text cruelty free Succeeds the previous text. The two text boxes provide the conclusion to the message from PETA. The message is that by choosing cruelty free cosmetic products you will save the lives of bunnies and have a happier life as a consequence. According to Purdue Owl, pathos is a rhetorical element in which the user attempts to make an appeal towards the emotions of the audience. In the first image the celebrity, Dave Navarro is shown with a miserable expression and many visible wounds such as a bloody irritated eye and different parts of his skin that are burned and corroded. This imagery is showing what the equivalent of animal testing would look like if it was performed on humans to make humans feel empathetic and guilty for not helping the animals. The reason PETA showed the gruesome wounds is to help the audience to relate and empathize with the animals that are tested on in hopes that if people realize the extent of how animals are mistreated they will be more likely to take action by switching to cruelty free products. Another element of pathos in the advertisement is red font color of the text animal testing. The color, red, is associated with blood, anger, and war. By making the text, animal testing, red they are making the viewer relate animal testing with the previously mentioned negativities. Dave Navarro is in a curled up fetal position this expresses powerlessness and fear which represents how animals are powerless to save Sustek 4 themselves from animal testing and scared of the pain they will have to endure from the process. The second image evokes more positive emotions in comparison. The blue and pink text provide a more joyful atmosphere. The floral background also expresses a sense of relaxation and happiness from saving animals by purchasing cruelty free cosmetics. In the image celebrity, Tamannaah Bhatia, is seen smiling holding a bunny against her chest which implies that if you buy cruelty free products you will be happy knowing you are saving animals. By holding the bunny to her chest, the advertisement expresses how the action of buying cruelty free products will make you a kind person because you hold animals close to your heart. In that same sense, the picture implies you are an evil compassionless human being if you do not buy cruelty free cosmetic products because you do not care about animals and do not mind if they are hurt or murdered by companies that use animal testing. Ethos according to Purdue Owl is the credibility of the source. In the first picture, there are elements of ethos which are, the official insignia of PETA, the sponsorship of the celebrity Dave Navarro, and the link to the official website of PETA. The elements of ethos are nearly identical. The elements of ethos in the second picture are the endorsement of the celebrity, Tamannaah Bhatia, and the official PETA logo. According to Purdue Owl, Kairos is a rhetorical appeal to timeliness. In the first image, it is said that animal testing kills animals which implies that the viewer should switch to cruelty free cosmetic products right away in order to save as many animals from the grasps of animal testing as possible. In the second picture, the element of Kairos is present in the text cruelty-free the use of the verb, buy, in this instance is made to sound demanding and assertive as if you should go out and buy them Sustek 5 now. The use of the exclamation point also adds to this effect buy making the demand seem even more assertive and can be interpreted to express that if you buy cruelty free products now negative consequences will occur and people will be upset with you. The text a also makes an appeal to timeliness by saying that you need to go buy cruelty free products now in order to save a bunny and if you do not hurry then you will not be the honey because you quick enough so the bunny died. Some logical fallacies in the images are appeal to authority PETA is using celebrities to get people on board with their cause. By using the celebrities to endorse their message, although not directly, PETA is implying the audience should buy cruelty free cosmetic products because famous figures such as Dave Navarro and Tamannaah Bhatia say they should use them. This same action of using celebrities could also be interpreted as the commitment of the bandwagon fallacy by saying if these celebrities use cruelty free products so should you. Lastly, PETA is guilty of using the logical fallacy of appeal to emotion. PETA is using emotion invoking imagery to persuade people into being on their side where they could easily use stronger evidence such as statistical figures of how many animals die per year due to animal testing. The two pictures have many similarities such as they both use celebrities to endorse the message. PETA uses celebrities in their advertisements to get the general public interested in argument. Both advertisements also have heavy use of pathos PETA relies a lot on emotional appeal to convey their point and this is evident in the majority of advertisements. PETA should include more statistical and factual information instead of emotional appeal to make their point seem more valid. Sustek 6 In culmination, PETA is against animal testing. All rhetorical elements can be found in each picture. In the first picture, pathos is found in the expression of Dave Navarro, ethos is found through the use of a celebrity endorsement, logos is found in the text describing the cruel treatment of the animals that are used for animal testing, and Kairos is seen in the statement of that animal testing kills. In the second picture, pathos is found in the happy expression of Tamannaah Bhatia, ethos is established from official PETA insignia, logos is seen from when PETA tells the audience how they can fight against animal testing, and Kairos is seen in the text a The two images created by PETA clearly show stance on the issue of animal testing and attempt to persuade the consumers of the cosmetic imagery through a plethora of rhetorical means. Sustek 7 Works Cited testing cost All-creatures, Jan. 2007, www.all- creatures.org/articles/ar-alt-compar.html. Accessed 25 February 2017. mission PETA, 21 Oct. 2011. http://www.peta.org/about-peta/. Accessed 23 February 2017. elements and their Purdue Owl, 24 Feb. 2017. https://owl.english.purdue.edu/owl/resource/588/04/ Sustek 8 Sustek 9