Kirkus 1 David Kirkus TJ Murray Composition II 30 April 2017 In this essay, I will tackle an issue that has unfortunately become quite prevalent within our country in recent years. The misuse and abuse of narcotics such as oxycodone, morphine, and other opiates including heroin has had negative impacts on the United States and its people. With issues such as enormous amounts of people being admitted into clinics, rehabilitation centers, and emergency rooms for painkiller use, it is obvious that something must be done in order to stop these awful events from continuing. Kirkus 2 The FDA Should Regulate Painkiller Use Each and every day 1,000 people are treated in emergency departments for not using painkillers as directed due to the US government, namely the poor regulation of opiates and other prescription drugs. There are too many people constantly suffering from this issue for it not to have been solved already. The government needs to focus on limiting the accessibility of, and replacing these harmful substances with non-addictive, natural remedies such as turmeric or marijuana. Although these natural remedies exist, it is important to note that the issue lies within the misuse and abuse of painkillers. Too many people are still forming awful habits, and becoming addicted to substances because of the misinformation accompanied by legal pharmaceutical drugs. arguably too easy to gain access to these drugs because of how prevalent they are within our culture. You have back pain, see a doctor, and within an hour he or she has written you a script for oxycodone or Percocet. The nasty effects that come with these narcotics, as well as most other prescription drugs, should and can easily be avoided so long as government funded agencies like the DEA and the FDA re-schedule and replace these According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Americans die every day from an opioid overdose (that includes prescription opioids and (CDC). is a natural root that is a part of the ginger family. It can help with back and joint discomfort, as well as swelling and inflammation. It can be cooked into food, brewed into tea, or even taken by (WebMD). Marijuana is yet another natural ailment to pain and discomfort. Many claim that it is more pleasant and less invasive than professionally prescribed pain medications. With no withdrawal symptoms, whether they be physical or psychological, (DrugFoundation.org), who want to toss out their addiction- inducing pills and look into these natural alternatives? Why have we been synthesizing drugs that ultimately lead us to addiction and withdrawal symptoms when we have these naturally occurring herbs at our fingertips? While the world is changing its views on medical marijuana, the larger part of this battle has yet to be fought. There are far too many people relying on prescription drugs in order to live. Without the additional stress created from using painkillers long term, people should look for other means of staying Kirkus 3 healthy in the long run. This way fewer people will even have the potential to overdose on these substances. If these drugs can be fatal, then why they illegal along with all the other fatal drugs? Narcotics are a big business, and create a ton of revenue from the sick people that prescribed to. These drugs may solve the initial problem, but they also create their own problem which is much harder to cure. For instance, taking these pills may rid a person of their back or joint pain after a few days of use. Afterwards, the body will have trouble functioning without these pills and the pain will return, only this time in a much more severe way. According to DrugAbuse.com, addiction is usually preceded by tolerance to the drug, which means you feel as though you need a regular supply of the drug. The reason usually to reduce the effects of pain, however. The reason is because you start to suffer from the effects of withdrawal when treatment is The pharmaceutical companies see potential profit in these patients because they will keep coming back for more pills. As a business model, this strategy is genius. Morally, this practice is wrong and should be eliminated. U.S. consumes 99% of the hydrocodone and over 80% of the (Lighthouse Recovery Institute). If the FDA pushed to change legislation in favor of medical cannabis, as well as the limitation of narcotic drug prescription, fewer people would die and the U.S. population as a whole would be healthier. It is important that we as United States citizens tackle this issue head-on and confront our government officials about the matter immediately. Nothing will get done unless the majority of the American population is on the same page, and we must all do our part in making that change if we wish for it to be accomplished. If you would like to see change in the way we deal with illness or pain in pharmacies, please take the time to contact your congressman and senator. If you do not know who your congressman and/or senator is, go to http://www.house.gov/representatives/find/ in order to locate them. Make sure to introduce yourself, be courteous, and highlight the important factors that come with painkiller and opiate abuse. On top of contacting your representative, another way one might help fight to reduce painkiller use in this nation is to speak out and discourage anyone from using painkillers. If no one speaks up, more and more people will give in and take these drugs if they feel they need them, instead of becoming educated on and using natural remedies. It is important that this issue be resolved before it Kirkus 4 persists beyond repair. More and more people are losing their lives to drugs each year, and we can prevent it from continuing. In conclusion, there are many more soothing, natural ailments to pain and discomfort that are not being taken advantage of. The United States government must change its policies before any change can truly be made, therefore individual agencies such as the DEA and the FDA must step in and propose a change in legislation. Once that is done on a more prominent level, the remainder of the transition would come naturally. Each individual that feels passionately about this problem should must voice their opinion so that these agencies see what changes really need to be made. Kirkus 5 Works Cited Find Your  United States House of Representatives. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Natural Pain Relief: Supplements for Chronic  WebMD. WebMD, Web. 16 Apr. 2017. New M O S  There is no such thing as cannabis withdrawal NZ Drug Foundation - At the heart of the matter. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Understanding the  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 16 Dec. 2016. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. The Effects of Painkiller  DrugAbuse.com. 16 Nov. 2016. Web. 02 May 2017.