Henshaw 1 Tamara Henshaw ENC 1102 Angelica Aranda 01 March 2017 The Message Within the Image A picture is worth a thousand words. The Stop Bullying organization uses pictures to educate everyone about ways to stop bullying from happening. Their mission is to make parents, children, and even communities more aware of what bullying and cyberbullying is, who is at risk, how to prevent bullying and how to get someone help or to speak up about what is going on. This organization gives you categories that explain what bullying is, as in explaining the definition of bullying as a whole and how it is different from other things like harassment and hazing. Bullying is unwanted, aggressive behavior among school aged children that involves a real or perceived power imbalance. The behavior is repeated, or has the potential to be repeated, over (Stop Bullying). Cyberbullying that takes place using electronic (Stop Bullying). The stakeholder also gives parents a list of warning signs to look out for to protect their children. It also talks about how communities can get involved by setting up groups that talk about how the children being bullied can get help. If bullying is going on, the bystander, should speak up and help or talk to an adult or someone they trust to get that person help. This stakeholder is also working with the Department of Education, Health Resources and Administration and Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration. In the two images that will be talked about, the images used pathos, ethos, logos, and kairos to grab the attention on people everywhere to help stop bullying. Henshaw 2 The rhetorical appeal, pathos, draws the audience to feeling an emotional connect to the argument (Hoffman Wiggs 35). Image one has two teenagers that are smiling and have a quote saying I Know Not This image is working to show that it is better to know you are not alone in a situation such as bullying. If you know someone else is going through the same problem as you, you feel like you can go talk to that person instead of dealing with it alone. This makes the bullied feel a sense of belonging and comfort to know that they are never alone and they can always come and talk to someone who understands. The sense of belonging and to have someone understand makes the bullied feel that they are able to talk about what they are going through and maybe hear what others did to stop from being bullied. In image two, the boy who looks as if he is thinking about something awful he has done says you ever take back the pain you caused someone This picture shows a teen who looks as if he regrets something he has done or wishes he could take it back, making you feel a sense of pain. This image makes a person think about the pain that they could give someone by something they may say and to know they can never take something they say back afterwards. Even though both images grab the emotions of both the bullied and the bullier, they are working to stop the same thing. Another rhetorical appeal that the images both use is ethos, a method of persuasion to create credibility (Hoffman Wiggs 25). In image one it shows that having someone by your side you can conquer anything. Not only are you going through being bullied, someone else is too and coming out and talking about it will help you to overcome being bullied and not think about hurting yourself. When you look at the two teenagers faces, they are happy because they have someone by their side. When a person who is bullied looks at this image they will see that if they have someone by their side they feel as alone or they will feel like they can overcome Henshaw 3 being bullied. Image two shows that whatever you say to someone to hurt their feelings you can not take that back and that is bullying. You will regret the decision after and you cannot take it back. You see the pain in his face, those who are bullying someone will feel bad abo0ut something mean they might have said to someone because they cannot take it back. Credibility is always important. Logos the consistency and clarity of an argument as well as the logic of evidence and reasons (Hoffman Wiggs Both these images employ this rhetoric appeal by showing that bullying needs to stop. These images look to grab the attention of both the bullied and the bullier. Image one shows the reasoning that when you have someone you can talk to it helps a lot by showing two teenagers happy being by each others side and a quote saying Know Not To know you are not alone in that situation you feel a lot better. For image two the reasoning behind that image is that once you send or say something hurtful to someone you can never take those words back. If you hurt someone to the point that they hurt themselves that is your fault and you can not take that back. Pushing someone to the point where they take their own life is something you can not take back, so all together stop bullying. At the end of the day you will regret the decision you have made. Kairos is another type of rhetorical appeal that appeals to timeliness or the right time to say, perform, or do something. These two images use this appeal to stop bullying today, and with the young teens of today. If we are able to reach these young teens and stop bullying maybe it will come to a stop all together. These images push to speak out when being bullied or to not say or send that mean message or you will regret it. When people see these images today they will Henshaw 4 think twice about bullying someone or even speak up about being bullied. It is never too late and that is what these images are trying to say. These images try to grab the audience in many ways. Either by emotion, reason, credibility or timeliness. These images relate to the mission of the stakeholder because they are showing the audience what Stop Bullying wants to do, stop bullies. By using the rhetorical appeals you are saying a thousand things just in one image. The images literally are saying a thousand words. Henshaw 5 Image One: Henshaw 6 Image Two: Henshaw 7 Work Cited Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs. Matters: Foundations of Rhetoric and Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. Print. Home. (n.d.). Retrieved February 04, 2017, from