Song Page 1 Ainong Song Professor: Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102-093 April 30, 2017 The best way to protect Chinese traditional culture is to use it in Modern life Traditional culture is the embodiment of the soul of nations and countries, but with the development of the times, many traditional culture are disappearing. In other words, the mean is some traditional cultures have been gave up by the history, because the traditional users use them in modern life. For example minority language, more and more minority languages are under threat of death, because the development of a language is based on the user. In other words, a language is abandoned by its speakers because it cannot aid them on the global stage, there is no basis for the preservation of such a language (Agwuele, 2010). Protecting Chinese traditional culture is not only about preserving its original features, the best way to protect Chinese traditional culture is to use it in Modern life. Young people should try to add modern elements into Chinese traditional culture, making Chinese traditional culture can follow with the development of the times. Old humans do not only need to pursue the characteristics of the original, but also they need make Chinese traditional culture is used in modern life. The Culture of China is home to one of the oldest and most complex civilizations covering a history of over 5,000 years (New World Encyclopedia, 2013). Traditional culture element is a reflection of traditional values and traditional beliefs, the main origin of Chinese culture thoughts comes from three parts: Confucianism, Taoism and Buddhism. Under the influence of these faiths, Chinese traditional culture has a generated a rich and profound system of values. The concepts of and culture must be in the five cardinal virtues of benevolence, righteousness, propriety, wisdom, and faithfulness. These principles have Song Page 2 constantly played out over 5000 year-long history (Wu, 2015). The Chinese traditional arts has been influenced greatly by the Chinese traditional culture, the mean is Chinese traditional cultures are shown by Chinese traditional culture. For example, music, Chinese characters, Chinese painting, and traditional opera. In the modern life, popular music is mainstream music. More and more young people think the Chinese traditional music give them relax feel in their free time, so fewer people are paying attention to Chinese traditional music. In other words, Chinese traditional music style follow with the development of modern life. If traditional music producer want to keep and develop traditional music style, they must have new creating. Baltzis gives a word this world can be explained that using popular music style and different traditional music style to create new style (Lunsqui, 2012). In China, some young humans who are from SiChuang have a big success. They use popular music style and Chinese traditional style, called Beijing Opera, to create a new music style, called Chinese pop. The famous singer is is And other good example is the singer is a very famous Beijing Opera actor. He broken the limit, and make Beijing Opera style to combine with the Popular music. This is a good beginning, because the two sings show young humans are trying add modern elements into Chinese Traditional music. Actually, the biggest hurdle is from the traditional old handicraftsmen. They believe new technology and they think traditional Chinese culture combine with the modern will make traditional culture lost their characteristics of the original. In other means, the most of traditional handicraftsmen worry about their traditional elements be great used in the modern life, and modern elements will broke the value of original. The famous event example is Starbucks closed coffeehouse in Forbidden City. Some Chinese critics who said it damaged a major historical site (The New York Times, 2007). Chinese critics think the green color broke the whole old build style, because the whole building used red and golden as the main color. But this is not a problem, the Wanda group have provided a good example, the Chinese traditional culture can be used in modern life. Wanda shopping mall, the whole building use the porcelain concept, the outside tile are Song Page 3 decorated in specially images of auspicious animals birds, plants and evocations of landscapes, reflecting local Chinese culture heritage (Stufish Enteraninment Archtects, 2016) The key point to solving the problem is from the young designers. When the young designers design a new product and plan to use traditional Chinese elements, they should pay attention to keep the original characteristic. The young designer need pick up the good elements and remove the bad parts. Old handicraftsmen should support traditional Chinese elements combine with the modern life. Because all thing must can be used in daily life and improve economic, if their Chinese traditional culture do it, the traditional culture will lost young people. In the modern life, the improvement of economic is very important element for the development of Chinese traditional culture. So Chinese traditional culture must can improve economic and above people life level in the daily life. For example Chinese Characters. The text of a country is the most Characteristic elements, of course Chinese character also is one of the features culture, it is written with ink brushes. Chinese characters are composed of a series of strokes. Chinese Character is different English, the every Chinese character can be called a special painting. This finding give clothes designer a design idea, they use Chinese characters into T-Short design. This king of T-shirt can be found in shopping website. When Chinese traditional culture combine into modern life through the business, Chinese traditional culture will get second life. The same point between the traditional Chinese elements and modern elements is they both have inseparable connection with culture. Chinese traditional culture still have big influence for Chinese consumers. So not only the designers can not give up traditional Chinese elements, but also they should try to use traditional Chinese element in their design and to open the world market. In fact, the product which has traditional Chinese elements will be popular in the world market. So the requirement that traditional culture factors in design do not only strive to make advanced technologies more appropriate for their social context, but also to make better use of traditional culture inself as a resource for innovation (Wu, 2015). Product is the Song Page 4 carrier of the culture, so the designer is not only a product in the design, but also they pass the traditional culture at the same time. in a practical design process, four relative steps are used to design a cultural product, namely, investigation,(setting a scenario), interaction (telling a story), development (writing a script), and implementation (designing a product) (Lin, 2007). In my conclusion, the best way to protect Chinese traditional culture is to use it in modern life. The development of the traditional Chinese culture should be combined with the development of the times. Young people should build new idea how to add modern elements into Chinese traditional culture. And the old people should believe Chinese traditional culture can be kept the characteristic the development. In the future, the marketing of creating must base in the traditional culture. So people should believe traditional culture must can be used in modern life is best way to protect and develop. Word: 1221 Song Page 5 Works Cited Agwuele, A. O. (2010, September). Globalization, dying languages and the futility of saving them. Retrieved from Re- Writing Linguistic History-(post) Colonial Reality on the linguistic theories. Lunsqui, A. (2012). Music and Globalization: Diverity, Banalization and Culturalization. New World Encyclopedia. (2013, 7 21). Culture of China. Retrieved from Stufish Enteraninment Archtects. (2016). NanChang Wanda Mall Dalian Wanda Group, 2016. Retrieved from stufish . The New York Times. (2007). Starbucks closes coffeehouse in Forbidden City . Wu, Q. (2015). Traditional Chinese culture in modern Product. Canadian Social Science.