Al Balushi 1 Abdullah Al Balushi ENC1102 Theodore Murray April 29 th , 2017 Cover latter First of all, I thought the presentation going to be hard for me as an international student and presenting in front of the American students. However, the professor gave us very smart way to deliver our thought to our classmate. In addition, as I present about how important Renewable Energy Sources and it is very hard that we live without human have. Moreover, I just ask the students to turn their phones off and I turned the class light off which I really enjoy about my self because this is my first time that I do not get stress and this. Also, we ready to deal with the pollution this causes, all our humanitarian intentions might be for naught. Al Balushi 2 Renewable Energy Sources is The Only Hope that Human Have Nowadays, people become more consumer in human have sources. High temperatures, sea level rising, climate change. Endangered animals, floods, and storms. All these are caused by one thing, which is exaggeration in use of non-renewable energy sources. Have you ever heard about the fact that people only use about less than 5 percent of the solar power and wind base is installed today? However, exploiting all the spaces that are available to installed solar or wind power would occupy only 1 percent of lands in the earth as mentioned in path to Sustainable Energy by Which means a huge amount of energy have not been used yet, that people can invest from wind power to be used as an energy in different aspects (Jacobson, Delucchi 2). We are got the fact that renewable energy sources are safe and have no pollution to release. Nowadays, the issue of energy is being discussed everywhere by scientists, countries etc. Everyone in this world as long as he/she is breathing is responsible to act to deal with this issue to live peacefully. Scantiest have approved that renewable energy sources are the best solutions to address the problem of energy, pollution, global warming. Although Non-renewable energy sources have been serving the entire of the world for a long time; it has many negative effects that can lead the world to be ruined. Therefore, we should consider limiting the use of it, and tend towards renewable energy First of all, there is no doubt that non-renewable energy sources have been serving the entire world, although, it has bad effects. Nowadays, non-renewable energy sources Al Balushi 3 consider to be the most widely energy that are used in entire the world, especially in industrialized countries as Russia and America. Scientists have expected that approximately 85% of the expanded energy in all around the world come from non- renewable energy (Combas, np). So, non-renewable energy sources are considered to be the most important factors that make our life flexible. Despite all the benefits, it also has many bad properties that can ruin this planet. Non-renewable energy sources are reflected the significant factor behind the global warming that touches our planet nowadays. Non- renewable energy causes emissions of gases such as carbon dioxide. This means the gases affects the atmosphere such as CO2, which is considered one of the polluting gases that stay in the atmosphere for years, it might last to thousands years (Hansen et al, 2). Additionally, collective of gases affect on human health and cause diseases, for instance, asthma, and breathing difficulties. Therefore, people must take action to solve this issue, and they must be carful about their environment as well as their health to live without problems, by tending towards using better energies as renewable energy sources. energy is the best solution to avoid the negative effects of non- renewable energy. Scientists have approved that renewable energy sources are very efficient and clean and friend with our environment. Renewable sources are accessible and do not release any pollution as non-renewable energy do. The good thing about renewable energy sources never run out, and every one can have it either solar or wind or other renewable sources. One of best examples of countries that rely on renewable are Germany and Netherland, these two countries have guaranteed long-term future in term of energy. These two countries have set up solar and wind power stations to provide them with enough energy. According to and Markets: 2012 US Solar Power Al Balushi 4 Industry Report - Tax Incentives in 1603 Treasury Program Boosts there is a huge growth in America in term of using solar power, and it is considered one of the biggest countries that is relied on solar power, it also mentioned that 2010, there were 16 states that installed over 10 MW of solar (Research and Markets np) . Which is quite interesting projects that guarantee for America a clean, healthful environment, and sustainable energy last forever without running Many people have been asking about what should they do in order to act dealing with the issue of energy. First of all, this problem and solution are intended to all people, specifically those who want to live healthy life, breathing clean air, as well as those who are interested in conserving our planet. Therefore, you as a human must spread the awareness between people who have no idea about this issue, and tell them that if they wanted clean air to breathe, and green environment, they should use renewable energy source. Moreover, you can also use renewable energy to run devices in your home. Additionally, you can also set up roof solar panels in your home, so that you are going to reduce the use energy, as well as you are going to make money to be used for something else. Other thing you can do is creating websites or posters that encourage and educate people about the benefits of renewable energy, and the negative of non-renewable energy. Some people have some beliefs about non-renewable and renewable energy sources. Some say that it is difficult to abandon using non-renewable energy sources and ten towards renewable directly. That is true, but at least we must reduce and make a balance between them, or reduce the use of non-renewable energy gradually till we reach to a balance pint. Others say that renewable energy sources are expensive, and difficult to Al Balushi 5 be afforded. However, The equipment of renewable energy is getting cheaper day by day as scientists clarifies. In conclusion, the world is relying on non-renewable energy sources completely. Even though, it has bad effects as releasing carbon dioxide and other gases that are makes pollutions. However, renewable energy sources are the best solution to avoid the negative effects of non-renewable energy. So, we as human must act to deal with this issue, and try to spread the awareness of renewable energy, and use renewable sources instead. Therefore, if we wanted to live in a clean environment, and breath clean air, we must tend towards renewable energy. Otherwise, pollutions will still spreading and non-renewable energy will run out. So, it is our choice, think about it. Al Balushi 6 Cited Mark Z. Jacobson, Mark A. Dellucchi. Path to Sustainable Energy by Scientific American. November 2009. Web. 06 April 11 2017 Susan. Liquefied Petroleum Gas  Overview Non Renewable Fuel. Window on State Government, 2006. Web. April 11, 2015 James, et al. Assessing Climate Required Reduction Of Carbon Emissions To Protect Young People, Future Generations And  Plos ONE 8.12 (2013): 1-26. Academic Search Premier. Web April 15, 2017 and, Markets. Research and Markets: 2012 US Solar Power Industry Report - Tax Incentives in 1603 Treasury Program Boosts  Business Wire (English) 10: Regional Business News. Web. April 15, 2017