Winsor 1 Victoria Winsor Professor Rouisse ENC 1102.093S17 30 April 2017 Eating Meat vs Animal Cruelty Animal cruelty can range anywhere from direct physical abuse, to captivity, or to using them for entertainment. Even simply neglecting an animal is considered abuse. Something that seems to be a constant pattern among large industries such as meat packing companies or places that use animals for entertainment such as Sea World, is that although animals have basic rights just as humans do, they are still treated in such inhumane ways. Most of the time, people even realize they are taking part in this abuse. In that case, I will be arguing why eating meat is animal cruelty. Why is something that is so popular such as eating meat, looked past? Perhaps because the reality of what happens behind closed doors is neglected, or perhaps because meat tastes so good, that it is almost addictive. Nevertheless, with meat being so accessible it seems plausible to propose this question, is eating meat considered animal cruelty? This issue is one that needs to be touched on. Thus, in order to potentially put an end to this abuse, people that eat meat and young millennials that have a voice can protest and take a stand to get the word out and influence others to make this issue known and put an end to the abuse that is happening on factory farms. What is the contradiction between our eyes watering when one sees a baby pig, but our mouths watering when we see bacon? An animal is killed for you every day but God forbid you ever kill an animal yourself. How could anybody? Most do not actually know where their food comes from, which is why this issue needs to be enlightened. Animals on factory farms are Winsor 2 treated like machines; machines that produce milk, eggs, and meat, but not actual living beings. It seems that we miss the part where the chicken that we eat had spent its whole live in a dark crowded warehouse; a warehouse in which they live in their own feces to await their death (PETA). The truth about what happens is hard to hear which is why it is most often it is ignored, but the longer it is ignored, the more animals are killed each day. Hope Ferdowsian, an author that is strongly against animal cruelty, wrote a book on something called speciesism. This term refers to denoting an animal based on what they are. Those against it believe the benefit of humans does not justify the harm to animals. America has strict laws against animal cruelty for cats and dogs and other animals that are kept as pets, but fail to include laws about the cruelty that occurs on slaughter farms. There is no reason why killing a cow against its will is any different than physically abusing a kitten. Speciesism can be seen when it is deemed okay to kill a chicken, because it is not as intelligent as humans, or However the intelligence of an animal does not justify its importance in this world. Studies show that animals do in fact share similarities with humans. For example, various forms of depression and fear have been reported in animals, even in nonhuman primates such as pigs and dogs. Anxiety disorders have been reported in elephants, and posttraumatic stress in other animals. (Ferdowsian) More and more human-like qualities being found in animals is making it even more challenging to deem it okay to slaughter animals. Eating meat is something that is looked past because it is so normal. If a pet owner stand to see their precious dog killed, One might refer to Vietnams dog meat industry as an example. To put it into perspective, dog meat in Vietnam is just as casual as cow meat in America. They are bred to grow up being tortured and force fed to make them grow larger as they are sold for their meat by weight (Glennie). It sounds brutal, but not any more Winsor 3 brutal than how cows, chickens, lamb, and many more animals are treated for their meat. Yet we look down upon dog meat because we can sympathize with the dogs that are brutally murdered, but feel nothing when it comes to the background behind the meat here in America. We feel empathy when a dog is killed, so how are cows and dogs any different? They It seems that so many people eat meat, but they never actually want to hear about the reality. In fact, in most experiences of trying to enlighten people who eat meat about the dark horrors behind slaughter farms, people usually look away or get upset when I try to show them an article or video. If eating meat is so casual, why is everybody so afraid to hear about where it comes from? Because there is a reason to be afraid. Eating meat now is as casual as slavery once was. These animals see the sun or get a breath of fresh air until they are to be transported to the slaughterhouse. At this point, many of the animals are too weak or sick to even survive the transport, as they are crippled under their own weight from being force fed, or neglected of water, or simply die from the sickness of living in their own feces for months before they are to be eaten. (PETA) With millions of people around the world eating meat, who has a voice to help this issue? Young people seem to sympathize more with the death of an animal than an adult would. Vegetarianism and veganism is so widely spoken about but it is mainly among millennials. Although it is important for everyone to be enlightened on the horrors behind factory farms, it is important for young people to be aware of this issue because they are the voice of the future. Nevertheless, how can they help? Firstly, by taking the initiative to stop eating meat themselves, because it only takes one person to spare the life of an innocent animal that need to die for you. However taking that stand is just the first step, the next step is to spread the word, in other words; protests, telling friends, becoming a part of organizations such as PETA. With Winsor 4 eating meat being so widely done, protesting and getting the word out is the most one can do. Think, just because you can, it mean you should. People have to power to murder the innocent lives of animals just to taste something good, but animals have absolutely no power to fight back. For every meal that one eat meat, an innocent life could be spared.. There is an opportunity to live in harmony with all living things on this planet, not just some. If it is illegal to murder a human, why is it legal to murder an animal? By eating meat, one is taking part in this abuse that occurs every day. Winsor 5 References http://www.peta.org/living/food/vegetarian-101/ Glennie, Alasdair. Daily Mail. Oct 2014 http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article- 2779364/Snatched-homes-crammed-cages-beaten-death-eaten-Inside-world-Vietnam-s-brutal- dog-meat-industry.html Hope R. Ferdowsian. and Scientific Considerations Regarding Animal Testing and Sept.2011 Vol.6, Issue 9 pp. 1-3 http://eds.a.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?vid=6&sid=f6424a43 -38d4-4f5e-b65d-fa094dd7c369@sessionmgr4009&hid=4111