Student 1 Student Professor Dersisi ENC 1102 30 April 2017 Lessening the Burden of Our Veterans America is often prided on the scientific innovation and research it produces; however, there has yet to be large, randomized studies researching the potential benefits of medical cannabis for post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). Because the research lacks, debate remains over whether medical cannabis (Cannabinoid Therapy) is an effective treatment for U.S. veterans suffering from PTSD. Cannabinoid Therapy (CT) uses plant Cannabinoids to trigger the response from the Endo-Cannabinoid System (ECS) naturally occurring within the human body that serves maintain homeostasis (Ostrow 1). A greater acceptance of the use of cannabis for PSTD and the support of funding research for the problem would severely help the thousands of U.S. veterans that come back home traumatized and lacking in options for recovery. Although the U.S. heavily endorses investing a vast amount of money and efforts into the military, surprisingly, there is minimal effort invested in supporting the mental health of the United States veterans (Tanielian 1). Since 2001, the start of war in Afghanistan, the suicide rate among veterans has increased by thirty-five percent, consequently, making veteran suicide a rising epidemic in America (Philipps). Veteran suicide is on the rise recently; yet, it has always been a disturbingly profound problem that has gone undertreated for far too long. According to Jim Miller, Co-Founder of the Coalition for Medical Marijuana, more Vietnam veterans have killed themselves than have died in combat, with combat fatality standing at more than 47,000 deaths (Miller). Clearly, veterans have not been getting the proper treatment when Student 2 they return to the nation that they have been defending. Failing to confront this issue may lead to the suicide rate in veterans rising more than it already has. As of now, Cannabinoid treatment (CT) relies mainly on anecdotal evidence, due to a lack of research. Because research lacks, many organizations remain skeptical of the benefits of CT for veterans with PTSD. One of these organizations is the regulated U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). The VA warns that medical cannabis can be detrimental or simply ineffective for the treatment of PTSD. Because the neurobiology of PTSD victims is altered, their cannabinoid type 1 (CB1) receptors are of greater availability than healthy controls; as a result, medical cannabis may appear to work for veterans suffering from PTSD because it is beneficial short-term, but starts to become detrimental over time (Bonn-Miller and Rousseau). Research is currently in the works for whether or not this position stands true for every case. Following up on this theory, the possible detrimental effects include in CB1 receptor density and/or efficiency and (Bonn-Miller and Rousseau). However, in support of advantages, the VA recognizes that research has shown that CB1 receptors can return to normal after typically two days of refraining from cannabis; the VA reached this conclusion after agreeing with a multitude of sources with research involving the effectiveness of cannabis for PTSD treatment. The problem lies in that this research is not specific to veterans with PTSD and these veterans may have a harder time than healthy controls for quitting cannabis if addiction takes place (Bonn-Miller and Rousseau). The only solution to debunk or support this statement and defer any further doubts is to increase the empirical studies for CT on veterans with PTSD. The VA believes that with more research, evidence may prove oral CBD to be a viable treatment. Being that PTSD is considered an Endocannabinoid deficiency, it only makes sense to treat the disorder with a substance that directly affects the Endo-Cannabinoid System (ECS) Student 3 (Ostrow 19). ECS naturally exists within humans and serves to maintain homeostasis (Ostrow 1). PTSD is termed an Endocannabinoid deficiency because the disorder causes the body to stop enough endocannabinoids to fill receptor (Rahn). Multiple studies have proved people with PTSD to have levels of anandamide, an endogenous cannabinoid compound, compared to those who did not show signs of PTSD Martin Lee, who studies the relation between PTSD and cannabis notes, to all mammals, anandamide (our inner cannabis, so to speak) triggers the same receptors that are activated by THC and other components of the marijuana (Rahn). With the ability to activate the anandamine that the veterans are missing, cannabis can allow the body to return to homeostasis and in turn, combat PTSD. According to a clinical study concerning cannabinoids treatment for veterans with PTSD, from 4 small studies suggested that cannabinoid use was associated with global improvements in PTSD symptoms or amelioration of specific PTSD symptoms such as insomnia and (Betthauser 1). Although the studies are small in sample size, this is a huge step for veteran CT research because it is directly researching the effects of cannabis on veterans with PTSD; most evidence is anecdotal or tested on people with disorders similar to PTSD. Dr. Sue Sisley notes that a key aspect that elevates CT over other treatments is that most other treatments involve taking five to six psychiatric medications which in turn, leads to a multitude of side affects and drug interactions, but cannabis can cover all PTSD symptoms (Sisley). ability to relieve differing symptoms creates a more targeted relief system for such a complex, multi-faceted disorder demonstrated by PTSD. Given these points, it is still extremely easy to turn a blind eye to the issue as a whole because it seem to affect oneself personally. Targeting the desensitization toward U.S. health, WebMD published an article outlining a personal success story for Student 4 a U.S. veteran alleviating his PTSD symptoms via cannabis. WebMD noticed a clear trend in medical marijuana helping many people with debilitating health issues, and decided to bring attention to the possible lifesaver. The case study revolves around Christopher an ex-marine who served in the Iraqi War (Hadfield). Christopher experienced chronic pain and PTSD- related issues including paranoia, hyper vigilance and  until he used medical cannabis to combat his symptoms. Before turning to cannabis, Christopher found it hard to connect with people due to his chronic pain and the grogginess that was a result of having to take sleeping pills to be able to sleep at night (Hadfield). Christopher mentions that like many other veterans, he made it through the days with excessive drinking, which does not ultimately help the situation (Hadfield). Sadly, it has become a reality for many veterans with PTSD that in order to get through each day, he or she feels the need to turn to alcohol to numb some of the many determents that come along with the disorder. In the case of Christopher, taking full advantage of medical cannabis allows him, in his own words, to to enjoying his (Hadfield). Markedly, in order to increase the care for U.S. veterans with PTSD, there are many steps concerned citizens can take. As of now, total of 19 out of 28 states with comprehensive medical cannabis programs currently allow patients to use cannabis for the treatment or palliative care of (Brosious). Writing to state senators and government officials can help increase both the number of states supporting medical cannabis and medical cannabis specifically for PTSD. Another issue to tackle is the lack of research for the issue at hand. This is due to one company, NIDA, the U.S. National Institute on Drug Abuse holding a monopoly on administering the only legal supply of cannabis for FDA approved studies in the U.S. (Sisley). Meanwhile, studies on LSD and many other drugs have no delay once FDA approval is acquired; cannabis is the only drug with this NIDA monopoly. This government-enforced monopoly Student 5 greatly limits the amount of research involving cannabis; in order to combat this monopoly, it is urged that Americans join forces and perhaps donate to Americans for Scientific Freedom (Sisley). In 2010 NIDA spokeswoman Shirley Simson stated, the National Institute on Drug Abuse, our focus is primarily on the negative consequences of marijuana use. We generally do not fund research focused on the potential beneficial medical effects of (Armentano). This is clearly not in interest of the general public; this restriction extends not just to all of America, but global reseach, as presently oversees an estimated 85 percent of the research on controlled (Armentano). Efforts to overturn this monopoly will greatly improve scientific freedom and many quality of life. Ultimately, with the increase of both veteran suicide and the occurrence of PTSD in recent years, the need for the increased awareness of mental and physical well-being is of utmost importance. Getting involved in supporting cannabis research and acceptance is vital for improving many day-to-day coping strategies. With an increase in the sheer number of supporters alone, the movement for helping our veterans will take a drastic positive step in the direction of proving the legitimacy of cannabis for PTSD treatment. (WC: 1468) Student 6 Works Cited Armentano, Paul. the Lack of Medical Marijuana Research: Feds Disallowing The Huffington Post. http://www.huffingtonpost.com/paul-armentano/behind- Accessed 10 Apr. 2017. Betthauser, Kevin, et al. Use and Effects of Cannabinoids in Military Veterans with Posttraumatic Stress  American Journal of Health-System Pharmacy, vol. 72, no. 15, 8/1/2015, pp. 1279-1284. EBSCOhost, doi:10.2146/ajhp140523. Accessed 25 Feb. 2017. Bonn-Miller, Marcel O. & Rousseau, Glenna S. Use and PTSD among National Center for PTSD. http://www.ptsd.va.gov/professional/co- Accessed 26 Feb. 2017. Brocious, Emily Gray. where PTSD is approved for medical Extract. http://extract.suntimes.com/information-resources/10/153/22597/states-where-ptsd- approved-for-medical-marijuana. Accessed 10 Apr. 2017. Hadfield, Pamela. Pain & PTSD: Success WebMD. https://www.hellomd.com/health-wellness/marijuana-pain-ptsd-christopher-s-success- story. Accessed 10 Apr. 2017. Miller, Jim. Benefits of Medical Marijuana to Treat Youtube. 15 Aug. 2016. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zalpYNbdAUI. Ostrow, Laury. Healthy, Not Veterans Cannabis Group. http://veteranscannabisgroup.com/. Accessed 19 Feb. 2017. Student 7 Philipps, Dave. Rate Among Veterans Has Risen Sharply Since The New York Times. https://www.nytimes.com/2016/07/08/us/suicide-rate-among-veterans-has-risen- Accessed 27 Feb. 2017 Rahn, Bailey. and Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder Leafly. https://www.leafly.com/news/health/cannabis-and-post-traumatic-stress-disorder-ptsd. Accessed 11 Apr. 2017. Sisley, Sue. Sue Sisley Talks About Medical Marijuana, PTSD and Scientific Youtube. 3 May 2013, https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sU7hVRiQHG8. Tanielian, Terri et al. the Mental Health Needs of Veterans in the Metro Detroit Rand Health Quarterly. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5158279/. Accessed 28 Feb. 2017. The U.S. Department of Veteran Affairs. https://www.va.gov/. Accessed 26 Feb. 2017.