Obisanya 1 Adefemi Obisanya Professor Aranda Mar 26, 2017 ENC 1102 Project 2 Final Draft Brady Campaign Vs Gun Violence There have been debates in recent years as to whether there should be stricter gun laws and more crackdowns of gun dealers in America.The Brady Campaign is a non-profit organization whose goal is to put an indefinite end to gun death and violence in America by initiating policies and strategizing different ways that will counteract these horrific acts. The Brady Campaign was created after the attempted assassination of then President Reagan which resulted in Jim Brady being shot. It has been 30 years since the shooting and Jim Brady and his wife with the rest of the Brady Campaign constituents have fought the good fight to prevent gun violence. They were able to get the Brady Handgun Violence Prevention Act in 1993 which has resulted in over 2 million blocked transaction purchases of prohibited guns. The Brady Campaign argues that there stricter gun laws such as background checks on gun sales which will help identify who is mentally prepared to own a gun. They want to be able to put an end to illegal gun dealers distributing illegal firearms across the US to undocumented gun owners while also changing the narrative and social norms of the true dangers of guns (TheBradyCampaign.org). The Brady goal that they put on their website is to the number of U.S. gun deaths in half by by utilizing their methods which they planned out, and they execute that with their advertisements. The Brady Campaign gets their message and point across by the use of their emotion seeking advertisements which purpose is to make their audience become at the realities Obisanya 2 of gun violence and the injustices around it. For instance, image A shows a target practice sheet which depicts the shape of a little girl with her pony tails all out and bullets holes scattered across her body with the caption: make everyone bold cap letters. This picture refers to guns having the power to kill anyone no matter how innocent or young they are due to the obvious fact that guns control who they shoot. Image A relates to pathos due to it appealing to the emotions of sensible adults and concerning parents who worry about the safety of their kid. This image was created to attack and question those parents who own guns and store them in their homes where their little ones can get to them and play with them. Everyday 48 children are shot by a gun in various cases whether it be murder, suicides, homicides or accidental (TheBradyCampaign.org). There has already been 97 deaths of children from the ages of 0-11 in the year 2017 (Gunviolencearchive.org). This Brady ad goal is to make parents mainly to reconsider their stance on keeping handguns or assault rifles or any type of gun for that matter in the vicinity of a child for the prevention of a horrific tragedy such as the kid finding such gun and accidentally shooting him or herself. It is quite simple in the end: who would want their little daughter to be target practice for a deranged killer? In reference to Image A, it is also relating to Kairos as it appealing to the timeliness of the recent shooting of the last decade in relation to schools and kids being killed, i.e. the most recent infamous school shooting being the 2012 Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting. From the result of this, there was an uproar of debates on whether there should be stricter gun laws and the inclusions of guns in schools for protection. With this ad, the Brady Campaign successfully establishes their position and puts their hand into the fold regarding the hot topic. Obisanya 3 For the second picture, image B shows the statistics of the number of deaths due to gun violence and a gun decorated with the American flag with the words Bless in bold capital letters while at the bottom of the ad you see the logo. This image is appealing to two rhetorical appeals being pathos and logos. For the the logos appeal, it appeals to the audience by presenting them with facts and statistics with the number of deaths due to gun violence around the world and its appears very staggering. When reading the relatively low numbers of death for each country, the reader gets to the end and sees the largest number of deaths being 9,484 with the United States being placed right next to it and being placed at the very end to create a bigger effect on the reader. This is to evoke the emotion of disgust and disappoint in the reader of the relatively high number of deaths are due to guns in America, which leads into the second appeal being Pathos. With Pathos, you can see it in the image B as the God Bless America quote is placed at the bottom which is used to appeal to the patriotism that Americans constantly show and also in a tone that America needs blessings and help from above with all the violence and deaths that are being attributed to guns. And according to Pastor Fred Wooden when asked about the meaning of God Bless America, he says what it is is and that Americans should not feel or spiritually or politically superior to others on the (MLive.com). The Brady campaign also strategically made the gun be depicted with the American flag in it to almost say this is an problem that we have to solve since the majority of america love the right to bear arms. Now as it is tackling the issue of guns deaths in its ad, it does not however cover all of the goals that Brady Campaign set forth, for example the elimination of bad gun dealers in America who distribute illegal firearms across America. Obisanya 4 America is far more ahead in deaths than the next closest country, Canada, who only had 200 in one year. At the very bottom of the ad, it asks if the audience if they would like to make a difference and offers them more information at their website and in turn help educate more Americans on the dangers of guns by making it more difficult for mentally unstable people from getting their hands on them. For both of the images, they both embody what The Brady Campaign believes in and strive for not only the communities around the US but for the greater good around the world. One can see this in both of their images clearly as they use rhetorical appeals in them to get their message across to their audience which consists of grownup adults who are thinking of owning a gun, those grownups who already do own a gun and have kids, and I believe congress too as they hold the power of creating these laws and leaving a more impactful print on society in regards to gun laws. It safe to says that the Brady Campaign accomplished most of their goal with their ads. Obisanya 5 Works Cited Page 1. Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun  Brady Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Brady Campaign, n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. 2. Gun Violence  Violence N.p., 05 Mar. 2017. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. 3. Writer, Guest. Dissecting the Meaning of Bless Ethics and Religion N.p., 28 Jan. 2014. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Image A: Obisanya 6 Image B: