Quadros 1 Nicole Quadros Dr. Oana Cimpean ENC 1102 29 January 2017 Save a Life: Choose to Save Babies are little human beings, they are cute and fun to play with. Then why are we taking a life? Many women who abort were probably not ready for a baby. Nevertheless, women have many other options to take into consideration other than abortion. Abortion is the elimination of the fetus in its initial stages of development. This act is not fair to the baby, since it is determining the fate of his or her life. Saving lives should be the motto and main objective and taking it away should be the last resort when no other options are viable. Creating awareness and increasing education about abortion will help spread the word that we should choose life instead of taking it away. Abortion does not give the baby a chance to life. A baby has rights too, so how a fetus voice his or her opinions or their choice? They depend on their mothers to make the right one for them. But knowing that, a woman has rights too, so we respect a right the same way we want our rights respected? A baby have a choice, and depends solely on the mother to make the right one. So, mothers must put themselves in their place and decide what is best for their child. Abortion be one of their options unless life threatening. first understand what abortion really entails. Some women realize what happens when an embryo (fetus) is conceived. Abortion is the termination of a fetus, usually Quadros 2 during the first 12 weeks. Usually during the first 12 weeks of pregnancy is the best time to abort the fetus. But during the first 12 weeks, the baby grows faster than at any other time. By six weeks, a heartbeat can usually be heard and by the end of week 12, the bones, muscles and all the organs of the body have formed. At this point, the baby looks like a tiny human being and is now called a fetus. So how can one get rid of a baby when it is getting ready to exit and see the world? In 2014, around 926,240 abortions took place in the U.S., down from 1.06 million in 2011. (Annual Abortion Statistics) The abortion rates have reduced, but we need to continue to educate women on abortion and the other options they have available at their disposal. So, look at the various options women have other than abortion. Adoption through an agency or finding parents through family and friends who are willing to adopt is one of the main choices. There are several organizations that help pregnant women find eligible couples to adopt their baby. 1 in 8 couples have trouble getting pregnant or sustaining a pregnancy. (Infertility Advocacy) Many over the world have babies, and many go through emotional havoc to have one. They would be more than willing to adopt babies from mothers who are young and not ready to raise children yet. Pro-choice supports abortion because their line of thought is more focused on the woman and her right to choose what happens to her body. But pro-choice supporters need to broaden their outlook and understand point of view. Pro-life supporters want to take rights away, they just want to save the life along with their mother. Both lives are important to them. Life as an adult or life as a fetus demands equal rights and cannot be biased to one life than the other. All life in general is important and needs to be respected that way. Maternal instinct has been in place throughout history. Maternal instinct is even in place in other species of animals and birds living on this planet. By default, mothers save Quadros 3 their lives over themselves. part of their genetic makeup. Abortion, as indicated previously should be the last resort and performed under dire circumstances. These dire circumstances include women who are raped, mothers who could possibly die if they gave birth, or children who may have a birth defect that could endanger them in the future. Even under these circumstances, however, it would be the choice if she wants to go through with abortion. If pro-choice engages in this way of thinking, we can reach many women who are uncertain about their pregnancy decision. So, if we come together and spread the word and increase awareness about abortion, we can reach many women and possibly change their mind to abort. Pro-choice supporters want to enourage the choice of killing the fetus, but tend to give women the right to decide. However, for women to make the right and informed choice they need to be educated on that subject so they can choose to save a life. Read the book Why Pro-Life? by Randy Alcorn. It is a simple Q&A guide to abortion. It is good for large groups to understand the reason behind pro- life. Also, another book that is highly recommended is A Bump in Life by Amy Ford. It is a compelling collection of true life stories, illustrating why life is so much better than abortion. Donate to Care Net, an organization that offers compassion, hope, and help to anyone considering abortion by presenting them with realistic alternatives and support through our life- affirming network of pregnancy centers, organizations, and individuals. Many people consider abortion because they are not financially stable, so by donating we can support mothers who need money to raise a child. Volunteer with Care Net by devoting time at a local pregnancy center. Start a group and raise awareness to men and women around your neighborhood. During the group, you could discuss the book by Randy Alcorn Why Pro-Life? This way you could Quadros 4 reach others and possible change their perspective on abortion. There are countless opportunities to get involved in and make a difference. We need to make a difference and save a life. We should choose to save a life, instead of choosing to kill it. We need to encourage women to make the right decision and value a life in every which way. Pro-choice can benefit by encouraging women to express their right to save a life. We need to get the word out so that women can get educated about abortion and make wise and right decisions. We can save more babies with every person that helps educate women about abortion. Quadros 5 Works Cited Collura, Barbara. Many People Have Infertility? RESOLVE: The National Infertility Association, Resolve, 8 July 2014, www.resolve.org/get-involved/the-center-for-infertility- justice/blog/how-many-people-have- infertility.html?referrer=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.google.com%2F. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017 Abortion Abort73.Com / Abortion Unfiltered, Abort73.Com, Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. to Whattoexpect, What to Expect, 7 Apr. 2017, www.whattoexpect.com/pregnancy/week-by-week/week-28.aspx. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017.