Hansen 1 EJ Hansen Angelica Aranda ENC 1102 March 26, 2017 The Medical Marijuana Association Medical marijuana has been a topic with much debate regarding its possible benefits. The Medical Marijuana Association or MMA is an organization with the goal of pushing legislation that will make medical marijuana legal in all 50 states. These images from the web site depict this idea of medical marijuana in a positive light such as providing an increase in helping with the side effects of diseases. The images are aiming to persuade the legalization of marijuana through the use of Ethos, Pathos, Logos, and Kairos. The first image used by the Medical Marijuana Association is trying to change the opinions of people who are on the fence about legalizing marijuana for medical use through statistics. The American people are the target audience of these images because the people are patients of all ages who are suffering from anything from seizers to anxiety. Colorado was one of the first states in America to legalize both medial and recreational marijuana. Colorado is a significant example of how legalizing medical marijuana has positively impacted the national and local economy and the symptoms of use medical marijuana. These images also target political figures who have an influence on the process of legalizing medical marijuana. These images also target the disenfranchised youth of America because the money that comes from the medical marijuana profits can go towards youth education programs and keeps kids off the streets. These efforts of improving lives also help to crime by 9 percent in the last Hansen 2 year in (MMA). This statistic is one of many that has come out from the legalization of medical marijuana. These two images use the rhetorical appeal of logos to describe the facts of medical marijuana. These two images incorporate statistics to make it easier for the audience to understand the impacts of legalizing medical marijuana. One of the statistics from the first image includes that tax revenues are up 40.9 million dollars in the last year. This creates many opportunities for the both the local and state economies such jobs and tax revenue. The job market as of recent years, has been tough on both the national and local economies of the United States. The legalization of medical marijuana would create jobs for grow houses, distributors and manufactures of medical marijuana. The tax revenues generated by the sales of medical marijuana can go towards building better roads, building public schools and public parks. The other image uses logos by providing facts about the health benefits of medical marijuana use. Some of the health benefits include inhibiting cancer growth, prevents migraines and the reducing of IBS and disease symptoms. Ethos is used in both of the images at the bottom of the paper because of the website is credible with accurate information. The Medical Marijuana Association is founded on the belief that mission is to promote and support medical marijuana producers, patients, and doctors by providing information about the benefits of medicinal (MMA). The Medical Marijuana Association is a reliable source because it provides information to all its patients about what strain and method would be the best for them. This process allows the patients to be more informed about the side effects of Medical Marijuana. The values of the Medical Marijuana Association include the true value that medicinal marijuana has as a treatment Hansen 3 option to those who need it and aim to educate the public to understand as (MMA). This ensures that the Medical Marijuana Association is a credible source for treatment options. Pathos is presented in both of these images based on the emotional ties of the people it benefits. Pathos is a quality that evokes pity or sadness through emotional ties. One of the 10 benefits of cannabis or Medical Marijuana includes the reducing of IBS and disease symptoms. IBS diseases have become more common in recent years and Medical Marijuana helps to prevent symptoms such as intestinal inflammation and stomach issues. Another benefit of using Medical Marijuana is the prevention of disease. This is a very depressing disease that a large majority of people from the baby boomer age are starting to experience and the use of Medical marijuana can help to prevent this disease from developing. Medical Marijuana helps to prevent quite a few things and is trying to improve lives everywhere. Kairos is used in both of these images because of the timeliness and why this is a problem now. Kairos is a propitious moment for decision or action. The time where Medical Marijuana being illegal in more than a few states will happen soon because of the economic increases and advancements in these states such as Colorado. Colorado has shown Medical Marijuana is a positive thing by the decrease of marijuana related arrests are down 84% in the last year. Medical Marijuana is also a very time sensitive idea and process that needs to be legalized because it can help to prevent things such as cancer growth, treat ADD, ADHD and can also treat Glaucoma. Medical Marijuana is and will be becoming a big part of the Medical Market because of its many advancements in the treatment and methods to improve the lives of patients instead of having to take prescription drugs. The legalization of Medical Marijuana according to the images has helped to decrease deadly car accidents by 3 percent in the last year. Hansen 4 Medical Marijuana is creating great strides for the improvement of society and we need to help move it along. These two images can be compared by all of the rhetorical appeals. The first image however talks about the Medical Marijuana legalization in Colorado and its advancements in culture because of its legalizations. These statistics were improved in a year imagine what it will be in ten years if the government were to green light this drug for medical purposes. Colorado has shown improvements in economic benefits, tax revenues, less arrests relating to marijuana, youth prevention efforts and many more programs that can be integrated across the United Sates. The second image presents a few of the health benefits from interacting with Medical Marijuana. Some of these benefits include reducing neurological impairment, preventing migraines, treating PMS and anti-psychotic issues. These were all made possible because of the correct use and legalization of Medical Marijuana. The legalization of medical marijuana would not only improve the local and national economy but it would provide thousands of people with a chance to improve their health treatment options. Medical Marijuana is on the rise of improving a great many peoples health situations and the American people need to give the opportunity Colorado and other states in the Midwest had to show the benefits of medical marijuana. Hansen 5 Works Cited Marijuana, Medicinal. About  Medicinal Marijuana Association. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Feb. 2017 E-text from my reviewers Project, Marijuana Policy. Our Mission &  MPP. N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Mar. 2017