Kunde 1 Hayley Kunde Professor Aranda ENC 1102 03/05/2017 Our Actions, Our Consequences Although skepticism and doubt on the issue exists, global warming is a very real and prevailing problem on our planet. Global warming is the direct result of the increase in global temperatures over the last decades. This temperature rise, also known as climate change, is caused by a number of human actions, such as the driving of automobiles, the heating and cooling of home, the burning of coal, oil and gas, etc. The direct consequences of climate change are already visible in of sea ice, accelerated sea level rise and longer, more intense heat (NASA.gov). The World Wide Fund of Nature (WWF) is an organization that strives to preserve the environment and reduce threats to diversity of life on Earth. Within the category of climate, they aim to a climate-resilient and zero-carbon world, powered by renewable (WWF.org). The WWF insinuates that humans need to do something to stop climate change through the two advertisements by emphasizing the devastating consequences of our present actions if humans make an adjustment. Image A depicts what appears to be an ice cream cone with an Earth representing the melting ice cream on top. Image B presents an hourglass, using water to imitate the sand. The top half of the hourglass displays a melting ice cap with a polar bear, while the bottom shows a flooding city. In both the images of the ice cream cone as well as the hourglass, the credibility comes from the presence of the WWF logo at the bottom of the ad. The World Wide Fund of Kunde 2 Nature (WWF), previously named the World Wildlife Fund, is a well-known and reliable organization, therefore the logo establishes trust to the audience, seeing the ad as reliable and trustworthy (WrongKindofGreen.org). The organization works with countries through the Paris Agreement to develop the initiative in which each country has for their current action plans. They also work to protect priority places such as the Arctic, the Amazon, and the Galapagos-in other works, rainforests to (WorldWildlife.org). WWF accurately appeals to emotion in each striking image. Image A greatly draws on the appeal to familiarity; most people have personal experience with eating an ice cream cone that is melting. When one sees that the ice cream is melting and dripping down the side of the cone, they can feel the sense of urgency and relate to that feeling. It allows the audience who have an experience with an ice cream cone melting before to understand how much of an inconvenience and mess it is, except that in this case, melting is the Earth. The ice cream itself the only familiarity in the image. Unless uneducated, nearly everybody is aware of the appearance of the earth, specifically in the form of the satellite picture used in the ad. These two familiar symbols combined create the apparition of a melting earth. Not only does this appeal to sense of familiarity, but also worry. People tend to care more about themselves than anything else, so when they see that something this devastating can affect them too, they begin to worry. The audience feels this way because it is directly related to them. There are some ads that are directed towards a certain audience, however, these are directed towards everyone because it affects us all. The message at the bottom of the image states, and no one will be spared from climate change. This warning is therefore to all people, all In a sense, the image is saying that everyone has the power to fix this crucial issue Kunde 3 in the palm of their hand, being that that is where one would hold the ice cream cone. It is also apparent in the image that the earth no longer has visible ice caps, implying that they have already melted and gone, being the first to go in this time of global warming. Similarly, in Image B the ice caps appear to be the central origin, representing what would typically be sand in an hourglass. This image also plays on the appeal of familiarity, relying on the fact that the average person knows what this image is exhibiting. The image of the hourglass essentially has two parts for one to accept. The top half of the hourglass pictures a melting ice cap along with an animal. This tiny figure of an unrecognizable, yet recognizably adorable animal pulls on the heartstrings of the reader. It is implying that our irresponsible actions are a direct cause on the potential death of animals whose homes are now melting away. On the bottom half, we observe a city, cloudy due to the pollution of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions that we are responsible for in our atmosphere. Additionally, the city appears to be flooding as a result of the melting ice caps above. As we all know how an hourglass works, on top falls to the bottom until there is nothing left. This flooding of the city is a representation of what our world will look like with current rising sea levels due to the melting ice caps due to the GHGs in our atmosphere. As with an hourglass, things must be turned around in order to begin again, however, no matter which direction this hourglass is turned, the Earth will be affected by climate change. WWF implies that humans must change this and begin again in a new sense. Pathos is rooted in the certainty that no one wants to see their world drowning before their eyes. While each image exhibits a clear appeal to logos, or logic, they do so in their own distinct ways. Image A states, first signs of global warming are now clearly which Kunde 4 establishes logos by stating the facts that most people already know or may be skeptical of. This statement tells us the facts without telling us the facts. We already know signs of global warming are present, just starting with the melting of the ice caps at the poles. This could also be why the melting of the ice cream occurs more apparently at what would be the south pole. Looking down past the south pole of the earth in the image and to the cone, we may notice that it appears to lead the eye to these words at the bottom of the picture, or where the information is displayed. These directional lines of the cone comply with our justification or rationale that the words include the most important message in the advertisement, however this is incorrect. The statement at the bottom informs the audience of the message it is trying to convey, in spite of being particularly small. This allows the ice cream cone itself to remain the center of attention. This is also evident as a result of lighting in not only Image A, but Image B as well. Both consist of a compelling centerpiece on a dark background and surrounded by light in order to be emphasized greater. One specific and definable aspect of Image B is its simplicity in its words. They lack detail, yet get straight to the point while allowing the image itself to tell the story. Logos is further established throughout the image because most everyone is familiar with an hourglass and how it works. Logically, the longer we let it sit there and let the sand, or water, run down, the closer it is to the end. In this case, the longer we just sit and watch the ice caps melt, the closer we are to the rise of a dangerous and deadly sea level. This extremely close proximity to such tragedy gives us a sense of urgency and implements the foundation for an appeal to kairos, or timeliness. The two ads both provide us with an evident sense of timeliness in the form of melting ice caps. We are all familiar with the concept that in warmer temperatures (over zero degrees celsius), ice melts. However, when this Kunde 5 melting ice becomes the defining factor in what virtually kills us all, we may feel the need to rush in order to stop or prevent it. We can also assume that these warmer temperatures that are melting the ice caps in the images are due to global warming as they are in real life. In Image A, we clearly see the earth representing by a melting ice cream cone and therefore we can relate to the feeling of urgency because unless you want the ice cream all over your hands, you have to lick it up quickly. There appears to be the idea that unless we do something about these rising temperatures, the ice cream will be on our hands, such as the fate of the earth is in our hands. The message at the bottom of the ad also clearly states, urgently need to limit greenhouse gas As for Image B, the timeliness, apart from the melting ice caps in general, derives from the matter that the earth is being portrayed by an hourglass, which only has a defined time before it all runs out and the sand on top (the ice cap) is all gone. The message above the hourglass also states, time to stop global warming is melting It is also evident that what would typically be sand is actually being represented by water, which obviously falls much faster than the alternative. With this image, WWF is prompting us to do something about this issue now, before too late. In their own distinct approach, WWF uses each respective image to make people more aware of climate change as an urgent, global issue. They also aim to make people feel guilty for what all humans are doing to the Earth and for those people to respond to their actions and understand their impact. Both images show the problem with climate change, and therefore, persuade us to do something about it. Kunde 6 References - Climate &  N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Feb. -  World Wildlife Fund, n.d. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. - Dunbar, Brian. What Is Climate  NASA, 14 May 2014. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. <https://www.nasa.gov/audience/forstudents/k-4/stories/nasa-knows/what-is-climate-cha nge-k4.html> - Sullivan, Sian.  Kind of Creative Commons, 13 Sept. 2016. Web. 25 Feb. 2017. Kunde 7 IMAGE A https://www.yatzer.com/global-warming-effect-art-design-because-world-melting IMAGE B pg