Zierten 1 Cover Page Provided facts on why people should believe aliens are real with credible sources Call to action: people need to accept the existence of aliens and become more involved in the search for them Point out the suspicions within the United States government Included Stephen research project Presentation: a power point providing facts and videos to persuade the existence of aliens Video clips was the easiest and clearest way to show evidence of aliens Included how big the solar system was to introduce the idea of how small earth is compared to the entire universe Introduced the idea of what else is living in the 96% unknown Zierten 2 Extraterrestrial existence Beginning as early as the people have reported extraterrestrial or sightings globally. This phenomenon of alien sightings has become a pop-culture icon In science fiction films, such as the Alien franchise as well as War of the Worlds, Men in Black and many others that made their millions off this extraterrestrial concept. Despite the thrill audiences get from watching these actions filled movies, should people be concerned with another possibly living species occupying a planet in who knows where? People within societies need to become more aware of the possibility of extraterrestrials with the help of Stephan Hawking who is funding a new project in search for biological life in the universe, provided with the proof and evidence enriched in Area 51 and other extraterrestrial sightings, hoping to scientifically prove we are not alone. It is haughty to assume that humans are the only biological species in the entire universe. Earth alone compared to the size of a person is a massive concept, but earth compared to the entire universe is incomprehensive. Respected author and researcher Joshua Kennon tried to show the analogy in an unambiguous statement. that there are at least 10 trillion planetary systems in the known universe. That is 10,000,000,000,000. Earth would be of those. The idea that there is no life on any of those other 9,999,999,999,999 planets is (Kennon 2011). Per Kennon and other statistics, only four percent of the universe has been Kendall Zierten English Composition II Murray April 15 2017 Zierten 3 identified and explored. The rest has yet to be comprehended leaving contingent odds of life somewhere within the remaining ninety-six percent. Supporting popular belief, Area 51 is theorized to be a classified base pertaining to evidence and information pertaining to extraterrestrial life protected by the government. Supposedly the facility is a United States Airforce base within the Nevada Test and Training Agency. The current purpose for the base is unknown to the public but government has tried to imply to the public it is used for aircraft and weapon testing. Around the the average aircraft carrying civilians never flew over 20,000 feet, while military aircrafts were able to reach 40,000 feet. The U-2 aircraft was soon invented and tested within Area 51 and reached an altitude of 60,000 feet. Once aircrafts were reaching new heights, there was an increasing number of UFO sightings. An article written in TIME magazine heightened modern conspiracy theories including UFO sightings in the Nevada Airforce base. the official line- that the details of Area 51 are classified for purposes of national security- is only seen as further proof that the military is hidings aliens or alien (Rauch 2016). Rauch argues her points thoroughly based off of the suspicions from the government keeping Area 51 so confidential. A few years prior in 2014, former scientist, Boyd Bushman, who had worked within Area 51 gave an interview in which he died shortly after the video was deleted. He said he specialized in alien UFO technology for the (Tech Times 2014). He further mentioned the confidential base as hosting aliens who supposedly came from the planet The government avoided all efforts for this interview to be released and called it a rising further suspicions for their efforts to hide extra-terrestrial life. Over recent years, people have made efforts to pursue research against the government in the hunt for aliens. Renowned physicist, Stephen Hawking, and Yuri Milner have partnered in Zierten 4 funding a new 100-million-dollar research project in pursuing the discovery of alien life available to public. The project will be called Breakthrough Listen and has already been set into motion. and other scientists have found a surprising number of Earth-like exoplanets in recent years-rocky planets the right distance from their suns to support water- suggesting that life as we know it is at least possible, if not probable, all over the (Feltman 2015). Being such a renowned scientist, inferences are highly credential due to his intelligence exhumed from prior ground breaking work. The group of scientists met after the project begun and did not make find any binding evidence yet, but also claim that they have not put all their time and effort into it. Due to the government not giving any money to further the research, The Search for Extraterrestrial Intelligence (SETI) relies on funding from private organizations, universities, or donations. The Breakthrough Listen project allows scientist to collect vast amounts of information. The data is available to the public, therefore anyone can help track radio signals linked to alien civilizations. The software is available on setilive.org that anyone is available to download and report their findings. Shortly after the software was released to the public, there was over one million analyzed radio samples and frequencies related to alien life. The possibility of other life forms in the universe is more evident the most people believe in modern society. Most have been strayed from belief due to government manipulation and persuasion. As civilizations progress on planet Earth, the more technology becomes available and one of the most important roles is time. Perhaps, other life forms have been searching for human life and this is the era where both species discover each other. With how vast the solar system is, the research being put into hunt alien life, and supporting evidence collected, only time will reveal who shares the solar system with planet Earth. Zierten 5 Works Cited Feltman, Rachel. Stephen Hawking Announces $100 Million Hunt for Alien  The Washington Post. WP Company, 20 July 2015. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Kennon, Joshua. How Big Is Earth Compared to the  Blog post. Joshua Kennon. Joshua Kennon, 6 Mar. 2011. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Rauch, Laura. Area 51 and the  TIME Magazine 2016: n. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.