Han 1 Kyu Yeon Han TJ ENC 1102 4/30/2017 Final drafts Cover letter I was hard to compose this paper earlier because I know how to find my topic for the project3. However, when I came back from the class, I saw many people get alcohol even if they looked young. In that points, I realized that U.S drinking age is 21. This age is too high if we compare to the other countries. So I want to make this thing for my project3 paper. However, this topic is too broad for my projects, so I need to narrow my topic for the project3. Finally, I figure out that U.S drunk drive epidemic portion is higher than many other countries where have low alcohol consumption age. So I do a new thesis that age consumption and drunk drive epidemic is not relevant. So I write well in my final project. Also, thanks professor TJ, pleasured to meet you in this semester. I can improve my writing skills efficiently because of your teaching. Also, I loved to go your class, because the class was never boring. So I always waited the Tuesday 6:30 pm to go your class. I will transfer next semester for my junior year, but I never miss your lecture and your personality. Thanks for teaching me and I hope you will get wonderful degree of your master degree. Thank you professor! Han 2 High age limitation of alcohol in U.S In 1984 U.S Congress changed the age limitation of alcohol consumption. U.S Congress decided to increase the consumption age of alcohol in U.S. This legislation still has continued in 2017. The purpose of the high age limitation of alcohol was decreasing the drunk driving epidemic of the 1970s (Victor 20). Many people strongly agreed with this legal action. However, this legal action has not been working well a few years later. The drunk driving epidemic was still occurring in many states, and the portion of drunk driving did not decrease. Furthermore, look at the other countries, the age limitation of alcohol did not work to decrease the drunk driving epidemic. In addition to, the crimes which caused by alcohol consumption are not related to the age limitation. To sum up, the age limitation of alcohol is not necessary to decrease the drunk driving epidemic, so U.S government need to change the age of drinking, and they need to find new methods to reduce the drunk driving epidemic. In South Korea, even if the alcohol consumption age is lower than U.S, but the drunk drive epidemic portion was lower than U.S. These results show that the drunk drive epidemic portion is not related to the age limitation. So how the South Korea control the drunk drive? The Korean government action can find the answer. Korean government played the random breathalyzer in a random street in the arbitrary timetable. This means that if the driver who drunk before starting the drive, he will be caught by police in a random spot in random timeline (Adam 29). So in the South Korea, the drivers never take their car to the bar. Even if, the people drive their car to the bar, they call to the representative driving agency to drive the car for them. The representative driving agency is the agency that helps the other drive if the clients requested to the agency (Adam 33). So when the people drink in the bar, they call to the Han 3 representative driving agency. This particular assistant company drops the drunk drive epidemic portion. In Singapore, even if the alcohol consumption age is lower than U.S, but the drunk drive epidemic portion was lower than U.S. Singapore also has specific systems to lower the drunk drive epidemic portion. Almost most of the bar have not allowed the customers to park in the bar (Muno 12), so when people wanted to drink they need to use taxi or Uber. When the policy first settled by Congress, many people disagree because of uncomfortable, but when the policy started the portion of drunk drive epidemic cut down almost 50percentage. Finally, this particular policy drops the drunk drive epidemic portion. Those two countries have specific methods to reduce the drunk driving epidemic. However, this process need lots of time and money, but it will need for the future of U.S. First, U.S need to enforcement of drunk control systems. For instance, if every state border they need to settle the drunk control tower to control the drunk drivers. This system will decrease the drunk driver dramatically because most of the drivers need to cross the borders if they want to move the other states. Second, U.S need to enforce the street blood test formula for every state. So when the drivers drive on the street, they can be stopped by police randomly. This policy makes drivers drink the alcohol when they keep their cars. Third, U.S need to make lots of representative drive agency for drunk people. This new policy can make people more comfortable because if drivers drunk in out of control of their minds, they can figure out to utilize this representative drive agency. So if the U.S government was waiting for the perfect time to grab this opportunity, the time is now. Do it now! Han 4 To sum up, the entire world has suffered from drunk drive epidemic. So many countries have their methods to reduce the drunk drive epidemic. However, the control of alcohol consumption age did not work in U.S. So U.S need to bench mark other methods to reduce the drunk drive epidemic in the future. Han 5 References Luz M. Original article: Alcohol drinking patterns and risk of functional limitations in two cohorts of older  Clinical nutrition (2016). Web. Flores, Adam. State v. Etsitty: The Past, Present, and Future Prosecution of Drunks Who Drive with Children  New Mexico law review 44.1 (2014):233. Web. Chris, Victors. Original Article: Association Between and Gene Polymorphism and Metabolic Syndrome Risk: A Case-Control Study of a Chinese Han  Archives of medical research 43.3 (2012):233-242. Web