Sibori 1 Kristen Sibori Angelica Aranda Comp II 5 February 2017 Smoke free world American consumerism relies mainly on campaign ads and slogans. A good campaign ad can make a company millions of dollars targeting ads to a certain demographic is the smart way to gain more audiences, the ads must acknowledge its purpose. Whether the purpose is to sell a new product, maintain customer loyalty or get customers to switch to their brand. Phillip Morris International, the top cigarette selling company around the world is a major producer of ads in the cigarette world, hence why Marlboro is the number one selling brand. Marlboro ads are created to target all audiences across the age spectrum, along with all social classes, with no discrimination. As of now there is a switch in their campaign not only are they trying to sell a new product but they are trying to maintain their customer loyalty. This switch in their campaign and ads is due to the beginning of a smoke free world thanks to the creation of their new e-cigarette Solaris and IQOS (PMI). Promoting their new products and a smoke free world is their main goal right now, as their mission statement says on PMI website built the most successful cigarette company, with the most popular and iconic brands. Now made a dramatic decision. We will be far more than the leading cigarette company. building future on smoke-free products that are a much better choice than cigarette The two ads Sibori 2 above are an example of the beginning of their campaign towards a world. For example, for their Brand Solaris they used a bright colored ad drawing the eye toward the colorful boxes. The ad itself has the famous logo of Phillip Morris giving them ownership of the brand, the size of the logo itself is relatively big in the ad to emphasize credit to their creation. In addition, the writing of the ad although in another language clearly states that Solaris belongs to Phillip Morris an appeal to ethos since it emphasizes on the ethics of Phillip Morris. In addition, the simplicity of the boxes in the ad add to their slogan of being The white background emphasizes this by offering a sense of cleanness. The color white itself, according to color wheel pro, safety, purity, and cleanliness. In advertising, white is associated with coolness and cleanliness. You can use white to suggest simplicity in high-tech Hence, their use of the color white, smoking cigarettes is fairly easy all you have to do is light it, the thought of a new electric product can scare away a larger percentage of smokers. Since the percentage of smokers is 48.5% of adults from the age of 25-65+, changing to a new form of smoking might be hard on them , especially if new technology is required to be learned (The Washington Post). This is why the use of white as the color of the box was a smart idea on their part to offer simplicity to the product and emphasize on the cleanliness of using e-cigarettes. One can always count on the fact that e-cigarette cause fires like cigarettes have done before. Also, the man in the background holding on to the package can be assumed to be of a different ethnicity and to be in his primes. The reason for doing so is to prove that any ethnicity and age is capable of smoking e-cigarettes. In additionthe fact that he is wearing glasses hinting that he is a smart individual therefore smoking e-cigarettes makes Sibori 3 you as smart as he is and appeal to logos since its logical that a smart person would need glasses. Another ad to promote their world is Marlboros IQOS. In this ad, their main focus is targeting old and new customers. Old in the sense that the little guy looking for taxes is hinting that it will be tax free, something that old smokers already pay. An average cigarette box is around 5-8 dollars with taxes. Without it will obviously be cheaper, something all consumers are looking forward to in a product. Just like in the first ad for Solaris, the e- cigarette is white signalizing clean and pure , just like the cloud of vapor air that the women is exhaling. The use of a women is also strategic because not only is it targeting women, but men as well. By placing a women in a cigarette ad, they are playing on the factor that smoking through time has been something that men do. This ad prove that if women are doing it then man are manly enough to do it too. In addition, it draws women in because the model is attractive and women will see this as a if she can do it so can I. The attractiveness of the model also draws men in since they might consider it to be sexy. The brighter color scheme in this ad is more aggressive due to its more aggressive and sexualized message, something that Marlboro is known for in their others ads. Although this ad encompass the Phillip Morris logo as the first time it does have the Marlboro logo, since it is their number one selling brand. This draws in all of Marlboro customers to a new product but still using their ad tactics. Hence why they still use their logo with the red arrow like signal to hint that they are still the same but with better products now. In the second as well and the first, there is a play into pathos ethos , logos and Kairos. In the first ad there is an appeal to one intelligence and how one should be and feel as smart as the Sibori 4 ethnic guy is playing on emotion. At the same time, it is more ethical to be vaping than to be blowing burned tobacco smoke out into the air and exposing others to second hand smoke. It is also logical to try and progress which is where Kairos comes in. The progression of technology and the growth of human intelligence is display in the new form of smoking. As for the second ad it plays in ones emotion by hitting to women that if others are doing it they should too in order to not be left out and playing with the emotion of men into persuading them to take back what once to be just a man thing, and appeal to their virility. It is also more ethical of both women and men targeted in this ad to try and be more conscious of their smoking habits and be aware of who is also affected by it. In addition it is more logical to buy a better cheaper product with the lack of taxation. Phillip Morris knows the importance of advertising if they want a product to be successful . They are conscious that in order to keep their old customers as well a gain their new ones in such a major campaign change they must bring new tactics as well as use old ones(Why is advertising so important). Some of the ads must have new content appealing to a newer smarter demographic since this is a technological advance (ad 1) and some ads most remain with the old persuasion methods that drew in old customers in the first place (ad 2) . Both ads attached below are an example of their marketing strategies. Sibori 5 Sibori 6 Work cited Building Leading  Philip Morris International (PMI) Who We Are. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Feb. 2017. Color Wheel Pro - See Color Theory in  Color Wheel Pro: Color Meaning. Color WheelPro Software, n.d. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Dennis, Brady. Who Still Smokes in the United States in Seven Simple  The Washington Post. WP Company, 12 Nov. 2015. Web. 27 Feb. 2017. Writer, Leaf Group. Why Is Advertising so Important to  Small Business - Chron.com. Chron.com, 09 Oct. 2010. Web. 27 Feb. 2017.