Perez 1 Cover Letter For my presentation, I presented my website that I created to the class. I created this website using wix.com and I chose to do a website because I believe that it would help spread the word about donating to the March of Dimes Foundation. So many premature babies die every day and I feel like no one knows about it or how they can help. This website allows the people to learn about the problem and it also informs them about what they can do to help. Perez 2 Amber Perez ENC 1102 Professor TJ 12 April 2017 Make March of Dimes Heard On average, one million premature babies die each year due to complications and with your help, that number could decrease tremendously (Blencowe). Some people do not care about this issue because they realize how big of a concern it is. Other people do not care about this issue because they simply have never heard of it before. A premature baby is any baby born at thirty-seven weeks or less (Foundation). The March of Dimes Foundation is a States nonprofit organization that works to improve the health of mothers and babies founded by President Franklin D. Roosevelt in (Staff). President Roosevelt named it March of Dimes because back in the day, he would tell people that even a dime could make a huge difference in a life. The fight against premature deaths needs to be heard around the world and people need to get involved in donating so that many infant lives can be saved and also their mothers lives. To begin with, being educated about this problem and actually doing something about it could save millions of babies each year. You should donate money to the March of Dimes Foundation because the money goes toward providing health care for the surgeries and births. A story about a girl named Kaya, shows how much your donation can do for someone. Kaya was born at 24 weeks and she weighed 1.01 pounds (Foundation). She was born fighting for her life with undeveloped lungs. Kaya spent a couple of months in an incubator before her Perez 3 parents could even hold her and she also had two major eye surgeries (Foundation). The money March of Dimes raised, helped pay for her birth, incubator, the two eye surgeries, and much more. Kaya would not of should a chance without your help. Think about this: What if Kaya was your baby sister? She very well could have been. Or what if Kaya is your future daughter? Therefore, March of Dimes exists because it helps people just like you. In addition to helping save the babies life, March of Dimes fundraises money to help the mothers as well. Without a healthy mother, the baby would not survive. was born at twenty-four weeks old because her mother experienced some life threatening medical problems. These problems put both Kaya and her life at risk. At twenty-four weeks, Kayas mother Sarah, was told that she had severe health syndrome. The doctors explained that her liver and kidney had stopped working and her blood pressure had gone through the roof. She was rushed to the hospital where doctors saved her life (Foundation). The proceeds from the March of Dimes foundation was put toward saving life. Now think about this: What if Sarah was your aunt or your friend? You should care about this foundation because it could help someone close to you. I want all of you to get up and take action. March of Dimes should matter to you because 1/8 th of the population are premature babies and that means that 1/8 th of your family and friends or even yourself is premature. Saying that its inconvenient and you have time to go to a fundraiser is not a good excuse. We are currently about to enter the March of Dimes foundation season and you can donate at so many different convenient locations. For example, starting in two weeks, Publix is raising money every day and 100% of the proceeds go toward saving lives. Your money will be sent to the hospitals for medical equipment, research, and much more. You Perez 4 can donate any amount like at the register when you check out, even if just a so saying you have no money is not an excuse! In conclusion, prematurity is nothing to joke about. It is a serious concern that needs more attention then what it gets. Your little donation can help save multiple lives. Join the rest of the world in fighting the number one killer of infants. If we can just give a baby a chance to survive, then they will fight like crazy to survive. From Julia Toivonen, premature baby may look tiny and fragile to touch but never underestimate the courage, strength, and determination of a baby born too (Toivonen). Perez 5 Works Cited Blencowe, H. Preterm Birth. November 2016. Document. 29 April 2017. Foundation, March of Dimes. March For Babies. 12 January 2017. 13 April 2017. Staff, Mayo Clinic. Premature Birth. 2017. Document. 29 April 2017. Toivonen, Julia. Aussie Prems Foundation. 15 December 2016. 13 April 2017.