Jessica 1 COVER LETTER This argument is very personal to me, since I was raised in Venezuela. I believe there certainly are many political crisis and issues that have led a big number of countries in unstable states and people around the world should be aware of these issues as the results (crime, discrimination, lack of resources) can be disperse through neighbor countries, until too late. Originally, I was planning to show a video with a summary of currently happening in my country, but since there was a kid present during our presentation time I had to show a 60 second video summarizing, not as in depth, somehow the situation of why Venezuela is in this crisis. I also tried to be as patriotic as possible and showed up with a Venezuelan hat and nails painted with the colors of the flag to represent my country. Video shown in class: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dM-5hmbLwzI Video I was planning to show: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XhIFr6e8EBI Jessica 2 Jessica Beckford TJ Murray English Composition II ENC1102 17 April 2017 A Country Falling Apart When it comes to government issues we tend to socialize these with abuse of power, a government ruled by abusive authorities who gain total control over what people can and cannot do. Unfortunately, Venezuela has become one of those countries for the last 18 years. Venezuela was once, of Latin economic powerhouses and regional diplomatic (The New York Times), with a beautiful culture destroyed by socialist/communist ideals established by ex-president, Hugo Chavez. Although Venezuela became stable during his time of ruling, 2014, falling oil prices have driven a major economic crisis that has pushed Venezuelans from all walks of life to migrate or to seek asylum abroad to escape severe shortages of food, water, and medicine; soaring inflation; unemployment; and ((CIA) Central Intelligence Agency) leaving thousands of people protesting and fighting for a country that they cannot longer call home. USF Students from international are taking measures of the situation by providing donations, as USF students we should engage in these aid groups and support much needed Venezuelan community. By providing something as simple as a pack of spaghetti or donating money through the USFLASA (USF Latin America Student Association) we can make a difference. Jessica 3 Although crisis has recently turned violent, causing awareness from international countries, the rise of the depraved socialist party started back in 1998 after ex- president Hugo Chavez won the presidential election. After the death of President Chavez in 2013, his successor Nicolas Maduro has followed his socialist ideologies, presidency has been fueled by Bolivarian, stringent nationalism, a centralized and independent economy and a strong military engaged in the (a leftist social (Stevens). Since presidency, Venezuela has experienced a scarcity of resources and basic material needs due to the devaluation of the currency and high prices of exportations that be afforded. With the devaluation of the Bolivar currency) the cost of many products even affordable for the average Venezuela citizen, bottle of saline solution costs around $200 on the black market. These costs have imposed tremendous financial burdens on citizens, whose monthly minimum age is only $33.30, half of which is spent on food (Stevens). As of today, Venezuela has an inflation rate (the rate of prices for goods and services) of 800%. As a consequence, to uphold to Chavez socialist legacy, actively distanced himself from the US and other European powers while trying to form a tight South American coalition. The combination of his authoritarian rule took control over all three branches of government and worsening conditions in Venezuela has created a polarized (Stevens). The crisis only affect people financially, but in their overall way of life too. has been on the rise as people fight for access to food rations. Death rates have soared due to increased violence and a shortage of care and (Stevens), people just dying from hunger, but also dying from the scarcity of things. The way of life in Venezuela is Jessica 4 atrocious, from military killing protestors to people fighting at a supermarket for the last gallon of milk. If you live in Venezuela you will know at least one person that has been robbed at gunpoint in the middle of the day (it happened to my mom, I was beside her the whole time). Something as simple as going outside with an iPhone can risk your life. People decide between buying food or buying hygiene products because it enough with their salaries to afford both. Although Venezuela is thousands of kilometers away many students from USF international communities are aware of the crisis in Venezuela, and like many other groups, are starting to spread awareness of the situation. Anyone can help these students and collaborate with donations to the cause by providing aid kits with hygiene products such as pads, tampons, toilet paper, tooth paste, shampoo, among other, just basic needs that are currently scarce in the country, or money. Venezuelan USF students outside the USF Library, taken on April 13 th, 2017 From some cans of food to a tooth brush, anything to help those in needs. Anyone can do it and so do you! Spread the word. Jessica 5 Works cited Buxton, Julia. NACLA Report on the  Taylor and Francis Online. Volume 49. 14 Mar. 2017. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. Crisis Upon Crisis in  The New York Times. The New York Times, 29 Mar. 2017. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. Stevens, Sarah. When a Crisis Emerges, Look the Other Way: Handling of the Health Care  Harvard International Review., 05 Feb. 2017. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. The World Factbook:  Central Intelligence Agency. Central Intelligence Agency, 12 Jan. 2017. Web. 15 Apr. 2017.