Alshabnan 1 Yousef Alshabnan Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 April 16th, 2017 Time to Save The Marine Life The ocean ecosystems have been harmed for so long by many common man- made pollutants such as, plastics, oil, and chemicals. These pollutants are a source of sufferance for the marine species because they consumed it as a food, which causes a high death rate for many kinds of marine species. Also, since these marine species are an important part of the food chain for humans, these pollutants can harm the public health, too. According to Emily J. Gretz, an associate editor for environment and wildlife at Take part magazine,  There were a total of 44,006 incidents of individual animals across 395 species that had eaten plastic bits or been tangled in plastic rope or  This caused death and injured and death for many marine species. Most of the ocean pollution comes from the point and nonpoint source pollution, which happened as a result of discharges and runoff (National ocean service). The nonpoint source pollution or what called pointless source pollution comes when the water flows over the yards and the roads and picks up the all kinds of waste that can damage the ocean. The other source of pollution is the point source pollution, which comes from oil or chemical spill through the discharge of many factories and sewage treatment plants. These two kinds of pollution are causing issues for the marine species and the public health; therefore, it is important to minimise the pollution by stop littering, recycle, volunteer in neighbourhood cleanups, and support the systems that control the discharges of factories wastewater. Alshabnan 2 Many people are unaware of some daily activities that can cause the nonpoint source of pollution such as, the overuse of pesticides, fertilizers, and automobiles construction (Indiana Department of Environmental Management). The United States Environmental Protection Agency define it as, of pollution that termed pollution and refer to those inputs and impacts which occur over a wide area and are not easily attributed to a single (EPA). The process of the nonpoint waste starts from the rainfall or snowmelt, which carries the waste from yards and roads to the rivers or lakes then it ends up in the ocean. This waste includes oil drops from cars and Nitrate from fertilizers and pesticides. When these substances mixed with oxygen in the water, it can make the water toxic, which will lead to affect the marine species. Moreover, these substances can be in the drinking water for human, after soaking into the ground. The Ecological Society of America explained how these pollutants have a huge impact on health and the ocean ecosystem. It says that, pollution is a direct health threat to humans and other mammals. NO3 (Nitrate) in water is toxic at high concentrations and has been linked to methemoglobinemia in infants and toxic effects on (Carpenter et al.). In addition, nonpoint source of pollution leads to close beaches because of high bacteria levels. The other source of water pollution is the point source pollution, which is more controlled than the nonpoint source pollution because it comes from obvious sources. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency define the point source pollution Any single identifiable source of pollution from which pollutants are discharged, such as a pipe, ditch, ship or factory  (EPA). One of the most known examples that explains the point source pollution is the deep water horizon oil spill in Gulf of Mexico, when 134 million gallons of oil spilled in the gulf, which caused, Alshabnan 3 to natural resources such as fish, bottom-dwelling organisms, nearshore ecosystems, birds, sea turtles, and marine mammals and lost recreation resulting from the (DARRP). Likewise the nonpoint source pollution, the point source pollution affect the drinking water and inhibit activates like swimming and fishing (NOAA). Industrial, municipal, and other facilities discharges many heavy metals, such as mercury, copper, and lead. These heavy metals can be a part of seafood meals, since the marine species mistake these heavy metals for food. In order to minimize the point source pollution and to make sure that crisis like the oil spell in Gulf Mexico not happen again, the Clean Water Act established the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System. This system is about controlling the discharges of industrial, municipal, and other facilities that cause the point source pollution, by requiring a permit before discharging the wastewater (EPA). However, there are a lot of things that people can do to minimize the impacts of the point and nonpoint source pollution. The United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) suggested some methods, such as keeping the waste away from street gutters and storm drains, encourage local government to develop construction erosion and sediment control ordinances, and use less pesticides and fertilizers (EPA). These methods are more for minimizing the nonpoint source of pollution. On the other hand, since it is known exactly what caused the point source pollution, the effort to minimize its impacts is less than the nonpoint source pollution. People can help by improving the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System. According to the United States Environmental Protection Agency, National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System administrative procedures require that the public be notified and allowed to comment on NPDES permit (EPA). Alshabnan 4 Thus, people can give feedbacks and comments that can help improving the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System. To sum up, the ocean ecosystem and the public health are in danger of what the point and nonpoint source pollution consequence. The man-made pollutants are causing deaths and suffer for many marine spices and humans through over applying pesticides, fertilizers, automobiles construction, and the discharges of industrial, municipal, and other facilities. People need to participate by keeping their waste away from street gutters and storm drains, volunteer in neighborhood cleanups, and support the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System by reviewing and commenting on NPDES permit applications to get the best system possible. These acts would help minimizing the impacts of point and nonpoint source pollution, to get better ocean ecosystems and better public health. Word count: 1003 Alshabnan 5 Works Cited Carpenter, S. R. et al. Nonpoint Pollution of Surface Waters With Phosphors and . N.p., 2017. Print. Gretz Emily, Ocean Plastic Shocking Death Toll On Endangered . TakePart. N.p., 2017. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. National Ocean Service Education: Nonpoint Source . Oceanservice.noaa.gov. N.p., 2017. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. United States Environmental Protection Agency US . Epa.gov. N.p., 2017. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. What Is Nonpoint Source . Indiana Department of Environmental Management. N.p., 2017. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Alshabnan 6