Michael 1 Austin Michael Prof. K. Rouisse ENC-1102 15 April 2017 Donate to end decreasing biodiversity The atrocity that is occurring around the world needs to be fixed quickly before too much damage is done. Animals every day are nearing closer and closer to extinction due to lack of protection caused by insufficient funding to support programs that could make changes in the world for the better. Differences can be made many places in this world that many organizations including the World Wildlife Fund (WWF) is involved with. Everything in the world from clean energy to conservation is aided by many foundations and soon enough, with enough support, the right track can be found and can be followed, specifically with animal conservation which is directly powered by willingness to listen and assist. If a person is already abstaining from illegal hunting, then the best way to assist as an informed bystander is through donating and informing the public. There are many places in the world which house large numbers of animals such as the Sahara Desert and the ocean. However, the Amazon Rainforest is one of the most diverse areas of the world species-wise. It is home to roughly 1 in 10 species world-wide and it houses 30 million different people (Rainforest 1). The Amazon, located in central (and most of) Brazil, has been the subject of intense logging causing deforestation at unprecedented rates. The results of this are endangering and losses of species, heavy impacts on greenhouse gasses in the world causing global warming, and decreasing tourism for the country helping to sustain an economy. With the assistance of the WWF, the government of Brazil decided to protect 150 million acres. Michael 2 This project was called the Amazon Region Protected Areas (ARPA) (Moutinho 1). Other instances where organizations have made a difference are those such as in Nepal where poaching was a severe problem causing rhinos to near extinction along with elephants and tigers. With the assistance and battle plan of the Fund, rangers were put on the ground, anti-poaching units were developed, and poaching enforcement were put into place (WWF 1). The decrease in biodiversity within this area could have easily meant extinction of an entire species due to an end in genetic variance resulting in breeding problems. With enough time and dedication, the WWF has had the ability and drive to end these issues. Through time and devotion, the WWF has proved itself to be one of the most inspiring and respectable organizations in the world. Having proven itself, it is time to tackle new problems in the communities around the world from climate change to species endangerment. There are many other instances of decreasing biodiversity in the world. One of the animals currently being intensely studied are the whales nearing the Antarctic. With reports of krill fishing increasing and the climate drastically changing within the ocean, now is the last chance the human race has at preserving these large and majestic mammals. With a shrinking feeding population and a drastically revised migration pattern due to varying water temperatures worldwide, the future of the whale is a rather mysterious one. The tricks of the trade involve using suction cups which attach to the whales. These units hold multiple sensors which measure the well-being along with holding a camera that is kept on the whale for 24 to 48 hours at a time (Ross 1). Whales have a diverse social life which can be seen into by the tags. The whales meet up and their behaviors can be watched via the camera. It is interesting to note the potential affects that shrinking ice may have on the whales social life especially considering the majority of whales live near or in the Antarctic. Some of the simplest measure that can be taken Michael 3 once their paths are understood is taking precautionary limits and giving these lands to the whales. By creating a national park-esque area which is for the whales, it is possible to potentially expect increased whale numbers (Pearce 1). The way that some of these whales eat is by filter feeding. Filter feeding is the process of allowing small fish and krill to enter their digestive system through bristle like structures in their mouth. The main problem being watched for is the correlation between ice and krill. With a lacking of ice, many scientists are worried that there will be a limited amount of krill in the near future. The pressure on the krill is to maintain population in order to maintain the population. A sudden flux in the krill population could potentially be the end of the road for many baleen whales. Instead of giving up on a fight seen as lost, take some hope into consideration and see the light at the end of the tunnel. Many of these whales are still doing well and are having wonderful times socializing healthily with the other whales (Pearce 1). In order to preserve these whales, our climate, and the ecosystem of the Earth as the human race knows it, it is important to donate to a Fund immediately. Time is running out to save many of the gracious species that are known and loved. The question if everything will change instead it is a matter of when for these animals. If a solution is not found to help maintain their living situations then their lives may be forever missed. Whales, and many loved animals, will be as present as dinosaurs are currently. As a newly informed citizen, instead of buying your daily coffee today simply donate to the WWF in order to save the lives of either a few whales in the Antarctic or to save the lives of children in need of fresh water. A dollar of a difference gives a lot more than most people expect. Be the change that is wanted in the world; every person has the ability to make a difference. Michael 4 With ample assistance, worldwide biodiversity will regain its territory. The Amazon will regain territory and potentially the variance in the species present. The arctic oceans will return to their more fruitful state restoring whale populations. Only time can heal the Earth and only if it is accompanied with the full assistance of humanity. Most people are raised with the lesson the room better than when you entered the same idea applies to the planet. Make your home a better place. Michael 5 Bibliography Disappearing  Rainforest Statistics Facts. SaveTheAmazon, n.d. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. <http://www.savetheamazon.org/rainforeststats.htm>. Moutinho, Paulo. Role of ARPA in climate change  Indian Environment Portal. PNAS, 6 May 2010. Web. No rhinos poached in Nepal for past two  WWF. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. <http://wwf.panda.org/?266870%2FNo-rhinos-poached-in-Nepal-for-past-two-years>. Pearce, Fred. A Total Ban on Whaling? New Studies May Hold the  Yale E360. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. Ross, H. A., G. M. Lento, M. L. Dalebout, M. Goode, G. Ewing, and P. McLaren. DNA Surveillance: Web-Based Molecular Identification of Whales, Dolphins, and  Journal of Heredity. Oxford University Press, 01 Mar. 2003. Web. 30 Apr. 2017.