Bello 1 Pulcherie Bello Professor Karen Hanson Composition II 30 April 2017 An end to world hunger? The World Food Program found that 795 million people in the world do not have enough food to lead a healthy active life. about one in nine people on hunger for decades now, has been a big issue that we have wanted to eliminate. The international community, without success, has tried multiple approaches in order to resolve this issue; consequently the United Nations (UN) adopted The Sustainable Development Goals Development Multiple organizations such as Greenpeace and Monsanto tried alternative solutions; however the results are yet to be observed. World hunger is a problem of important scale that could be eliminated starting on a small scale. Feeding the world is not an easy task when we do not always know who is responsible for the world as a whole, as we do know for a country or company. As Neil Armstrong once said, one small step for man, one giant leap for (qtd. In Dunbar). The same way a small gesture on a local scale could influence the whole world. The issue of world hunger has to be eradicated and it is only together that we can make it happen by being involved locally and being a global citizen. Hunger is not only about not having food on the table, it is also chronic undernutrition (less protein and calories consumed), malnutrition (deficiency or excess of specific nutriment), malabsorptive hunger(malnutrition and undernutrition combined), seasonal hunger(in some region it occurs before each harvest), food insecurity, and famine (widespread lack of food)(Conteh-Morgan ). Hunger is also about Bello 2 the fact that one in six americans suffers from hunger, food insecurity exists in every county in America, forty nine millions americans live in food insecurity households, and that more than sixteen millions of children struggle with hunger And poverty has been a main factor to this issue. There are also some myths about hunger that we need to debunk in order for us to better understand the problem. We are taught that there is a world hunger because there is not enough food and we have to produce more, but the truth is that there is inequality in the distribution of the ressources. We are also told that famine is because of nature, or too many people to feed. We may have also heard that the efforts toward feeding the hungry are causing environmental problems or that we need more large farms. It is also said that free market is the answer to world hunger. The truth to all of these is that first world hunger is not a nature problem but a man-made problem, second, efforts toward helping the hungry is not a cause for environmental problems, larges corporations are, third, we need more large farms, we need them to be redistributed, and finally, free trade be an answer to the problem since it has participated at being a problem in the third world (Conteh-Morgan ). We have to understand world hunger and what it is really about before making up our minds and engaging ourselves toward this issue. World hunger is not only about the lack of food it is so much more than that and as citizen of this world we should care about this issue that affects us in some ways or other. Why should we care about world hunger? As it was stated earlier ninth people in the world do not have enough to (United Nations Program for Development). This means that while each day one may have the privilege to skip breakfast, lunch or dinner, some have this privilege because in order for them to have it they need a certain regularity of presence of food on their table, but they just When we talk about world hunger, some feel concerned because they experience it so why care? As long as things affect us everything is okay, the rest of the world is Bello 3 okay too. But we should, sometimes think about those who eat once a day if lucky, have a life where they have no toy and barely eat and have to sacrifice things such as childhood. A life where one has to find a way to survive whatever the price is, think about kids such as Sofia. Sofia is a nine years old girl from Bangladesh who see her parents live for the city because they needed more food. She lives with her grandmother and brothers. Her parents manage to send them money but sometimes it is not enough for the grandmother to eat and they can only eat once a day. Sofia is just one of millions of children in Bangladesh trapped in the cycle of hunger and poverty are UNICEF USA also mentioned the story of a kid suffering from malnutrition in an email called Meet Samba: complicated genesis comes into focus through the story of one child: Samba. Born in Mali, Samba was a cheerful and bubbly baby, but his mother Sayon knew she would have to fight for his survival in their impoverished and conflict-ridden home. At eight months old, Samba fell ill. Sayon watched in fear as her bouncing baby grew more listless and gaunt every day. She knew that without rapid treatment, Samba might die. Samba was battling to survive severe acute malnutrition (SAM), an extreme condition that leaves its young victims frail and even skeletal and requires immediate treatment. He was desperately thin, and his odds of survival were tragically low. The causes of malnutrition go far beyond simply lacking food. a combination of complicated factors that relate to poverty, political context, climate change, feeding practices, disease, contaminated water, poor sanitation and much more (UNICEF USA). This is the case of so many children across the world, especially in developing countries or countries in crisis. Hunger also affect education because some hungry children may go to school but with an empty Bello 4 stomach and in this case hunger still is a problem because children experiencing hunger are more likely to have problems with memory and concentration because they do not have the energy to carry out these functions of The children are our future. Children should worry about what they want to become later, what they are going to study instead of worrying if they will have food the next day. People of my age are looking for food now instead of being at school, starting to build a future. Concerning adults, the sacrifices for food are even more and the consequences of hunger include anxiety, mood swings Irritability, anger, apathy Hygiene neglect Psychotic (Overberg). Everyday when one eat and then throw away an untouched meal or half a meal because he or that a child somewhere would have done anything to have this food. Not everyone has the privilege to wake up with food on the table or in the fridge. Not everybody have a balanced meal to survive and grow up to have a future. World hunger does not concern only the hungry, it concerns all of us and it is by working together that we can make a change. World hunger could be exterminated by small gestures. Mahatma Gandhi once said You must be the change you wish to see in the ). We want world hunger to disappear, we have to act. In multiple ways we can end, on a local scale, this issue that have been devastating families and destroying children future. A way to act would be through volunteering. If a few people in every state of the US decided to be involved locally, the rate of hunger would decrease and it is only by starting small that we can reach a big goal. We can start to be involved locally by volunteering at the local soup kitchen to feed the hungry during the week, weekend or holidays. Students can join organization chapters such as Feed America to feed the hungry or participate in activities that goes toward the same goal. There are options of being involved nationally or internationally by volunteering abroad in other countries. There is also the option of being an Bello 5 advocate by raising awareness around us about the issue so more people could be involved and participate in the change. Another alternatives for the problem would also be signing a petition. It cost anything to put our voice out there to end world hunger. Donating food at food drives is also a good action toward the goal. For those who want to also participate financially there the option of donating money to an organization that one may think is a true advocate of the hungry such as maybe Feeding America, WFO, or other organizations. Another way to show support and participate would be participation in the 40 hours challenge consisting of giving up something (a food) for 40 hours and if the goal is reached parents or friends can give money that would go toward a charity or organization that is against world hunger and is fighting it. To farmers who want to make a change there is also a way, agroecology and GMOs, science proved that together those techniques could provide sustainable agriculture to feed the world population (Ronald). There are multiple possibilities to end this issue, start making this change. World hunger is a flea that should be eradicated. Hunger in the world is not only about having, it is also about food security and balanced meals. No child should go to school hungry or sacrifice their education for food. No one should go through hunger. As a united population of the world we should react to this global issue and start being involved at a local scale in order for his global problem to disappear. We can end world hunger but only by being united and together so do it by being involved or adopting an alternative that would insure the disappearance of this problem and the well-being of the world population. Bello 6 Works Cited Burian, Gabriela. Helping Agriculture and the Food Sector Deliver Sustainable Goals.  Discover Monsanto . N.p., 24 Jan. 2017. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Conteh-Morgan, Earl. International Issues And Actors. 2016.University of South Florida. Dunbar, Brian. July 20, 1969: One Giant Leap For  NASA . NASA, 19 Feb. 2015. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Effects of Hunger on  The Borgen Project . N.p., 16 Feb. 2016. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Hunger  Hunger Statistics World Food Programme United Nations World Food Programme Fighting Hunger Worldwide . N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Hunger Statistics. Digital image. ElaraDisposables. N.p., n.d. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. Mahatma Gandhi  BrainyQuote . Xplore, n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Overberger, Rhonda. Effects of Starvation University of Minnesota Starvation Study, Dr. Ancel Keys,  Rhondahelp . N.p., n.d. Web. 10 Apr. 2017. Ronald, Pamela. Genetics, Sustainable Agriculture and Global Food Ed. J. Rine. Genetics 188.1 (2011): PMC. Web. 29 Jan. 2017 Sustainable Development  United Nations Development Programme . N.p., n.d. Web. 10 Apr. 2017. Unicef USA.  Re: How Malnutrition Happens:  received by Pulcherie Bello, 19 Apr. 2017. are Sofia 40 hours YouTube , uploaded by Worldvision Aus, 15 July 2015,https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dWcmKT73FZM&feature=youtu.be. Bello 7