Gasic Page 1 Jovica Gasic Angelica Aranda ENC 1102 3/1/17 WWF: A World Without a Threat to Diversity In recent years, the world is becoming more open to the idea of global warming and its effect on the planet. Initially, the general populace dismissed it as a problem that will never affect them. Evidence, however, became more apparent that it is affecting people across the planet. Thus, the support for organizations who fight back at corporations who pollute more than their fair share steadily increased. The World Wildlife Fund (WWF) is an influential organization who fights for the reduction of emissions of greenhouse gasses to slow down the rate of which the Earth is warming. They do this with their 5 million members by actively petitioning the government, raising awareness, teaching people about the effect of pollution on human health, and publishing advertisements of the damage that pollution does to the environment. WWF targets a very wide group of people with their advertisements to help bring awareness of the need to protect the environment to as many people as possible. Two of these images speak to people in America through rhetorical appeals, such as Logos, Pathos, Ethos, and Kairos, that show just how dire the effects of global warming. The World Wildlife Fund has had a feud with corporations for over 50 years over the destruction that global warming can cause. They released an advertisement recently about what they believe the future will hold if emission trends continue to be as high. Image one features grey, ominous skies over a flooded Washington D.C. and an entire city destroyed by climate Gasic Page 2 change; a sight that would be depressing for the patriotic American. The Image actively plays off the emotions (pathos) of the viewer while also using Kairos (effect of time on emotions) with the title let this be our In this case, when the audience sees the capital destroyed in the future, it causes the patriotic part of the average American to become either furious or deeply saddened. The destruction of Washington D.C is very dark. The streets are completely flooded and the buildings in the background are smoking from the damage the flood water has caused. It looks like something out of an apocalyptic movie. Unlike a movie, however, WWF claims that this scene in image one is if the warming trend continues. This introduces Americans to some fear due to the scenes portrayed. Nicholas Weiler PhD, a communications and brain and biological scientist from the University of California, wrote an interesting article on the idea of how people react to fear, when the body is threatened, either by some irrational fear or the fear of another tragedy. The brain (specifically the Amygdala) to recognize and respond to frightening then the neurotransmitter dopamine to reinforce actions that lead to positive (Weiler) The advertisement was tailored for that exact response with the coloring and the scene of the capital of the United States being drowned in stories of water. This is done in hopes of the human brain to start producing the dopamine to push people to prevent this disaster. Most Americans, which is the main group targeted by this advertisement, fear the event of an apocalyptic scene so when this image appears frightening so the response would be to pin the blame on someone to make themselves feel better, and this are the corporations and power plants who contribute massively to the emission of Carbon Dioxide. This is also where Ethos comes into play, the organization is one of the more known organizations in the world with over 5 million supporters and scientists in the world and is active in all parts of Gasic Page 3 the world. When this organization stands up and says this may be the future of America, it adds to the urgency of the message, which is to Climate Considering what Weiler mentioned about how the brain reacts to fear, this may be where the reward center of the brain may direct the audience. The WWF had another image that impacted a wide group of people, this one however, does not point out the problem, rather the cause of the problem. The image two shows a gloomy and cloudy day looking up towards the sky capturing some traveling birds and a huge set of smokestacks of an oil refinery or factory. WWF first draws the audience in with the ominous background of the sky as it takes up much of the image. This grey color is dark and depressing due to the lack of life in the color and the way the color reminds the audience of a storm or a rainy day which is a direct appeal to Pathos. However, in the image it is not raining, which is very important as it gives this ominous tone to the picture. It also gives a before the type of feeling to the picture which helps to combine Pathos and Kairos in this case by giving the impression that there is something on the horizon. With the smokestacks on the bottom left corner of the picture, that is the only thing the audience can see, other than the sky, that could insinuate something wrong. This is supposed to allude to the rising Carbon Dioxide levels in the atmosphere. Currently, the Carbon Dioxide levels in the atmosphere are at 405.92 parts per million, which is higher than it has ever historically been (NASA). This becomes a problem when the Carbon Dioxide begins to trap more heat by the greenhouse effect, causing more intense lightning storms and hurricanes which the WWF try to show with the grim coloring of the sky. The most noticeable thing about this photo is the that it is a real photo. The fact that this is a real photo that is minimally altered, gives credibility to the people behind the photo as the Gasic Page 4 audience can truly stand up, go outside, and see this same scene if they waited for the right time. It tells the audience that the WWF is not trying to give false information, rather indications in nature that everyone can see. Knowing this, the audience, which are both corporate owners and the common people in the world, can begin to choose their stance on global Carbon Emissions. Are they going to be against it, or not? Essentially, WWF wants to convince people that the world is fragile with this photo, and that there will be drastic consequences if the warming trend continues. Ultimately, the planet is vulnerable, and the WWF finds itself in a dilemma where they want to stop the rapid change of climate, yet the American public are not entirely aware or convinced of the consequences of global warming. The two images use a variety of appeals to send a message to the common people of America about how limited their time is and how much global warming will impact their futures. WWF were very successful with what emotions they wanted to bring out of people while also passing on the message clearly and efficiently. Gasic Page 5 Works Cited page About  WWF. World Wildlife Fund, n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Carbon dioxide concentration NASA Global Climate  NASA. NASA, 23 Sept. 2016. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Weiler, Nicholas, PhD. Nicholas  Nicholas Weiler, PhD. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Weiler, Nicholas, PhD. Ask a Neuroscientist: Fear, Reward and the Decision Making Tug-  Worldview Stanford. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Gasic Page 6 IMAGES Image 1: Image 2: