Shackleford 1 Schea Shackleford Dr. K. Hanson ENC1102 30 April 2017 Save the Whales Imagine being confined to a small room with limited space to move freely and the only time you are taken out of the room is when you have to provide entertainment for people. This sounds like a cross between a prison and a circus; however, this is exactly how the whales at SeaWorld parks live. Orcas can be classified amongst the most intelligent animals on the planet as they exhibit complex behaviours such as social intelligence; however, this is easily concealed by captivity (Anderson, Waayers and Knight 1). Instead of showing their intelligence capabilities that they possess, the whales at SeaWorld have been displaying aggressive behaviours that are destructive to both themselves and their trainers. Some of these behaviours include gnawing on metal bars to damage their teeth, fighting with incompatible tank mates and death to themselves and trainers. Since SeaWorld is holding the whales in a captive environment, we must join with SeaWorld of Hurt and the People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) and sign a petition regarding the release of the whales to a sea sanctuary. The issue at hand stems from the poor treatment of whales at SeaWorld parks across the United States. One example of poor treatment of the whales is that the whales are known to be kept in small concrete tanks and are either isolated or have tank mates that are highly incompatible resulting in the whales being drugged to avoid aggressive behaviours and depression People often forget that these animals are not meant to be confined to such environments whilst visiting these marine parks. Another example is that, Shackleford 2 these animals that were living freely in the wild were captured and taken from their homes and trained to perform circus tricks for profits. Whistleblowers from the park have said that a common method of training is to withhold food from the animals when they refuse to perform which leads them to gnaw on the metal bars and the concrete in the tank and damage their teeth. Urge Sea This is explaining that the behaviours are only products of their environment where due to being taken from their natural habitat, placed into small cages or tanks and isolated from other animals, they exhibit behaviours that are destructive to themselves and others. This is the only way they know how to cope with their aggression and depression. In truth and in fact, the whales only display such behaviours because of one thing; the lack of being in their natural habitat. Whales in their natural habitats travel in groups called pods which consists of about 5 - 30 whales at a time, working together to hunt and communicate with a unique and complex dialect per pod Facts About At SeaWorld, the orca whales are all separated from each other and are isolated into small tanks. They are fed using a time constraint and by portion control unlike with being in the wild where they can eat whenever and how much they want. The whales are also trained to perform tricks for profit and if they do not cooperate, their food gets withheld from them. These animals have been robbed of the chance to travel in pods, hunt naturally and develop a complex communication dialect. Compare it to being held in a prison, where you are confined to a small jail cell, being told when to eat and being let out when others feel like you need to be let out to stretch your legs. These whales also show signs of low longevity whilst compared to whales found in the wild. For example, the average life span, at birth, of northern and southern killer whales is approximately 29 and 17 years for females and males, respectively. When these whales survive their first six months after Shackleford 3 birth, their average life expectancy is 46 50 and 30 38 years for females and males, respectively & Causes of However, the whales that are under the care of SeaWorld 38 whales have died at the average age of 13 years The People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) have been campaigning long and hard against SeaWorld Entertainment in order to better the lives of the animals in which they represent. There has been a step to sign a petition against the use of marine animals in parks and to move them to sea sanctuaries where they would get to know how the whales in the open ocean live and adapt to that lifestyle Urge The petition should be signed as it will bring forth more strength against the inhumane treatment of whales and help The People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) to speed up the process of saving these animals from the destructive behaviours display to the world and on themselves. Another way to help these animals is to boycott the parks by protesting outside of their gates, peacefully. Lastly, another way is to ultimately stop making these parks continue to take advantage of animals by stop going to the parks. They get their funding from the public who pay to enter and watch the while the animals are treated like circus acts for entertainment. Finally, people do not realize that whales are intellectual animals that do not survive well in confined environments that restrict their natural instincts. They are meant for the wild and not for the entertainment of the public. SeaWorld exploits these animals by representing themselves as a company that is committed to science and paint a about the dolphins that are under their care. When in reality, they use science as a marketing tool (White 119). However, there are a few people who realize this and stand for the ethical treatments for these animals. The best solution for this issue at hand is to join with these people who stand for the rights of animals and sign the petition that they drafted. On the bright side, people who protest against SeaWorld has Shackleford 4 made impacts as SeaWorld has agreed to stop the breeding of the whales in the park for the purposes of entertainment and profits Shackleford 5 Works Cited Anderson, Robert, Robyn Waayers and Andrew Knight. Orca Behaviour and Subsequent Aggression Associated with Oceanarium  Animals 6.8 (2016): 1-21. Web. White, Thomas I. Dolphins, Captivity, and SeaWorld: The Misuse of  Business and Society Review 122.1 (2017):119-136. Web. Campaign Against SeaWorld of Hurt. 16 April 2017. N.d. seaworldofhurt.com/about Facts About Defenders of Wildlife. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. defenders.org/orca/basic-facts Animosity to  Negotiation Briefings, vol. 19, no. 7, July 2016, p. 7. EBSCOhost, Web. & Causes of SeaWorld. 16 April 2017. N.d. seaworld.org/en/animal info/animal-infobooks/killer-whale/longevity-and-causes-of-death Urge SeaWorld to Send Orcas to Sea Sanctuaries and Stop the Use of All SeaWorld of Hurt. 16 April 2017. n.d. secure.peta.org/site/Advocacy?cmd=display&page=UserAction&id=2945