Moran 1 In this essay, I discussed the importance of exercise on the human body. To demonstrate this in the classroom, I took the class down the stairs and then back up the stairs. This small gesture is definitely considered exercise. As talked about in my paper, not everyone enjoys working out in a gym. Taking barely any time out of day, someone can take the stairs instead of the elevator. Small steps will work towards the big goal, which is making sure everyone is working out or exercising for at least thirty minutes a day. There are a myriad number of benefits that will come from this regulation. Moran 2 Michaela Moran TJ Murray ENC1102 30 April 2017 The Benefits of Exercising It has been a long day filled with stress in the office or in school. The last thing someone wants to do is go home, get ready, and head to the gym. For not going to the gym, there is always an excuse. Tired, lazy, homework, prior commitments. Yet, there are twenty-four hours in everyday. Although idea of exercise may vary due to physical condition, age, or health related issues, working out for thirty minutes a day should not be an issue. It should be an easy activity that becomes a part of daily routine. It should become as routine as brushing teeth and getting ready in the morning. The American Public Heath Association should create a law that requires all Americans to work out for the minimum of thirty minutes each day. To begin, an obvious reason people exercise is to look good and maintain a healthy weight. They hit the treadmill, elliptical, bike, weights, etc. to make themselves look better. Working out helps people maintain a healthy weight. According to the Center for Disease Control and Prevention, gain weight when the calories you burn, including those burned during physical activity, are less than the calories you eat or (1). The amount of time and effort that is needed to burn calories varies from person to person. However, exercising for a minimum of thirty minutes each day is definitely a great start and more than most people do Moran 3 right now in society. The calories will be burned and the ability to maintain weight, loss weight, or even gain weight will become much easier. fitness journey must start somewhere, so thirty minutes a day of even light exercise could be the start to a major change in life. Furthermore, on a more serious note, exercise can reduce the risk and occurrence of certain diseases. A healthy body is able to fight these diseases off in the best possible way. When someone is overweight, when they contract a disease their weight also influences the severity of the condition. In an article in Current Sports Medicine Reports, of mixed effectiveness of medications, exercise has been considered as a treatment for pre-clinical AD, late stage AD, and as a prevention strategy. Exercise appears to improve brain blood flow, increase hippocampal volume, and improve (Case 1). With this information alone, it is shown that exercise can be used to help the process of disease and even prevent it all together. If people knew the power of exercise, more people would make time and be persistent in working out for at least thirty minutes a day. Exercise also helps with diseases such as obesity, heart disease, diabetes, depression and many more. The possibilities that exercise enables are endless. To continue, while most people believe that benefits are only physical, they are wrong. Exercise is also very mental. Exercise can help to improve mood. So whether someone is having a bad day, they are sad or angry, a good workout could change their outlook and mood for the better. In a recent study done by Medicine & Science in Sports & Exercise, and NEA differed Moran 4 regarding their within-subject effects on mood, whereas exercise increased valence and calmness, NEA increased energetic arousal and decreased (Reichert et al, 1). In this study, exercise means going to gym and playing sports, while NEA is more like activities such as climbing the stairs. Both exercise and NEA are forms of exercise and help the mental processes of humans. In order to make the change, Americans need to be educated on the benefits of exercise. If Americans knew that exercise could not only make someone physically look better, but also decrease risk of diseases and increase mood, more people would take part in the movement. The American Public Heath Association should set guidelines and rules to force all Americans to take part in exercise. These rules could include making people who are physically able take the stairs instead of elevators. Another way to make the change is through the power of the people. If people in communities come together in places like public parks to work out together, this could motivate the community positively. With motivation, education, and regulations, Americans can improve their lifestyles for the better. All in all, exercise can be a cure to many of the problems Americans face each and every day. Once Americans realize this information and get into the routine of working out, it will definitely not be something they regret. Therefore, it is time to make a change and exercise is definitely the answer to all Americans issues they endure. Moran 5 Works Cited Cass, Shane P. Disease and Exercise: A Literature  Current Sports Medicine Reports (Lippincott Williams & Wilkins), vol. 16, no. 1, Jan/Feb2017, pp. 19-22. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct =true&db=sph&AN=120780938&site=eds-live. Physical Activity and  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 04 June 2015. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. REICHERT, MARKUS, et al. Exercise Versus Nonexercise Activity: E-Diaries Unravel Distinct Effects on  Medicine & Science in Sports & Exercise, vol. 49, no. 4, Apr. 2017, pp. 763-773. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1249/MSS.0000000000001149.