Hendel 1 Rachel Hendel ENC 1102 Kristen Rouisse April 2017 Importance of Legalizing Euthanasia Over many centuries, medicine has advanced greatly. From the birth of Hippocrates in 460 BCE, who is considered to be the father of medicine, to the present year of 2017, there have been innumerable amounts of medical advances that no one knew could be possible. From the invention of basic instruments such as the microscope and the stethoscope, to vaccinations, to organ transplants, the medical world is not even close to what it used to be (Sandbox Networks). With that being said, euthanasia, more commonly referred to as physician-assisted suicide has also been one of these medical advancements. With healthcare being a controversial matter in America, the legalization of euthanasia is a sensitive topic. Many people consider it to be suicide, hence the alternative title physician-assisted suicide. Despite the negative connotation the alternative title may carry, euthanasia should be legalized in every state in America. Every individual should have the right to choose how they spend their lives, especially when they are on their death bed. If an individual is allowed to choose what types of procedures and treatments they go through, then euthanasia should be considered as an eligible treatment, for those who qualify. Based on the law the Dignity in Dying Organization is attempting to pass, one must have six months or less to live in order to qualify for euthanasia as a treatment (Dignity in Dying). This allows for the prevention of people attempting to use euthanasia as an act of suicide when they are not fatally ill. With euthanasia being illegal, it is giving those who are not in a position to utilize it the right to choose what the patients do with their lives. Not only is this illogical, but it is completely unfair. That may sound Hendel 2 childish and like a personal problem to those who have to actually go through this situation. Although, the people of America are always attempting to fight for what is right and what is just. Therefore, this situation of fighting for the legalization of allowing people to choose their own treatment, given that they meet the qualifications, should not be any different from fighting for any other right. Thus, because of people suffering through fatal illnesses, people who may potentially utilize physician-assisted suicide should protest in order to allow for people to die when they please. Some people may argue that with the legalization of physician-assisted suicide, more people will die because of it. While some people may believe this to be true, the Dignity in Dying Organization fights against it by arguing that more people will die, but fewer will (Dignity in Dying). As previously stated, one must have six months or less to live in order to qualify for physician-assisted suicide, according to the law that Dignity in Dying and most organizations pertaining to this topic are fighting to pass. Considering that all of those who are eligible are already going to die, it should not make any difference in the number of actual deaths because they are going to pass within the next six months anyways. The only major difference regarding these deaths is that the patients will be removed of their suffering at a time they see fit, rather than continuing to suffer until they naturally pass. Other countries around the world are already utilizing euthanasia; as of the year 2016, The Liverpool Care Pathway for the Dying Patient euthanizes 130,000 people a year (Statistic Brain). This number may seem like a lot when it comes to number of deaths, but one should not think of it that way. One should think of it as 130,000 people a year in Liverpool being relieved from their misery and getting to die on their own terms. Hendel 3 It is well known that health care coverage is unquestionably expensive in America. End of life care is even more expensive because it takes a lot of medications and equipment to sustain a human life. With that being said, imagine how much money families of those who are fatally ill are being required to pay to sustain the life of someone who is in misery. According to CNN, in every four Medicare dollars spent goes to the five percent of beneficiaries in the last year of their life. The care of a single individual at the end of their life costs an estimated $39,000. For 40 percent of households, the bill exceeds their financial (List Verse). It is understandable that people may keep the mindset that they are willing to pay any amount of money to keep someone they love alive. Although the reality of the matter is that their life is not necessarily being saved, just simply sustained for a few more months. While people may want to spend as much time as they can with their ill loved ones, it may be better to allow the patient to end their suffering if they choose to do so. By legalizing euthanasia, it will aid the families of those who are in this position to leave themselves in a better economic stance. With the hardship of losing a family member, one of the last things the family should encounter is financial troubles. For those the legalization of euthanasia does not directly effect at this time, it may end up impacting their lives. These people, or someone they are close to, may end up with a fatal illness and may want to have the option of utilizing physician-assisted suicide. Therefore, these people should aid in getting euthanasia legalized in every state of America. This can be achieved by going out and informing the public of the need for legalization of euthanasia using flyers, posters, and their own voices. Perhaps with more people being aware of it, a petition could be started and lead to it becoming legalized. While there are no current petitions, one can easily be created at websites such as change.org or gopetition.com. Not only that, but these people could also donate money towards being able to hire a lobbyist. Hiring a lobbyist would benefit the Hendel 4 process of legalizing euthanasia in that the would enable organizations to draft legislation, develop strategies for new regulations, take messages to congress and government officials and reach out to elected officials prior to new policies being (Cansler Consulting). If one is not able to hire a lobbyist then letters can be written to local lawmakers or congressmen. If all of these things are accomplished by such individuals, the awareness of euthanasia will drastically increase and perhaps get it legalized in all fifty states. This will allow for those who are fatally ill to choose their own treatment and the state in which they pass, which is a right that every human should have. The need government officials and the public has for control over other lives has become a serious problem. Rather than allowing other people to control what options patients have as a treatment, the act of euthanasia should be legalized in all states of America. This can be done by having those who are not affected by euthanasia at this time inform people of how serious of an issue it really is. They can also donate money to allow for a lobbyist to come into play or write letters to local lawmakers, increasing the chances of euthanasia being legalized. The legalization of euthanasia will make the world a better place in that it will allow for those who are suffering from a fatal disease to be put out of their misery; it will give patients control of their own life, it will not affect the amount of deaths in the world, and it will leave the families of such patients in a better economic stance. Word Count: 1294 Hendel 5 Works Cited Benefits to Using a  Benefits to Using a Lobbyist N.p., n.d. Web. 8 Apr. 2017. Join the  Dignity in Dying. N.p., n.d. Web. 10 Apr. 2017. Medical Advances  Infoplease. Infoplease, n.d. Web. 9 Apr. 2017. Seth. Euthanasia  Statistic Brain. Statistic Brain, 07 Nov. 2016. Web. 11 Apr. 2017. 10 Arguments For Legalizing  Listverse. N.p., 21 June 2014. Web. 10 Apr. 2017.