Nock 1 Maurice Nock ENC 1102 TJ Murray 17 April 2017 Sasquatch: Fact or Fiction? Through several generations there has been avid debate as to whether or not Sasquatch, known otherwise as Bigfoot is a real creature. This debate carries on into modern society. The legend of Bigfoot, a giant mysterious being, has appeared on various fictional movies and tv shows and has also made way to a few news headlines. Many people, including a group of researchers, named the Genome have dedicated big portions of their lives to proving to the world the legitimacy of Bigfoot. According to a video posted on Action these researchers have spent five years and over $5,000 following leads and collecting video evidence as well as DNA samples on the Sasquatch. In the video, clips of a large hairy creature sleeping in the grass during the middle of the day can be seen, along with shots of what appears to be the same creature moving through the woods in the middle of the night. The researchers highlighted in the news clip are not the only Bigfoot believers who venture out into the wilderness in order to collect evidence to bring back to the world. Animal Planet has developed a reality show titled that has peaked the Nock 2 interest of people all across the country on the sneaky, ever-evading Sasquatch. Is he real or a figment of the imaginations? Is he a single being or are there a whole group of Bigfoots? Is the Sasquatch nothing more than a publicity stunt for so-called researchers to have their 15 minutes of fame? Although there have been many reported sightings and interactions with the Bigfoot character for centuries, there is still a great deal of speculation when it comes to the validity of these recounts. As mentioned before, there have been pictures, videos and even recordings to show that Bigfoot does in fact exist. Though it may sometimes be hard for some to grasp the concept of Bigfoot, due to the fact that the majority of the world has never laid eyes on him, there is no doubt in my mind that he is real! As stated in an article on are, in fact, way too many eye witnesses for this phenom to be purely showing that there are many credible eye witnesses to this creature of sorts. There is also a great deal of history on the creature that can contribute to the legitimacy of its existence. By taking an Anthropology course here at USF, I have been able to pick up some information on origins. legendary Sasquatch is actually an entire genome that exists in North America and is a human relative that arose approximately 13,000 years ago.This means that there is technically not just one Bigfoot, but a whole family race of them sprinkled about the continent. The creatures are believed to be a human-hybrid, meaning they have genetic traits of both man and beast. All Nock 3 DNA evidence collected by researchers supports this Investigators received DNA from the from different cities around the world, many of the samples, the investigators found, came from animals as diverse as bears, wolves, raccoons, porcupine, deer, sheep, at least one human, and a cow. Again, a The diversity of the DNA makeup is a contributing factor as to why it is so hard to get a concrete image of what we believe it should look like. Although these samples that were tested may have been other animals, there are samples that have been tested by a highly funded research group that shows different strands of Bigfoot DNA are a hybrid of man and animal. Though there is much speculation about the validity of the Sasquatch theory, there is insurmountable evidence that shows the existence of a Sasquatch/Bigfoot character that roams our woods today. There is an entire group of dedicated individuals that spend hundreds of thousands of dollars running tests, take years scavenging the woods, and endlessly search for evidence to prove Bigfoot is real. Over hundreds years, there has been an excessive amount of publicity brought on by the Bigfoot hunt; bringing about television shows, print publications, podcasts, etc.. There comes a time in which society chooses whether or not the Sasquatch is real. Is Bigfoot fact or fiction? Nock 4 Works Cited The Evidence For  N.p., 15 Dec. 2014. Web. 26 Apr. 2017. Dolak, Kevin. New Bigfoot Evidence Screened as Experts Claim Proof of  ABC ABC News Network, 02 Oct. 2013. Web. 26 Apr. 2017. Bigfoot: DNA Proves Not  Time, n.d. Web. 26 Apr. 2017.