Di !1 Student Jenifer Paquette ENC 1101 2017.4.30 How can people solve the problem of climate change more effectively Nowadays, climate change causes a lot of problems such as sea level rising, animal extinction, and global warming. These problems affect lives seriously, and they are also destroying the earth. After knowing the problems of climate change, most of the people want to find some methods to solve these problems. Because of the environment and the resources, most of the methods are saving energy to solve the problems of climate change. Also, most of people still thinking save energy is the best way to solve climate change. Although people already thought some methods to solve the problems of climate change, solving climate change still has many troubles in solving these problems, and the environment is still getting worse. Therefore, people need to consider if saving energy is the most effective way to solve climate change. Some people and researchers think that save energy is the best way to solve the problems of the climate change, and most of them are going to use their abilities to solve these problems. According to the article Investigating willingness to save energy and communication about energy use in the American workplace with the attitude-behavior-context the authors Xu, Maki, Chen, Dong, and Day show that energy use is very normal in this society. However, some workers said there were a lot of costs in their workplace, and they thought it might waste a lot of energy such as the electricity and lead the global warming. So most of the employees all think that it is great to use save energy to solve the problem of the climate change. (2) Moreover, Di !2 some people think that save energy can solve the problems of climate change directly and effective. Also, most of the people think that saving energy is the best way to solve the problems of the climate change now. According to the article Children, parents and home energy use: Exploring motivations and limits to energy demand the author Fell, and Chiu show that parents press their children to save energy at home, and most of the parents hope their children can save energy with them together to save the energy(354). Most of the parents can know the damage about the climate change so that they can save energy with their children to protect the environment together so that people can solve the problems of climate change. Knowing the problem of the climate change, some researcher finds that save energy is one of the best methods to solve these problems. According to the article Use of Stabilised Earth in the Construction of Low Cost Sustainable Housing in Africa An Energy Solution in the Era of Climate the author Zami show that using stabilized material to build the house can save enough energy so that it can solve the problem of the climate change (62). According to the article Nickel: Important Part of Climate change the author Wong, and Coates show that using special material which can relate with the engineer the is a great method to solve the climate change. For instance, using concentrate solar power, and ethanol production(97). So people think to save energy is the best way to solve the climate change now. Although save energy is a great method to solve the problems of climate change, some people still think there are the others methods are better than save energy. According to the article Reduction as a Solution to Climate change: Five Scenarios Compared for the the author Lewis, Jeroen show that in a low work time, low economic, and low produce Di !3 country may have low greenhouse gasses (252). Moreover, some people think that the human beings are the main problem for the climate change, and activities cause most of the problems of climate change such as greenhouse gasses, the animal extinction. So the best method for people to solve the problems of the climate change is to change themselves to control the terrible environment. Some people think to change themselves is the better method than saving energy, it can change the climate change. Also, some of the people think that it is important to change theirselves such as change their mind or knowledge about the climate change to solve these problems. According to the article solutions to climate change mitigation and adaptation in urban areas: perspectives on indicators, knowledge gaps, barriers, and opportunities for the authors Nadja, Niki, and Stephan show that gaps remain with regard to a number of issues surrounding the effectiveness of NbS for climate change adaptation and mitigation and their impacts on the natural and social (637) People need to know the knowledge about the climate change, not only for the researchers, but also for the citizens. If human beings can use their own abilities to change the situation, they can study more knowledge and find more methods to solve the climate change. So some people think change themselves is better than just using save energy. Above all, using save energy to solve the climate change is a great way, and this method does great work on protecting the environment. However, it still exists some problems and the environment still getting worse, so people need to find the other methods which are better than save energy to solve the problems of climate change. Di !4 Work cited: Xu, Xiaojing, et al. Original Research Article: Investigating Willingness to Save Energy and Communication about Energy Use in the American Workplace with the Attitude- Behavior-Condition  Energy Research & Social Science, 22 Feb. 2017. Fell, Michael J. and Lai Fong Chiu. Children, Parents and Home Energy Use: Exploring Motivations and Limits to Energy Demand  Energy Policy, vol. 65, 01 Feb. 2014, pp. 351-358. Zami, Mohammad Sharif, and Angela Lee. Use of Stabilised Earth in the Construction of Low Cost Sustainable Housing in Africa An Energy Solution in the Era of Climate Archnet-IJAR 3.2 (2009) : 51-65. Art & Architecture Source. Wong, S. and G. Coates. Nickel: Important Part of Climate Change Corrosion Engineering, Science &Technology 45.1 (2010): 97- 100. Academic Search Premier. Kabisch, Nadja, et al. Nature-Based Solutions to Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation in Urban Areas: Perspectives on Indicators, Knowledge Gaps, Barriers, and Opportunities for  Ecology & Society, vol. 21, no. 2, June 2016, pp. 634-648. King, Lewis C. , Van den Bergh, Jeroen C.J.M. Worktime Reduction as a Solution to Climate Change: Five Scenarios Compared for the n.d. Di !5