Almeida 1 Felipe Ganem Cadar de Almeida Ins. Ashely Tisdale ENC 1101 1 March 2017 Playing with the future Technology nowadays has come to a potential of evolution incalculable. The more the technology evolves itself, the world of gaming also does, and so more people are able to have access to all of that, and sooner children start to emerge in this virtual reality world. 2008 it was reported that 97% of youth ages 12 to 17 played some type of videogame, and that two-thirds of them played action and adventure games that tend to contain violent (Miller). Today, we are in 2017 and the numbers of gamers in youth and younger ages stop increasing, as each day the gaming companies produce many different options and genres of games, interacting ways to play to make the gamer more entertained in the game, and also games that seem really close to real life. Everybody love playing videogames and that could be fun to interact with friends, family, meet new people, but, what if it is not as good as it seems to be? Even with the industry of games growing and more options appearing in the market, the most sold and played type of games in 2017 was violent content. It has been proven that playing violent videogames can lead children to violent behavior, so the media should have more control on who to sell those games to, and also the parents should be more conscientious on what they are letting their children play and the harm which that could cause on their brain health. Although children love playing videogames and even some parents like to play with them, so they can spend some time with their sons and have some fun doing something that entertains all ages, the world has got to be careful when it comes to playing violent games. Almeida 2 When a child is playing this kind of game, the main problem is the environment of the game, that leads children to aggressive thoughts so they can really be into the game. Another important risk factor to put on the table is that in most of the games today, the gamer takes the decisions of the actions the character makes, and so how the game will go on. we practice repeatedly affects the brain. If we practice aggressive ways of thinking, feeling and reacting, then we will get better at (Toppo). For example, playing Grand Theft Auto, a very famous videogame, and even considered one of the best sellers of all times, the gamer has to control the character in a third person vision, and the gamer lives a crime life having the opportunity to do whatever he wants against the law, that they cannot do in the real life such as stealing cars, shooting people, dealing with drug traffic, knocking cops down and many actions that could lead a child to have bad impressions of what real life is. was an interview made with 200 children in a school, and 1 in 10 played videogames for more than three hours a day. Those students, were less academically engaged and displayed higher level of (Bingham). According to new research and statistics, 91% of U.S. children aged 2 to 17, play video games, and that is equivalent to 64 million children and teenagers. Studies have proven that people in all ages, everyday are being influenced by a lot of information provided by the media. Children between 2 and 17 years old are really young to follow their path and build concepts of life on their own, so they will trust and learn from what their parents teach them, and from what their parents let them do and distinguishing what is right and wrong. If parents allow children to play violent games, what they are doing is they are telling their sons that playing those is right and acceptable, and that could lead brain, that are still working on what is right or wrong, make up messes with distinguishing those two groups, and so children can grow up with wrong ethical values, leading them to an aggressive behavior. Almeida 3 meta-analyses of the literature reviewing psychological research studies and large observational studies have found an association between violent video games and increased aggressive thinking and behavior in youths. And some casual observers go further, assuming that tragic school shootings prove a link between such games and real- world (Miller). What if that is really true, and children are being manipulated by violent games and their violent actions in it, growing up with the idea that what they can do while playing, is the same that they can do in real life? research was made with 207 children, and what researchers found out, is that videogames if played in small doses, can be good for behavior. Kids who played for less than one hour a day, were less likely to have a violent behavior such as bullying, than people who did not play (Dotinga). Research proved that children who play less than one hour a day were less likely than people who play, or play more time, to fight with or bully peers and were rated as better behaved by their teachers. But one hour for children is just a little when you get into the game and lose track of the real time. Also, the majority of parents let their children play for much more than one hour, so we can conclude that in mostly all the cases, it is more harmful than better for children to play videogames. these standards, there are currently over 34 million core gamers (play more than 5 hours a day) in the United States, and they are playing video games for an average of 22 hours every (para 1). Playing videogames could be something fun to do with people we like, but it turns out that the gaming market is not being well restricted to the right ages. People between 2 and 17 years old, are more likely to be manipulated and to learn wrong ethical values playing violent games if compared to someone 20+ years old, who has more concepts of life, and has lived more to know how to differentiate real life to virtual life. It really is not recommended Almeida 4 violent gaming for people under 17 years old as doing that could mess up their minds and lead them not only to aggressive behavior, but also getting a decreased prosocial behavior and empathy. But education starts at home, so parents are the most responsible for their health. They should warn their sons and set limits to what and for how long they could play, as even nonviolent games played for more than an hour a day could be harmful for vision, causing headache, making them too excited to sleep, losing track of time so they leave it to do other activities such as sports that are much healthier for them, and also there is always the risk of addiction. Parents should not buy videogames for their sons if it match with their ages, because they might not see the danger as parents have a lot of experience in life and they know a videogame could not harm their minds. But they are forgetting about their sons, who are just starting life, have any lived experiences, and are starting to build and learn concepts such as what is right or wrong, legal or illegal. And the problem with the violent games is that they give so much freedom to the player to take bad actions, that the children who is just learning about life, can think that he can be the same person in real life as he is inside the game. This is alarming and parents need to be stricter with their sons, but also with the help of the gaming market controlling better to whom they are selling those violent games. Almeida 5 Works Cited: Miller, Michael Craig, MD. Violent Videogames and Young  Violent video games and young people. Harvard Medical School, 1 Oct. 2010. Web. 6 Feb. 2016. Toppo, Greg. Do Video Games Inspire Violent  Scientific American. N.p., 29 May 2015. Web. 05 Feb. 2016. Bingham, John. Study finds no evidence violent video games make children  The Telegraph. Telegraph Media Group, 12 Mar. 2016. Web. 20 Feb. 2017. Dotinga, Randy. Violent Video Games Influence Behavior:  Consumer HealthDay. N.p., 03 Apr. 2015. Web. 13 Feb. 2017.