1 Name: Ghofran Khoj Instructor: John Williams Cures: ENC 1102 Date: April 16,2017 Why should we help to stop homelessness? Have you ever felt that you do not have a home to sleep and feel safe in? if you do not, this is the feeling that homeless people feel. People can become homeless very easily. Some of them just do not have a good chance to find a good job because of the unemployed, drugs, loans, mentally ill and too many causes (Mohan & Shields, 2014). Many people do not know what is the effects of homelessness. They just think that it is not their problem and they are not even interesting to know the effects. Homelessness affects the children, social issue (women abuse) and environmental. To solve this issue, it is important to educate people and makes them a part in helping stop homelessness. Many programs and organizations have been existing to help stop homelessness like Covenant House company and Downtown project in University of south Florida. They both are trying to help homeless and stop homelessness by their own ways. According to Fantuzzo and Perlman, the homeless children also evidenced significantly higher levels of behavior problems and school suspensions than children with no out-of-home placement history (Fantuzzo, 2007). There are many homeless families. They do not have a home or any good lifestyle. So, children are more likely to adapt a higher level of bad behavior. They live in the street or shelters and the parent cannot educate their children in these bad conditions. It is happening for all homeless children and they move a lot from shelter to other 2 shelters. Also, they cannot go to the school. According to Mohan and Shields, too few researchers have attempted to understand the lived experience of poverty and its impact on educational experiences through the eyes of children and youth (Mohan & Shields, 2014). They do not have enough money to go to the school. They do not have money to buy the school supplies or even food to give them to the children to take with them to the school. They will see the different between them and the other children who have money and home. In addition to this, they move a lot so they cannot move from school to another school. being educated is so helpful for them but they need help to achieve it. it is not fair because all children have youth and power and they must release this power by playing, learn and meet other children. This is not only in US it is all around the world. The children issue is not the only issue that affected by homelessness, the social issue is also playing very big role in life. According to Clark and Angela, Culture Care theory guided an exploration of the social supports of one such group of mothers transitioning from a homeless shelter (Clark, 2013). Many women become homeless because of the abuse that they faced from their husbands. And some of them become homeless after age 50. Although income inequality between men and women working in full-time paid employment is decreasing, a substantial proportion of woman has low income (Drolet, 2011). Because the women cannot find jobs they can be homeless easily. The companies want to employ just the young age women because they can be a burden. So, women between 45 to 50 cannot find a job. Homeless Women are more likely to victims of physical and sexual assaults. Los Angeles, Wenzel, and colleagues (2004) found that violence was a persistent aspect of homeless lives, and significantly affected their physical and mental health (McLeo, 3 2014). They do not have men in their life to make them feel safe and stand by their side and there are many men look at them as a sexual object. Homelessness also can be affected by the environment. Homeless people are more likely to get sick because of the unhealthy or dirty food that they find and eat. In addition, some of the homelessness are using drugs to give them relief from the pain and overthinking. So, because of the drugs, the HIV will increase. The HIV can be transferred by blood only. They use a needle that other people used so there is high chance to have HIV. Women who do sex with too many men to get money. Also, have high chance to get HIV. Many another disease like the Raoult, Didie mentioned, Skin problems are the main reason the homeless seek medical attention, and these commonly include scabies, pediculosis, tinea infections, and impetigo (Raoult, 2001). These problems have affected the environment and transfer the disease to innocent people and children. Covenant House company and Downtown project in University of South Florida is doing programs that help homeless people and the children. The Covenant House is a company that helps homeless and poor people to stand on their foot and provide shelter, food, immediate crisis care, and services to homeless people and runaway youth. The runaway youth is for kids 14 to 20 ages. Downtown project in University of South Florida is a program that makes people go to the shelters in the Downtown and help homeless people by talking to them, donate and give the supplies like food, cloth, blanket and anything that help them. People should help to stop homelessness. The number of homelessness is increasing every year. It affects the children, social issue (women abuse) and environment, that why people should act and help them as soon as possible. Every person and organization that tried 4 to help homeless make a different. People should stand with each other and should stop selfishness. 1.6 million children in the United States experience the homelessness life and research shows that their living conditions generally place these children at risk for educational under performance and failure at school (Mohan & Shields, 2014). We should stop this number from increasing. Many programs should exist to help stop homelessness like Covenant House company and Downtown project in University of south Florida. People have the power to stop homelessness and they have the power to act. 5 Works Cited Clark, A. L. (2013). Transitioning through family homelessness and the effect of substance abuse on social support systems. SAGE. Fantuzzo, J. (2007). The unique impact of out-of-home placement and the mediating effects of child maltreatment and homelessness on early school success. Mohan, E., & Shields, C. M. (2014). The Voices behind the Numbers: Understanding the Experiences of Homeless Students. ERIC. Raoult, D. a. (2001). Infections in the homeless. the lancet . Drolet, M. 2011. Why has the gender wage gap narrowed? Ottawa: Statistics Canada. McLeod, H., & Walsh, C. A. (2014). Shelter Design and Service Delivery for Women Who Become Homeless after Age 50. Canadian Journal of Urban Research, 23(1), 23-38.