Castro 1 Caleb Castro Janie Gill ENC 1102 04/16/2017 Solar Energy Solar energy is the future energy source that is rapidly expanding in the United States of America. According to Fotune.com, solar energy has twice as many workers as coal miners, and in 2014 created 1.3% of new jobs in the United States of America (fortune.com). Solar energy is collected by solar panels, which convert rays from the sun into useable electricity. Solar energy is clean energy, because there are no harmful chemicals or carbon dioxide released as result of the production of the energy. The carbon dioxide that is released by coal and petroleum are causing global warming. Global warming is the slow rising of temperature around the world which causes the ice bergs to melt. Global warming also changes climate which kills animals and plants that can only live in a certain climate like polar bears. There are a lot of people out there that do not know that solar energy is now a viable option to produce energy in the United States. As a result, solar energy is not being used as much as it could be and keeps power sources like coal still in use. To create a future that can run on clean energy like Solar energy, we USF Bulls should join campus clubs like the Sierra Club and International Solar Energy Society to help spread awareness of solar energy. Solar energy is energy collected from the sun, but how is it done? Solar energy is collected from solar panels. Solar panels are made of smaller units that together convert sunlight into electricity. The layout is in a formation with the smaller unit being sandwiched with materials such as silicon which are semi-conducting (livescience.com). The way that solar panels Castro 2 work is that photons from the sun knock off electrons from atoms creating a steady flow of electricity (livescience.com). The solar panel creates an electric field that then creates a steady flow of electricity (livescience.com). That is how the solar panels create electricity from the sun. There are also different types of solar panels that vary in cost and efficiency. The top two solar panels used today are Monocrystalline and polycrystalline. Monocrystalline solar panels have the highest efficiency rates and are usually 15-20% efficient (energyinformative.org). The Monocrystalline solar panels also have the longest life expectancy, with most manufacturers putting a twenty-five year warranty on them (energyinformative.org). Some cons about the Monocrystalline solar panel is that it is the most expensive, are more efficient in warm weather, and can break down if covered in shade, dirt or snow (energyinformative.org). What this means is that colder climates will have a lower efficient rate compared to warmer climates. The last con can be changed with micro-inverters so that only one panel is affected. The Polycrystalline solar panels were first introduced to the market in 1981 (energyinformative.org). They cost less and are simpler than the monocrystalline solar panels. The cons of polycrystalline solar panels are that they are bigger than the monocrystalline solar panels, and have an efficiency of 13-16% (energyinformative.org). The efficient rates of solar panels mean the percentage of sunlight that hits the solar panels that is converted into usable energy (solarreviews.com). The most efficient being from X model that has an efficiency rate of 21.5% and the world record is at 25% (theecoexperts.com). You usually pick the solar panel that you want to use by which one is in your budget. There are other types of solar panels in the making such as solar paneled glass that can be used in buildings. Tesla is also creating solar paneled roof tiles that one day can be used on households around the world. These are a few advances in the solar energy field that will shortly become a reality all throughout the United States. There is a need for solar energy now Castro 3 more than ever because of global warming. The rising temperature is destroying climates like in the artic where the polar bears are running out of ice to live on. Some of these polar bears have been stranded on small ice islands and have to swim to find a new home. The polar bears use the ice to hunt and to travel between areas to find a mate (cnn.com). The chief scientist for Polar Bears international, Steven Amstrup, has been studying polar bear for thirty years. Amstrup says goal is to save polar bears, but do that without saving sea ice habitat. inextricably (spokesman.com). It is predicted that one third of the polar bear population by will be gone by 2020, with the main reason being from habitat loss. Polar bears are just one of the reasons why we need to switch to green energy like solar. Solar energy is one of the most viable energy sources that can help revert the melting of the icebergs. Solar energy is the energy we need to convert to a sustainable and clean energy, which solar energy can provide. Clean energy is important, because energy like coal and petroleum is polluting the air with excess carbon dioxide causing global warming. Global warming is caused by greenhouse gases like carbon dioxide that trap heat within the earth. Solar energy is just one of the ways that we can change the damage that we have caused to our planet. According to Sarah Pizzo, an attorney working for a wildlife center energy is considered one of the primary solutions to the climate change crisis because it has the potential to produce electricity with no direct air She goes on to talk about using federal lands such as wildlife centers to use solar energy instead of relying on fossil fuels, which is damaging our environment. Fossil fuels like coal, natural gas, and petroleum are bad for the environment. Digging for coal destroys ecosystems and can pollute the ground water of the area. Petroleum causes damage when being collected, especially through fracking. Fracking is pumping water and chemicals into the ground to release oil. This causes dangerous and cancerous chemicals to leak into the ground Castro 4 water. The now polluted ground water is used by locals who then can get cancer and other illnesses that are caused from the water. The good thing about solar energy is that there is no risk of this. The only damage there could be is with solar farms that can by cutting down forests to make the solar farms (pizzo). The creations of these solar farms have the potential to destroy a habitat if not constructed carefully. Most of the places that are ideal for a solar farm are in the desert or in the plains away from forests. Solar energy is needed to help solve the issue of climate change. Even though there are some damages to the environment when creating the solar farms, they are drastically better than oil fields or coal mines. To help promote solar energy and prevent climate change is why we should switch to solar energy. To help promote solar energy you could join the International Solar Energy Society. The International Solar Energy Society has done product research that has helped the renewable energy industry and is the largest international solar organization. The International Solar Energy goal is to one day be 100% renewable energy (ises.org). The USF branch of the International Solar Energy Society has this goal as well. The USF International Solar Energy Society runs the Solar fair each year at USF and does several projects each year that are related to solar energy. Currently the USF branch of International Solar Energy Society is working on a desalinization chamber that we will be turned into a solar powered desalinization chamber. The USF branch of International Solar Energy Society is the first student chapter in the world. They were also the winner of the outstanding student organization award (bullsync.com). We are also going to start working on a solar powered drone next semester. We are always looking for new members to help work with projects and help advocate our message. You can join the local USF student branch at bullsync.com and searching International Solar Energy Society: People Organizing World Energy Reforms. There are also other things you can Castro 5 do to help solar energy and prevent climate change. Another great way to help reduce pollution is to recycle. By reducing, reusing, and recycling, you can reduce the waste that you create. Another big way to help stop climate change is to stop eating meat. Ranching produces more pollution than all of the energy production methods. You should also never waste food that you buy and buy locally grown vegetables because it takes less gas to transport. Another great way to help prevent climate change and to promote solar energy is to call our Florida representatives. By calling our senators we can voice our concerns so that they know what the residents of Florida want, when it comes to bills passing. The International Solar Energy Society is helping bring awareness to solar energy. The local branch of International Solar Energy goal is to spread awareness. By joining the International Solar Energy Society you can help shape the future of energy production. Solar energy can help save the earth from global warming. Now is the time to act and one way you can is by joining International Solar Energy Society and making a change. Castro 6 Works cited Breaking News, Latest News and  CNN. Cable News Network, 19 Feb. 2014. Web. 02 May 2017. Dhar, Michael. How Do Solar Panels  LiveScience. Purch, 16 Dec. 2013. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Dhar, Michael. How Do Solar Panels  LiveScience. Purch, 16 Dec. 2013. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Equinoxe. ISES Home ISES. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Five Reasons Solar Will Power the  Next City. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Hois, Emily.  Solar Reviews Consumer Reviews of Solar Companies, Solar Panels, Landers, Rich. Polar Bear Expert Warns of Climate  Spokesman.com. The Spokesman- Review, 20 Jan. 2017. Web. 02 May 2017. Solar Installers and Solar Contractors. N.p., 30 Sept. 2013. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Pizzo, Sarah. When Saving the Environment Hurts the Environment: Balancing Solar Energy Development with Land and Wildlife Conservation in a Warming  Colorado Journal of International Environmental Law & Policy, vol. 22, no. 1, Winter2011, pp. 123-157. Power  Do Solar Panels Wear Out? N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.  What Are Solar Panels? N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Says, Samuel Boateng. Which Solar Panel Type Is Best? Mono-, Polycrystalline or Thin  Energy Informative. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Solar Panel Efficiency and Electricity  Solar Panel Efficiency - 5 Tips To Improve Their Efficiency. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Solar Power  Fortune.com. N.p., n.d. Web. Castro 7