Perez 1 Naheed Perez English Comp 2 Professor Aranda March 5, 2017 Greenpeace vs Nuclear Energy Nuclear energy is one of the cleanest energy sources used on Earth. It does not create carbon emissions and does not advance the rate of global warming. Companies from around the world use this energy to power houses of many communities and use as defense weapons. However, there are many negatives that make companies such as Greenpeace International protest them. Waste from nuclear energy is stored into the Earth which pollutes the resources located around them and the amount of radiation affects the people that live near the dump sites. Greenpeace is a non-profit international organization that goes around the world to fight for the safety of the Earth and its habitants. They take donations as a fund and have many volunteers so they are not influenced by a third party. Other than protest, they use advertisements to spread awareness and relay their mission statement. The two images that Greenpeace publish exhibit consequences of nuclear energy. Their goal is to bring awareness of the negative outcomes nuclear energy brings about with logos, pathos, and kairos. From afar, the first image given seems to relate to a video game but when you look closer it is a nuclear energy plant killing off a group polar bears. The video game that the ad is portraying is Galaxian, a famous 80s arcade game set in space with the objective of killing any invader that comes its way. Having the advertisement resemble the game is an appeal of emotions to the viewers. From first glance, they will see the image and remember a time of their lives when they used to play the game, or relate it to similar games. Essentially they will feel Perez 2 drawn to the image because they would be able to see something relatable. Then knowing that the advertisement shows the causation of nuclear energy killing of the polar bears changes the emotions to something more serious and it becomes a moment of enlightenment. The viewer now sees the consequences of nuclear energy. This appeal to emotions is an example of pathos. There is also be a reference to the audience of the ad. On the bottom the image it says continuamos la partida, perdemos which means in English we continue this match, we all Having the image say this points to the generation that played this game and created it. They are also pointed as the reason that we have the problems of today. The image brings about many issues that area all interconnected. In an article written by Mark Z. Jacobson, the director of the Atmosphere/Energy Program and professor of civil and environmental engineering at Stanford University, he says amounts of fossil fuels must be burned to mine, transport and enrich uranium and to build the nuclear (Jacobson CNN.com). Jacobson points out that the use of nuclear energy does not always result in the best form of energy. This causes a chain of events that results in the loss of polar bears, mainly with the polar ice caps melting. This image shows the consequences that nuclear energy has caused by taking for granted the use of nuclear energy as if it were another game. In the second image, we see the picture of a pink bunny with four ears. On the bottom right of the image, it says and your children can get used to this, but you have to. Say no to nuclear (Greenpeace Image 2). From the image, we can get an audience that includes parents or a generation that are old enough to have children and have had an impact on the use of nuclear energy. With this audience, the appeal of pathos comes from the bunny. Toys image the reality of the time it was made. Having the bunny have 4 ears shows the possible future that nuclear energy can bring. The text in the bottom suggest that this reality has not Perez 3 happen but showing its possibility causes awareness of the negative consequences that nuclear energy can bring, which is the goal of the advertisement. Nuclear energy is known to destroy and contaminates things that it comes in contact to. Having a bunny in the center of the ad, it insinuates that nuclear energy may contaminate the innocence that a child or a future generation will have. The colors of the image also support this. The bright red over the bunny triggers an alarming emotion and this contrast with the soft pink of the bunny. This color scheme shows this contrast of the innocent and possible destruction of nuclear energy. In a journal article written by Marina Puzakova, Hyokjin Kwak, Suresh Ramanathan, and Joseph F. Rocereto, they say cues typically signal safety or danger in the environment due to repetitive pairing of these cues with either benign or threatening red is often associated with dangers and (Puzokova et al Painting your Point). From this research, we can confirm the reason for the color scheme. The ad concerns viewers of the future that is nuclear energy so it fulfills the goal of spreading awareness. The two images given, support the mission of Greenpeace International. They want to bring awareness to the public what other things that nuclear energy can do besides the positives they may see in mainstream media. The images relate the relationship of all the stages of time and the reality of nuclear energy. In the first photo, we saw the past and what was the start of nuclear power. This related to what was happening in the present. The second photo used the future to show what would happen if we continue our bad habits of the present. Both images portray the consequences of nuclear energy by focusing on different aspects such as cell manipulation and killing off animals. Greenpeace believes power is dirty, dangerous and [It no place in a safe, clean, sustainable (Greenpeace.org). This Perez 4 quote drives the images to present the negatives of nuclear energy which can be more understandable in visual rhetoric. Overall, nuclear energy is nonrenewable resources that creates more waste than it energy. The footprint that it leaves effects the inhabitants of the Earth for years to come. The awareness that these advertisements bring is a possible way to reduce the footprint and slow down the time it takes to reach these negative outcomes. Using the rhetorical appeals helps the company achieve the mission that are after starting with the people that take the time to see them. Perez 5 Works Cited Jacobson, Mark Z. Nuclear Power is too  CNN. Cable News Network, 22 Feb. 2010. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Puzakova, Marina, et al. Painting Your Point: The Role of Color in Strategic Responses to Product Failures via Advertising and Marketing  Journal of Advertising, vol. 45, no. 4, Oct. 2016, p. 365. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx ?direct=true&db=edb&AN=120326666&site=eds-live. Nuclear  Greenpeace USA. Greenpeace, n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Perez 6 Perez 7