Cover Letter Presentation: My main concern was to be creative, so I thought I would do a small act In my paper the main point is that college tuition should be at least reduced or colleges should just be free So in my presentation I wanted to give a reason on why the government should make college tuition free The purpose of the presentation was that the bag was heavy to carry and I wanted to relate that to the college tuition and debt on students, and how hard it is for them to proceed with life with all the debt that they have. That is why I was trying to portray me holding a heavy bag and struggling to walk, because the debt is going to create the same problem for students in future, it going to make life harder. I hope a showed the image right and it meant something, and that you saw it as a good reason. Shehadehagha Alrefai 2 Youssef Shehadehagha Alrefai TJ Murry ENC 1102 1/18/2017 College Tuition Everyone struggles to pay tuitions in United State, that they have to take a loan just to go to college. Reducing college tuition or make college free is definitely not a new idea. It is definitely appealing to a lot of people. In this argument both sides are pretty strong, but something that we can all agree on is that the student debt is only increasing, which is harming the people of this country, and something should be done about that. People need to take action towards this case, because of the harm and the amount of the money that the students, or the relatives are wasting. The government of United State should reduce the college tuition in the United states, if not make going to entirely free colleges free. Many researchers now are finding all the mistakes, and how unreal to not have colleges for free in our time, especially with all the debt. Roger Fillion the author of the article quoted the Oregon senator year of community college is a lot cheaper than a lifetime of food which shows the people how much students are paying, and how wrong it is to pay that amount, Also the author mentioned how student debt is increasing in an unbelievable amount when he mentioned that the student debt in 2010 surpassed the credit debt for the first time in history, which actually means that paying for college costs more than any other life expenses combined. For the last idea that Fillion brought up was that the college tuition is the most expensive expenses for an average American, this study was done by J.P. Morgan, the study means that the college tuition is more expensive the medical care, that should not be the case in our current Shehadehagha Alrefai 3 world (Fillion 14). In this current time, people are having a hard time to attend college, so imagine if the tuition was in the way, it is a huge barrier. According to Tressie McMillan Cottom the professor in Virginia Commonwealth University claims that if there was no tuition then it will open an opportunity to a lot of people to attend college, which might at the end to lead the person to do something, and help the community that they live in (Cottom117). To many scholars and authors free college is important and they believe that it will do good and will benefit the society that we live in. A large number of college student facing college debt and facing many other problems. according to Tom Price majority of college graduates are leaving school owing more than $25,000, and nearly 7 million have defaulted on their student which shows everyone how much people are wasting money on something that in other countries is almost free or is actually free. Tome price also mention that student debt nationwide totals almost $1.3 trillion which an impractical amount of money that is spent on colleges help people not put people in debt, and also the debt is only increasing. One major idea that Price spent time discussing was that are spending too much on administration, expensive intercollegiate athletic programs and academic programs with weak so not only that people are paying most of their Shehadehagha Alrefai 4 money to college, but it is also not all going to their education and is being spent on other departments that really benefit the student. The main objective of this argument is convince people and to make people do something about the college tuition that students are forced to pay, also the debt is only increasing. In our society almost every student has student debt, and the debt should be lowered or them be a debt at all. So in sake of this argument the students and anyone who is affected should join the Million Student March and follow the movement and protest with them, and join them that is listed on their website, whenever it is suitable for you. They are a big movement which could be easily found online to know the dates and the place of the protest. Together people can make a change and can reduce the tuition or make the colleges free. In conclusion students pay over the amount that they should be paying, and that is why everyone should take an action. Scholars showed in various examples how the debt is going to be dragging the students down, which is the opposite of what the colleges should do. Shehadehagha Alrefai 5 Work Cited Fillion, Roger. Tackling  State Legislatures 42.3 (2016): 14-19. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 13 Apr. 2017. Mcmillan Cottom, Tressie. Why Free College Is  Dissent (00123846). Vol. 62. N.p.: U of Pennsylvania, 2015. 115-17. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 13 Apr. 2017. Mcmillan Cottom, Tressie. Why Free College Is  Dissent (00123846). Vol. 62. N.p.: U of Pennsylvania, 2015. 115-17. Academic Search Alumni Edition. Web. 13 Apr. 2017.