Spikes 1 Tiana Spikes Professor Lay ENC 1102 24 February 2017 Rhetorical Appeals According to the Brady Campaign, gun violence has been prominent in the United States for over the past 3 decades. As time elapses this stakeholder believes that gun-control gets more lenient and incidents of shootings and mass shootings occur more frequently in the United States. One of the goals stated for the Brady Campaign is to have restrictions placed on and gun access (Quinn 3). The overall mission statement of the Brady Campaign is to gun control in their association and perform efforts to make America by cutting firearm casualties down by year 2025 (About Us). According to Jill recent journal the plan focuses on weapons out of the wrong hands through three efforts Number (1) a strategy center so that Brady personal investigations are connected to all firearm deals; (2) to stop Gun the 5 percent of firearm merchants that supply 90 percent of all wrongdoing weapons; and (3) to promote change in social standards around and in the home regarding firearms in order to keep the crimes, suicides, and accidental shootings that happen each day at bare minimum. After watching a Brady Campaign ad, one would conclude that gun safety is something the stakeholder values highly. The use of rhetorical appeals in their commercials show that they are trying to grasp the attention of all U.S. citizens and encourage them to act now on the gun issue at hand. Although there are two separate videos Spikes 2 that will be analyzed in this piece, and they are not very different and in-fact share many of the same characteristics. The two commercial ads are very similar in an abundance of ways; the first being that they were created and published publicly by the same stakeholder, the Brady Campaign; The second being how they choose to convey their messages, using a variety of rhetorical appeals (Pathos, Logos, and Kairos) to highlight the organizations goals and values; Third and lastly they illustrate the same main arguments: who, what, why and how, current and future gun restrictions could help or harm citizens and the people of the United States. With that said, this paper will analyze how two different videos from the Brady Campaign appeal to Kairos, Logos and Pathos in the same and different ways while trying to convey one overall message, firearms are to be accessed strictly only by those who are mentally and physically capable of using them in an appropriate and proper manner. In the video guns kill people toddlers kill  the Brady Campaign appeals to pathos, logos, and Kairos with images, background animations and voice overs. This video uses irony to reach its audience, instead of stating exactly the message they want to get across, they state the opposite of what they mean. The ad is introduced with a male voiceover who says in a strong, stern and concerned voice lock them ! The voice is followed with a picture of a Spikes 3 legs with a gun in his hands and mugshots of innocent babies. Here their method of appealing to logos is significant, it is logical for us to think that they are talking about locking up the guns being that they should not be in an hands anyway. But our logic is quickly tested with the next quote, not the guns, the  This is unlikely the norm of the United States, why would one want to incarcerate a child who is not capable of making wrong or right decisions more specifically cannot detect right from wrong? Appeal to emotions comes in to play with pathos as the advertisement goes on by stating factual occurrences throughout the year where toddlers have been responsible for shootings and killings of their parents and siblings. With Kairos being a sense of time and urgency, there is an animation of police sirens throughout the entire video letting viewers know that this is a current issue that needs to be handled fast. The usage of reverse psychology was not to indeed tell citizens of the United States to put toddlers and babies in jail, they are stating the opposite while also showing why mission to add restrictions on guns would be indeed beneficial. The overall message and take away from this advertisement was to educate people about safety precautions of firearms and concealed weapons not only for the safety of young children but adults as well. One of the missions of the Brady Campaign stated earlier was to keep guns away from people who cannot handle them appropriately and safely. The use of Kairos, logos and pathos in this ad helped highlight and demonstrate why and what could possibly be the result of not keeping guns out of the  hands, accidental killings, and murders. The Daniels  ad used a great deal of rhetorical movement. The flow from pathos to logos on to Kairos helped to prepare Its audience for the emotional impact; when connecting to the sad background music, and the mellow tone of the voiceover it instantly triggers a feeling of sadness. This video used a real-life event as its storyline. David was a young boy from Colorado Spikes 4 who among 12 others was shot and killed at school by 2 other students. His dad is the narrator of the video and hearing the pain and hurt and his voice from losing his son naturally appeals to the emotions. The video also uses sad slow music to make one think of their own sad hardships. While pathos was one of the appeals use, logos is also a strong strategy in the advertisement. The two shooters of the high school David went to get the guns from a gun auction, one where you need no license or background check. Being that this is a true event very logical and one of the problems with gun violence today is how easily children are able to access them. This another reason the Brady Campaign wants to stop illegal gun dealings and advocate for stricter restrictions on gun laws. Towards the end of the video the father brings in credible gun violence rates that have decreased significantly since he himself has joined the Brady campaign. He urges the audience and tries to persuade them with the numbers to also join the Brady campaign. He uses words such as sign up , our country , what if this happens to  to appeal to Kairos, a sense of time and urgency. The Brady Campaign used a rhetorical flow approach from urgency to emotional strategy to appeal to its audience and to portray message, that illegal dealings need to be stopped and stricter precautions on guns need to be taken. To conclude, the Brady campaign uses a variety of rhetorical approaches and appeals to convey their messages and connect with their audiences. It is important to study the little aspects of your presentations because it will help you a lot to understand what exactly trying to say and who exactly trying to reach. The people they use, the images they use, the numbers they use are all important once one analyzes them. With doing this one will be able to infer what and who exactly, is important to the stakeholder in a particular message or visual. The goal of the Brady ads is to decrease gun violence and make society Spikes 5 more aware of the effects they have on the nation. They are letting citizens see up close what is going on with guns and the position the country is in, hoping to change the views of enough of the public to want to do something about gun acts for the well-being of United States citizens. Works Cited - Brady Campaign. 19 Sept. 2016. http://www.bradycampaign.org/about-brady. 24 Feb. 2017 - Story https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Nt8G84gxrZc Brady Campaign 2 Feb. 2017 - Lawrence, Jill. Gun-Control Success Is in Sight for the Brady  National Journal 2013: Academic OneFile. Web. 22 Feb. 2017. - Quinn, Kevin. Campaign to Prevent Gun Keep Crime Guns Off the Streets: Brady Campaign. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. - Kill Brady Campaign 2 Feb. 2017