Terry 1 Taquon Terry 12 March 2017 Hannah Lay ENC 1102 Monsanto and Rhetorical Appeals Being able to appeal to an audience through advertisements is a key factor in gaining both trust and support for a company. Monsanto, a major benefactor in the production and distribution of GMO seeds, has recently released a number of ads in hopes of persuading their audience to trust goods derived from genetic engineering. The goal of the first image with the children gathered around the table is to persuade the audience that GMO foods are able to bring people closer together by making sure everyone has a healthy meal to eat. The audience for this particular ad would mostly be adults with small families or even families of the less fortunate. However, the second image seems to have the goal of informing the audience that GMOs are necessary to ensure that more food is being produced in tandem with the rapidly expanding world population. This particular ad seems to be aimed at non GMO supporters and a more political audience. Through the use of rhetorical appeals such as ethos, pathos, logos and kairos within each advertisement, Monsanto is able to clearly state their goal of making balanced meals accessible to everyone while also captivating a variety of emotions from their audience in hopes of gaining trust and support for their products. Terry 2 Establishing a solid foundation of trust and credibility is crucial when advertising. This method of appealing to an audience is typically called ethos; Monsanto does a good job of displaying it. Within the text of the Ad, Monsanto mentions that they partner with farmers and nonprofits to come up with new ideas and obtain a wide range of resources in order to grow enough food in a sustainable way (Meyer). Relating to that in the article Company SWOT it is stated that Monsanto has become the leading supplier to farmers and has also entered into numerous strategic collaborations to expand their research and development (Monsanto Company). This gives their audience a sense of reliability, knowing that Monsanto is working diligently with other agricultural experts in attempts to achieve their goal of making balanced meals accessible to everyone. Still within image 1, Monsanto establishes credibility by providing a link to their website. Although it may not happen right away, this helps establish a feeling of trust between the audience and Monsanto because it allows for them to go and find more information regarding how the company functions. Moving on to the Population Ad, Monsanto uses the rhetorical appeal of ethos by stating facts made by scientists and giving insight into how their products help the environment. Within the text it states say that need to double agricultural output by 2050 and biotechnology can (Now What). Most people believe in the assumptions made by scientist because most of the time their information is legitimate. Therefore, this statement adds credibility to the advertisement and it allows for the audience to trust that the use of biotechnology will help to fend off hunger. Also within the Population Ad, Monsanto mentions that their seeds can increase crop yield (agricultural output) while also using less resources to do it (Now What). This claim evokes a feeling of trust and also Terry 3 backs up mission statement as stated on their website, which is to tools for farmers to help nourish the growing global (Monsanto). Connecting emotionally with your audience is a great way to gain support, and Monsanto does a good job doing so in each image by making their audience feel content, supportive, anxious and secure. This method of appealing to an feelings is called pathos. Pertaining to the Ad, pathos is used by showing the different mix of children all smiling around the table getting ready to eat, which brings about a feeling of happiness and warmth. These emotions can lead to the audience giving support to the company because they now feel as if Monsanto is doing the right thing by making sure everyone has a meal to eat while also bringing people together. Still within the Ad, the brightly colored fruits and vegetables may give the audience a feeling of trust and reliability. When they look at the advertisement they can assume that Monsanto is fulfilling their promise by providing fresh agriculture that is safe to consume. The Population Ad on the other hand encompasses the use of pathos through an image of individuals crowded together and also within the text. One may believe that the image of the crowded people is designed make people feel anxious about the growing world population which coincides with the issue on the use of biotechnology for food. This anxious feeling can add support for Monsanto because everyone has to eat and if biotechnology is needed to produce more, then more people will trust in Monsanto to get the job done. Moving on to the text within this advertisement, pathos is used in the caption that states farmers will need to double food production by 2050. Biotechnology can (Now What). This statement is designed to give the audience a feeling of security because Terry 4 although a potential future food shortage is an issue, they feel as if they have to worry much because biotech is working to help double the current output. Appealing to an logic or thought process is also essential when campaigning an advertisement, and Monsanto effectively does so within each image by making the audience think about GMO food production and how it will help fight against food shortages. This rhetorical appeal is known as logos, and not only includes logic/reason but it can also supply the audience with new information. Within the Ad, logos is used in the caption that states perspectives make the meal better and more (Meyer). The caption definitely makes the audience think about what perspectives on food can make them better and how can food be interesting? This can relate back to the rhetorical appeal of ethos because with those types of thoughts, the audience may want to use the provided web link to look more into the company to establish trust. Within the Population Ad, logos is used by implementing the fact that there are 9 billion+ people on earth (Now What). This fact along with surrounding information in the advertisement makes the audience wonder how is there going to be enough food for everyone. Still within the Population Ad, logos is also used by including another fact that states say farmers will need to double agricultural production by (Now What). Expanding on that, the article Monsanto Save The mentions in more scholarly terms that United Food and Agriculture Organization estimates that we must double the current level of food production to adequately feed a population predicted to hit 9.7 billion by have to do it on less land (much of it scarce of water), using fewer (Kowitt). This makes the audience think about how can that happen in just 33 years, Terry 5 which is not long. To those who are not agricultural enthusiasts, this statement also provides the audience with info they may have been unaware of. Advertisements that give your audience a sense of urgency, by wanting them to act immediately, is a key factor in gaining support. Monsanto does this in both images by insisting that now is the time for consumers to ask questions, trust in their products and farmers produce more. This method of appealing to your audience is called kairos. In the Ad it may not seem as demanding as it should but the main caption reads A Seat and Dig (Meyer). This caption implies that Monsanto wants their audience to trust in and begin consuming their products. Also within this advertisement, the concluding statement time for a bigger discussion about brings about a sense of urgency (Meyer). Monsanto believes that now is the time that we begin discussing how, when or where our food is developed. Within the Population Ad, kairos is used in the caption farmers will need to double food production by 2050. Biotechnology can Now What). This statement emphasized that call to action by saying that farmers to do this by a certain year which means now is the time to act. In conclusion, being able to appeal to an audience through advertisements is a key factor in gaining both trust and support for a company. Without the hidden use of rhetorical appeals such as ethos, pathos, logos and kairos then none of that would be possible. Through the use of such rhetorical appeals within each advertisement, Monsanto is able to clearly state their goal of wanting to make balanced meals accessible to everyone while also captivating a variety of emotions from their audience in hopes of gaining trust and support for their products. Terry 6 Works Cited Kowitt, Beth. Can Monsanto Save the  , vol. 173, no. 8, 15 June 2016, pp. 94-104. , ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=bu Meyer, Nick. RSS2 . N.p., 14 Dec. 2014. Web. 26 Feb. 2017.jpeg  Sustainable Agriculture Company . Monsanto, 2002. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Monsanto Company SWOT  Company SWOT Analysis , 10/ 1/2014, pp. 1-10. , ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=bah NOW WHAT. 2006. Monsanto Co. Journal . Web. 26 Feb. 2017.jpeg Terry 7 Terry 8