Thai 1 Sophia Thai Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 30 April 2017 Legalize Medical Marijuana for Everyone, Everywhere Marijuana is a controversial issue that is talked about daily in the United States and has two opposing sides on its legalization. Many people focus on the negative aspects of marijuana and do not realize the benefits of marijuana, particularly medical marijuana; they believe that marijuana is dangerous to the health but as a matter of fact, has died from using (Manning). Medical marijuana can regulate, and prevent several as well as fight anxiety and (Quit Smoking Community). Not only is medical marijuana helpful, but recreational marijuana is beneficial to the American system as well. Legalizing recreational marijuana means that there will be effective law enforcement and criminal and money supporting organized (Drug Rehab). It will also help decriminalize recreational marijuana users who were put into jail simply for smoking marijuana (The National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws). According to Liz Rowley, recreational marijuana is legal in seven states such as California, Alaska, and Colorado. Medical marijuana is also legalized in twenty-seven states such as Florida, New York, California, Maryland and many others, but that means that twenty-three states still lack the access to its medical uses (Rowley, 2016). Thus, because medical marijuana is not available to all of those who are sick and recreational marijuana creates a more effective law enforcement, American citizens who are at higher risk of certain illnesses and American citizens who are unfamiliar with Thai 2 marijuana should protest against the government in order to supply medical marijuana to the ill and help decriminalize recreational marijuana users. Marijuana is commonly misunderstood in the United States due to accusations of it being a gateway drug or it causing brain damage in which both are false. According to Drug Abuse, majority of people who use marijuana do not go on to use other, and a study conducted by the Northwestern University and Harvard Medical School declared no variations or functional significance on the differences of brains of marijuana users and non- marijuana users (Makin, 2014). The National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws (NORML) also claims that prohibition which forces users to associate with the illicit drug black market rather than the use of marijuana itself, often serves as a doorway to the world of hard There are no records of marijuana overdoses either (American Civil Liberties Union), yet marijuana is still not legal everywhere whereas alcohol and tobacco are. According to NORML, 50,000 people die each year from alcohol poisoning more than 400,000 deaths each year are attributed to tobacco There are many benefits to medical marijuana, in which case it can be used as pain relief to chronic pain fewer sides effects compared to (Oregon Health & Science University, 2017) and it is toxic than many of the drugs that physicians prescribe every (Elders, 2004). Medical marijuana can also treat pain, nausea, spasticity, glaucoma, and movement and can be used as powerful appetite stimulant, specifically for patients suffering from HIV, the AIDS wasting syndrome, or (NORML). Marijuana is seen as a misunderstood plant but underneath its myths, it holds the properties to help treat and heal patients. There are other reasons to why not just medical marijuana, but recreational marijuana should be legalized as well. In the states that have yet to legalize recreational marijuana, Thai 3 approximately 750,000 people are arrested every year for using marijuana illegaly in the United States (Rolling Stone, 2012). This means that people who only commit are put into prison; not because of stealing, abduction, or murder. Marijuana users are not criminals. How are they different from smokers or alcohol-users? Recreational users are not the only ones affected; everyone is. Every American citizen is paying taxes and a partial percentage of the taxes goes to prisons. This can be seen as wasting in which that money can be used somewhere else rather than on a The national organization, NORML, is for the reform of marijuana laws and the decriminalization of these so-called According to them, marijuana prohibition costs taxpayers an estimated $10 billion annually and results in the arrest of more than 693,000 individuals per year -- far more than the total number of arrestees for all violent crimes combined, including murder, rape, robbery and aggravated Legalizing recreational marijuana can also lead to more effective law enforcement and criminal justice (Drug Rehab). That way, law enforcement will be able to focus on other crimes, especially violent crimes, while spaces in crowded prisons will open up. It can also make organized crimes lose profits selling and decrease the violence associated with it (Drug Rehab). Even though the use of medical marijuana is health effective, recreational marijuana also plays a major role on American citizens. Individuals who are unfamiliar with the topic of marijuana may realize now that legalizing recreational marijuana will help decriminalize marijuana smokers and it will help create a more effective law enforcement. It will free up court dates so that prosecutors and judges can focus solely on violent crimes. If alcohol and smoking is already legal, why marijuana? It also has health benefits unlike alcohol and smoking. Medical marijuana is not accessible to everyone in the states and there are patients who are in need of risk-free pain relief. Because Thai 4 not available everywhere, these patients need to go to opioids or other medicine that have more severe side effects than medical marijuana. Everyone has the potential to become ill so this issue should concern everyone. If medical marijuana is accessible everywhere in the country, American citizens can relieve their pains and injuries without the concerns of the side effects such as, dizziness, nausea, vomiting, constipation, physical dependence, tolerance, and respiratory seen from opioids (Benyamin et al., 2008). Marijuana must be legalized in order for it to be available in all fifty states and for it to help the American legal system. Because of this, everyone must come together and protest against the government. In order to gain the government attention, individuals should send letters to their state government and sign petitions on the legalization of marijuana in different states. People can also participate in peaceful protesting to gain the attention of more potential supporters. They can also donate money to official marijuana organizations such as the National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws or the American Alliance for Medical Cannabis and receive newsletters and updates on how to take action against the government. Supporting these organizations as well as taking action on own will gain the attention and therefore legalize marijuana. Marijuana is often seen as a troubling and dangerous drug that kills and damages health. That is not the case as it contains many health benefits and can be used in treatment and pain relief. Medical marijuana affects every American citizen every citizen is prone to and should be on mind. Recreational marijuana also plays a role in which marijuana users are being decriminalized in different parts of the country. Legalizing not only the medical aspects of marijuana but the recreational use will also help create a more effective law enforcement. Marijuana is not quite legal everywhere in the country yet, but if American citizens who are prone to illnesses and American citizens who were unfamiliar with marijuana can Thai 5 protest against their state government by the use of petitions, peaceful protesting, and donations, marijuana can finally be accessible in all fifty states and marijuana smokers will no longer be decriminalized. Word Count: 1271 Thai 6 Works Cited Abuse, National Institute on Drug. Is marijuana a gateway  NIDA. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Benefits of Medical Marijuana Is Cannabis Good for  Quit Smoking Community: Kicking the Habit Together. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Benyamin, R., A. M. Trescot, S. Datta, R. Buenaventura, R. Adlaka, N. Sehgal, S. E. Glaser, and R. Vallejo. Opioid complications and side  Pain physician. U.S. National Library of Medicine, Mar. 2008. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Cannabis: Non-addictive pathway to pain  ScienceDaily. ScienceDaily, 12 Jan. 2017. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Legalizing Recreational Marijuana Pros and  Drug Rehab. N.p., 06 July 2015. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. Livermore, Arthur. Bernie Sanders - Let States Make Marijuana  Medical marijuana (cannabis) - American Alliance for Medical Cannabis. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Makin, Simon. Does Marijuana Harm the  Scientific American. N.p., 08 Aug. 2014. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Manning, Kristan, Lucy Tonic, PPcorn, Kyle Johnson, and Laurascaffidi. Marijuana: 5 Misunderstood Facts You Should  PPcorn. N.p., 09 Feb. 2016. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Thai 7 Mauney, Matt. Medical Marijuana in 28 States: Impact on Cancer  Mesothelioma Center - Vital Services for Cancer Patients & Families. Asbestos.com, 27 Jan. 2017. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Rowley, Liz. Where Is Marijuana Legal in the United States? List of Recreational and Medicinal  Mic. Mic Network Inc., 10 Nov. 2016. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. Top 10 Marijuana Myths and  Rolling Stone. N.p., 22 Aug. 2012. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Top 10 Pros & Cons - Medical Marijuana -  Should marijuana be a medical option? N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Working to Reform Marijuana  NORML.org - Working to Reform Marijuana Laws - NORML.org - Working to Reform Marijuana Laws. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017.