Al Shehhi 1 Wafaa Al Shehhi Janie Gill ENC1102.077S17 May 2th 2017 Immigration Rights in the United States The United States is referred to as the land of immigrants since the first European settlers visited North America. A high number of immigrants have moved to the United States in the hope of finding better lives. In fact, most of the values that unite American citizens are attributed to immigration, with a section Americans attributing the progress and growth of the US to the hardworking American immigrants. Indeed, it true those immigrants in the US has worked hard to the economic prosperity of the United States. This has cemented United States global position as the land of economic prosperity. In the US, immigration seem to have robbed the Americans view of human nature. According to Motomura, immigration in the US has an immense capability in constructing a new race, a new religion, new literature and a new state. Indeed, the idealism tied to immigration best explains the deep feeling that this phenomenon evokes to the public. In the last five years, the debate on immigration has been a subject of political discussions (Motomura 45). The broad debate incorporates the examination of foreign policies. Hence, immigration is really important for immigrants, which can change their life in a good way, people can get involve in this case by donating for the organization that works on the immigration issue, college students can be a membership in a lot of organizations that in their university and so on. Al Shehhi 2 In fact, the influx of refugees in the United States has been a great concern to the federal government on immigration. In his campaign that led up to the November 2016 presidential election, President Donald Trump claimed that Americans have weak borders, and this is the reason for increased terror in the country. He argued that America was no longer safe because of refugees from its neighboring Mexico and other Islamic nations in the Middle East. He promised his supporters that his administration would ensure that the United States of America has strong borders and implements a strict vetting process for people entering the United States. Moreover, he spoke about the need to deport the illegal immigrants in the United States, arguing Americans are losing a lot of money in taking care of the illegal immigrants in the United States. President Donald sentiment on illegal migration has been a subject of intense debate, considering the number of immigrants which the United States receives annually. His supporters agreed with his rhetoric, as he claimed that America has become weaker by allowing a high number of immigrants. In fact, he argued that in order to keep the illegal Mexicans away from the United States, he would construct a wall on the Southern US border. The revelations of the heated presidential campaign in 2016 revealed the American views on immigration. Some of the Americans agreed with by then Republican President-elect, Donald Trump, as he differed on immigration policies with his closest challenger, Democratic Party nominee, Hillary Clinton. The Democratic Party nominee argued in favor of immigration, asserting that the United States has been a leading example in providing immigrants with an opportunity to makes their life better. In the phase of terrorism and increasing criminal gangs in the United States, reforms in the immigration would be essential (Fortune 1). I totally agree that immigration is a good idea for immigrants and for America. Al Shehhi 3 It is argued that the rapid globalization has led to the creation of a new world. The international trade saw a marked expansion, with some people claiming that the international borders have lost their relevancy. In this sense, people, ideas, and goods can easily traverse the borders, at an accelerating pace. Romero argues that the United States is a shining global star and should be open to the immigrants, as national borders lose their relevancy (Romero 67). Buff observes that regional nationalism holds back several countries. However, the United States has to take pride in a heritage that promotes tolerance, openness, and diversity. In so doing, it places the United States in a great position in comparison to countries from Western Europe and Asia. This way, the United States is able to compete in the international marketplace (Buff 89). Indeed, the American fashion, music, and brands enjoy massive popularity in the world because Americans have embraced cultural diversity, as people from diverse background believe that America culture celebrates their lives (Johnson and Trujillo 45). In this sense, immigration policies that focus on welcoming visitors to the United States put the US in a great position to understand the tastes and preferences of consumers in the global market. This is significant in giving United States companies an advantage in opening export markets. United States developed its reputation as a land of opportunity for people outside the US borders (Fortune 1). Each wave of immigrants that migrate to the United States plays a pivotal role in achieving greatness in the US and enriching the society. The United States has the brightest and the best immigrants, coming from a variety of cultures and regions. The immigrants in the United States believe that the United States is welcoming to hardworking immigrants. As such, the immigrants are keen to work hard to fulfill their American Dream (Weaver 76). Therefore, the decision of the United States to welcome the immigrants sends the message that the US is the country they look forward to tomorrow. Al Shehhi 4 The United States has to pursue policies that promote immigration. For instance, the United States is encouraged to remove the obstacles in the immigration, in order to keep families together. Policies that encourage immigration allow people worldwide with the legitimate fear of persecution to understand that the United States cares, and it is determined to protect asylum seekers and US refugees (Buff 34). Moreover, it is important to adjust the current immigration laws, which would allow greater immigration from countries such as Mexico and China. This is because these groups have been unfairly discriminated in the past. Indeed, changes have happened to these countries, and they are capable of providing immigrants that would be of great value to the United States. It is also important to provide the immigrants in the US with more opportunities, job training and put in place structures that would assist them to master the English language. Moreover, the United States has to ensure that everyone in the US, including the illegal migrants, are granted access to basic healthcare, education, as well as other essential services, to promote their well-being (Johnson and Trujillo 34). Indeed, allowing immigration in the US is based on the premise that America is still a young and vibrant country, with great opportunities for growth. It should be recalled that strength lies in its diversity, specifically the promotion of fresh ideas and culture, which is brought by new immigrants. Americans should not view the immigrants as a threat to the national security (Buff 21). For a long time, United States has welcomed immigrants who have shared valuable skills, contributing to the economic growth in the United States. Moreover, these immigrants have maintained a rich culture of diversity, which is appealing to the consumers in the global market. The United States should not lose its position as the country where refugees have an opportunity to pursue their dreams (Weaver 56). This way, the United States earns respect and admiration from people from different parts of the world. An open Al Shehhi 5 immigration policy promotes the ties of the immigrants with their native countries, which the United States can take advantage of new export markets for American products. However, problems could come up for Americans when a high number of immigrants flood to the US. It would mean an overload to the schools, hospitals, and put a strain on social services. There are a lot of options people can follow to get involved in this case. By donating to different organizations that support immigrants that these organizations take this money to help immigrants, for example, American Friends organization and ACLU. Also, students can get involved by participating in any organization that in their school. A lot of organizations have accounts in social media; you can get involved with them just by follow their accounts or by likes them. In conclusion, the US has benefitted from immigration for a long time. In fact, this has made the US a country of choice for refugees and asylum seekers. It is also a land and place of opportunities for Americans. The United States has been lucky to learn about the cultural diversity, as it has people from different countries. As such, it has managed to widen its export market, as it enjoys the ties that foreign countries have developed with the US, as the immigrants keep close ties with their native countries. The US benefits from such close relationships, which broadens the US market to countries in different parts of the world. Al Shehhi 6 Works Cited Buff, Rachel. Immigrant Rights in the Shadows of Citizenship. New York: NYU Press, 2008. Print. Fortune. President Entrance Restrictions Are Already Cutting Demand for Travel to the U.S. Web. February 8, 2017. <http://fortune.com/2017/02/08/donald-trump-entrance- restrictions-travel/> Johnson, Kevin., and Trujillo, Bernard. Immigration Law and the U.S. Mexico Border: Se Puede? Arizona: University of Arizona Press, 2011. Print Motomura, Hiroshi. Americans in Waiting: The Lost Story of Immigration and Citizenship in the United States. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2007. Print. Romero, Victor. Alienated: Immigrant Rights, the Constitution, and Equality in America. New York: NYU Press, 2005. Print. Weaver, Matthew. Trump to order Mexico wall in national security crackdown. The Guardian. Web. https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2017/jan/24/trump-immigration-executive- orders-refugees