Rothkopf 1 Mac Rothkopf Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 30 April 2017 Medical Marijuana Regardless of the opinion regarding medical marijuana, the government had deceived the people voting for these laws, laws that would neither advance nor benefit a side. It is true the government wants to completely control regulation of this schedule 1 substance as they do tobacco and alcohol. The government knows that this is an inevitable event the legalization of cannabis, and want to capitalize financially on this movement. More than half of our own states have already opened their eyes to medicinal cannabis, however, many people are uneducated in this field. Previously classified as an illegal drug, the government was sanctioning similar action with marijuana compared with cocaine and other classified drugs. What has changed in the last decade is the ability to not care or be effected with this undertaking. there is a large number of people in America who think that they have no involvement with the issue of medical marijuana legalization. Many people even think that they would be completely unaffected regardless if medical marijuana laws were to be reformed or (LEGALIZEMM). Thus, because of the lack of knowledge and ignorance for legalizing medical marijuana, none-smoking individuals should donate money or time as well as spreading awareness through word of mouth so that the economy expands, creating more jobs and allowing people to receive better treatment. Rothkopf 2 The problems that need to be confronted within this topic are simple, there are too many arrests regarding this plant. It is not only exponentially populating jail cells but the people have to pay for them with taxes. On top of that, marijuana has always been easily accessible, so not being regulated by our government will cause danger. People are going to get it regardless, why not tax it like they do alcohol and sell to people of age regardless for medical purposes or not. Medical Marijuana has been used different ways from the founding of this plant and our country should give us the freedom to choose to use it or not. If a compromise of having age restrictions such as the ones for tobacco(18) and alcohol(21) so be it. More and more states are legalizing this drug, while the ones who have not hopped on board yet they will be soon to follow. From the results of Colorado, one of the founding states to legalize this, has shown to decrease crime as well has make more jobs that contributes to economic growth. Signs have already shown states such as Florida are getting on the bandwagon and have already issued to decriminalize the drug which essentially means getting caught with marijuana under a certain amount can result in just a fine. Who exactly is the non-engaged stakeholder? The healthy people in the world who do not need nor associate, but think that they are immune to the social effects of medical marijuana. Just one descriptive example of one of this problem, a human being specifically a little kid have a normal childhood anymore after being diagnosed with epileptic seizures a little after birth. His parents will not let him leave the house in fear of another seizure, to make it even worse, his appetite is almost nonexistent. As the result he has not socialized with many people in his entire life. All the boy wants to do is go to school and make friends. Every day after both his parents come back from long eight hour shifts they start his treatment. Their local doctor, that Mac Rothkopf 3 they can barely afford suggests huge doses of pills but even then the boy is still constantly at pain. Every morning and evening they feed him around 8-15 pills depending on how the boy is feeling and acting. The family can tell he getting better; they must make an ultimatum to cure their son. They over hear a friendly conversation regarding medical marijuana almost halfway across the country. With little to no more options at this point after driving all this way to Colorado they stop by at a small dispensary. They explain their conditions to the worker, he provides THC ointment to rub on and off as well as different edibles and concentrates to prevent the outbreak of seizures and increase his appetite. After immediately taking the new medication the boys signs of ill had disappeared, the family moved out there a couple days later and the boy has been at school since. Medical Marijuana helps people, for some people it is their medicine. example, the American Medical Association has rejected attempts to convince them to endorse marijuana as medicine, and instead has urged that marijuana remain as a prohibited, controlled substance; the American Cancer Society does not advocate inhaling smoke, nor the legalization of (Lewis 66). The reason the non-engaged stakeholder should care about this issue is because it is getting legalized in more and more states which means the bad reputation is finally coming to an end and is getting looked upon as a reliable source for health, happiness, and independence. People should also be prepared because this is a hot relevant topic and it is not going away as it is shown to help people. Newly engaged stakeholders can show their support for the affirmative position taken by starting out talking to other people and organizations to try and spread awareness about this substance. Regardless of word of mouth or any other means such as media. Media in day and age indisputably is the fastest and most effective way to spread Mac Rothkopf 4 cognizance and knowledge. The United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime have been researching marijuana and why everyone should care about this process is because more than half the country has tried if they currently using this drug, it the most widely used illicit drug. In some countries, more than half of all young people have tried it. In spite of this high rate of usage, many basic facts about cannabis remain obscure. Of particular concern are the recent growth in the potency, and mounting questions about the role of cannabis in mental illnesses Next, protests can be a really effective, more serious way to rally and start showing their support. If you donate your money to organizations you can actually donate time, by which the organizations will set up workshops around the city to inform and educate the general public. The non-engaged stakeholders should not only care for this topic but should go out and do something to help create jobs, rebuild and expand the global economy. Not only will it be beneficial at ends of the supply-demand chain, but for every single intermediary in between. From the grower, passing through to the harvester, the transporter, and lab technicians, to the doctors pre scribing the marijuana, the dispensing facility and the patients using it and even those assisting them, if assistance is (Hernandez). Thus, because of the lack of knowledge and ignorance for legalizing medical marijuana, none-smoking individuals should donate money even time as well to spreading awareness or even attended public shops to be educated about the topic, so that more jobs are created and people get proper treatment with marijuana if needed so. The time to act is now, we need to educate the future generations, as It is inevitable that marijuana will be legalized. Rothkopf 5 Works Cited  LEGALIZEMM - Home. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. JUAN A. The Business Ahead for Legal  Caribbean Business, vol. 2, no. 26, 07 July 2016, p. 21. http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu Project, Marijuana Policy. Marijuana Policy Project We Change  MPP. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. LEWIS, PAUL1. A Gateway To Future Problems: Concerns About The Stateby- State Legalization Of Medical  University Of New Hampshire Law Review 13.1 (2015): 49-97. Index to Legal Periodicals & Books Full Text (H.W. Wilson). Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Medical  MAPS. N.p., n.d. Sun. 16 April. 2017. Ragnhild.johansen. United Nations Office on Drugs and  Why Should We Care about Cannabis? N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Apr.