Rehman 1 Tauseef Ur Rehman Mark J Nusspickel 04/30/2017 Persuasive Essay Outline I. Introduction/thesis Alcohol and Marijuana are the two most commonly used drugs worldwide. Where Marijuana is illegal in most parts of the world, alcohol is legal in most countries, except where it is against the cultural or religious views. II. Opposing Viewpoint This bias does not only exist legally, there is also a difference in social perception between the two. Where alcohol is socially accepted and consumed in social gatherings without any negative judgment about the drinker, Marijuana is looked down upon and is usually consumed behind closed doors. A. Opposing point to your argument. Considering an average American family, while alcohol is on the menu for the family thanksgiving dinner consumed by every legal age family member on the table, marijuana would be far from even discussion. B. Your rebuttal to the opposing point. But does that mean alcohol is any better than Marijuana? a debate that has been going on for years with voices for and against both sides. Rehman 2 III. First argument or reason to support your position: To answer this question, one has to not only look at the direct health effects of these, but also how they serve as a gateway to other drugs. Occasional use of Alcohol or marijuana may not affect the health of a person that much, but if they act as a gateway to another drug, that following drug could be much more harming leading to multiple health complications and even death. According to a study, those using marijuana more than 50 times a year have a 59.2 times greater chance of using other drugs than non-users (Fergusson DM, 2000). However, I am of the opinion that Alcohol is a larger gateway to other drugs. In support of this opinion, an investigative study has found that the theory is associated with alcohol, not marijuana (Tristan Kirby, 2012). The study used a sample of high school seniors and found that students who used Alcohol showed a greater likelihood of using both legal and illegal drugs. IV. Second argument or reason to support your position: Another aspect to look at is the probability of its addiction and the consequences of that addiction on the lives of consumers. Addiction for either of those could potentially destroy lives. For an addict, his addiction becomes the most important thing is his life thus he surrounds himself in the same company that fulfills his addiction. He loses interest in other activities in his life, becomes less motivated to achieve his life goals and loses productivity at work or school while facing several other effects which lead to multiple social issues for that person such as family problems and unemployment. According to a research comparing Rehman 3 addictiveness of 6 most common drugs, marijuana is at the bottom of the list and is far less addictive than alcohol which is placed near Cocaine and Nicotine in its addictiveness rating (Franklin, 1990). V. Third argument or reason to support your position. Looking at the health effects, Cannabis is connected to schizophrenia. According to a study, use of marijuana increases the risk for schizophrenia later on in life twofold, the study also suggests that elimination of marijuana use would reduce schizophrenia incidence among population by approximately 8% (Louise Arseneault, 2004). However, the study further goes on to say that use of marijuana alone is not a sufficient or necessary cause of schizophrenia, but rather a component factor of various factors leading to psychosis. Apart from this, marijuana is not linked to any major diseases or health risks. VI. Conclusion: The health risks which Alcohol poses are much greater. According to a report by World Health Organization, long-term alcohol use can lead to several health issues such as High blood pressure, heart disease, stroke, liver disease and cancer in various body parts along with mental health issues such as dementia, depression and anxiety (organisation, 2014). A. Summary of main points or reasons Rehman 4 If we consider the risk of death from the two, according to a report by Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, every year there are nearly 88,000 alcohol-related deaths in the U.S. and about half of these deaths occur due to excessive drinking or alcohol overdose (Prevention, 2016). Further, every year there are also several cases of accidents as a result of drink driving resulting in deaths. B. Restate thesis statement. On the other hand, the number of reported deaths caused by marijuana is almost zero. According to a study, given the amount TCH in one joint, one would have to smoke over 238 joints in a single day to consume a fatal dose of TCH leading to death from overdose of marijuana (Hall, 2015) , an amount which is impossible to smoke in a single day. C. Personal comment or a call to action. Hence considering the points above, I conclude that in this decades long debate on the two evil, I choose to side with the lesser evil which in my opinion is Marijuana. Rehman 5 Alcohol Vs. Marijuana: Which is worse for your health? Alcohol and Marijuana are two of the most commonly used drugs across the globe. While alcohol is the number one abused drug, and is legal, whereas, marijuana is illegal in most parts of the world. This bias does not only exist legally, but there is also a difference in social perception between the two. For instance, alcohol is socially accepted and consumed in social gatherings without any negative judgment about the drinker, marijuana is looked down upon and is usually consumed behind closed doors. Consider an average American family, while alcohol is on the menu for the family Thanksgiving dinner, consumed by every legal age family member at the table, marijuana would be far from discussion, let alone lighting a joint at the table. However, this does not mean alcohol is any better than Marijuana. Considering the above, marijuana should be legalized. While the above makes a good argument for the legalization of marijuana, there had always been opposition to this issue. With this said, one of the main arguments against legalizing marijuana is to look at the direct health effects of these, but also how they serve as a gateway to other drugs. Occasional use of alcohol or marijuana may not affect the health of a person that much, but if they act as a gateway to another drug, that following drug could be much more harming leading to multiple health complications and even death. Many critics of marijuana say it is a gateway to other drugs. According to a study, using marijuana more than 50 times a year have a 59.2 times greater chance of using other drugs than non- (Fergusson 500). However, one investigative study has found that the theory is associated with alcohol, not marijuana (Kirby 371). The study used a sample of Rehman 6 high school seniors and found that students who used alcohol showed a greater likelihood of using both legal and illegal drugs. A typical example can be seen in the smoking areas of bars and nightclubs; they are usually crowded with people smoking cigarettes some of whom are not even regular smokers. Even for the regular ones, usually most would give some time interval before smoking their second cigarette, whereas after consuming alcohol they can smoke many cigarettes simultaneously without feeling the excess effect. Another aspect to look at, is the probability of its addiction and the consequences of that addiction on the lives of consumers. Addiction to either drug (alcohol or marijuana) could potentially destroy lives. For an addict, addiction becomes the most important thing in life thus he or she surrounds themselves with the same company that fulfills the addiction. Drug addict loses interest in other activities in life, becomes less motivated to achieve life goals and loses productivity at work or school while facing several other effects which lead to multiple social issues for that person such as family problems and unemployment. Although there are many people addicted to marijuana most of such cases are those who start smoking marijuana at a young age. Moreover, Deborah Franklin asserts addictiveness of the 6 most common drugs, marijuana is at the bottom of the list and is far less addictive than alcohol which is placed near Cocaine and Nicotine in its addictiveness (Franklin 38). However, marijuana addictiveness is at the bottom of the list of 6 most common drugs and is still illegal whereas alcohol which has the highest level addiction, is legal in the most of the world. Rehman 7 The health risks associated with alcohol pose are a much greater. According to a report by World Health Organization, alcohol use can lead to several health issues such as High blood pressure, heart disease, stroke, liver illness and cancer in various body parts along with mental health problems such as dementia, depression, and (Organisation, 2014). In contrast, marijuana has some side effects like short-term memory loss, Hallucinations and sometimes if a person is high it can lead to a strange behavior. Moreover, cannabis is connected to schizophrenia and use of marijuana increases the risk for schizophrenia later on in life twofold. According to research conducted by Arseneault also suggests that elimination of marijuana use would reduce schizophrenia incidence among the population by approximately (Arseneault 110). However, the study further goes on to say that use of marijuana alone is not a sufficient or necessary cause of schizophrenia, but rather a component factor of various factors leading to psychosis. Apart from this, marijuana is not linked to any major diseases or health risks. In fact, there have been several types of research and studies on the health benefits of marijuana as it is believed it contains some ingredients that can serve as a cure for many diseases. In many countries, it is already being used for medicinal purposes including pain and stress relief. Finally, the risk of death from the two. For instance, according to a report by Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, year there are nearly 88,000 alcohol- related deaths in the U.S. and about half of these deaths occur due to excessive drinking or alcohol (Prevention 2016). Further, every year there are also several cases of accidents as a result of drink driving resulting in deaths. In contrast, number of reported Rehman 8 deaths caused by marijuana is almost zero, though there were 287 deaths linked to marijuana in 2014 but apart from 18 deaths from marijuana poisoning, others were due to drug-mixing i.e. the co-ingestion of a fatal combination of marijuana and some other toxin such as alcohol, an opioid, cocaine, or some other (Anderson 2016). As for marijuana poisoning, that is more likely to occur from smoking a dangerous strain of marijuana which are either not produced properly or have some chemicals mixed in them by the dealers. Therefore, as Wayne Hall asserts, the amount TCH in one joint, one would have to smoke over 238 joints in a single day to consume a fatal dose of TCH leading to death from overdose of (Hall, 19) an amount which is impossible to smoke in a single day. Looking at the points above, we can see that alcohol serves as a bigger gateway to other drugs, is more addictive and has both worse health effects and death rates as compared to marijuana. Marijuana is illegal in most parts of the world while alcohol, despite being the number one abused drug, is legal in most countries except where it is against the cultural or religious views. Considering the points above, I conclude that in this lengthy discussion on the two evils, I choose to side with the lesser evil which in my opinion is Marijuana. Rehman 9 Works Cited Anderson, Kenneth. Fatal Marijuana Overdose is NOT a Myth. 15 September 2016. 6 April 2017. Fergusson DM, Horwood LJ. Does cannabis use encourage other forms of illicit drug  Addiction 4.95 (2000): 500-520. Franklin, Deborah. Hooked: Why Everyone an  Health magazine 4.6 (1990): 38-52. Hall, Wayne. What has research over the past two decades revealed about the adverse health effects of recreational cannabis  Addiction 110.1 (2015): 19-35. Kirby,Tristan .Adam E. Barry. Alcohol as a Gateway Drug: A Study of US 12th  Journal of School health 82.8 (2012): 371-379. Louise Arseneault, Mary Cannon, John Witton, Robin M. Murray. Causal association between cannabis and psychosis: examination of the  The British Journal of Psychiatry 184.2 (2004): 110-117. Organisation, World Health. Global status report on alcohol and health. Geneva: World Health Organisation, 2014. Prevention, Centers for Disease Control and. Fact Sheets - Alcohol Use and Your Health. Atlanta, GA: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 2016