Rahman 1 Saif Rahman Bob Botkin ENC 1102 17 April 2017 Limiting refugees and immigrants in United States A refugee is referred to as a person who has fled war or persecution and is recognised as needing international protection because it is too threatening for them to return to their home country. They are protected under international law by the 1951 refugee convention, which defines what a refugee is and outlines the basic rights afforded to them (Travis 2). The United states has a long history with Immigration. During colonial era the United States experienced massive waves of immigration, it was a period from 1880s to 1920. The main reason immigrants came to the United States was for economic opportunity, religious freedom and most importantly to seek a better life. From the 17 th to 19 th hundred of thousands of African slaves came to America to work against their will. Another massive wave of immigrants came from China to work in United States, but later a federal legislation was put into work to restrict Chinese immigrants. This legislation was known as the 1882 Chinese exclusion Act. A law was passed down in 1965 which favoured European immigrants, but majority of immigrants are from Asia and Latin America (Travis 2). From 2011 to present, there has been another massive wave of immigration. Millions of people migrated from Syria to different parts of the world, most of them went to Europe to seek a better life. The United Nation Commissioner of Refugees (UNHCR) estimates that 6.5 million people were displaced from Syria. Most of the people were forced to leave their country because of the internal conflict in Syria. Due to civil war people were abandoning their homes, families, possessions and their social identity. They left everything they ever owned to walk towards an uncertain and terrifying future. People gain refugee status when one or more of their basic human rights are abused. As a human being it is ethical to help others in need and the international community should come together as one to aid the people in need. Syria was known as one of the most stable and prosperous nations in the Middle East, but now hundreds of innocent people die per day, thousands more finds their houses being destroyed, their Rahman 2 families torn a part, their future insecure. It is very difficult to migrate from one county to another county, often they do not get basic human needs like pure water, nutrition, and shelter. They walk hundreds of miles to cross boarders, to escape inevitable death only to get turned away by the other nation. According to UNHCR, over one million of refugees and migrants arrived in Europe by using small boats. They had to cross the vast sea in a small overcrowded boat and many people died in the process. The refugees pay the smugglers lots of money to transfer them to one country to another. Selling all their belongings and paying the smugglers even though they know they might get scammed. They lose everything that they owned and worked hard for. The main question is why should we care even for refugees even though this does not effect use directly? They are human and human beings deserve the basic right to live. What if we were in the same situation as them, those innocent people did not decide their known fate? People in the host country are scared that the refugees would steal their jobs, but the reality is that the people in Syria are not migrating to steal jobs but instead are migrating because they want a last shot at living (Alan 9). They have no option but to try to find a new place to live. There is a common misconception that immigrants and refugees are a burden to the host countries. Because of this misconception there is a big misunderstanding between the citizens of the host country and the refugees. This frequently misleads the actual reality and the statistics about this matter. Numerous research shows that due to the presence of refugees and immigrants, the economy of the host country increased significantly (Brett 3). The economy gets better due to the influx of people; this creates purchasing power, employments are created, and increases the provision of human capital. They improve the society by being involved in production, exchange, and development of the new businesses. When refugees and immigrants are given a chance to work they tend to perform better because they want to impress their new host society. Refugees and immigrants are willing to work more hours with a lower pay, this will benefit companies as the labour cost will decline. There are several ways, that general people can help the refugees in need. They make donation to a non-profit organisation known as World Relief. The organisation distributes welcome kits to refugees, creating child friendly spaces for children displaced by conflicts, they also provide psychosocial counselling to traumatized children and women arriving to the United States. This Rahman 3 organisation also helps the refugees to become independent and help integrate them to their new country. World Relief provides Welcome kits to the refugees. The welcome kit contains household items that refugees desperately need, such as kitchen, cleaning, and bathroom supplies, as well as items for children such as diapers, wet wipes and small toys. United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) is an international non-profit organisation and a part of United nations, general people can make a donation to help refugees in need. 30$ a month donated to UNHCR provide mats to keep 15 refugees from sleeping on the ground. 60$ a month can provide tarps to protect four family shelters from the weather. 100$ a month can provide essential medicine to 10 refugees. This small donation will mean a lot to the refugees and will provide basic human needs. People should take initiative to talk to their government representatives when refugees are denied entry to their country. Civil war in Syria lead millions of people in despair, they lost their family, house, possessions and most importantly their social identity. The international community should come together to resolve this crisis. A refugee must have the right to safe asylum. However, international protection compromises more than physical safety. According to the international law refugees should receive the same basic rights as any other foreigner who is a legal resident, including freedom of thought, of movement, and freedom from torment and demeaning treatment. . Rahman 4 . Work cited Hong, Gihoon. Examining the U.S. Labor Market Performance of Immigrant Workers in the Presence of Network  Journal of Labor Research, vol. 36, no. 1, 2015, pp. 9-26. Hunt, Jennifer. Immigrants the Most Skilled US Computer and Engineering Journal of Labour Economics, vol. 33, 2015, pp. 30-77. Matsongou, Elizabeth. are an Economic Benefit, Not a Burden, in World finance.http://www.worldfinance.com/infrastructure-investment/governmentpolicy/refugees- are-an-economic-benefit-not-burden-to-europe. Accessed 29 February 2017. Rissing, Ben A., and Castella, EMILIO J. Testing Attestations: U.S. Unemployment and Immigrant Work  Industrial & Labor Relations Review, vol. 69, 2016, p. 1081. Ross, Ashley D., and Stella M. Rouse. Economic Uncertainty, Job Threat, and the Resiliency of the Millennial Attitudes toward  Social Science Quarterly (Wiley- Blackwell), vol. 96, no. 5, 2015, pp. 1363-7