Reges 1 Caroline Reges Maria Theodosiou ENC 1102.05 26 February 2017 Advertisements of the World Wildlife Fund Humans have had a huge impact on animals and the environment in a negative way, and now people are trying to undo the mistakes that have been made. The World Wildlife Fund (WWF) is a large conservation group that wants to nature and reduce the most pressing threats to the diversity of life on Mission). They work with existing conservation groups that help fulfill their motto and give them funding. The World Wildlife advertisement support their mission. Their advertisement of Tarzan in the jungle swinging into a field of chopped down trees shows their support for the rainforest. Their advertisement of an elephant that is half elephant half skeleton shows their support against poaching and preventing the elephants from going extinct. Using the elements of logos, ethos, pathos, kairos, and logical fallacies, the mission of conserving nature and threats to diversity can be seen. The World Wildlife Fund (WWF) spends a lot of their time and money conserving the environment and the creatures that live in it. In 1961, a group of 16 of the leading conservationists, going by the name the Morges Manifesto, realized that the expertise to protect the world environment existed, the financial support to achieve this protection did Ever since, they have continued to grow, and are now active in 100 countries around the world (History). Their main focus is to protect species and their habitats. They are also able to do this by helping communities understand ways to conserve their resources. They want to spread the Reges 2 word about what they are doing to get more people to believe in their cause. The World Wildlife Fund tries to be as effective as possible, so when choosing which project to implement first, they use an ecoregion approach based on factors such as the plant and animal species living there (Allnutt 343). They really are passionate about their cause, and try to work productively to help the environment. The logic behind an argument must be within an advertisement to help them understand what is going on. Logos focuses on consistency and clarity of an and the and evidence of (Hoffman 32), which can be seen in the two advertisements shown. In the Tarzan photo, it shows a field full of tree stumps. It also shows a city off in the distance, and a construction vehicle heading towards the trees. This brings the reader to the conclusion that all the trees being chopped down in the rainforest was caused by humans. Showing Tarzan swinging into the chopped down field proves to the reader that these trees being chopped down is a problem, not just for Tarzan, but all the animals in the rainforest. Tarzan needs the vines to move around, and with nothing else to grab onto, he would just fall a significant distance onto the ground. They give evidence for this by stating how 2 of rain forest disappears every This proves to the reader that this is an issue. In the elephant photo, it shows an elephant with the skin on back half gone, and the part that still has skin is fading away. This allows the reader to realize that the elephants are disappearing because of humans, and if they all disappear, then all that will be left is their skeleton in museums. This is also stated in the caption above the elephant, but the image really enforces it. Both images support the goal to save the animals and the environment, by showing the reader the problems caused by humans within the environment. The elements of logos within the advertisements shows the reader their main goal within their advertisement. Reges 3 In order for the audience to support a cause, they need to believe that the people behind it can actually make an impact. The method of ethos can be seen as an appeal to (Hoffman 27). The logo on the Tarzan advertisement shows the reader that they can look up their website to find out more information to learn about the issue. The elephant advertisement states how they have years of experience in elephant There is also a logo and URL at the bottom of the page that leads the reader to their website. Both of these relate to the goal of spreading the word about what they are doing and what causes they support. This lets the reader know that the people behind this advertisement are an official organization, and they can go to their website to find out more information if they need more proof relating to the organization or the issue. The use of ethos shows that the reader can believe in what the organization is saying. When looking for pathos, it can be seen being to draw in the audience and help them (Hoffman 37). The image shows Tarzan swinging on a branch into a field of chopped down trees. Tarzan is an iconic TV show character, and any viewers who knew of him or who watched his show would relate and feel scared seeing Tarzan flying into nothing. The background behind him is a cloudy sky, and the clouds right behind Tarzan are especially dark. This shows how bleak and hopeless his future is as the jungle keeps getting cut down. The image with the elephant shows the elephant as half elephant, half skeleton. The elephant is looking forward, and seemingly looks happy while more and more of its body is fading away, just leaving skeleton. The elephant does not know what is coming for it, while the reader does. This makes the reader upset knowing what is going to happen to the elephant. Both images are divided in the middle, to show a before and after. On the Tarzan picture, the left side shows the rainforest, which is full of life and color, while the right side shows chopped down trees and a Reges 4 city that is producing smoke, and the whole image is just dark. In the elephant image, the left side shows a whole elephant with vegetation in the background. The right side shows an elephant skeleton, and a brick wall background. Both of these images are divided to show the reader what is happening, and to make them fear what potentially could happening if the destruction of animals and the environment continues. The audience for these pictures is anyone who is old enough to understand what is happening in the photo, and realize that these issues were caused by humans. All of these elements relate to the mission of conserving nature and reducing the most pressing threats to the environment because they make the reader feel upset and want to take action. All of these elements relate back to the World Wildlife main focus, to protect species and their habitats. Kairos is known as appeal to (Hoffman 41), something that needs to get done within a reasonable amount of time, which can be seen within the two advertisements. At the bottom of the Tarzan picture, it talks about how km 2 of rainforest disappears every If the reader were to think about this for awhile, they would realize how much of the rainforest is chopped down every hour, every day. This makes the reader want to take action because they can realize how extreme this amount of tree-chopping is. At the top of the advertisement, it says you making the reader realize that they have to start acting now, because there is not much time. At the bottom of the photo, it states how one can action through Conservation Action to help speak out for animals and their habitat to help their cause. It is placed at the bottom of the photo because it assumes the reader has read everything else on the page. They only would have done that if they really felt passionate about this cause after looking at the advertisement and wanted to help. All of these elements relate to the goal of getting people to support their cause. Reges 5 The slippery slope fallacy states that if one event happens, then other events will happen as well (Logical Fallacies). The elephant picture states how you wait, the only place to see an elephant will be a So, waiting and not taking action to save the elephants will cause the elephants to go extinct. This relates to goal of getting others to support their cause, because the reader will realize how urgent the issue is, and want to take action. Ad Populum is a fallacy that focuses on the positive or negative parts of an argument than the real issue(Logical Fallacies). In the advertisement of Tarzan, it shows a massive amount of trees cut down, and then a city in the distance. This picture is implying that the humans are the cause for all of the trees being cut down and the reason Tarzan is going to land on nothing. This is part of it, but this is not the main issue, which is that humans need to be planting more trees and need to conserve resources. They are making people feel guilty without offering a solution. This relates to mission of trying to conserve nature by being more resourceful. Both advertisements do support the World Wildlife mission and main goals. Both photos influence the reader by trying to show them what reality is and leaving them feeling shocked. The first picture really proves how extreme the amount of rain forest being cut down is. The second picture shows how close we are to elephants becoming extinct. Both of these leave an impact on the reader and make them want to take action. Both images are divided into a and format to show how humans have impacted the earth, and what can happen if people do noFt take action against it. When looking at the two advertisements, the elements of logos, ethos, pathos, kairos, and logical fallacies can be seen to prove the effectiveness of the advertisement itself. The World Wildlife Fund conserve nature and reduce threats to diversity, and with these well-made Reges 6 advertisements they were able to promote their cause and get more people to support what they believe in. Works Cited World Wildlife Fund, http://www.worldwildlife.org/about/history. 26 February 2017. Hoffman, Allyson, and Wiggs, Kimber. Rhetoric (Really) Matters. XanEdu, 2006. Purdue University, 11 March 2016. Reges 7 Allnutt, T., Balmford, A., Burgess, A., Moore, J. costs into conservation planning across Biological Conservation,117, 3, 2004, 343-350. Wildlife Fund, http://www.worldwildlife.org/. 26 February 2017. Reges 8