Jachimek 1 Ben Jachimek Kristin Gockinski ENC 1102.012 3 May 2017 Boeing: Exploring Nuclear Energy and its benefits Everyone who was alive at the time remembers where they were when Chernobyl melted down. This nuclear accident alone has created the hugely negative image of nuclear energy that still exists today, due to the 100 square mile exclusion zone in Ukraine which will be uninhabitable for centuries. Nuclear mishaps such as this have even created groups more opposed to nuclear power than coal plants which pump nearly three billion tons of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere annually (Sims 1317). The fact of the matter is that carbon pollution is a very pressing issue that be solved by developing technologies such as renewable energy. The only developed technology that could effectively replace coal and natural gas is nuclear energy, which produces zero carbon emissions and is far safer than the average American perceives it to be. American aeronautic company Boeing can benefit from researching nuclear reactors because they can make a profit from their designs by selling them to other companies/organization, such as the Duke Energy and the U.S. military, as well as benefit the earth, which is a main goal of the organization. Carbon emissions are more of a menace than most think, as emissions from coal plants not only contribute to global warming, but also pose health problems to humans. Douglas Dockery, an author for the New England Journal of Medicine, has found that coal plant byproducts are linked to decreased life expectancy and emphysema in populates areas surrounding the plant (Dockery 1754-5). These health complications are only projected to get Jachimek 2 worse, as annual coal plant emissions measure around 2.3 billion tons (Sims 1317). In order to prevent further damage or even start reversing this impending environmental disaster, converting to nuclear energy would reduce annual carbon emissions, while still ensuring the safety of the people surrounding these plants. Looking at other issues regarding energy and human wellbeing, the issue of urban expansion- once certain population marks are hit, cities grow exponentially over time and need equally high energy output to sustain themselves (Henderson 290). Those looking to combat these issues typically lean towards renewable energy, such as hydro-electric, solar, and wind power; however, they are said to be highly-site specific, meaning each location could have a varying output of energy and storage and/or back-up to guarantee reliable power (Sims 1318). Thus, to allow all types of geographical areas to generate energy without limiting city growth or creating as much carbon emissions, nuclear energy is an effective option. Being one of the largest aeronautic companies in the world, Boeing is known for making the iconic 747 airliner widely used throughout the world as a commercial airliner, as well as the DC-10 used by FedEx and UPS to ship mail across the nation. Boeing has the mission statement of making more environmentally friendly aircrafts and building better communities by making investments and thoughtful advocacy On their 2015 environmental report, it was shown that from 2012 to 2015 they cut down their hazardous waste generation by 10%, and greenhouse gas emission by 8% Report Executive proving that the organization is not afraid to take steps towards a cleaner environment. Along with this, Boeing has been putting a lot of effort into researching advanced materials, aeronautics, and space exploration, making the research sector well versed and well-funded. Knowing all of this, the company would be a perfect candidate for engaging Jachimek 3 themselves in the field of nuclear energy, because it would reflect the motives of the organization and strengthen the efforts they have already made. engagement in this topic could be the big push needed to start transitioning to nuclear energy. If a large corporation such as Boeing begins to fund research into smaller, more efficient reactors, they could revolutionize the energy industry. primary competitor, Lockheed Martin, has announced their devotion of funds to researching fusion energy. As stated on their page, Martin systems are currently operating aboard all U.S. Navy submarines and aircraft carriers deployed Because Boeing had a response to this groundbreaking statement, the organization is most likely losing a huge corporate opportunity, which should spur them to take action. Possibly the bigger benefit to Boeing getting involved in nuclear energy is the reduced amount of waste they could generate, which supports their goals for more energy-efficient alternatives. Nuclear waste is a very tough form of waste to process and dispose of, to the point that American legislators are trying to make plans to create a national waste repository capable of storing nuclear waste for centuries until it is safe to dispose of (Rechard 55). Researchers are looking into reactors that can use already depleted uranium as fuel, and Boeing could easily jump ahead if they are willing to put forth the resources. In turn, this technology will continue to pave the way for future nuclear safety. As said by Norman Rasmussen in his executive report of commercial reactor risk, with other technologies, such as automobiles and aircraft for example, generally shows that, as more units are built and more experience is gained, the overall safety record improves in terms of fewer accidents occurring per (Rasmussen 11). Boeing, as one of the largest aircraft manufacturers in the world, would surely stand to benefit Jachimek 4 promoting this research because not only would it fulfill their goals, but also fulfill energy needs for the companies they produce aircraft for, such as the United States military. Boeing, in knowing that there are monetary and environmental benefits, could take steps to becoming involved- such as incorporating nuclear energy into their research and development program, promoting/using nuclear energy for their own corporation, and selling reactor designs to other organizations. They would first need to look at the current needs of power companies and the military to gauge how fast this technology needs to be developed, and where exactly to focus their efforts. They could do this by comparing energy usage of companies and the military over the past couple years by obtaining reports, and then researching designs that would surpass these requirements. They would also need to hire a team of nuclear physicists, engineers, and other specialized personnel to have a well-rounded team specializing in the nuclear field. Because of their it would directly allow engineers to take nuclear energy and apply them to accelerated testing and development After investing and researching nuclear energy, the company could then use this technology to power their own plants. Finally, begin selling their patented reactor designs to energy companies as a safer, smaller, and cheaper alternative to the current reactors, which cost hundreds of millions of dollars to construct. To sell these designs they would need to figure out exactly how to market them and find out which points are the easiest to sell to the market targeting. Boeing is one of the corporate giants of aircraft design and production, and has existed for over a century. Nuclear energy is a technology that can help change the world and help begin reversing the damage done to it. With steps an organization like Boeing could take, there would be more benefits, such as increased safety and efficiency, reduced construction costs, and reduced health risks. Boeing is at the forefront of all the fields they choose to research, but now Jachimek 5 they have the opportunity to invest in something much larger than spacecraft or advanced materials. They have the opportunity to do serious damage to carbon emissions. All they need to do is step forward and choose to save the world. Jachimek 6 Works Cited Our Boeing, www.boeing.com/principles/. Accessed 3 May 2017. Environment Report Executive Boeing, www.boeing.com/principles/environment/report.page. Accessed 3 May 2017. Dockery, Douglas W et. all. An Association between Air Pollution and Mortality in Six U.S.  Journal of Occupational and Environmental Medicine, vol. 37, no. 2, 1995, p. 136., doi:10.1097/00043764-199502000-00008. Accessed 3 May 2017. Henderson, J. V. et. all. Urbanization and City Growth: the Role of  Regional Science and Urban Economics, vol. 37, no. 3, 2007, pp. doi:10.1016/j.regsciurbeco.2006.11.008. Accessed 3 May 2017. Systems - Lockheed Martin, www.lockheedmartin.com/us/what-we- do/energy/mfc-nuclear-systems.html. Accessed 3 May 2017. Rechard, Rob of repository and waste package designs for Yucca Mountain disposal system for spent nuclear fuel and high-level radioactive Reliability Engineering and System Safety, 2002, doi:10.2172/823255. Accessed 3 May 2017. Rasmussen, Norman C. safety study. An assessment of accident risks in U.S. commercial nuclear power plants. Executive International Nuclear Information System, vol. 35, no. 26, Oct. 1975, pp. doi:10.2172/7134133 Accessed 3 May 2017. Sims, Ralph E.h., et al. emission and mitigation cost comparisons between fossil fuel, nuclear and renewable energy resources for electricity Energy Policy, vol. 31, no. 13, 2003, pp. doi:10.1016/s0301-4215(02)00192-1. Accessed 3 May 2017. Jachimek 7