Buck 1 Alicia Buck Professor Campbell ENC 1102 April 18, 2017 The Nutritious Quality of School Lunches Must Improve It is proven healthy school lunches lead to lower childhood obesity, increased focus in school, and overall a greater understanding of health and wellness. In order to achieve this, the USDA formed the National School Lunch Program, a federally funded lunch service aimed at providing healthy lunches to over 100,000 schools around the country (Gurley 390). The commitment to provide food assistance and nutritional education dates back to early to the mid-nineteen hundred. During this time in history, America was experiencing widespread unemployment due to The Great Depression. According to the USDA this left of school children to pay for their school lunches, and limited family resources to provide meals at (USDA). The mission as defined by the USDA was safeguard the health and well-being of the (USDA). This message still holds true today as the USDA fights to increase funding and improve the weak nutritional standards in school systems. As childhood obesity continues to rise, the time has come for the country to stand behind the USDA and support an increase the nutritious quality of school lunches. In order to do this the general public needs to become more informed on the National School Lunch Program then they must work to educate others in the community on the issue and persuade school personnel and district representatives to take action on the issue. In order for progress to be made, it is essential to understand the current context of the NSLP in the public school system. Since the creation of the NSLP, there has also been Buck 2 controversy on whether or not the programs benefits outweigh the costs, making compromise between proponents and opponents challenging. In 2004, Congress mandated schools issue wellness policies and lunches according to the nutrition standards in order to receive federal reimbursement. An even larger attempt of compromise occurred in 2010 when The Healthy Hunger-Free Kids Act (HHFKA) was implemented by Congress giving the USDA the power to update fifteen-year old nutrition standards. While the act was largely accepted by Democrats in Congress, Republicans fought to oppose the HHFKA. As a result of this opposition changes were made issuing a rider, or amendment, to the HHFKA in 2012 that to reduce the cost rather than increase or maintain the (Gurley 395). Among these changes includes shortcuts to bypass the daily required amount of fruits and vegetables. Prior to the 2012 rider schools were limited to serving one cup of starchy vegetables, such as potatoes, corn and peas per week. However, after the rider the one cup ban was lifted meaning schools could provide children with large amounts of potatoes products that are high in carbohydrates, fat content, and have little nutritional value. Another negative change included in the rider was the addition of tomato paste counting towards the weekly vegetable content. With this change, unhealthy pizza lunches can be distributed in large amounts and still be counted towards the required three-fourths cup requirement of vegetables. It is clear from the addition of these riders that priory of reducing costs is not done with the best interest of health in mind. Therefore, now is the time to educate and inform those in the community and school system about the need for reform of the 2012 HHFKA standards. Among the many benefits of reforming the current NSLP, one of the most important is that an improvement in the nutritious quality of school lunches would greatly benefit the overall health of students. According to The Center for Disease Control and Prevention nearly twenty Buck 3 percent of school age children are considered obese. one out of every five children. Children who suffer from obesity are three times as likely to suffer from diabetes and run the risk of increased likelihood of heart conditions and cancers later in life. Besides, physical health obesity is a disease that has a direct impact on social and emotional health as well. Those whom are considered obese bullied and teased more than their normal weight peers, [thus they more likely to suffer from social isolation, depression, and lower (Geel). Now you might be thinking how can improving the nutritious quality of school lunches change all this? Well for starters, school lunches account for one third to one half of daily calorie intake (Schanzenbach). Therefore, health is directly influenced by what they consume each day at lunch. Already, implications of the HHFKA have increased student consumption of vegetables by 16.2% (Union of Concerned Scientists). This proves increased availably of healthy foods directly correlates to increased consumption of these types of foods, which children need to have a well-balanced diet and overall well-being. As previously stated, the main opposition to the NSLP is reluctance to spend more of the national budget. However, investing more in the NSLP is the best obesity preventative technique as the program has the scope and power to influence over thirty million eating habits. The U.S estimated annual health care costs on obesity related illness is $190.2 billion (Cawley). This is colossal in comparison to the 11.6 billion of the national budget that is spent on the NSLP each year (USDA). Overall, if more attention and funding was given to the NSLP health would greatly benefit thus reducing the rate of obesity experienced later on in life and reducing health care costs by billions. In order for improvement of the NSLP to take place, parents and school personnel must take action now to safeguard the health of the children. These individuals must hold Buck 4 congress accountable for decreasing the nutritious quality of school lunches thus increasing childhood obesity. A key way one can do this is by reaching out to agricultural legislators as they are responsible for the improvement and passing of all nutrition related acts, including the HHFKA. Another way to get involved is to reach out to school board leaders to ensure that they are behind the cause and work to appropriate the local school budget to maximize the NSLP. A key way one can do this and have a voice is by joining a school or Parent Teacher Association (PTA). At the simplest level anyone can become involved by spreading the NSLP campaign via social media. By showing your support online you are implying to others that the NSLP is a worthy cause while informing them on the issue and provoking them to take stake in the issue as well. As childhood obesity continues to exceed an all-time high the time is now to make school lunches healthier. After all, children consume one third to one half of their daily calorie intake in the school cafeteria. In return, increasing the nutritious quality of school lunches will reduce likelihood of developing diabetes, heart conditions, and cancers later in life. Equally, as important healthier children are happier as they have higher self-esteem and experience less depression. Overall, increasing the nutritious quality of school lunches is something each individual directly involved in the nurturing of futures should avidly invest in. Buck 5 Works Cited Cawley, John, and Chad Meyerhoefer. Medical Care Costs of Obesity: An Instrumental Variables 2010, doi:10.3386/w16467. Geel, M Van, et al. Overweight and Obese Youths More Often Bullied by Their Peers? A Meta-Analysis on the Relation between Weight Status and International Journal of Obesity, vol. 38, no. 10, Aug. 2014, pp. doi:10.1038/ijo.2014.117. Gurley, Kristie. The Health of It: How The Quantified Health Benefits of The USDA Nutrition Standards Justify Reauthorization and Increased Funding for School Meal Harvard Journal On Legislation, vol. 53, no. 1, 2016, pp. School Lunch Program Food and Nutrition Service, USDA, www.fns.usda.gov/nslp/national-school-lunch-program-nslp. Accessed 18 Apr. 2017. NLC. League of Cities Institute for Youth, Education & Healthy Communities for a Healthy Future Economic Costs of Obesity Comments, National League of Citizens, www.healthycommunitieshealthyfuture.org/learn-the- facts/economic-costs-of-obesity/. Accessed 15 Apr. 2017. Scarmo, Stephanie. School Lunches Improve The Pew Charitable Trusts, 1 Dec. 2015, www.pewtrusts.org/en/research-and- analysis/analysis/2015/12/01/healthy-school-lunches-improve-kids- Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. Schanzenbach, Diane Whitmore. School Lunches Contribute to Childhood Journal of Human Resources, vol. 44, no. 3, 2009, pp. doi:10.1353/jhr.2009.0021. Buck 6 Union of Concerned Citizens. from the Union of Concerned Scientists, www.ucsusa.org/food-agriculture/expand-healthy-food-access/lessons-lunchroom-childhood- obesity-school-lunch#.WPZw1lele9Y. Accessed 15 Apr. 2017.