Potter 1 Harry Potter ENC 1102 Kristen Rouisse 12 April 2017 Protesting to Lower the Drinking Age Lowering or raising the drinking age has been a hot discussion throughout society in recent years. Many young adults would like to lower the drinking age while older adults would like to raise the drinking age. Unfortunately, young lives are taken daily because of hard alcohol, and drinking driving. Mothers against Drunk Driving believe the reason young lives are taken so much from alcohol is because of how irresponsible they are (MADD). Whereas, the National Youth Rights Association believes if the age is lowered for soft alcohol than the lives of young adults will decrease. countries have very little drinking problems and because they learned it at such a young age, do not view it as a poison substance, and agree to not abuse the (NYRA). Therefore, because drinking takes so many young adults lives, young adults and teens should take the action to help lower the drinking age so that the deaths of young adults decrease. In the first place, the lives that have been taken from underage drinking is a serious issue. The teens and young adults are drinking so much because they typically see others doing it. As explained, see lots of people consuming various (Julie). The article, 8 Reasons Why Teens Try Alcohol and also states it could be because of rebellion as explained, is the drug of choice for the angry teenage because it frees him to behave If the drinking age was lowered than this act of rebellious would not happen. Potter 2 Also, stated by the NYRA, greater acceptance of moderate amounts of drinking for younger people will reduce the (NYRA). From the age group of 12 to 20, 7.7 million people have had at least more than a sip of alcohol as explained by National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism. At the age of 18, these young adults can join the military, vote, get married and even buy Tabaco. Thus, if young adults can take on these responsibilities than they should be allowed to drink. Military is a big thing for young adults and many of them will drink in other countries, but allowed to in their home country. The U.S is giving 18 year olds the right to fight in war and sacrifice their life, but have the right to drink alcohol. Parents want the drinking age to stay the same or raised, but will get drunk in front of their children. As stated before, young adults will drink because they see their peers doing it. A lot of these young adults are also going to college and have a job. Some weeks can be extremely busy for these young adults. So, why they have a little alcohol to be stress-free from it all? Furthermore, in many other countries, the right to drinking alcohol is not as big of an issue. Around 115 states have the minimum legal drinking age at 18 to 19 years of age. As explained by, Minimum Legal Drinking Age (MLDA) in 190 Countries, about 61 percent of countries have the legal age set at 18 to 19. Although these countries allow drinking at a young age, they teach them to do it in moderation. If other countries can do this than the U.S can do the same. The U.S could lower the drinking age for only soft alcohol to make it more plausible for parents. Soft alcohol could be considered beer or wine, whereas hard alcohol is the and many more. The article by Mary Kate Cary explains that if the age was lowered, then college students would have less binge drinking, and only drinking beer would be much Potter 3 better than taking shots while in college (Time to lower the drinking age). If the U.S can teach young adults and teens to drink in moderation with soft alcohol than by lowering the drinking age, young lives will be saved. In addition, there are many ways to get the word out about lowering the drinking age and volunteering, social media use and protesting around the country seems to be the best for society. The NYRA have already started taking steps on protesting around the country. The NYRA protested so much during the time of the 2016 election, Massachusetts voters could vote on whether the drinking age should be changed (NYRA). Issues like, legalizing marijuana, have been successfully done because of all the protesting around the country. An article by Katie Rooney explains that students are going around protesting wherever they can. In Students Protest drinking age, Rooney also states, is unfair that 18 year olds are out sacrificing their life in war, but have a (Students protest drinking age). Young adults and teens need to take these volunteering opportunities to help protest. By volunteering for other issues, grabbing the attention of those issues can bring more people to protest for lowering the drinking age. Also, by volunteering for other issues, it can show how responsible young adults are. social media will be a big key to getting young adults to come out to protest. Young adults like to use social media; therefore, the use of social media can get the attention of young adults. Lastly, the main target for lowering the drinking age are the parents and older adults. Protesting is the key for grabbing their attention. Since the older adults and parents do not use social media as much as the young adults than protesting is the way to get the attention of the non-stakeholders. More young adults and teens need to take the action, like the NYRA and others, to volunteering, using social media and protesting for lowering the drinking age. If more volunteering, social media use, and protesting Potter 4 continues than lowering the drinking age could become possible and the deaths of young lives could decrease. All things considered, At the age of 18, young adults can vote, join military, buy tobacco, and even get married, but cannot have a sip of alcohol until the age of 21. By lowering the drinking age for soft alcohol, it can be an opportunity that could help the society. Young adults and teens are drinking alcohol because they are rebellious and see others doing it. By lowering the drinking age for soft alcohol, the rebellion for alcohol will disappear and the deaths of young lives will decrease. Also, by lowering the drinking age, teaching others to drink moderately will save lives. Volunteering and using social media is a way of getting others to join the fight of lowering the drinking age. Most of all, young adults and teens will have to take the action to protest so that the lowering of the drinking becomes possible. Young lives can be saved by lowering the drinking age, so taking the action by volunteering, using social media and to protest, is a necessity! Word Count- 1,203 Potter 5 Works Cited Booker-Pamata, Domenick. Lower the Drinking Age to  The Sundial. N.p., 23 Feb. 2011. Web. 13 Apr. 2017. Julie. Top 8 Reasons Why Teens Try Alcohol and  Partnership for Drug-Free Kids - Where Families Find Answers. N.p., 13 Feb. 2017. Web. 13 Apr. 2017. MADD. MADD - Underage  MADD - Underage Drinking. N.p., n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Minimum Legal Drinking Age (MLDA) in 190 Countries - Minimum Legal Drinking Age -  Should the Drinking Age Be Lowered from 21 to a Younger Age? N.p., 10 Mar. 2016. Web. 13 Apr. 2017. NYRA.  National Youth Rights Association. NYRA, n.d. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Rooney, Katie. Students Protest Drinking  The GW Hatchet. N.p., 1 Mar. 2004. Web. 13 Apr. 2017. Underage Drinking Has Declined Significantly, Study Finds (with  National Institutes of Health. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, n.d. Web. 13 Apr. 2017.