Conklin 1 Makenzi Conklin ENC 1102 Kristen Roussie April 27th 2017 Legalizing Prostitution What would happen if someone was assaulted while working? They would go to the police and tell them what happened. For sex workers this is not the case, as they would go to jail before the police could even think about investigating the assault. Whether one is for or against the legalization of prostitution, it cannot be denied that it is wrong that sex workers cannot receive help from a physical assault. Many people are opposed to prostitution because they feel that keeping it illegal protects the women from being exploited into unconsented sex work. Some even go as far to call it and believe that the criminalization of it needs to be increased in order to eradicate it (Fischer 6). Sex trafficking is a problem that could potentially arise with legalizing sex work, however proponents of changing the law believe that it would be very controlled and restricted as to lessen the chance for women to be trafficked. Legalizing sex work could also reduce the negative stigma of sex work. Women in particular should care about legalizing prostitution even if they are not participants or necessarily agree with their job, so that the women that do participate are kept safe. They can help by donating to foundations, such as Amnesty International, spend time protesting for change, or writing to legislatures to try to change laws against prostitution. The biggest problem affecting women in the sex work industry is the fact that they are likely to be abused or assaulted. Around 70% of women that participate in this industry are raped Conklin 2 (Farley). Since prostitution is considered illegal in the United States, with the exception of portions of Nevada, women are unable to report when a crime has been committed against them while working. If they file a report to the police, they would be arrested for prostitution and could potentially be held longer than their offender. Due to this, many women are unable to speak out against assault, which is not only traumatic for them, but it also gives the public wrong information about sexual assault. The current statistic is that one out of every five women are raped (RAINN). However if sex workers were able to report their assault without facing criminal charges, the number would be much higher. It is important that the public receives correct information about sexual assault so that people can understand the severity and do something about it, as well as have more women come forward potentially. Reports have shown that legalizing indoor prostitution reduced sexually transmitted diseases and violence against sex workers (Elias 4). Countries such as Amsterdam have legalized prostitution in their Red Light District. They have reported that legalizing prostitution has created a safer environment for women to work in, as they can not easily be assaulted in a public business area. The workers are also required to be tested for sexually transmitted diseases often, this way the women who are working as well as the men that participate are kept safe and clean (Amsterdam Prostitutes). Illegal prostitution not only keeps the women involved unsafe, but it also thrusts them into poverty if they are arrested. If a woman is arrested for prostitution she will not be able to access public housing or healthcare which is problematic when she no longer has a source of income. Then she would have problems trying to find a source of income, as it is extremely hard for women who are convicted of a crime to find a job, as many employers will not hire people with criminal records. Thus, the women are thrown into poverty and can become homeless. Conklin 3 Along with this, no income means that a woman would also have trouble accessing healthcare. Sex workers should be routinely tested and not allowing them access to healthcare just adds to the number of women and men with sexually transmitted diseases. Women that are convicted also receive no protection from attacks or robbery (Fischer 6). Women should not be denied of basic rights, such as healthcare, housing, and protection. If prostitution was legalized, or even decriminalized, women would have access to these necessities. Legalizing prostitution would not only increases the safety and health of women, but it could also help to break the negative stigma of sex work. Some people will always have negative opinions towards sex work and the women involved, but their opinions should not jeopardize the safety of women who decide to do this for a job. The stigma of sex work making women unfit for professional jobs later cause many women to blur out their faces on websites they use so they would not be recognized if they pursue a career later in life. However, this can cause women to lose half of the money they would be earning if they showed their face (Saul 16). Women should be able to show their faces for their jobs, and also for safety purposes. For sex work to become normalized, it first must become a legal practice, so that people take it seriously. There are many women who agree with prostitution however they should care about keeping the women who do it safe since it is their personal decision as to whether they want to do it or not. The job is not hurting anyone, as it is consensual between two parties. If people do not agree with sex work that is okay, but their opinions should not inhibit the safety of the workers and while it remains illegal it will continue to be an unsafe practice. There are quite a few groups that women could donate to in order to try to change the laws against prostitution, one of them being Amnesty International. They are an international Conklin 4 group that advocates for human rights for all. They act through research, advocating and lobbying, and campaigns (Murphy). If women donate to this organization the money would go to getting women out of human trafficking and help group members that are petitioning for change. Instead of donating, women can also participate in marches and demonstrations. There are marches that are frequently held in large cities that women can participate in. There are also marches for survivors of sexual assault, and the more people that participate in these means that they can have signs advocating for the legalization of sex work. Another way to help would be to contact local government officials and legislature and state their opinion to legalize prostitution. They may not always listen to one or two people, but if a large group tells legislatures how they feel, there could be a change in laws. Women that participate in sex work are humans, and should be treated as such. Currently they are exploited and kept in unsafe and unhealthy positions due to the laws. They are constantly being assaulted because men know that they will receive no reprimands since very few women in that line of work report for fear of being arrested. This in turn promotes fear and unsafe and unhealthy conditions for the women. Even if one does not agree with prostitution, they should advocate for the legalization of it so that women can be protected and kept safe. By donating time, money, and contacting legislatures, women can be the change to help keep sex workers safe. Word Count: 1220 Conklin 5 Works Cited Amsterdam  Travel N.p., 2009. Web. 27 Apr. 2017. Elias, Julio J., et al. Markets and Morals: An Experimental Survey  vol. 10, no. 6, June 2015, pp. 1-13. Farley, Melissa. Prostitution and Human  of Trauma n. pag. Web. 13 Apr. 2017. Fischer, Anne Gray. Sex-Work and the Law. (Cover  Review of vol. 30, no. 5, Sep/Oct2013, pp. 6-7. Murphy, Catherine. Sex Rights Are Human  N.p., 14 Aug. 2015. Web. 27 Jan. 2017  N.p., n.d. Web. 27 Jan. 2017. Saul, Josh. My Hooker Has a  vol. 167, no. 12, 30 Sept. 2016, pp. 16-17.