Schmitt 1 Hayden T. Schmitt Ms. Angelica Aranda ENC 1102-033 5 February 2017 Rhetoric in Truth Campaign Against Smoking The Truth is an organization whose interest is in informing the public about the dangers of smoking tobacco in order to end smoking, and with it smoking-related deaths. Their website states that their goal is big tobacco. always been about exposing big and manipulation and while they keep adapting their tactics, we keep it (The Truth, Pg. 1) In the selected advertisements, Truth implements all four rhetorical approaches including logos, pathos, ethos and kairos, in order to convince the viewer to not begin or to quit smoking tobacco. By utilizing this form of strong rhetoric, Truth aims to scare the public out of smoking tobacco, by co-presenting tobacco and human death. Historically, the Truth has been a significant opponent for the tobacco companies. Truth is a branch of Truth Initiative, a non-profit organization that receives both donated and government funds in order to inform the public about the dangers of smoking in order to prevent smoking related death. Truth Initiative was formed in 1999 as the American Legacy Foundation until their name change in 2015 (Truth Initiative, Pg. 1). They produce advertisements, hold rallies, and propose and promote legislation that would either further public information, or eliminate methods for, those they call from selling their product to the public. In 2014 they began their campaign which focuses on preventing teenagers from smoking, by presenting the ways that big tobacco companies are manipulating their age group through ads, and presents statistics about how tobacco influences that age group. Liz Szabo, a writer for USA Schmitt 2 Today, states in her article launches anti-smoking ads aimed at that Truth is credited with preventing 450,000 teens from smoking from 2000 to 2004 (Szabo, Pg. 1). They are able to reach this type of result with clever and widespread advertising campaigns, such as the type presented in the images. The first image is a pair of feet sticking out from under a white sheet, on top of a white covered table with a black background. One foot has a toe tag that states The banner states a statistics that 440.000 Americans die each year from diseases related to and of them stated as teen (Amusing Fun, Pg. 1). The strongest sense of rhetoric being used here is pathos, the emotional appeal. The body under the sheet is a dead one. The toe tag is designed to look similar to a cigarette carton but used as the toe tag you get in a morgue to identify the body. The black background and dead body give a grim feeling to the viewer and plays on the natural human fear of death. The feet are also smooth, making them look like young feet, but large so not like a baby or a child, meaning that the death has affected a young person, rather than the older smoker who we normally think about being affected. The phrase on the toe tag is very blunt and direct. It sums up the bleak and scary image they are trying to associate with smoking cigarettes, in the hopes to prevent young people from smoking them. The name of the organization placed in the bottom right corner of the ad provides an ethos rhetorical appeal. Labeling themselves is a statement in itself. They are telling you the reality of smoking while and culture are feeding you lies. By establishing themselves as the teller of the truth, they now present that truth in the form of statistics. Their logos appeal is the fact of American deaths that occur each year from smoking. The supplement to that fact about many of them starting as teens, directs the ad towards young people since they are the ones being hooked by this drug. The ad also includes a kairos appeal, Schmitt 3 suggesting that if you do not quit soon enough, then you will die, as evident by the youth of the dead feet in the image. This advertisement presents a grim look into future with smoking in order to discourage any use of the tobacco, using its parallels with death as their primary threat. The second image is also presented by Truth and chooses a different approach to the message of quitting smoking. The image has a dark background and features a table in the center (Coloribus, Pg.1). The table is holding several common items including some coins, a watch, keys, a picture of a man and a woman, and a full package of cigarettes. The man in the picture and the carton of cigarettes are both outlined with dashed white lines and the top right corner states, The image initially seems like an ordinary table, one that many people have. That table that you throw the stuff in your pockets onto when you walk in the door. It invokes a pathos appeal of emotion beginning with making you think of simple ordinary life, providing the example of habitually dropping your keys on the table when walking in the door. The picture further draws you in, making you think of family or your significant other and their closeness in the picture makes you think of the love between them. The outlines make the connection between the man and the cigarettes and the small text in the corner drops the harsh reality of this comparison. He must quit smoking or he will die, and be removed from his life with the woman next to him, at his own fault. This image uses a kairos rhetorical appeal by presenting the choice, which if not made in time will kill the man. The watch sitting on the table also draws attention to time, that the clock is ticking before the choice is made for the man. Again, the ethos appeal in the ad is the company name itself, By labeling themselves after the word truth, they make themselves sound honorable and trustworthy, that what they say is the truth while what the tobacco company says is false. While less emphasized, it could be said Schmitt 4 that the fact that the man will die if he does not quit smoking would be a logos rhetorical appeal. All of this with the darkness in the background is thematically common with the previous advertisement, providing a warning of the death that will come if the warning about smoking is not heeded. Both images use fear of death, and the correlation between tobacco and death, to ward off the public from its use. These ads have effectively utilized strong rhetorical appeals to establish the seriousness of their points on tobacco. In pursuit of their mission to end smoking, Truth has presented a grim rhetorical appeal that compares the correlation between smoking cigarettes and the resulting human death. In both images, death is used as a threat against smoking. By bringing into mind loved ones surround in literal darkness with the black background, the viewer is able to make the correlation that the cigarettes are what blackened their family members away. The strength of the images pathos appeal with death, the ethos appeal with the company name, the logos appeal with presented statistics and the kairos appeal with the coming of death, the ad is effectively convincing to prevent the public from smoking. Schmitt 5 Work Cited About  Truth. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. <https://www.thetruth.com/about-truth>. Afzal, Irfan. Anti Smoking Ads To Easily Quit  AmusingFun.com Pictures and Graphics for Facebook, Google Plus, Whatsapp & Pinterest. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. <http://www.amusingfun.com/anti-smoking-ads-to-easily-quit-smoking/>.  Coloribus.com. American Legacy Foundation The Truth Anti-smoking Campaign, n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. <https://www.coloribus.com/adsarchive/prints/the-truth-anti- smoking-campaign-remove-one-11270155/>. About  Truth Initiative. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. <https://truthinitiative.org/about-us>. Szabo, Liz. FDA Launches Anti-smoking Ads Aimed at  USA Today. Gannett Satellite Information Network, 04 Feb. 2014. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. <http://www.usatoday.com/story/news/nation/2014/02/04/fda-anti-smoking- ads/5186731/>. Schmitt 6 Image 1: http://www.amusingfun.com/anti-smoking-ads-to-easily-quit-smoking Image 2: https://www.coloribus.com/adsarchive/prints/the-truth-anti-smoking-campaign-remove- one-11270155/