Mendez 1 Fresa Mendez Nusspickel ENC 1101 29 April 2017 Outline I. The death penalty has been a contradicting topic for many years now. It is a great topic of discussion because there are great and interesting points made from both sides of the topic, people that are for it and people that are against it. It is argued that people in the death row are in it because they deserve it, but as humans we should not have the power to decide when life should come to an end. There are many other punishments that could replace the death penalty, and it is time for people to realize this. Because it often kills innocent lives, denies people the opportunity to change, and it is a cruel, drastic, and unfair punishment, the death penalty should be eliminated and replaced with a less harsh disciplinary action. II. People for the death penalty A. Voters understand that the criminals on death row have been convicted of the most heinous crimes. Voters also realize that those left behind, grieving families throughout California and their loved ones, deserve anything less than B. Families think that death penalty will bring closure if the person that killed one of their loved ones is killed. C. It is argued that it saves money and people will not have to be staying in jail. III. Unfair Killing of Innocent People A. More than 4% of people in the death row are innocent. Mendez 2 B. of their crimes, the fact that I was now to be personally involved in their executions forced me into a deeper reckoning with my feelings about capital punishment. After much contemplation, I became convinced that, on a moral level, life was either hallowed or it And I wanted it to C. 150 people in the last few years have been taken off death row because they were innocent. IV. Unfair Punishment A. The ethnicity and skin color on the death row is always taken into consideration. It is not rare that someone that a white American that comes from a wealthy household is less likely to be on the death row over an African American. B. People on the death row are randomly chosen and there are people in prison that have committed the same crime, yet are not put in the death row. V. Conclusion A. Overall, the death penalty it is too hard of a punishment that needs to be made illegal everywhere. It is unfair, inhumane, and all kinds of wrong. Every that could be made about the penalty can have crossed out by a con that explains it more. There are not enough reasons on why the death penalty is the most harsh punishment there is, and it is time to end it. Mendez 3 Fresa Mendez Nusspickel ENC 1101 29 April 2017 Me Liberty, Not The death penalty has been a topic of discussion for many years now. There are many different point of views in both sides of the topic, against or for the death penalty, and each side makes strong and extraordinary points in why they believe to be right. Usually, people on the death row are a part of it because they have taken an innocent life, so it is argued that that the fair punishment is to the take away the right of life. Although killing someone is a heinous crime that is unforgivable, as humans, we do not have the power to decide when life should come to an end. There are many other punishments that could replace the death penalty, sentencing someone to spend their life in jail for example, and this way nobody has to be killed. There are many points made on how the death penalty is a fair punishment, but every reason can be proven wrong or have a consequence. Because it often kills innocent lives, denies people the opportunity to change, and it is a cruel, drastic, and unfair punishment, the death penalty should be eliminated and replaced with a less harsh disciplinary action. Many people are in favor of the death penalty and believe that it is a logical solution and punishment for criminals. Michelle Harney, a deputy district attorney in California, said, understand that the criminals on death row have been convicted of the most heinous crimes. Voters also realize that those left behind, grieving families throughout California and their loved ones, deserve anything less than 1). Michelle Harney explains that the Mendez 4 death penalty is a way to bring closure to families that have lost a loved one, and knowing that the person responsible for the death of their loved one is also dead will bring peace to the family. Although families that have lost a loved one are in an imaginable amount of pain, killing the killer that took away their loved life is not something that will stop the pain. In a newspaper article about a man who was wrongly imprisoned for a crime he did not commit, it was stated that of the death penalty see it as a deserving punishment for the most hideous and violent crimes, others see it as an inhumane 13). The believe of having the death penalty to bring justice and closure to families cannot be further from reality. Many families have also been interviewed after their loved one had been killed, and more than half can easily say that the killing of the murderer of their loved one through the death penalty is not what brings closure, and does not make them feel better in any sense. It is not rare to hear of someone that has been wrongly accused of a murder and been in the death row for half of their life. An example of an innocent man that was sentenced to death and imprisoned for 28 years, released just months before his execution, is Kwame Kamau Ajamu. Ajamu is a man from Tampa, Florida, who at just the age of seventeen was wrongly accused of the murder of a police officer. Ever since he was released, he has not stopped fighting to bring attention on how evil this punishment and the system can be. It is statically shown that than 4% of people in the death row are 1). People are not aware or preoccupied in realizing how unfair the death penalty is, but Thompson, had first-hand experience with criminals on death row said, of their crimes, the fact that I was now to be personally involved in their executions forced me into a deeper reckoning with my feelings about capital punishment. After much contemplation, I became convinced that, on a moral level, Mendez 5 life was either hallowed or it And I want it to 2). He also spoke out and said that, 150 people in the last few years have been taken off death row because they were 3), and this goes to prove even more how unreliable the death penalty truly is. The death penalty is not only unpredictable and unreliable, but it is also an unfair punishment. The race and income is always a factor on who goes on death row and who does not. The chances of a white American coming from a wealthy household are less likely than any African American, who has committed the same crime, to end on the death row. People on the death row are randomly chosen and there are people in prison that have committed the same crime, yet are not placed in death row. Racism is supposedly dead and the death penalty is supposedly fair, but the evidence seems to show otherwise. As humans, the right to take away life was not granted to us, and there are other forms of punishment that can replace death penalty, like sentencing someone to spend their life in prison. The death penalty is the most evil, inhumane, and unjustful punishment and it absolutely unbelievable that it has yet to be abolished. It has taken thousands of innocent lives and wrongly accused millions of people. Everyone deserves a chance to change and the death penalty takes this chance away. Even though spending life in prison is a horrible punishment, people are still given the right to live and may learn from their mistakes and become a better person. The death penalty is cruel, drastic, and unfair and if people do not open their eyes and realize how horrible this execution is, it will just get worse and more innocent lives will be lost. Mendez 6 Work Cited Criminal Justice: Capital Punishment  Justice Degree N.p., n.d. Web. 02 Apr. 2017. Dieter, Richard. Views on The Death Penalty in the United States. Reviews Online, 07 Oct. 2007. Web. 05 Mar. 2017. Dinatale, Sara. Survivor of death row calls it  Bay 23 Apr. 2017: n. pag. Web. Gerber, Rudolph J., and John M. Johnson. Top Ten Death Penalty Myths : The Politics Of Crime Westport, Conn: Greenwood Publishing Group, 2007. Collection Web. 29 Jan. 2017. McLaughlin, Michael. Shocking Number Of Innocent People Sentenced To Death, Study  Huffington TheHuffingtonPost.com, 28 Apr. 2014. Web. 02 Apr. 2017. Paul, Ron. defined: 50 essential issues that affect our New York: Grand Central Pub., 2010. Print. Top 10 Pros and Cons - Death Penalty -  the Death Penalty Be Allowed? N.p., n.d. Web. 02 Apr. 2017.