1 Embryonic stem cell research has been a heavily debated issue in recent years. There are those people who believe that it is unethical to use embryonic stem cells to treat diseases and severe spinal cord injuries. The other side believes that doctors should be using these stem cells to save people who would be dying otherwise. Why should people have to live with ailments that could possibly be cured? It makes no sense. People are dying of ailments that could possibly be cured and not much is being done about it. Thus, because many people are dying of diseases or living with a severe spinal cord injury that could possibly be cured, family members of people at risk for such diseases should donate to Americans for Cures, so that these diseases can be cured once and for all. First off, what is an embryonic stem cell? stem cells yet committed to becoming any particular type of differentiated (National Institute of Health) This means that these cells can still differentiate into any type of cell in the body and even replace damaged cells so they function the way they are supposed to again. There are so many possible applications for embryonic stem cells from repairing damaged cells from injury to possibly repairing damaged insulin secreting cells in diabetic people. How would you feel if you were a family member of one of these people with a disease that could possibly be cured but because this research being advanced along as fast as it could be? Also, if you have a family member that suffers from one of these diseases then you want them to feel as comfortable as they can, because that is what Americans for cures believes that using stem cells can improve the lives of those with these illnesses. According to The California Institute for Regenerative Medicine theory, no limit to the types of diseases that could be treated with stem cell This research quite possibly has the potential to treat any disease. 2 While this particular issue may not affect you directly, the life of another human being is at stake here. How would you feel if you were a family member of someone with a disease that could be cured with this treatment? You would probably want to do anything to help them get better, so why would you not choose a treatment option that could completely cure them of diseases that there a cure for. People are dying of diseases every day, that have the possibility of curing if more money was invested into stem cell research. I know that the reason why people are against the harvesting of stem cells due to ethical grounds but, it the same argument if you allow the research and people keep dying of these diseases? These people are suffering and most people are doing nothing about it. People who have no hope otherwise, could gain some hope if stem cell research could be done on a larger scale and find ways to treat and possibly cure these previously untreatable diseases. An example of a person living with one of these diseases is Connie Waxman. Connie Waxman was diagnosed with stage 3 pancreatic cancer in early 2014, and she was told that she had less than a year to live. (Americans for cures) They immediately operate because the tumor was too large and too close to an artery, so they had to start chemotherapy to attempt to shrink the tumor. Then began the long and arduous process of chemo. Chemo is very painful and often leads to decreased appetite and loss of hair in patients. Her tumor finally did shrink enough with the chemo alone and her tumor was removed and now she is cancer free. However, the hope in the future is that with advances in stem cell research that maybe one day replace chemo with a stem cell treatment. If this were to happen then the treatment would most likely not be as painful as chemo, not have the other side effects, and even possibly work quicker. Also, such a treatment may even eliminate the need for surgery completely. This treatment would alleviate the suffering of many patients in the future. 3 There are many ways in which you can help, you can call your local representative to let them know how you feel and maybe they will vote to your side on votes on stem cell research. If enough people did this then maybe there would be a noticeable increase in votes towards stem cell research. Also, you can donate to various pro-stem cells organizations such as Americans for cures. This donation will help spread information on all of the positive things that stem cell research can do, and they will attempt to inform the public on advances that are being made in stem cell research. This is crucial because the more people that know about the research that is going on and how it can positively benefit so many people, then maybe they will begin to finally change their minds on this issue. Thousands of people are dying every day from diseases that could be cured with stem cell treatments. If someone in your family had a disease that, just by increasing funding to stem cell research, could be cured, you want something it be done about it? I bet you just be sitting around and doing nothing while they were slowly getting worse. You would be fighting for and with them, so why does society, for the most part, look the other way? You can donate to various organizations like Americans for Cures so they can continue to educate the public on stem cell research and the advances that are being made every day. So, donate and call your representatives and maybe one day the diseases that are common now will just be a memory of the past. Word Count 1053 4 Works Cited 1. National Institutes of Health. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, n.d. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. 2. The Power of Stem  Stem Cell Agency. N.p., 29 Feb. 2016. Web. 30 Apr. 2017. 3. Cells  Stem Cells 101 Americans For Cures. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Apr. 2017.