Cover Letter For Project 3 My presentation for the Project 3 was about showing to my classmates that even little as 5 min without their phone will make some of them anxious and uncomfortable. Presentation was very simple, I asked my classmates to put their phones in front of them and try not to use it while I would be using my phone the whole time. I did not limit them to talk to each other or even do whatever they wanted to do, I just asked them not to use their phones. The pointe was to show them that they are too much connected to their phones then they are to their surrounding and that some of them are phone addicts without even knowing that. After just 2 min, 4 to 6 people reached out for their phones because they started looking very uncomfortable and anxious. Some of them wanted to grab their phones but they controlled themselves and do it, while very small number was very relaxed and comfortable with just sitting there. This showed that Phone addiction is very common among college students and it is an issue that we need to act upon because we are getting more and more connected to phones then to people and our surrounding. Spasoje Stefanovic Composition II TJ Murray April 12, 2017 Are You Comfortable Without Your Phone? You are waiting in line, you are ridding the BullRunner, you are in the hallway waiting for your meeting with professor about you paper, you are in the classroom and nothing is going on around Now imagine if you have your phone with you, would you feel confortable? Would you be anxious? Would you know what to do to make time go faster? Phone addiction has become very common especially among college students and they feel anxious, stressed and uncomfortable when they have that little device with them and no phone policy should be more spread out to limit the phone usage in certain settings. Phone addiction became very common when phone companies invented Smart Phones that allows users to stay connected to Internet 24/7. That many information and communication that Internet can offer to users was just too tempting and got out of control with some users that they have to stay connected almost all the time. Baylor University conducted a research that showed that college students spend on average 8-10 hours a day on their phones doing different cell-phone activities (CPA) and interesting fact is that female students spend on average 10 hour a day on CPA and male students 8 hours. That amount of time spent on cell-phones is closely related to addiction. Also research showed that evolution of phones to smart phones had to do a lot with addiction because students are not addicted just to the phones as a device they are addicted to what their upgraded smart phones have to offer and that is internet connection, social media, games, Before evolution of smart phones, CPA was mostly just calling and texting and that enough to become addicted to phones for most of the students. In the full report about in of Behavioral there is a very well conducted research involving grate number of college students that did survey that took between 10 and 15 min to complete and showed that average time spent on social media was 95 minutes, average time spent on texting was 94 minutes, average time spent on games and internet surfing was 54 minutes and average time spent on phone calls and emails was 81 minutes. In total that is 5.4 hours, which means that 3.6 hours are spent on other apps like music, clock, Interesting fact is also that 81% of the students answered positive when they were asked if they get agitated when their phone is not sight, 74% answered when they were asked if they get nervous when their phone battery is about to die, 80% said that they spend more time then they should on their phones and 80% said that they find themselves spending more and more time on their phones. When students were asked in what situation they were using phones more often, 94% said that they use it when there is nothing interesting going on around them like for example waiting in line, sitting in the classroom, walking to their classes... The biggest problem is that if you repeat those actions enough you will train your brain to make you reach out for the phone every time when there is nothing that interest you going on around you, which would lead to addiction. Since this has become very big and serious problem there should be some call for the action to change this or at least try to decrease the percentage of addicted people. We need to set policy in certain setting to limit the phone usage. Classroom, meetings, even restaurants and any social gatherings where phones usage will just distract you from things that are going on around you need to have policy. Some restaurants in Europe have a Wi-Fi at their places on purpose so that their guests can enjoy the food and conversation with people they came with. Some even have signs that say, have Wi-Fi but you can connect with each So if you are a restaurant owner, professor, manager or just a good friend try to set that policy in settings that phone usage will be just a distraction from great things that are going on around you. Phone addiction has become very common especially among students and they feel anxious, stressed and uncomfortable when they have that little device with them when nothing interesting is going on around them but there are a lot of interesting things going on around you, it just takes a little effort to see them so drop your phone and look around. Work Cited page Roberts, James, Luc Yaya, and Chris Manolis. The Invisible Addiction: Cell-phone Activities and Addiction among Male and Female College  Journal of Behavioral Addictions 3.4 (2014): 254-65. Web. Goodrich, Terry. Cellphone Addiction Is Increasingly Realistic Baylor Study of College Students  Media Communications Baylor University. N.p., 27 Aug. 2014. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Lenhart, Amanda. Teens, Smartphones &  Pew Research Center: Internet, Science & Tech. Pew Internet Project, 18 Mar. 2012. Web. 30 Apr. 2017.