Garcia 1 Ashley Garcia Kristin Gocinski ENC 1102.012 21 April 2017 Deforestation: No Tree Left Behind Every year humanity claims the lives of an estimated total of 46-58 thousand square miles of forests through actions such as setting man-made fires and cutting down trees (WWF par. 2). Deforestation is defined as the act of eliminating natural forests and permanently converting the land. After the ground is cleared, the area is most commonly transformed into construction sites for urbanization, fields for agriculture, or pastures for grazing livestock. Since the Industrial Era, engaged organizations have been unable to stop the rapid increase of deforestation. Now it is time for previously non-engaged stakeholders to get involved to not only preserve the future of trees, but the entire planet. The National Association for the Education of Young Children (NAEYC) is one non-engaged organization would have the opportunity to provide better future for the children that they educate. Deforestation is a global concern that has grown substantially out of control and requires non-involved stakeholders such as the National Association of the Education of Young Children to contribute to the fight against deforestation. NAEYC will benefit because it will boost their reputation and clientele by constructing educational programs to teach children about why deforestation must be stopped. While deforestation is a controversial global concern, wanting to decrease the amount of forest that are lost globally each year is the most logical position because of the damage that has been thrust upon the earth. Associate professor Jichuan Sheng and two other authors of the article entitled Effects of Asymmetric information and Reference Emission Levels on the Garcia 2 Emissions from Deforestation and  stated, Deforestation is arguably one of the major causes of global warming. It is possibly responsible for about 15% of global anthropogenic greenhouse gas  (1118). The authors of this article describe how deforestation is a primary factor in global warming and the temperature of the world will continue to keep climbing until something is done to reverse it. This global crisis is a problem that cannot be ignored any longer. In Use of Freely Available Datasets and Machine Learning Methods in Predicting  Helen Mayfield and several other authors of the academic journal explains, Forests around the world remain at risk from a range of threats... we are also losing valuable ecosystem services, critical habitats for maintaining biodiversity, and destroying an important carbon sink that could help mitigate increasing concentrations of carbon , (par. 2). This quote explains how as more trees are removed from the ground, several environmental problems have become more critical and humans are going have a challenging time trying to reverse the problems that they have created if something is not done to decrease the rate of deforestation. Stakeholders with different skillsets need to get involved in stopping deforestation before the damage is unchangeable and planet earth is permanently destroyed for generations to come. Although there are countless non-engaged stakeholders that have the opportunity to get involved, the National Association for the Education of Young Children is the best choice to help stop deforestation because of their desire to spread education to kids. Located in Washington, D.C., NAEYC is one of the leading organizations for early childhood with more than 300 regional chapters and 60,000 members (NAEYC par. 2). The mission statement is to promote high-quality early learning for all young children, birth through age 8, by connecting early childhood practice, policy, and research. We advance a diverse, dynamic early childhood Garcia 3 profession and support all who care for, educate, and work on behalf of young  (NAEYC par. 1). With the superiority of the NAEYC, the stakeholder would receive a multitude of benefits from joining other organizations to stop deforestation. Even though the NAEYC is an educational organization, dedication to stopping deforestation would be beneficial to this stakeholder because their reputation and number of members will expand. This stakeholder can become engaged in anti-deforestation by educating NAEYC children about the benefits of trees and why it is necessary to figure out a way to save them. NAEYC will benefit because they will be recognized as an educational organization actively contributing to decreasing the rates of deforestation. Vladus Griskevicius and two other co-authors of the article entitled, Going Green to be Seen: Status, Reputation, and Conspicuous  stated, An effective strategy [to encourage green involves better informing people about the plight of the environment... Information campaigns about the precarious state of the planet should lead people to behave in a pro environmental , (393). This quote describes how teaching people about global issues in the world, like deforestation, will encourage change. If the NAEYC becomes concerned with deforestation, then conservationist families that support decreasing the rate of deforestation and other global issues will be more likely to obtain a membership to NAEYC because they want their children to learn in an environment that supports ecologically friendly solutions. Supporting the position to stop deforestation will benefit humanity because teaching the next generations of children will lead to finding a logical solution to stopping deforestation. None of these benefits can be claimed unless the NAEYC becomes involved with stopping deforestation. As long as the NAEYC is involved with ending deforestation, the organization will have to create an educational program to teach kids about trees and why deforestation must be Garcia 4 stopped. In education systems, there is little information taught about the environment and the global problems in the world, therefore, a specialized program is fundamental for merging education and finding a way to stop deforestation (Place 369). The first step of this call to action would be to create a curriculum that encourages young children to think of and appreciate trees. In Integration of Discipines for Promoting Positive Attitudes Towards the author, Emine writes, The instruction based in instructional integration of botany with chemistry and art in this study supported interest and enjoyment of plants. It enabled children to understand the importance of plants for human life and other organisms, and material benefits from plants in , (par. 37). This quote describes the conclusion of a study on Turkish children ages 10-12 that tested the connection between education and plants. The outcome of this study proved that there are educational ways to link children and anti-deforestation. Although the children in this study are older, some of the activities could be altered to encompass children eight years and younger. The second step in establishing an educational program would be to find educators qualified in teaching Dendrology, or the study of wooded plants, and about the global environment par. 1). The instructors would could be representatives from the community, but must have experience with educating children from preschools and elementary schools so that only the most certified individuals teach the children of the members of the NAEYC. Finding proper instructors would allow the children to have the best opportunity to learn as much as possible so that the education program will help develop future environmentalists and conservationists both in the classroom and in the recreational  (Place 369). In order to become involved with anti-deforestation, the National Association for the Education of Young Children needs to create Garcia 5 an educational program that will influence kids to strive for a solution to deforestation when they are older. In summation, to stop deforestation from progressing further out of control, non-engaged stakeholder like NAEYC need to get involved and as a result will gain benefits such as increasing their status and number of members through the creation of an educational program. Currently, the forests are being replaced by geometric skyscrapers and family homes, concrete slabs and green grass, and busy streets and dirt fields to grow products to sell. If deforestation is not brought under control with the help NAEYC, then future generations of children might not get the chance to see a natural forest. Garcia 6 Works Cited About  NAEYC, http://www.naeyc.org/content/about-naeyc. Accessed 12 April 2017. Emine. Integration of Discipines for Promoting Positive Attitudes Towards Journal of Biological Education (Routledge), vol. 50, no. 4, 29 Jan 2016, p 366-383. http://www.tandfonline.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/doi/full/10.1080/00219266.2015.111751 2?scroll=top&needAccess=true. Accessed 4 April 2017. Griskevicius, Vladas. Tybur, Joshua. M. Van den Bergh, Bram. Going Green to be Seen: Status, Reputation, and Conspicuous  Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, vol. 98(3), p. 392-404, March 2010. http://eds.b.ebscohost.com/eds/pdfviewer/pdfviewer?sid=5f2f392b-86a5-42e9-b6eb- cf2830128efc%40sessionmgr103&vid=7&hid=127. Accessed 19 April 2017. Mayfield, Helen. Smith, Carl. Gallagher, Marcus. Hockings, Marc. Use of Freely Available Datasets and Machine Learning Methods in Predicting  Environmental Modeling & Software, vol. 87, p. 17-28, January 2017. http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1364815216308428. Accessed 18 April 2017.  WWF, http://www.worldwildlife.org/threats/deforestation. Accessed 18 April 2017. Place, Greg S. Conservationists: How Were They Educated About the Outdoors and the  Journal of Adventure Education and Outdoor Learning, vol. 16, no. 4, p359-371, 20 April 2016. Garcia 7 http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/pdf/10.1080/14729679.2016.1171158?needAccess=true. Accessed 18 April 2017. Sheng, Jichuan. Ozturk, U. Aytun. Zhang, Sanfeng. Effects of Asymmetric information and Reference Emission Levels on the Emissions from Deforestation and  Journal of Cleaner Production, vol. 133, p 1118-1127, October 2016. http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0959652616306692. Accessed 19 April 2017.  Tree Identification, http://www.tree-identification.com/dendrology.html. Accessed 27 April 2017.