Campbell 1 Albert Campbell Professor Paquette Composition I 30 April 2017 Justifying Facial Transplantation Surgery Understanding the impact that a facial disfigurement has on an life is practically unfathomable. Struggles associated with facial disfigurement not only include daily interactions, but also life-long challenges of finding work and maintaining personal morale. Currently, the primary lasting treatment for severe facial disfigurement is the facial transplantation surgery. However, there are medical professionals who claim that facial transplantations are not an ethical option for patients. These claims ignore the substantial evidence which has proven facial transplantations to be ethical and advantageous. The debate over whether facial transplantations should be applied to patients is no longer an appropriate conversation. Facial transplantation is a surgery which should be applied by doctors to provide for patients suffering with facial disfigurements. It has taken considerable time, but surgeons have validated facial transplantations through the success of results, extensive research, and the pure necessity to treat people who undergo the suffering of not having a functioning, fully aesthetic face. For years, facial transplantations have been providing hope and joy to victims of gun- related accidents, fires, and birth defects. Facial transplants are consistently showing their value by being a successful and beneficial treatment option. The results of facial transplantation surgeries have proved to greatly improve the lives of patients. Long-term analyzation of case studies was accomplished by both Laurent A. Lantieri and Marcelo Goiato. Lantieri examined Campbell 2 nine patients who underwent facial transplantation and described the results as life-saving (Lantieri, 23-28). Viewing before and after photos of transformations is only half the success, as doctors are recognizing how far this surgery goes to restore life to patients. Goiato researched the results of seven facial transplantations, and found that the surgery is a option to restore a severely disfigured and that therapy improves the quality of life of mutilated (Goiato, 739). Their research of case studies demonstrates the success of facial transplantation surgery. This success is accompanied by multiple benefits. Facial transplantation is proving to be a practice which needs to be cherished rather than debated, as its results have given life and opportunity back to suffering people. Therefore, facial transplantation should be applied because of the successful results it has shown. As doctors obtain more information and results on facial transplantations, the procedure is adapted and refined. Research carried out on facial transplantation surgery has been used to advance abilities in caring for patients from before the surgery was ever practiced to the present day. Facial transplantation surgery would not have experienced such positive results without preliminary research that many teams of doctors participated in. Primarily, research has helped doctors understand and eliminate potential risks, but it has also shown how important this treatment is to the facially disfigured community. Doctors first had to research the surgery to appease the numerous criticisms which surrounded it in the medical community. For example, Karen Maschke and Eric Trump wrote an article in which they disapproved of a medical evaluation that they were prepared to perform a facial transplantation (Maschke et al, 33-35). This opinion reflects the consensus regarding the procedure when it was first being proposed, and shows why research to evaluate and limit risks was necessary for the surgery to approved within the medical community. Because of research, doctors practicing facial transplantations Campbell 3 always enter the surgery with the proper knowledge required and confidence that it will be successful. The research being done recently uses results to guide better implementation of the surgery in the future. An article written by Laurent A. Lantieri is a long-term case study that focuses on the causes behind the successes and failures. Lantieri uses case studies to research and identify significant factors which may be crucial aspects of an success with the facial transplantation (Lantieri, 1398-1407). This polishing of the facial transplantation surgery makes its future uses even more likely to be beneficial. Extensive research of the topic has allowed doctors to become confident in practicing the surgery. Therefore, use of the surgery is promising and should be applied to patients in need. Yet, despite its potential to enhance the lives of patients, there has been an opposition which criticizes facial transplantations. Some medical professionals find the surgery to be taboo and ultimately overstepping the boundaries of a proper, ethical procedure. An article by Michael Freeman and Pauline Abou discusses the ethical problems they believe exist with facial transplantations, and concludes with their belief that the surgery needs to be halted until the ethics can be better understood and accommodated (Freeman et al, 81). They, along with other skeptics, believe that not providing facial transplantations is a better route for our society and disfigured patients than to perform facial transplantations. However, these claims are not medically professional or ethically just. The purpose of medical care is to improve the quality of life of patients. Removing facial transplantations from the disfigured community would have the opposite result. Halting the procedure would not be an ethical option, as the necessity of patients with facial disfigurements to be treated should not be denied. Patients need to be provided with treatment for their reintroduction into a comfortable role in society, and facial transplantation is the best available treatment for these patients, as shown by consistently successful results. Campbell 4 Moreover, the ethical need of patients that outweighs the ethics of select professionals is undeniable. People with disfigured faces are disadvantaged in many aspects of their life. Faces are one of the most personal qualities associated with being an individual, and having that feature taken away is a devastating loss. Disfigurement of a face can cause a loss of dignity associated with being human, the basic ability to have a job, and to be seen in public without ridicule; however, with facial transplantation, these aspects of life can be restored (Lantieri, 28). This highlights the purpose and value of facial transplantations and their demand for those suffering with disfigurement. An article written by Alex Clarke found that a majority of public respondents supported use of the practice, and were even more inclined to if they were personally connected to someone who could benefit from the surgery (Clarke et al, 228-233). This portrays the recognition by society of the life-restoring value that facial transplantation can provide. Facial transplantation restores some of the most basic qualities of life which can be taken for granted by those who dealing with disfigurement. Therefore, the procedure should be applied to improve the quality of life of those in need. All things considered, the benefit, promise, and need for facial transplantations must be acknowledged and supported. Challenging such a helpful procedure is unethical and serves no purpose in helping the disfigured community. Doctors must accept the importance of granting patients with disfigured faces all of opportunities by granting facial transplantation surgery. It has been justified through the recorded success of the surgery to improve lives, research which has been used to improve success, and the ethical demand to provide facially disfigured patients with a better quality of life. The application of facial transplantation surgery is a necessity across the medical community as established by its indisputable achievements. Campbell 5 Works Cited Clarke, Alex et al. Attitudes toward Facial Transplantation in the United Progress in Transplantation, vol. 17, no. 3, 2007, pp. 228-233. journals.sagepub.com. Freeman, Michael, and Pauline Abou Last Taboo: The Ethics of Face Journal of Medical Ethics, vol. 33, no. 2, 2007, pp. JSTOR, www.jstor.org/stable/27719793. Goiato, Marcelo C. et al. Facial Reconstruction: Facial Journal of Dentistry of Tehran University of Medical Sciences, vol. 11, no. 6, 2014, pp. 733-739. Directory of Open Access Journals, https://doaj.org/article/1ae90a0494194fddb22dbd49c2be9fe4. Latieri, Laurent A. Transplant: Learning from the Past, Facing the Proceedings of the American Philosophical Society, vol. 155, no. 1, 2011, pp. JSTOR, www.jstor.org/stable/23056846. Lantieri, Laurent, et al. Face Transplant: Long-Term Follow-Up And Results Of A Prospective Open  Lancet 388.10052 (2016): 1398-1407. Business Source Premier. Web. 19 Feb. 2017. Maschke, KJ, and E Trump. Facial Transplantation Research: A Need For Additional  American Journal Of Bioethics 4.3 (2004): 33-35. CINAHL. Web. 19 Feb.