Alhinaai 1 Ibrahim Alhinaai Mark J Nusspickel ENC1101 April 2, 2017 Persuasive Essay Outline I. Introduction/thesis Imagine that you are working in a company with many people that you do not know, what is the first thought you will take about them?. As a number, there were more than 244 million people, or 3.3 percent, of the population of the world moved to live in other country which is different from the country that they were born or raise in 2015 (UNFPA). The main reason why they moved to another country is the opportunity. Therefore, U.S. immigration laws should be reformed. II. Opposing Viewpoint: A. Jobs: some people think that immigrants will take local people jobs and will make disability in jobs. B. Illegal immigrants or stay over allowed time: some immigrants stay more than the time that they allowed to stay in U.S. and be illegal immigrants. C. Crime rates: many anti-immigration people think that immigration increases the rate of the crime. D. Religion: immigrants bring another religion and forcing the main religion. III. Support 1: Education: some immigrants moved to other countries with high degree of education. IV. Support 2: Alhinaai 2 Better opportunity: most of the immigration immigrate for better life, job, and income. V. Support 3: Family: sometimes, there is a member of a family moved to another country and make the other member to immigrate with hem or her. VI. War-refugees: wars, sometimes, make people to immigrate to another country to stop the bad life that they have and start a new life. VII. Conclusion: Regardless of the possibility that all these experimental cases right, however, migration limitations would remain ethically impermissible. Why? Since there are less expensive and more compassionate answers for every single protest. In the event that migrants hurt American laborers, we can charge settlers higher assessments or affirmation charges, and utilize the income to remunerate the failures. So, U.S. laws of the immigration must be changed or reformed. In my point of view, if immigrants would make trouble for American citizens, we can make settlers ineligible for advantages. If workers from the immigrants hurt American freedom, we can decline to give them the privilege to vote. Whatever your grievance happens to be, movement confinements are an unnecessarily draconian cure. Alhinaai 3 Works Cited Frey, R. Mark1. Citizenship, Borders, and Human  Federal Lawyer, vol. 59, no. 1, Jan/Feb2012, pp. 66-67. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx ?direct=true&db=ofm&AN=70063713&site=eds-live. Lee, Stephen. Growing up outside the  Harvard Law Review, vol. 128, 01 Mar. 2015, p. 1405. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx ?direct=true&db=edslex&AN=edslexBEABEB33&site=eds-live.  United Nations Population Fund. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Apr. 2017. Sullivan, Michael J. Immigrant Neighbors, Workers, and Caregivers in Our Midst: What We Owe Each  Texas Law Review, vol. 95, no. 1, Nov. 2016, pp. 81-99. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx ?direct=true&db=aph&AN=120073306&site=eds-live. Wright, Allison. Produce Industry Hopeful Immigration Laws Will Be  Food Chemical News, no. 9, 2001. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx ?direct=true&db=edsggo&AN=edsgcl.73373924&site=eds-live. Alhinaai 4 Ibrahim Alhinaai Mark J Nusspickel ENC1101 April 30, 2017 U.S. Immigration Laws Should be Reformed Imagine that you are working in a company with many people that you do not know, what is the first thought you will have about them? As a number, there were more than 244 million people, or 3.3 percent, of the population of the world moved to live in other country which is different from which that they were born or raised in 2015 (UNFPA 1). Everybody knows that immigration effects every state or city in the entire world positively or negatively. The main reason why individuals move to other countries is the opportunity. Throughout the years, immigrants impact the part of American life by moving the economic, political, and social strategies because of their qualities and convictions on these regions. Therefore, U.S. immigration laws should be reformed. There are many people who support immigration, but at the same time, there are too many people against or they are called anti-immigration. There are many people who look at the immigration as a big calamity if the government open the border for immigrants. In addition, those who oppose open immigration feel that immigrants will take local people jobs and they do not pay taxes. Besides that, they think that immigrants will take some advantages that they do not deserve. Those people, who are against immigration, are asking the government to give immigrants specific permissions to work. Also, they think that immigration will bring another religion and forcing their religion. Also, the number of the immigrants is too big and that Alhinaai 5 will effect on the population of U.S. With this said, Last, the country is overpopulated, not like China, but it is growing every day and having more illegal immigrants come into our country, will just make the matter worse. Therefore, people are against  (Federico 3). This means that the population of United States is too big and it is increasing every single day with high rate. However, this group of people did not look at the positive side of immigration and what would it make for immigrants and economics of the local country. Immigration has a big benefit in education that would help both sides of people, immigrants and citizens. As a statistic, most people who have the high skills and education are from the Asia. In the article by Cathi Tactaquni who is the Executive Director and co-founder of the National Network for Immigrant and Refugee Rights(NNIRR), % of all California Silicon Valley engineers and scientists are immigrants while about 1/3 of all Nobel Prize Winners in the U.S. were (Tactaquin 3). This number will improve the education in California. These people will help the citizens to have good education by working in universities and as researchers. However, there are some immigrants who moved to other countries to get a better education. To be effective in the community, you must have a good education and that what most of immigrants have. In addition, education work together with the experiences and skills. In addition, most immigrants affect the society by increase the economy. The impact of immigration on economic is the most important reason why the U.S. government should reform the laws of immigration. Economists have held that permitting the free development of merchandise between two countries upgrades the general abundance of both countries by permitting them to utilize their similar preferences. the same be valid for administrations? Otherwise, if the people who oppose open the immigration think taht movement Alhinaai 6 is awful for the economy, they will need to contend that work is unique in relation to different items, and clarify why. Most of the immigrants work on jobs that the citizen will not work on. This will make the production of something that has not exist to be a lot and enter the market. However, how much do immigrants contribute on the economy of U.S? With this said, the United States as a whole, share of total output was about 14.7 percent over 2011. Note that this is actually larger than 13 percent share of the (Sullivan 7). This number means that most of the immigrant have a hand on the economic side. However, many of the immigrants are refugees. There were more than 65 million refugees in 2015 according to the asylum-seekers website in the entire world. What would these people do if they could not a way to be immigrants? They are now displaced from their homes, jobs, and might from their family. They lost the life they used to have and they moved to find another life for them and their children. Every country should have specific laws for the refugees to help them having better lives. We should reform the rules of immigration to make it easier for them to enter the country and have good opportunity for the rest of their lives. Immigration is one of the most popular issues that U.S. faces these days and the government should reform the laws of immigration to make it easy for individuals. Regardless of the possibility that all these experimental cases right, however, migration limitations would remain ethically impermissible. Why? Since there are less expensive and more compassionate answers for every single protest. If, in any way, migrants hurt American laborers, we can charge settlers higher assessments or affirmation charges, and utilize the income to remunerate the failures. In my point of view, if immigrants would make trouble for American citizens, we can make settlers ineligible for advantages. If workers from the immigrants hurt American freedom, Alhinaai 7 we can decline to give them the privilege to vote. Whatever your grievance happens to be, movement confinements are an unnecessarily draconian cure. Alhinaai 8 Works Cited Frey, R. Mark1. Citizenship, Borders, and Human  Federal Lawyer, vol. 59, no. 1, Jan/Feb2012, pp. 66-67. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx ?direct=true&db=ofm&AN=70063713&site=eds-live. Lee, Stephen. Growing up outside the  Harvard Law Review, vol. 128, 01 Mar. 2015, p. 1405. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx ?direct=true&db=edslex&AN=edslexBEABEB33&site=eds-live.  United Nations Population Fund. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Apr. 2017. Sullivan, Michael J. Immigrant Neighbors, Workers, and Caregivers in Our Midst: What We Owe Each  Texas Law Review, vol. 95, no. 1, Nov. 2016, pp. 81-99. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx ?direct=true&db=aph&AN=120073306&site=eds-live. Wright, Allison. Produce Industry Hopeful Immigration Laws Will Be  Food Chemical News, no. 9, 2001. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx ?direct=true&db=edsggo&AN=edsgcl.73373924&site=eds-live.