Liam 1 Liam Travers Oana Cimpean Composition 2 April 16, 2017 Why is Animal Testing Still a Thing? Have you ever thought about how the products you use on a daily basis were created? Many items sold in stores do not fully describe the methods used to put it on the shelf. For example, some items in stores were created with outsourced labor for miniscule pay. Not many companies would endorse such unethical production but cheap, outsourced labor puts less of a strain on these wallets, which incentivize them to not mention it. If people are not educated about how a product they use is created not a crime, right? A similar conflict is apparent in animal testing products, where companies use animal testing to create cosmetics, fertilizers, and pesticides without educating the public on how it was made. Although animal testing was a necessary step towards generating products that would be safe when used on people, there are better alternative methods toward developing safe products. Some companies are on the fence about animal testing, hoping to save a quick penny and to save themselves from media criticism. This essay will educate on alternative methods to animal testing, discuss why stopping animal testing is important, and suggest a realistic method for the average citizen to help this cause. Most people look at their shampoo or dishwashing fluid and ask themselves if animal testing was used to create the product. Some people even know what animal testing is and how it is done. Animal testing is, to advance pure and applied and it includes, studies for drugs, food additives, pesticides, and (MacClellan, Joel). The base idea of animal Liam 2 testing is that some animals have similar biology to humans. Scientists use the animals as models to test if a product is safe or not when applied to a person. Although animal testing is the simplest form of experimentation to deduce whether a product is harmful or not, new alternative methods have been created bringing some to question the ethics of still using it. According to, to animal by R.E. Hester and R.M. quite a few alternatve methods are present that involve animals. One method that is used is in virto testing. This type of test creates a 3d model of human skin cells and uses this to text product toxicity. This is used to test toxicity of foreign chemicals that will be used in products. This method would discard the need for animal testing by proving the product is safe without animal testing. According to neavs.org, in vitro testing has many benefits that animal testing does not. In vitro testing was found to be more reliable in finding human skin irratants than animal testing. For example, vitro correctly detected all of the test chemicals that irritate human skin, while tests on rabbits misclassified 10 out of 25 test full 40% error (Neavs.org). In vitro testing is also more cost effective and efficient as testing for chemical corrositivity would take, little as 3 minutes to four hours, unlike animal testing that often takes two to four Neavs.org seem to be a credible source because although they have might have bias by advocating alternative methods to animal testing, the facts from their website are from academic and scholarly scientific studies. This alternative method of testing is one of many that are being developed to create more efficient ways to produce data on drugs and cosemetics. If supported, these methods may be able to render animal testing obsolete in the near future. Liam 3 Although some perceive animal testing to be considered unethical, it is not exactly the most pressing global issue. Why should the average citizen or stakeholder support this cause of helping develop alternative methods to animal testing? Imagine that you have a pet cat or dog. You have raised them since they were young and they are basically part of your family. Most people would want to avoid any danger to their pets health and well-being. All mammals have nerves and feel pain. Animal testing may harm the animal and may scar them for life. Even if the debate on animal testing does not seem like important, it more logical to develop better methods of product testing than to potentially harm the life of an innocent animal? An overwhelming majority of US citizens believe that animal testing is unethical and oppose it. According to the Comitee for Resposible Medicene, percent of Americans oppose animal The sample group for this experement was diversified and it shows that many believe that animal testing is unethical. Pain is a terrible experience, and when subject to animal testing, innocent animals are vulnerable to injections and contact with hazardous materials. If subjecting animals to pain is frowned upon then animal testing should be considered unethical. Although many dissaprove of animal testing for different reasons many know how to help put an end to animal testing. Supporting alternative methods is one of the best ways to reduce animal testing. If the average citizen supports in virto testing and other alternative methods, scientists will have the funding necessary to improve its cost effectivness and efficiency. One method to help support alternatives methods and to halt animal testing is shopping for animal testing free products. This effectively boycotts products that use animal testing and will force product companies Liam 4 to reconsider their testing. Switching over to animal testing free products might seem tedious but crueltyfreeinternational.org has a product search that makes it very simple to determine which products to buy. One final way to support alternative methods to animal testing is to educate yourself and aquaintences on what they are and recommend animal testing free shopping. If people are united to end animal testing and are vocal about the cause, product companies will invest more into alternative methods effectively making animal testing obsolete in the near future. Animal testing is looked down upon by a good majority of the US population yet it is still in action with no sign of stopping. Currently there are alternative methods to animal testing in development. Without incentive, most companies will just stick to animal testing and not spend money on alternative method research. Companies that endorse animal testing use the it broke fix ideology when it comes to animal testing but when so many believe that it is unethical, how can it not be broken? Although animal testing may have produced many significant discoveries in the past, it is considered primitive and unethical by a majority of people and alternative methods should be researched and implemented. Supporting these alternative methods, shopping animal testing free, and spreading the word to acquaintances will help put an end to animal testing. Liam 5 Works Cited Cruelty Free International. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Hester, R. E., and Roy M. Harrison. Alternatives to Animal Testing. Cambridge: Royal Society of Chemistry, 2006. Print. MacClellan, Joel P. Animal  Salem Press Encyclopedia. Salem Press, Jan. 2016. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Society, New England Anti-Vivisection. Animals in Science /  In Testing. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.