Shoukry 1 Aly Shoukry ENC1101.901 Mark Nusspickel 30 April 2017 The Arab Spring The Arab Spring is a series of uprisings that occurred in the Middle East at the beginning of 2011. While it started in Tunisia late December of 2012, The Arab Spring did not take much time in becoming a phenomenon that swept Arab countries in a near concurrent fashion. There is big controversy on whether the Arab spring was successful in accomplishing its goals of freedom, economic advancement, and better living conditions; some people view it as a historic accomplishment while some people view it as a blemish on the history of the Middle East. Due to the monumental amount of effort, time, money, and casualties that went into the Arab spring, and its failure in fulfilling the need for freedom, better living conditions, and unity, it was a huge failure. The Arab spring started mainly as a fight for freedom, instigated by the voice of those who were once voiceless. Many people view the Arab spring as a success in that it was able to overthrow many of the tyrannical leaders who were once in command. The supporters of the Arab spring claim that it changed the political order of the Middle East to the better, increasing freedom of speech, enhancing the economic situation, and improving quality of life. For an outsider, the Arab spring does seem as a huge success, but these people fail to realize the all the lives that were lost and the resources that were used to make this spring a possibility. When comparing the pros and cons of the Arab spring, one could easily come to the conclusion that it was not everything that these supporters claim it was. In terms of change, even though the Shoukry 2 leaders were changed, the hearts of the systems which took years to gain complete control over the Middle East remain unchanged. For example, Egypt remains a state under military rule, with no economic advancements to show for the lost lives during the spring, Libya remains in chaos post spring, a border for illegal arms trade, and Syria is in a state of implosion with its president Bashar AlAsaad murdering thousands of his own over religious disputes. While some people glorify what happened during the Arab spring and view it as an accomplishment, these people fail to take into account what truly happened during the Arab spring and the families that got severed with nothing to show for it. Daniel article discusses the economic implications of the Arab spring, one of the most important aspects to consider when analyzing the failures of the Arab spring. There are many factors to consider in terms of the economic implications of the Arab spring Arab in the Middle East. The first factor is the effect on the GDP, which took a big hit in countries across the board, like Libya, Tunisia, and Egypt, witnessing drops as big as 29 percent in total 12). The second main factor is the effect of the Islamic political systems of the post Arab spring regimens. With Islamist regimes seizing power in countries like Egypt, Libya, and Tunisia, foreign trade plummeted significantly in these countries in anticipation of the coming system, which is based on a more capitalistic economy rather than a free market economy. The third factor is the role of the military, which is the middle East is certain to directly affect the economy due to the heavy invested nature of the military in the economy. The militaries of Middle Eastern countries are sure to prioritize their personal interest, in turn handing the economy over to the Islamist leaders in return for their share of the economy, which would cause very bad economic conditions due to the drop in GDP coupled with incorrect asset distribution. Shoukry 3 The second failure of the Arab spring is failure in providing better living conditions. In his writing, Zaki ELAkawy writes about how the Arab spring instigated chaos and worsened living conditions. The Arab Spring affected the Middle East in many ways, most notably by causing shifts in powers and changing the geopolitical structure within the region. The uprisings during the Arab spring symbolized the demand for freedom, dignity, and social justice, thus causing a shift in power from the hands of monarchial regimens to the hands of the people (ElAkawy 21). Transitions in power took over many forms, each one with a different effect on geopolitical stability. In countries like Egypt, the transition marked the beginning of internal geopolitical tension by freeing organizations like the Muslim brotherhood and the salafi movement, which where oppressed and locked away during the reign of the previous president Hosni Mubarak. In countries like Libya And Syria, the Transitions had more acute effects, causing a civil war between the people, who gained weapons through massive arms trafficking initiatives from other powers in the region, and the regimen. The newly found geopolitical tension is especially alarming not because of the Aforementioned countries, but because of the non Arab powers in the region who would gain a lot from the opportunity to cause distress and expand their reach. The Arab spring also failed in giving the people the freedom they wanted so badly. Michael Makara writes about how the Arab spring did not effectively change the tyrannical systems that were in control. Makara aptly introduces the concept of institutionalization and how it robbed the people of their freedom by saying variables that constitute military institutionalization closely correspond to a variety of measures that authoritarian rulers implement in order to maintain their loyalty. Foremost among these is patronage distribution. Shoukry 4 By providing military personnel with economic benefits and political privilege, rulers give their militaries a direct stake in the authoritarian status While some military forces decide to stay loyal to the regimen and forcefully quell any attempt at an uprising, Others decided to join the people and overthrow the government. The difference in military response can be attributed to two factors, and institutionalization. which can be divided into several factors like ethnic stacking, communal stacking, and the formation of a protection pact, proved integral to resisting or eliminating a military coup. Institutionalization on the other hand means that the military force acts as an independent entity, with no ties to the government, and it proved quite deleterious to many regimens, including that of Egypt, Libya, And Tunisia. While the military was almost always the decisive factor in the success of a revolution, overthrowing the government did not mean the rise of a new system; it just meant a new face for the same tyrannical system. Due to its failure in providing better living conditions, improving the economy, and giving people freedom, the Arab spring was a failure on all scales. It looked like the systems changed, the economy, improved, and the living conditions were enhanced, but nothing was accomplished. The Arab spring instigated a decline in all important aspects of life in the Middle East and that all those who died parted without ever having their dreams accomplished, for nothing has changed after all these innocent lives were severed from their families. Shoukry 5 Works Cited Campante, Filipe R. and Davin Chor. 2012. Why Was the Arab World Poised For Revolution? Schooling, Economic Opportunities, and the Arab Journal of Economic Perspectives, 26(2): 167-88. ElAkawy, Zaki S. The Geostrategic Consequences of the Arab  (2014): n. pag. OpenDemocracy. Nov.-Dec. 2014. Web. 01 Feb. 2017. Makara, Michael. Rethinking Military Behavior During The Arab  Defense & Security Analysis 32.3 (2016): 209. Publisher Provided Full Text Searching File. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Wagner, Daniel. The Arab Impact on Cross-Border Trade and  N.p. Oct.-Nov. 2011. Web.