Wrigley 1 Dakota Wrigley Comp II ENC 1102-033 Angelica Aranda March 5, 2017 Violent Games out of the Hands of Children In world, more and more people are having access to the technologies that were otherwise nearly impossible to obtain for most. With this increase of obtainability, more people can get their hands on things on the internet that they be able to access. One that is constantly overlooked by people is that children are now finding access to violent videogames that are labeled for those that are of age. As is kept in the records of the House of Representatives, president of Interactive Digital Software Association, who emphasized that most videogame players are over age 18 and that most games do not contain violent (Congress). It may be that there are not that many excessively violent videogames out there, but children are finding a way to still play them. It has even come to the point where the child is having their parents buy them those games to play, when really the parents have no idea what they are buying for their kid. Because of these changes and the lack of knowledge for the consumer, certain groups have come out to try and educate the people what they are buying and why they should try and protect their children not only from violent videogames, but form any form of graphic media. One of those groups mentioned is gameover.info. They are a group that is aimed at trying to protect children from any form of graphic or violent media. They have produced numerous ads to try and reach parents of children to try and show them what they are buying for their kids, but the two that will be mentioned here are focused on violent videogames. Wrigley 2 main method for educating the people is for them to display graphic ads that are centered around kids. For example, my first image had a small hand on a wired mouse, with blood stains not only around the hand but on the hand and on the mouse. The picture says that the child he killed more than 5000 The second picture holds the same tone as the first, which shows a child with an automatic rifle pointed rifle to a kneeling back. In this second picture, there are less colors being shown and the background seems to be torn up and almost destroyed, like it was the scene of a battle. With these images, gameover.info is trying to adhere to the different rhetorical approaches to sway the people to their side. The first rhetorical approach that will be mentioned about these images is their approach to introducing ethos. Ethos is an appeal to the credibility of what they are trying to say. For example, say someone was writing a paper about a baseball game, they would not try and put something about basketball in that paper. The first image showed a kid playing on a pc with blood on his hands, showing the user that the child is killing people, even though the killing is virtual. The second image shows a boy with a gun pointed to the back of a man, which clarifies the first picture, except instead of it being virtual, it is in reality. As such, gameover.info is saying it is credible based off the fact that children are still killing people, even though it may be virtual, or to most Pathos is another rhetorical approach that gameover.info uses to sway their audience. Pathos is an attempt to appeal to the emotions. In the first image, gameover.info shows a hand being covered with blood. This is obviously an appeal to the pathos as they are trying to make the audience feel a sense of remorse or guilt that their children are online playing these games and spilling the blood of their online foes. The second image does the same, as it shows a child in military garbs pointing a rifle to the back of an unarmed man. Wrigley 3 This is where gameover.info is really trying to make a case to their audience as this is the essence of what they are pushing, that children are still killing other people, even if it is just in the virtual world. As Christopher Ferguson, who is a professor of psychology at the university of Stetson, wrote, of the study suggested that boys acted in a more aggressive manner after playing the violent video game than watching the violent (399-410). They do horrendous things to each other, they see the blood spill from dead bodies, and scraping the top on some of the more gruesome games. The third rhetorical approach that gameover.info uses to persuade their audience is logos. Logos is the logic that goes into the argument. In both of the images shown, a child either had blood of another on his hand or hand a gun pointed to the back of an unarmed man. This logic that they are pushing is that the child is killing other people in videogames, burning things, and just causing panic is not fake. These are actions that they are still doing be that it is virtual or not. The child, most of the time, has full control over what he or she is doing in game and therefore is still responsible for what they do, no matter what the situation is. As Douglas Gentile, who is a psychology professor at the university of Iowa, said, thoughts were more accessible after participants played the rather than video (3943). If the child is killing a terrorist in-game, it does not change the fact that they are killing and experiencing excessively violent images. Kairos is the fourth and final rhetorical approach that gameover.info uses. Kairos is the timing of what needs to be done, or rather, is there a deadline or a sense of hurry to the situation. Wrigley 4 In the second image, there is a child holding a gun to the back of a unarmed man, so if there was anything that shows a sense of urgency, it is that. Seeing a child holding a gun to the back of anyone should be an immediate reaction to fix that situation as fast as possible. In terms of how and when they want to see this change, it is indefinitely immediately. With technology becoming even more accessible to the people of the world, more and more things are becoming easily accessible to people that should not normally have access to them, such as children and violent videogames. There are many organizations that try to push similar goals towards the end of this for children, one of them being gameover.info. This group has been pushing advertisements to the general public to try and educate parents about what their children are actually playing and try to persuade them to keep their children from playing those games. However, this change cannot become real just from them pushing out meaningless ads, it comes from the parents of children understanding what their children have and to try and protect their children from having access to those games. Wrigley 5 Picture 1: Picture 2: Wrigley 6 Works Cited Congress of the U.S., Washington, DC. House Committee on Energy and Commerce. An Examination of the Entertainment Efforts to Curb Exposure to Violent Content. Hearing Before the Subcommittee on Telecommunications and the Internet of the Committee on Energy and Commerce. House of Representatives, One Hundred Seventh Congress, First Session. 20 July 2001. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login.aspx ?direct= true&db=eric&AN=ED463862&site=eds-live. Ferguson, Christopher J.1, CJFerguson1111@aol.com, et al. Digital Poison? Three Studies Examining the Influence of Violent Video Games on  Computers in Human Behavior, vol. 50, Sept. 2015, pp. 399-410. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1016/j.chb.2015.04.021. Gameover.info N.P.,n.p. Web. 5 March, 2017 Gentile, Douglas A., Patrick K. Bender, and Craig A. Anderson. Full Length Article: Violent Video Game Effects on Salivary Cortisol, Arousal, And Aggressive Thoughts In  Computers In Human Behavior 70.(2017): 39-43. ScienceDirect. Web. 5 March. 2017.