Freed Williams 1 Sarah Freed- Williams Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 16 April 2017 Save the Reefs The World Wildlife Fund published an article regarding the threat imposed on the deteriorating coral reefs. The organization reported that reefs are home to twenty- five percent of all marine life on the planet and there are up to two million species of marine life that depend on these reefs to Unfortunately, many of these beautiful habitats are being destroyed by the trillion-dollar tourism industry. Tourists understand how the endangerment of reefs directly impacts life on the surface. Therefore, tourists continue to participate in hazardous activities, such as deep sea trawling and carless tourism that destroy hundreds of reefs every year. The extinction of coral reefs can result in negative effects on the global economy and poses a threat to the lives of citizens around the world. Thus, because coral reefs are an asset to well-being, tourists should give back to the environment by donating to that help preserve the reefs and only participate in tourist activities that cause harm to the reefs. This way society can continue to utilize all the benefits the reefs have to offer. The two most harmful tourist excursions are diving/snorkeling and fishing. The U.S. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) explains on their website that snorkeling and diving can cause coral to develop life threatening diseases. These occur in response to biological stressors, such as bacteria, fungi, and viruses, that humans have Freed Williams 2 exposed them too. Coral can also develop disease through pollutants brought on by tourist, such as sunscreen, perfume, or any type of artificial dye. Over time, certain diseases can progress across an entire surface, sucking the life out of it and leaving just the stark white skeleton. Other types of disease can cause part of the coral to become weak and break off exposing the skeleton. Once exposed, the skeleton will then become a breeding ground for invading organisms, thus risking the health of the entire colony Certain fishing methods are also destroying these underwater environments, such as deep water trawling. Deep water trawling includes dragging a large net along the depths of the seafloor. The nets are usually weighted down with rollers or chains that destroy everything in their path, including some of the most beautiful and beneficial coral reefs (Pickrell). Often times, the nets will cost more money than they bring in. This is just of one the disadvantages that humans on land face when they put the reefs at risk. Many tourists continue these harmful activities because some understand the benefits that coral reefs offer to life on land. NOAA published an article on their website explaining how coral reefs protect lives and property of citizens around the globe. Coral reef structures protect shorelines against large waves, storms, and floods. When damaged or destroyed, the absence of this natural barrier has devastating effects, such as loss of life, property damage, and erosion. The organization reported that several million people live in U.S. coastal areas near coral reefs, putting them at risk for large natural disasters Do Coral Reefs Protect Lives and Along with environmental benefits, healthy coral reefs offer many medicinal benefits to people across the world. The U.S. Nature Conservancy reported that, have already developed many medical treatments from resources found in the A great example is Secosteroids, an enzyme used by coral to protect themselves from Freed Williams 3 disease. It is also used to treat asthma, arthritis and other inflammatory disorders (Levins). Finally, a thriving coral community is beneficial to economies all over the world. It is estimated that coral reefs provide goods and services worth $375 billion each year of Coral If done safely, tourism of coral reefs can provide millions of jobs and a steady income for businesses in surrounding areas. There are many ways to tour coral reefs safely, without posing any threats to these astonishing habitats. The most obvious is to be aware of the surrounding area while fishing, especially while trawling. Also, be sure to anchor all boats away from the reef, as there is a risk of hitting it. The U.S. Natural Conservancy outlined a few more easy ways to help protect the coral reefs on their website. First, always dive and fish responsibly with a licensed instructor and the use of proper eco-friendly equipment. Never have direct contact with the coral because bacteria and other substances on human skin can cause coral diseases. One can also turn a fun diving trip into a volunteer opportunity. A great way to get involved, but still enjoy the beauty of the reefs while on vacation, is to sign up for a coral reef cleanup Reefs of the Part of experiencing the natural beauty of the deep sea is to take responsibility and give back to these under water communities. Tourists should donate to organizations that work towards protecting the reef, at least once a year. Some great non-profit organization examples include The Coral Reef Alliance and The Coral Restoration Project. Both organization work with researchers around the globe to keep the tourist industry alive in these reef areas, while also saving the colonies that are in danger and encouraging reproduction. Finally, the best way to give back to the reefs is to spread the word and bring attention to the issue. Like many other global issues, destruction of the coral reefs has been pushed under the rug, but it is never too late to make a difference. There are clear benefits to keeping the reefs safe Freed Williams 4 and alive. Along with these benefits, saving the reefs is also a clear necessity to life on land. Always remember that these dying coral reefs pose a threat to society as a whole and not just to those who participate in tourism. However, because tourists cause the most danger to the reefs, they should be held most accountable to save them from extinction. Getting involved is easy, therefore there is never an excuse to ignore the issue. Whether it is donating to organizations or getting out and on a clean-up, it is never too late to save the coral reefs! Freed Williams 5 Work Cited Coral  National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. U.S. Department of Commerce, 25 Mar. 2008. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Coral  WWF. Worldwide Wildlife Fund, n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Coral Reefs of the Tropics, You Can Make a  Coral Reefs. The U.S. Nature Conservancy, n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. How Do Coral Reefs Protect Lives and  National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. U.S. Department of Commerce, 01 Mar. 2014. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Importance of Coral  National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. U.S. Department of Commerce, 25 Mar. 2008. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Levins, Nicole. Coral Reefs: Medicine  Oceans and Coasts. U.S. Nature Conservancy, n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Pickrell, John. Trawlers Destroying Deep-Sea Reefs, Scientist  National Geographic News. National Geographic Society, 19 Feb. 2004. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.