Baird 1 Garret Baird Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 30 April 2017 A Call to Action: Civil Rights and Liberties of America The United States was originally built upon of the idea of freedom and breaking away from a greater oppressive force, with the Declaration of Independence stating that the new United States would be a nation founded upon in which all people in the country would be free and equal (American Civil Liberties Union-Racial Justice). After over two hundred years later, the United States has ultimately not traveled that far away from that idea at all. Here in the United States, people that have a different skin color, are a different sex, have different religious beliefs, and even people that are discovering and finding new ways to express themselves are having their civil rights assaulted by the United legal and government system. Many innocent people are being denied rights to such things as employment, public housing, the ability to live in this country at all, and then even being denied the right to believe what they want to believe in. There are Americans suffering here in the United States with their only help coming from certain organizations such as the American Civil Liberties Union to fight for them. The American Civil Liberties Union, also known as the ACLU, is working towards a better United States and preserving the individual rights and liberties in America (American Civil Liberties Union-About Us). Everyone deserves a right to their own freedom of civil rights and the liberties that many individuals with more fortunate situations take advantage of every single day. Thus, because of the civil injustices and disservices being done to innocent people, Americans Baird 2 that are aware of this travesty but are doing nothing should begin by donating to the ACLU and attending protests to help improve lives and the society of the United States. Here in the United States, many different types and ethnicities are being targeted and attacked by the government. One of the most well-known examples of this is the African American Community. African Americans have been victims of the United States society since the United States was born. Even today black people are struggling to even survive. A perfect occurrence of this is the amount of jobs that are being taken away from the black community. In a recent study done which proved this fact by Bruce Western and Devah Pager, who are both very established and leading professors at the college of Harvard. Bruce Western being renowned as one of the leading academic experts in sociology and Devah work being featured across many platforms such as CNN, New York Times, and even the Wall Street Journal. These two distinguished authors ended up assembling Caucasian and African Americans and resulted in creating almost identical resumes and backgrounds for both of the races and sent the participants to apply for minimum wage jobs. What Western and Pager concluded is that African Americans were denied the job offer and told that the position had already been filled, while the Caucasians sent after the Africans were offered the job on the spot and some even got upscaled to better and higher positions (Pager and Western 2). The simple yet horrific wrongs that are being dealt to the African American community is appalling and still not the only thing that they have to deal with. Statistics show that one in three African American men expect to go to prison during their time here on Earth all because of the racial profiling that continues to be a problem (Kerby 1). The Department of Justice completed a report where the statistics showed that African Americans were almost three times as likely to be searched at a traffic stop compared to their white counterparts, while also being four times as likely to receive the use of Baird 3 force (Kerby 1). At times like these, the government and the legal system here to help, but more often than not, to harm. Another great reason for many to care about this subject is because the women of America are also being victimized in regard to civil rights. Whether it is talking about salary and the earning of money, homelessness, or even the education programs here in the United States, civil rights are taking a huge hit (American Civil Liberties Rights). In the place of work, women are on average making 78 cents lower than the average male, making it harder for a single and independent woman to care for her own wellbeing. Another place where women are finding it hard to survive in this country is in the home. Women are also being subjugated to a lot of gender-based crimes leaving them ultimately homeless unable to live securely within the United States. With no civil rights to defend against these kind of crimes women will continue to go homeless and literally fight to survive. The other instance of liberties that are being denied are in the education system. Over 1,000 public schools participate in having single-sex education programs, which are education programs where boys and girls attend classes separately. In the education programs girls are taught differently from boys and are in turn done a disservice in society. These programs became more prominent in 2006 after the Department of Education made it easier for public school districts to implement such programs (American Civil Liberties Union-Single-Sex Education). Some examples are that girls are not given time limits on tests because they perform well under these type of and are also taught they are not as good at math compared to boys due to testosteronal and estrogenic differences between sexes. With children being attacked at such a young age, one must ask, how could someone stop this? Baird 4 Backpacking off the last point, there are awful and terrible things that are being done, but that mean things be done to prevent and stop all of the horrific civil injustices being done. There are many things that an individual can begin by doing to help improve America even by just a little bit. An individual can just start off by donating any sum of money to the American Civil Liberties Union(ACLU) that was mentioned earlier, by donating here: But not only can you donate to the ACLU, you can also pay to become a member of the ACLU. When you begin donating or donate monthly, the ACLU will use the money to stop attempts to quiet an free speech, stop politicians from preventing women procreative freedom, and also stopping racial profiling in the criminal justice system. Now, when the individual feels fully ready to make full commitment to the call to action, they can begin by attending protests in the nearby area. In this day and age, protests are happening everywhere and can be even seen happening on campuses everywhere. Any individual can come out and start fighting for freedom of speech and the right to protest and dispute any civil injustice occurring here in America whilst also using their right to speak their mind. Even though civil rights are being unfairly undone and innocent liberties are being assaulted by what the American people call that necessarily mean that these individuals should just sit down and take it. Any given individual that is aware of these wrongs, should begin by donating civil rights organizations such as the ACLU and even start attending protests to help undo these wrongs and continue to improve the lives of many blameless people and whilst also creating a better society. Imagining a society without discrimination and a place where everybody gets the freedom they deserve is a beautiful thing. Taking a look to a better future can just simply be the beginning of a revolution. Baird 5 Word Count: 1280 Baird 6 Works Cited About the  American Civil Liberties Union. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Kerby, Sophia. The Top 10 Most Startling Facts About People of Color and Criminal Justice in the United  Center for American Progress. N.p., 29 May 2015. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Pager, Devah, and Bruce Western. EVALUATIVE SYSTEMS AT  ETC: A Review of General Semantics 7.2 (1950): 156-59. Harvard. Web. Racial  American Civil Liberties Union. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. American Civil Liberties Union. N.p., n.d. Web. 40 Apr. 2017  American Civil Liberties Union. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.