Blichasz 1 Joanie Blichasz Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102-103 30 April 2017 Let People have the Right to Choose Assisted suicide is defined as someone who assists or encourages another person to kill Are There are four major problems within this topic that needs to be confronted: whether assisted suicide is legalized or not; determining competency to make this decision depending on his or her illness; is it considered ethically wrong; and does it corrupt the practice of medicine and the doctor-patient relationship. The topic of physician assisted suicide has been debated over many years and out of the 50 states in the United States only six of them have legalized assisted suicide: California, Colorado, Oregon, Vermont, Washington, and Montana Although this topic is a nationwide issue, in the United Kingdom there have been many people protesting to make assisted suicide legal. Therefore, since people do not have the right to choose when they want to end their life, people who have serious health conditions that could possibly need this in the future should protest for the legalization of assisted suicide so that they will not have to suffer and can die peacefully. The forty-four states that have not legalized assisted suicide either have laws prohibiting it, no specific laws, or are unclear on the legality of it In the UK, assisted suicide is illegal under English law and Suicide Act 1961 makes it a criminal offence in Blichasz 2 England and Wales to: abet, counsel, or procure the suicide of another or an attempt of another to commit Are In Oregon, one of the six U.S. states that have legalized assisted suicide, in 500 have an assisted and of patients who have an assisted death in Oregon are enrolled in hospice (Bethanyjay). These statistics are just for the state of Oregon. Therefore, if we take into perspective what the statistics would be for the other five states that have legalized assisted suicide, it could account for hundreds, maybe even thousands of people. Assisted suicide being illegal is not only a problem itself but, it can also overload the hospice care system because average, 45% of USA citizens die under hospice and most of them do not want to be there in the first place (Bethanyjay). The other three major problems within assisted suicide that needs to be addressed all connect to why it is illegal. When it comes to determining competency to make the decision to die depending on his or her illness, it can become a problem because they might not be in the right state of mind to come to such a decision. However, those who are dying have neither the choice to live or die; they are not suicidal. If they have less than six months to live, or are in serious pain, and death is inevitable and they are suffering then they deserve the choice whether to fight through it or control the timing and manner of their Therefore, competency relates to the reason that assisted suicide is illegal because people believe that if one is dying, no matter the illness, then they cannot be of right mind to make the decision to die. However, they not only want to help themselves by ending their suffering but they can also help their family members as well. It can help family members because then they do not have to watch a member of their family going through so much pain, and instead just die peacefully without going through each day watching someone that they love suffer, knowing that they cannot do anything to help them other than watch and hope that it ends quickly. Another problem when determining Blichasz 3 competency is that they might not be capable of making such decisions because of their illness, but as humans everyone knows that they are most likely in excruciating pain and therefore, others might want to make the decision for them such as family members or someone that is professionally trained to determine their condition, such as a doctor. If people can realize that if the one dying wants it to end for both themselves and their family, then that mean that they are competent enough to make such decisions. An article by Claire Andre and Manuel Velasquez talk about the ethical and moral reasons that come with assisted suicide. In the article, Andre and Velasquez express that although medical developments have been rapidly increasing, which means that more lives can be saved, it has also given us the technology sustain (or, some would say, prolong the deaths) of patients whose physical and mental capabilities cannot be restored, whose degenerating conditions cannot be reversed, and whose pain cannot be Some people would think that preserving life is fine because as a society everyone has a moral duty to do so, however, others would think that this is cruel to prolong a life that is in pain. People think that assisted suicide is ethically wrong because as human beings we live by morals that govern each others behavior, and helping someone die goes against everything we were taught growing up. However, as humans everybody has moral right to choose freely what they will do with their lives as long as they inflict no harm on (Claire and Manuel). Andre and Velasquez mention that society committed to preserving and protecting life should not commission people to destroy This sentence in the article is not wrong however, some see it as helping or assisting, not as destroying life. They might believe that helping them end their suffering is better than doing nothing, since it is inevitable that they will die. Ethical reasons relate to assisted suicide being illegal because our behavior as humans, we have moral obligations that are deep Blichasz 4 rooted in everyone, therefore a law that makes assisting in suicide illegal is something that would be expected. However, as previously stated, as human beings we also have a moral right to freely choose what we do with our lives as long as no one else is hurt. The final problem that needs to be addressed is how it can corrupt the practice of medicine and doctor-patient relationship. When one thinks of medicine, they think of doctors and the oath that they took to protect and save life. When it comes to the oath, the Hippocratic Oath, everyone knows the phrase do no which encompasses that they will not harm anyone, including taking life. Because of this oath assisted suicide is seen as corrupting the practice of medicine because as doctors or even nurses they are supposed to save life not harm them, however, if one is clearly suffering then they have a say if a patient wants to die. Doctor-patient relationships can be a problem that needs to be addressed because if a doctor becomes close with a certain patient and does not want to see them suffer then they might assist them in suicide especially if that patient wants it as well. An example of assisted suicide is Noel Conway. He is a citizen in the UK who suffers from Motor Neuron Disease, when time the nerves in the spine and brain progressively lose (Nordqvist). Conway is fighting to end his life peacefully and not have to suffer any longer. He knows that he is dying and that he cannot change what is going to happen. Before being diagnosed he and his wife, Carol, booked a trip for China, because he had just retired two months before being officially diagnosed. He strongly believes we should all have the right to control our lives and especially the means and manner of our Noel The story of Noel Conway shows that this issue is a nationwide issue. Although Conway is still fighting for his right to die, he did win his appeal to challenge the law on assisted suicide and his case will proceed to a hearing in the High Court in the UK Blichasz 5 Consequences of failing to actively confront this problem is that somebody could assist in death and since it is illegal then they could go to jail, possibly for life, depending on where they live and the court ruling. Another consequence is that is that it could possibly overload the health care or hospice system with patients who did not want to be there, if given the choice. However, in order to prevent such things from happening people who have a serious health condition and might need this service, of getting to choose the time and manner in which they die, in the future should protest for the rights to be able to make assisted suicide legal. Protesting can also include signing a petition, spreading the word, or donating to organizations, such as Dignity in Dying, so that they can hire a lobbyist to go to Congress and fight on their behalf to get assisted suicide legalized. Everyone can also educate others on assisted suicide and show them the pros and cons so that they can make an informed decision instead of one that is just based off of ethics and opinions formed by society. In all, assisted suicide will always be an issue, not only in the Unites States but nationwide as well. There are many issues within assisted suicide that need to be addressed, in order for people to truly be informed on the topic and understand all aspects of it, instead of jumping to conclusions. If people, especially people with serious health conditions who might need it in the future, can protest for the legalization of assisted suicide and educate and inform others, then everyone can hopefully make an informed decision when it comes to the way they want to end their life. Everybody has the right to determine when they live or die, whether it be naturally or because they are already dying and they want to die peacefully. Word Count: 1665 Blichasz 6 Works Cited Bethanyjay. I Can Eat All The Pies, 24 July 2014, bethanyjay.wordpress.com/2014/07/24/assisted-suicide/. Accessed 30 Apr. 2017. Claire Andre, and Manuel Velasquez. A Right or a Wrong?, 16 Nov. 2015, www.scu.edu/ethics/focus-areas/bioethics/resources/assisted-suicide-a-right-or-a-wrong/. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. Noel Conway The Man Who Could Help Legalise Assisted My Story, www.dignityindying.org.uk/feature/noel-conway/. Accessed 30 Apr. 2017. Conway Wins Appeal to Challenge Law on Assisted Dignity in Dying, www.dignityindying.org.uk/news/noel-conway-appeal-assisted-dying/. Accessed 30 Apr. 2017. Nordqvist, Christian. Is Motor Neuron Disease? What Is Lou Medical News Today, MediLexicon International, www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/164342.php. Accessed 30 Apr. 2017. Dignity in Dying, www.dignityindying.org.uk/assisted-dying/our-position/. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. Guide to Physician-Assisted Suicide - Euthanasia - Should Euthanasia or Physician-Assisted Suicide Be Legal?, 21 Feb. 2017, euthanasia.procon.org/view.resource.php?resourceID=000132. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. Blichasz 7 Are the Current Laws on Assisted Suicide in the ITV News, 14 Aug. 2015, www.itv.com/news/2015-08-14/what-are-the-current-laws-on-assisted-suicide-in-the-uk/. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017.