Andreucci 1 Cover Letter My presentation consisted into bringing to class two plastic bottles of water. One of the plastic bottles was filled with spring water and the other was filled with polluted water. The polluted water looked brownish with sediments at the bottom. I showed the two plastic bottles to my classmates and I asked them a very simple question: Which of the two kinds of water would you rather drink? My classmates unanimously pointed out to the clear spring water. Some of my classmates asked me what was the pollutant that made the water brown, and I told them, for the sake of the presentation, to assume that the water was polluted by an unknown substance, which could be harmless or extremely toxic for the human body. After this clarification was made, even the few people that seemed interested in the plastic bottle containing the brown water agreed that they would choose the clear water. The polluted water was contaminated by a very harmless and common substance: coffee. In fact, to make the water look dirty and unappetizing, I decided to put coffee into the water. Coffee is an organic and non-not a toxic ingredient that is harmless for the human body. However, what would have happened to the person that drank the brown water if the substance in the bottle was note coffee but a very toxic chemical? This presentation served as a mean to make a point on the issues of water quality, water analysis and control, and pollution. In fact, it was easy for my classmate to choose the clear water instead of the brown water because the brown water was clearly polluted. However, most of the times, the chemicals that are polluting the water we drink are not so easily visible and may cause major dysfunctions in our organism. Since everyone chose the non-polluted water, people should realize the risk of water contamination, and the importance to make a stand to have better water analysis and higher water quality. In fact, dealing with the issue of polluted water in a smarter manner could save many human lives, as well as saving many ecosystems from destruction and many forms of life from extinction (for example amphibians). Andreucci 2 Marianna Andreucci Professor Theodore Murray ENC1102 30 April 2017 Water Quality Needs Improvement You will die without water faster than you will if you starve! Water is an essential element for life on Earth. This molecule is formed by one atom of oxygen and two atoms of hydrogen. This compound covers 71 percent of the total surface area of the planet and it forms up to 60 percent of the human body (Perlman). In recent years, oceans, rivers, and lakes have been drastically polluted by many human activities such as industrial wastes, mining activities, marine dumping, burning of fossil fuels, chemical fertilizers and pesticides wastes, and radioactive wastes Sources and Causes of Water ). Some of the toxic chemicals pollinating the water resources in the United States are: lead, mercury, Sulphur, asbestos, and nitrates (LaFond). Picture taken from: Circle of Blue. Andreucci 3 The pollution of water resources is causing many environmental and health-related issues. Since water around the world is being polluted, the inhabitants of Florida should sign a petition that can be found online to protect the water quality of their State against the Sugar Industry. An adequate supply of safe drinking water is one of of the major prerequisites to stay healthy; however, when the accessible water resources are polluted, many diseases can arise. Drinking water is derived from two basic sources: surface waters, such as rivers and reservoirs, and groundwater (Fawell). All these different types of water resources can cause illnesses that range from diarrhoeal disease and other bacterial infections to cancer, meningites and immediate death (Fawell). Picture taken from: Water and Health. The researcher John Fawell in the Discussion of his research paper conducted on Water Quality in the United Kingdom writes: some regions show high-levels of arsenic, fluoride or contamination of drinking water by pathogens, for example, elsewhere these are very low and present no problem for human health. Marked variations in levels of contamination also occur more locally, often as a result of agricultural and industrial activities. The differences in health risks that these variations represent lead to different priorities for the treatment and provision of drinking water. Microbial contamination of drinking water remains a significant threat and constant vigilance is essential, even in the most developed (206). These words are a reminder that getting Andreucci 4 sick from polluted water is a serious threat, and this threat does not only affect poorer and undeveloped countries, but it is a global threat that also affects first world countries such as the United Kingdom and the United States. Water pollution is not just and ongoing issue for the human health, but it is also an environmental threat for the biodiversity of our planet. Picture taken from: Emaze. There are many endangered species that live or drink the polluted water created from big industries and urban development. The individuals from these species have been dying at exponential rates and the only way to stop this ongoing pattern is to better regulate the amount of pollution that is created daily by humanity. According to the WWF Association, any ecosystem nowadays has multiple forms of contaminations; for example, streams full of toxic chemicals from industrial processes, rivers overloaded with nutrients from farms and trash, city air polluted with smog and even pollution transported by the rain Pollution Threats ). Picture taken from: Biology Tutor Vista, Andreucci 5 Ecosystems on the planet are guided by very specific physical balances that can be broken very easily by pollution. In fact, if many species suffer from water pollution, many other thrive, and become so abundant that they ruin the balance of the ecosystem they are part of. A specific example caused by the oversupply of nutrients in rivers, swamps, lakes and ocean is the overabundance of many types of algae. One of these algae is the Phytoplankton, which is a microscopic single-celled organism that exist at the base of the food chain in most freshwater and marine ecosystems Water Pollution Thank You ). Picture taken from: Thank you Ocean. An algal bloom can threaten or damage the environment as well as human health and surrounding species. Certain species can produce toxins that are harmful to humans and marine mammals Water Pollution Thank You ). This issue should especially interest Florida Residents because a serious algal bloom is affecting the Everglades and many other Floridian water supplies. This is caused by nitrates and phosphates pollution made by Sugar Industries, these two elements are essential nutrients for algae growth and can cause it to overpopulate Water Pollution Thank You ). Andreucci 6 It can be concluded that water pollution is a serious and global environmental threat which can cause major harm for the environment and biodiversity of our planet, and for the human health. Therefore, signing the petition to protect Florida water resources should be a priority for all the Florida Residents and for whoever feels the need to protect the environment and well- being. This petition can be found online at http://www.savingflwater.com/petition Saving FL Water. Sign the ). The letter that will be sent to the Floridian Governor will Dear Governor Scott and members of the Florida Legislature: We need you to act now to protect and save drinking water. Last November, 75 percent of Floridians voted for Amendment 1 to the Florida Constitution, setting aside funds to clean and protect the Everglades and protect our drinking water. The US sugar industry is encouraging you to ignore the voters. You should reject the arguments of the sugar industry and force them to honor their binding written contract to sell 46,800 acres of sugar land to the state for construction of the Everglades Agricultural Area Reservoir. Unlike projects being advanced by the sugar lobby, the new reservoir will help control pollution and save the Everglades. In addition, the reservoir will have a major impact on saving our water supply as the Everglades provides water to 1 in 3 Floridians. We urge you to follow the will of the voters over the US Sugar lobbyists and prioritize Everglades restoration and fund the purchase of this critical Saving FL Water. Sign the ). Everyone should sign the petition as it has the power to save many lives and ecosystems unique to the Floridian environment. Picture taken from: Ever Glades Foundation. Andreucci 7 Works Cited Effects of Water Pollution  Biology Online Help, Biology Topics & Biology Tutor Biology@TutorVista.com, biology.tutorvista.com/environmental- pollution/effects-of-water-pollution.html. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. Fawell, John, and Mark J. Nieuwenhuijsen. Contaminants in Drinking  British Medical Bulletin, vol. 68, 2003, pp. 199-208. LaFond, Kaye. Infographic: U.S. Surface Water Pollution by  Circle of Blue, 28 Aug. 2015, www.circleofblue.org/2015/world/infographic-u-s-surface-water-pollution- by-state/. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. Nanja, Melodie. OUR TAKE ON: The Lake Okeechobee Basin Management Action Plan Everglades  Everglades Foundation, 9 Mar. 2016, www.evergladesfoundation.org/2016/03/09/our-take-on-the-lake-okeechobee-basin- management-action-plan/. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. Perlman, Howard. How Much Water is There on Earth, from the USGS Water Science  Science for a Changing World (USGS), 2 Dec. 2016, water.usgs.gov/edu/earthhowmuch.html. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. Pollution Threats  World Wildlife Fund, www.worldwildlife.org/threats/pollution. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. Reiff, Fred. Recent Trends in Waterborne Disease Outbreaks in the  Water Quality and Health Council, 1 May 2015, www.waterandhealth.org/trends-waterborne-disease- outbreaks/. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. Rinkesh. Sources and Causes of Water  Conserve Energy Future, 2009, www.conserve-energy-future.com/sources-and-causes-of-water-pollution.php. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. Andreucci 8 Saving FL Water. Sign the  PSU Chemistry Page Redirect, Courses.chem.psu.edu. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. Water Pollution  Emaze Presentations, www.emaze.com/@AFWQTCRF/water- pollution-copy1. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. Water Pollution Thank You  Thank You Ocean The Ocean Takes Care of Us. Return the Favor, 2017, thankyouocean.org/threats/water-pollution/. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017.