Running head: MEDICINAL PRICING 1 ENC 1101: Medicinal Pricing Daniel C. DeJesus The University of South Florida MEDICINAL PRICING 2 Project Outline I. Intro A. Key points: The counterargument will deal with the necessities of charging higher prices for medicine, then my points will debunk the needs for higher prices to prove there is no reason for such large prices, how pricing affects the customers, and why there should be some form of government intervention. B. Thesis: Due to overpricing, government regulation is needed in order to control medicinal pricing. II. Counterargument A. Government regulations already in place make it quite expensive to create a new drug. B. The pharmaceutical industry is still a business therefore they want to make more money than they put in. C. They want to expand their company to make more medicine. III. Transition A. Although these can be valid reasons for the company, they are not for a customer who is blatantly taken advantage of and the problems the consumer faces far outweigh hat of the corporation. MEDICINAL PRICING 3 IV. Reasons A. Consumers of medicine do not buy it by choice they buy it because they need to and they have no other alternatives to these products because the competition is scarce. B. There is a significant number of people in America who have a very difficult time affording their medication and some even have difficulty affording food along with it, this should not be happening in one of the richest countries in the world. C. The industry is clearly taking advantage of their needs for their product and squeeze them dry because the consumer has no ability to fight back. D. There should be some form of government intervention in this industry because it is unique and does fit the same role as the free market of producers and consumers because the consumers have little to no choice on if they will buy the product. V. Conclusion A. Restate thesis: Due to overpricing, government regulation is needed in order to control medicinal pricing. B. Restate Key Points: The counterargument will deal with the necessities of charging higher prices for medicine, and then my points will debunk the needs for higher prices to prove there are no reasons for such large prices, how pricing affects the customers, and why there should be some form of government intervention. MEDICINAL PRICING 4 ENC 1101: Medicinal Pricing America has been stuck in a perpetual motion for some time now with the issue of the pharmaceutical industry over pricing their drugs. Many people think there should be change how this specific market operates, whether the government places restrictions or there is more aid given to those who have trouble affording or cannot afford the medicine they need some form of government intervention is needed. There are a significant number of people affected by the current conundrum that plagues citizens as they are unwilling consumers of the market because they need the medication for their illnesses and the corporations take advantage of this fact, they charge far more than their counterparts in Europe and Canada because there are no restrictions placed on them except for the rigorous FDA drug approval process, other than that they have free reign over the medication they create because the market for it is baron and therefore they have no competition to attempt to undercut. The government needs to put protections in place to assist the American people because, due to overpricing, government regulation is needed in order to control medicinal pricing. Arguments against further government intervention are claims made only by businesses but they are logical from their point of view. FDA testing plays a large role in the pricing of their new drugs because it costs a lot of money to create a new drug and the expenses have gone up over time, researchers these costs have increased at 7 percent per year in real (Hooper, 2016, p. 21). The researchers found that the cost of Research and Development (R&D) double every decade, million in the 1970s, $413 million in the 1980s, $1 billion in the 1990s through early 2000s, and now $2.6 2016, p. 21). The higher the cost is to make a drug, the less competition in the market because the cost is too steep to start and fewer drugs will be made. As most people can tell it is a difficult business to get started in and could MEDICINAL PRICING 5 very well not pay out, risk is always there for those looking to make a profit in business but it is quite overwhelming in the pharmaceutical industry. Lastly you have to keep in mind that yes these companies are making medicine out of the goodness of their hearts, they are doing it to turn a profit and they wish to expand their company to reap more revenue. Although the previously listed reasons why not to regulate medicinal pricing are viable from a perspective, they are not logical for the grand scheme of America, they only add fuel to the already burning flame of an issue. The balance between producer and consumer is thrown way out of equilibrium with the producer holding all the cards and the consumer forced to take what they can get. The overarching theme is the product costs too much for the average consumer to buy, and this is not some voluntary purchase like something that is not a necessity, this is a purchase to maintain a health there is no choice in the matter, either they can afford the medication or they cannot. The consumer has no power in the situation and must therefore sacrifice other necessities to afford this one. Although grew about (Golec, 2010, p. 627) for the consumer but the price to create the drugs has grown far more, the consumers are still hurt the most in America, you can compare situation to to see what they are doing differently. Europe has pricing restrictions in place to protect the consumer while America does not as their prices have not (Golec, 2010, p. 627), but they still have pharmaceutical companies making money and creating new drugs, they just are going at a slower pace than America. Does America really need to follow this fast tempo where if you keep up you are left behind? There is little to no justification for to move along so rapidly, you could say it creates more jobs and drugs but those are minusc ule as compared to the money made by the companies, which is the real reason they want to keep up the pace because they have the most to gain from it. Ripples caused by this hyper active process MEDICINAL PRICING 6 have forced people to ration medication; researchers found of the chronically ill study participants reported cost-related medication underuse and 11% reported food insecurity as (Medical Economics, 2014, p. 1), one in four chronically ill people have to underuse their medication because they cannot afford it on a regular basis and one in ten people have trouble affording both their medication and food! How can America be considered one of the richest countries in the world and be seen as a on a or a beacon of hope when much of the population is impoverished and unable to afford the essentials to live. If this really is a democratic republic built for its own people then it needs to step in and assist them against these large corporations who rule over them without any checks or balances, the needs of the many far outweigh the needs of the few, the U.S. government needs to take notice of how Europe and Canada run their pharmaceutical and health industries, they need to do the same and regulate medicinal pricing but also lower the costs to create an FDA approved drug. America has chosen a different path than most other first world countries have gone down and with that comes its own unique issues that it must remedy; there are problems with the pharmaceutical industry through and through. The counterargument to keep the industry humming along as it does now has some merit to it and some of their complaints should be taken into consideration when coming up with the solution but the focus should be set on the needs of the many and not the needs of the few. Due to overpricing, government regulation is needed in order to control medicinal pricing, America needs to act now, and we must work to craft a better future for all. MEDICINAL PRICING 7 References Financial hardship linked to medication underuse. (2014). Medical Economics, (8), 36. Golec, J., & Vernon, J. A. (2010). Financial Effects of Pharmaceutical Price Regulation on R&D Spending by EU versus US Firms. Pharmacoeconomics, 28(8), 615-628. Hooper, C. L., & Henderson, D. R. (2016). Want cheaper drugs? More competition, not more government coercion, would greatly benefit consumers. Regulation, (1), 20. Kindig, D. A., Seplaki, C. L., & Libby, D. L. (2002). Death rate variation in US subpopulations. Bulletin Of The World Health Organization, 80(1), 9-15. MCGUIRE, J., JABON, E. N., & FASERUK, A. (2014). FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC IMPLICATIONS OF ORPHAN DRUGS THE CANADIAN ECONOMY IN PERSPECTIVE. Journal Of Financial Management & Analysis, 27(1), 1-13. Tinsley, H. a. (2004). Prescriptions without Borders: America Looks to Canada for Answers to Solve the Prescription Drug Pricing Predicament in the U.S., But Is Importation Really the Solution?. Hamline Journal Of Public Law & Policy, 25(2), 437-479.