Alkazemi 1 Hasan Alkazemi Professor Mark Nusspickel ENC 1101 10 April 2017 Outline I. Intro/thesis Despite existing contradictions which started centuries ago, abortion perceived more intention to be a controversial topic consisting of people who are for and against the operation. The idea started long time ago mainly because of the lack in advancement in the medical and technological fields. However, with the empowered revolution of the medical science it is ideal for women reducing all risks. Additionally, abortion eventually improves healthcare, economical standards, and college graduations. Besides, it reduces the chances of being a single parent. Considering the above, abortion should be legalized. II. Counter Argument Some people face abortion with different views, for instance, a heavy grief is put on the mother after taking away her un-born baby. Others consider it a matter of en-quality. Fighting for the rights of the unborn babies as the main emphasis. In other words, the only difference between the born and the unborn is their weight or size. III. First Argument to support the opposition 1. Abortion reduces the chances of single parenting. Alkazemi 2 2. Statistics have proven that when certain people have the option of abortion end up facing divorce eventually. 3. Many of those who go through this journey face later problems in different stages of life. IV. Second Argument to support the opposition 1. Abortion is considered a family matter which falls within privacy to decide. 2. Many political parties get involved in the facts of abortion in order to take control. 3. The mothers are the most trusted concerned party, therefore, women should should be in charge of the responsibility of decision-making as it is affecting them before anyone else. V. Conclusion Abortion improves the societal economical standards if women were to be free determining pregnancies. In addition, it also reduces risk of potential poverty. Thus, abortion should be legalized globally. Abortion: Pro-life Vs Pro-choice Despite existing contradictions which started centuries ago, abortion perceived more attention to be a solution between hands deciding their pregnancy. Abortion has divided the society into two categories consisting of people who are for and against the operation and yet, continuous to be a controversial topic in the 21 st Century. Concerns regarding abortion began long time ago mainly because of the risk involved affecting health. Due to the lack in advancement in the medical and technological fields abortion recorder a huge number of fatalities especially to African-American Females. Furthermore, with the empowered revolution of the medical science it is now ideal for women in favor of reducing multiple health risks and granting them more freedom in the matter of decision making. In other words, abortion eventually improves future healthcare, economical Alkazemi 3 standards, and college graduations. Besides, it reduces the chances of being a single parent. In regards to the above, abortion should be legalized globally to grant all women better healthcare and freedom of choice. Some people face abortion with a different view, for instance, they believe that the mother faces a heavy grief after banishing away her un-born baby. Likewise, others approach abortion as a of inequality and fighting for the rights of the unborn babies as their main emphasis. In other words, the ideology revolves around that the only difference between the born and the unborn is their weight or size. Besides, religious beliefs and tradition views also may interfere with the idea of abortion. Furthermore, abortion is perceived abortion as immoral and unfair for the fetus that is the unborn who have done no mistake. On a different angle, abortion can cost a lot of money and can result in consuming a high financial percentage of a income. In this case, developing society with access to abortion used to provide abortion under riskier environments that consist of many doctors with no certificates to do such operation. This has caused thousands of deaths over the years which makes a serious catastrophe. Accordingly, is highly significant that depictions of foetocentric grief has increased and more women have been addressed as subjects of choice and capacity rather than bearers of a maternal (Millar, 516). Foetocentric grief meaning that women that go through abortion face a period of sadness and grief as a result from giving away their sons considering their position as the responsible mother. Also, the quote encourages to look at women as a human rather than a birth machine. Thus, abortion may be percieved as an immoral act in the societal view; however, a woman is the most righteous person to decide her pregnancy and knows best whether she wants to go through abortion to prevent catastrophic circumstances. Alkazemi 4 Abortion always provides a second chance to those who may lack support for their babies which greatly affects the future of the family. Shift in research in regards to abortion is reaching its peak exploring different areas that improved the circumstances that the operation goes through. There is a clear advancement in the medical field and technology in comparison to couple of years back. Abortion now take safety measures very carefully with accessibility within most societies. Furthermore, evidence prove that with abortion being more accessible it reflects positively resulting in an increased number of college graduates, fewer rates of single parenting, and lower usage of welfare referring to research in 2009 (126). . Additionally, in her findings it shows evidence suggest that improved living circumstances experienced by the average child born after the legalization of abortion had a lasting impact on the lifelong prospects of these (Ananat, 2009). Meaning that abortion not only helped by the mentioned previously but also it improves the living standards for new born babies. In the case of not having easy access to abortion, it will crucially affect some of these babies with struggling parents that may get separated eventually; therefore, putting the life in an unsuitable position due to lack of support. On the other hand, women as a respected individual of the society should have the right to make the decision of abortion. Many political movements for and against abortion still exist since long time ago. However, in this case it is urged that women are the ones responsible of the decision-making. As the pregnancy is considerably a family matter it should stay in the family. In a case of Roe versus Wade where abortion was restricted unless the life was at risk. Obliged by the supreme court, the court that held the trail in Texas concluded that the constitutional rights protected a right to decide her pregnancy. This marks a Alkazemi 5 stepping stone for abortion to board legally across most of the states taking in consideration the damage done to the concerned party that is the family. According to the article by Erdman best, the Court admits that the regulation of abortion and more broadly, the decision to become a parent or not may engage an individual right to for private and family (Erdman, 43). This helps improving both physical and mental health. Many women would appreciate the opportunity of abortion in certain circumstances. For example, many of those mothers are still young and want to stop their career whether it is schooling or similar and others facing financial struggles. Also, it could prevent unwanted outcomes of immoral acts such as rape. Besides, it grants women the freedom that they deserve to control their future whether if she is capable of providing the support needed in order to have the pregnancy or to go through abortion if desired. Therefore, abortion improves living standards and prevents unplanned parenthood in which many children go through difficult stages of life lacking support. At last, abortion improves the societal economical standards if women were to be free determining pregnancies. In addition, it also reduces risk of potential poverty that could not only the child but also the whole family. Thus, abortion should be legalized on a global lowering all existing restrictions in order to grant those women freedom in drawing their lives. Fighting for the right of women whether to go through abortion or not varies from a case to another. Because of that reason, women are at the most rightful position to determine their pregnancy. Putting our hands together to insure our mothers, sisters, and daughters lives have the outermost healthcare and a better future is crucially urgent. Alkazemi 6 Work Cited Ananat, Elizabeth Oltmans, et al. and The Review of Economics and Statistics, vol. 91, no. 1, 2009, pp. Erdman, Johana N. The Politics of Global Abortion  Brown Journal of World Affairs (2016): 39-57. Business Source Alumni Edition. Web. 30 Jan. 2017. Grimes, David A., et al. Unsafe abortion: the preventable  The Lancet 368.9550 (2006): 1908-1919. History and Debate of  Abortion Debate Debate.org. N.p., n.d. Web. 10 Apr. 2017. Liu, Joseph. A History of Key Abortion Rulings of the U.S. Supreme  Pew Research Religion & Public Life Project. N.p., 15 Jan. 2013. Web. 10 Apr. 2017. Millar, Erica. Choices and Grievable Lives: The Anti-Abortion Influence in Defending the Abortion Experience in Australia Since the (2016). Web. 6 Feb. 2017.