Zariczny 1 Jordan Zariczny Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 4/30/2017 Protect Rights and be a Music Pirate Music Pirating has a long history, with material being illegally copied since published music was first made. Although it has been around for a long time Music Piracy significantly affected the sales of music until the introduction of Napster in 1999, which allowed free mp3 files sharing over the internet (Lee). It is nationally known that music piracy is illegal and can lead to heavy fines and even jail time, but this fact is ignored by seventy percent of the public (GO-Gulf). Music piracy has also been shown to cause serious damage to digital product sales. The IPI (the Institute for Policy Innovation) released a report that shows that illegal music file-sharing results in $12.5 billion of economic damage and loss of 71,060 jobs every year in the United States (Jeong). Because of its severe threat for the global economy, the music industry itself, music listeners, and even those who do not listen to music should rally behind the RIAA (Recording Industry Association of America) and work towards a way to stop music piracy. To get a better understanding of the problem of music piracy, its history and laws need to be explored. Copyright law says that the creator of works has exclusive rights over their original physical or intellectual property. Copyright infringement is the use of these types of works without the expressed permission. The breaking of copyright law can land heavy fines up to $250,000 or even five years of imprisonment (RIAA). Music piracy has been linked to the decline of the music industry for past decade although there has been a slight revenue bump with streaming services. When music piracy was decreased, there was an evident increase of sales Zariczny 2 within the music industry. This is evident in a study done is Sweden in 2009, where a piracy reform was shown to increase music sales by 36% (Adermon). Although even with streaming services like Apple Music on the rise, music piracy still is a severe threat. 95% of the music downloaded online is illegal and copyrighted causing a loss of billions of dollars in both worker and music industry revenue (GO-Gulf). With all this evidence taken into consideration, music piracy could be concluded as a negative influence on the music industry. However, many people may think it could be a positive influence. Technically speaking, copyright infringement is not theft, being only the use of ideas, therefore some conclude that piracy wrong. This is an incorrect way of looking at the issue because the theft of music could be compared to shoplifting a DVD from a store. There is also the opinion that music labels are making artists make very little money already, so pirating is really fighting the music labels. This is also a grey area, although music artists do make very little from the contracts they sign, they still make money (Camacho). Pirating this music is still taking sums of money from the contracts that the artists knowingly signed. People who listen to music all the time may find themselves thinking, should I care about this The answer is simple, if they listen to music, they should care. By taking the revenue from artists and not contributing to the sales of their music, artists may lose motivation to make music (Camacho). In November 2014 Taylor Swift removed her albums and music from Spotify as a critique of the free music-streaming model and file sharing (Lee). By not buying music legally, artists not only lose revenue, but the lack of sales and not making it top of albums and songs effect whether they go on tour or continue making music. This would naturally affect a fan of the artists, who would no longer receive new songs from the artists. Although it is easy to see why a person who always listens to music should care about this issue, but why Zariczny 3 would someone who rarely listens to music or never downloads songs care? The answers may not lie in economics, but in culture. Music is everywhere, in stores, elevators, clubs, bars, and in coffee shops. In the theoretical scenario that artists stop making music because of piracy, the lack of streamlined music in the world would make the world, in opinion, a lot duller. Because of these reasons, although theoretical, it is important that even if a person follow or listen to music regularly, that they discourage the use of illegal downloaded music. Although the issue and threat of music piracy is serious and should be treated as so, there are several things that can be done to resolve the problem. Even if a person listen to music regularly, they can still help resolve the issue of music piracy. To get involved and help the issue of music piracy there are several groups that a consumer can go to and support. The RIAA is the most notable group of out of these. By reporting any observed piracy to the RIAA, they can file a law suit that will help resolve the issue. One could take steps to report websites such as Pirate bay, and other torrent websites. With these websites shut down, even just temporarily, is one step closer to helping artists make the revenue that they deserve. A simpler solution can also just be to buy the music that a person would otherwise pirate. These may be an expensive option for some, but there are alternatives. Streaming sites such as Pandora or Spotify are free and offer a legal alternative to pirating music. One of the best ways to fight piracy is to compromise with it, support laws that satisfy both parties. Laws limiting copyrights so that artists can still make money off their music but consumers can eventually get free music can be put into place. The single most important way to support the fight against piracy is to establish awareness. If a consumer that would otherwise buy their music legally is found pirating, they should be instructed on punishments and the effect on Zariczny 4 the industry. Using these methods music lovers, and even those who do not listen to music, can help resolve the issue of music piracy. Music piracy has been a plague on the introduction of new music and innovations to music for centuries. It has caused billions of dollars of revenue to be lost by musicians and tens of billions of dollars to be lost by the industry as a whole. Music piracy has also been shown to cause the loss of thousands of jobs every year and has also been shown to cause a lack of motivation for artists. Because of these reasons artists may find themselves unwilling to release the music that they make. Without music the world would lose one of the key aspects of its culture and therefore steps should be taken to eliminate the problem. By reporting all piracy to the RIAA, acquiring music legally, spreading awareness of the issue and how it effects the artists and the industry, and by supporting laws that could form a compromise between both parties, the public could help resolve this issue and continuing listening the music that they love. Word Count: 1330 Zariczny 5 Works Cited Adermon, Adrian, and Che-Yuan Liang. Piracy and Music Sales: The Effects of an Anti-piracy  Journal of Economic Behavior & Organization 105 (2014): 90-106. Web. Camacho Murillo, Music Piracy and Illegal Sharing: Are Artists Being  Revisto Criterio Libre 2013, 11th ed., sec. 18: 113-24. Print. 2017 Jeong, Bong-Keun, et al. Consumer Piracy Risk: Conceptualization and Measurement in Music  International Journal of Electronic Commerce, vol. 16, no. 3, Spring2012, pp. 89-118. EBSCOhost, Lee, M. and Carolyn Sprague. Music Downloading  Salem Press Encyclopedia, January. EBSCOhost Online Piracy in Numbers - Facts and  GO-Gulf. GO-Gulf, 30 Jan. 2014. Web. 16 Apr.  RIAA. RIAA, 2016. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. <https://www.riaa.com/>.