Haddad 1 Chad Haddad Angelica Aranda ENC1102 April 30, 2017 End Gun Violence If there is one thing that should have American citizens concerned more than anything, gun violence. In recent years, there has been a substantial increase in gun related crimes, which primarily include thefts and murders. One of the reasons behind this, according to a study completed by a group of professors in late 2013, is incited by an increase in gun violence in films (Bushman et al, 2013). For instance, in July 2012, James Holmes dressed up as The Joker from the Batman movies, and killed 12 people, injuring 70 (Bushman et al, 2013). These acts cannot be justified under any circumstance and absolutely do not constitute a safe, protected and free America. Unfortunately, putting an end to gun violence is not as simple as it may seem. With this in mind, there are still significant efforts that have been put forward. Amongst these efforts, the Brady Campaign, an organization striving for protection in America through promoting gun control, has done significant work. Recognizing that this issue is continuing to expand, the Brady Campaign has decided to host an annual fundraising event at the University of South Florida (USF) on April 29 th , 2017. This event will consist of two main activities that contributors can participate in: paintball and laser tag. This effort is a way of raising awareness of the issue, educating college students of how important it is not to get involved with the misuse of guns, and raise money to use for future campaigns. Haddad 2 The Brady Campaign is a well-established organization that seeks out a safer America, with a concrete objective of, gun deaths in half by The organization has set out to accomplish this ultimate goal through three specific movements: to limit gun sales, to make it more difficult to purchase a gun and to shut down gun dealers The organization is currently doing everything it possibly can to help promote and ensure our safety from gun violence. They have recognized that the root of solving this problem is educating and engaging with American citizens. There have been many events and campaigns hosted by the Brady Campaign, like the Million Mom March, that serve as a mean of branching out to communities across the US, hoping they too realize the severity of gun violence and how important it is to put an end to it. The organization plans on continuing such acts with this brand new annual event, which will initiate on April 29 th at USF. This fundraising event is being held at USF solely because college students in particular are the ones who must be informed of gun violence and how their efforts are what will help diminish the issue. This is not only due to the fact that many college-aged students are involved in gun related activities, but also so that they can grow up to live a gun-free life. For example, both the Sandy Hook and Virginia Tech school shootings, which combined resulted in over 50 deaths, were done by college students. Unfortunately, some adults are to the point where their minds are fixed on the fact that guns are a household essential, and would not have their opinion wavered if educated about the issue. It is not only easier to change a young mind, but it would also in turn be more effective. One of the many shooting incidents that have taken place in colleges was Haddad 3 in 2015 when Christopher Harper-Mercer shot and killed 8 students and 1 teacher at Umpqua Community College in Roseburg, Oregon Things 2015). A disastrous moment for all, sending shock throughout the entire country, as well as the message that nobody is actually safe. Many college students in this day and age are either blind of the current gun violence issue, or they simply ignore it. This is a grave concern in itself, as the future essentially lies in the hands of these students. It is more than crucial that they not only become aware of gun violence, but also step forward in assisting to combat it, serving as a safeguard for our country. They are the support the country both needs and deserves in this time of crisis. It can be agreed that more often than not, one can turn on the news, and see something about a new case of a gun related crime. Whether it is a school shooting, a significant robbery or straight up mass murder, most of these crimes would not be possible if the criminals were unable to possess a gun. In fact, gun violence is so recurring that, day 89 Americans die to gun (Nickitas, 2016). That adds up to over 30,000 Americans dying to gun violence every year. An appalling figure that most definitely needs to be reduced. Gun violence is always having an impact on our lives, causing great stress, despair and agony to families across the country (Nickitas, 2016). Besides the fact that they can take a persons life in less than a second, the violence incited by them creates further issues beyond deaths. Many victims and their families subject to a case of gun violence become traumatized for life. Despite this public health concern, there has been very little action taken by the government. While it has been talked about, there has been no action taken. Gun violence will continue to snowball. We Haddad 4 will see more crimes driven by gun violence, which is exactly why the Brady Campaign is starting with the youth in their upcoming paintball and laser tag fundraising event. They have recognized that the best participants for this event are college students in particular. This fundraising event will be a fun day consisting of all you can play paintball and laser tag at the University of South Florida. It is deliberately ironic how the event commemorates the effort of ending gun violence, yet gun related activities would be taking place. This is so that the experience is ingrained in the minds and they can always link back the fun doings to the true purpose of the event. The event will commence with a welcoming ceremony with a few remarks from the Brady current president Dan Gross, followed by the actual activities, and close with an informative speech given by Gross with the purpose of educating the students about the issue at hand. There will also be flyers given out with information on the Brady Campaign, and how one would go about joining the organization. To participate in this day of fun, it will cost $30 with all proceeds contributing to the Brady upcoming campaigns. It will take place on Saturday April 29 th , 2017. All in all, gun violence is the last thing this country needs right now. With so many other issues at hand, we must make the unanimous decision to tackle gun violence collectively and overcome, just like the 600,000 members of the Brady Campaign have set out to do for over 40 years now. You can kick start this process simply by attending the first annual fundraising event at the University of South Florida on Saturday, April 29 th , 2017. Not only will it be an enjoyable time for you college students, but also an informative session where your next steps to ending gun violence lies. Haddad 5 Work Cited Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Fatalities Reported in Oregon College All Things Considered, 2015. Nickitas, Donna M. Action to Reduce Gun Violence: Just Common Nursing Economic$, vol. 34, no. 1, Jan/Feb 2016. Romer, Daniel, et al. Violence Trends in Pediatrics, no. 6, 2013