Ledesma 1 Kimberly Ledesma Mrs. Penuliar ENC1102 Project 2 Final Draft 20 March 2017 Evaluation of Images about Evaluation If someone has gone to any type of school, the chances are that standardized tests have been a part of the curriculum. It seems that every year the number of tests administered to students goes up. The American Evaluation Association (AEA) is involved in standardized testing, but they have a different perspective. The American Evaluation Association (AEA) believes that the benefits of testing students do more harm than good, and through the two images they have shared on their Facebook page they communicate that evaluation should be transparent and that the expectations that have been put in place for students are absurd and unrealistic. The AEA is an association that dedicates itself to evaluating in different facets. The association believes in the improvement of that be improving the testing itself or finding an alternative. The association wrote a report on their position regarding high stakes testing and how it has negative Some of these negative consequences include more dropouts, deprofessionalization of staff, and the concentration of money going toward testing (American Evaluation Association 1). Also, in an article written by Emma Brown, who was a middle school teacher and writes about national education, some points are brought up to create a compromise. They mention that under No Child Left Behind, Ledesma 2 every annual test has to meet achievement leading to a of sanctions and interventions (Brown). The AEA report also discusses that one of the issues with these tests is that they are insufficient. There is more to a knowledge that an assessment cannot family environment, their economic status, and their health. The American Evaluation Association looks to find an alternative for these standardized tests and in their position statement on high stakes testing lists expectations for improved evaluation: That measurement specialists and advisors involved in high stakes testing programs consider not only technical and theoretical but also consequential issues, such as the welfare of students, educators, schools, and society. Also, that important decisions (for example, grade to grade promotion/retention, graduation, certification, classification, basis of any single test or test battery, no matter how many times it may be taken. (American Evaluation Association 3) The AEA wants to improve what students are currently going through involving standardized testing, and the stress that is involved with it. The mission says, improve evaluation practices and methods, increase evaluation use, promote evaluation as a profession, and support the contribution of evaluation to the generation of theory and knowledge about effective human (http://www.eval.org/p/cm/ld/fid=4). The AEA wants to improve the current situation of standardized testing; this portrays their passion for students, and their wellbeing. They do not just want to build upon what has already been put in want to look at what has been done that can be improved and go from there. The AEA values knowledge and the students/faculty involved in the testing. Ledesma 3 The belief of evaluation being transparent and honest is represented in the first image posted on Facebook by the AEA, where there is a polar bear that is standing half in water and half out, with the text is (Wilson). This image promotes their belief of evaluation being transparent, and that if it is not transparent currently, that it needs to be improved to be transparent and honest. Lauren Wilson, who is an evaluation specialist, created this image that was later shared on the Facebook page. This image may seem like it is simply stating that evaluation is transparent, but that is not the case. The use of logos in this image is a kind of ironic logic, poking fun at the fact that evaluation is supposed to be transparent and that we would assume it is, but it is not. Wilson says, provides evidence beyond how you might feel things are (Wilson, Illuminated Ideas). The AEA is trying to say that sometimes there can be more below the surface that maybe we know about regarding evaluation. This image has ethos because it was created by an evaluation specialist and shared by an evaluation topic is what they do for a living and what they are passionate about. There is also the aspect of relevancy (kairos) in this image because it appeals to current culture, as it was posted on a Facebook page and also, due to the fact that it implies that something needs to soon because not being honest/transparent about something as important as testing. Chris Lysy, who works for an evaluation agency called Freshspectrum, created the cartoon image shared on the Facebook page (Lysy). In this cartoon, a teacher is shown standing by a chalkboard discussing what the students need to know for their yearly standardized test. Listed are some topics that sound realistic, and others that sound absurd. Some of those outlandish expectations that they are testing are empathy, humor, and compassion. Similar to the image created by Wilson, this cartoon has kairos because it was shared to a Facebook page and is Ledesma 4 directed toward the current culture. This could lead to the broadening of their audience because more people will be exposed to seeing the image on Facebook compared to personal website or the website. Another part of the appeal of kairos is a sense of urgency, which can be seen in the text of the cartoon. The teacher is telling the class all of the topics that will be tested, and it seems that the students have to master them in a short amount of time. Topics like compassion, creativity, and humor would be incredibly difficult to test or be able to perfect in a short amount of time to be tested on. The fact that the artist behind the cartoon not only works for an evaluation agency, but also dedicates most of his work to the topic of evaluation creates a sense of credibility when seeing the image. This cartoon also has a bit of ironic logic due to the fact that some of the topics listed in the cartoon are assessed in real life standardized tests, but the tone of the image makes it seem that it is something impossible that could never be tested. Some of the topics that are actually tested in real life include: critical thinking and creativity. Through these images, the AEA is conveying the fact that standardized testing should be straightforward. The images imply how difficult testing can be and that it is not or as simple as studying the materials on the test like some people may think. These images could be directed towards the creators of these assessments, teachers and schools that rely on the tests, or the students that take the tests themselves. The AEA wants change for images support the desires that they have of improvement. They hope for evaluation to be transparent, with no tricks or confusion. They strive for simplicity in materials that are being tested so that students are not frustrated when preparing and studying for the test. This hope that the AEA has can be seen through their proposition of better evaluation practices and why they advocate for transparency in their Facebook post. Those are the reasons why the AEA does what they they state it in their mission, improve evaluation practices and Ledesma 5 (http://www.eval.org/p/cm/ld/fid=4). The images are not simply shared for fun, but for another perspective of the situation that they are working on. They mean something much more than one would think. The AEA believes in finding a better alternative or minimizing the amounts of testing while still producing the results needed to improve the education of students. The association used those two images to raise awareness of the situation regarding test taking. Both images may not seem as meaningful as they really are, but with careful thought and evaluating the appeal of the images it is easy to realize what is trying to be communicated. A lot of things are at play in these images: the sense of urgency that students and faculty feel so that students can be prepared for these tests, and that despite being told what will be on the tests, they still know what to expect. Should the time they spend in school be spent primarily on absorbing material or on testing them to see if they have mastered what they are learning? At the end of the day, are scores in school enough to evaluate a progress? Or can the alternative option of testing once a year for every grade, presented by the AEA, lead to the promotion of even more success in students? Ledesma 6 Works Cited American Evaluation Association. American Evaluation Association Position Statement on HIGH STAKES TESTING In PreK-12 Education. Publication. American Evaluation Association, n.d. Web. 28 Jan. 2017. <http://www.eval.org/d/do/128>. Brown, Emma. Teachers union, think tank propose compromise on K-12 testing of U.S.  The Washington Post. WP Company, 29 Jan. 2015. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Lysy, Chris. A different kind of standardized test. Digital image. Facebook. American Evaluation Association, 25 Jan. 2017. Web. 15 Feb. 2017. Wilson, Lauren. If you ever need to explain what evaluation is, this can help... Digital image. Facebook. American Evaluation Association, 3 Feb. 2017. Web. 15 Feb. 2017. Wilson, Lauren. What is  Illuminated Ideas. N.p., 10 Jan. 2017. Web. 25 Feb. 2017.