Rodriguez 1 Rachel Rodriguez Dr. Theodosiou ENC 1102.050 Spring 17 10 March, 2017 Death Penalty: Project 2 Final Draft Since the year 1976, 1,448 individuals have been executed in the United States alone (Death Penalty Information Center). The Death Penalty is among one of the most controversial topics to date. Although the amount of countries still using the death penalty today, has diminished greatly, there are still a great amount of individuals who support this form of execution. Aimed at those individuals specifically, Figure 1 provokes a sense of guilt by showing that those who support the death penalty are among some of the most inhumane leaders in the world. Similarly, Figure 2 pushes feelings of disgust at these individuals by revealing one of the many horrifying possibilities in keeping the death penalty: wrong accusations. Amnesty International, the creator of these eye-catching advertisements, is one of the many organizations involved in trying to completely abolish the death penalty. They effectively use visual rhetoric in the two advertisements chosen, to gain the attention of various individuals by provoking the emotional, frightening truth behind this form of punishment as well as encouraging our society to act now, in an effort to bring an end to the death penalty worldwide. Amnesty International began in 1961, when lawyer, Peter Benenson spoke out against the ruling of two Portuguese students whom were jailed for raising a toast to  His call to action sparked the idea that people everywhere can unite in solidarity for justice and  (Amnesty International). The nonprofit organization consists of over 7 million people who strongly stand for justice in the world. Richard Dieter, retired attorney, suggests one of the Rodriguez 2 potential dangers in keeping the death penalty, since 1973, 150 people sentenced to death in twenty-six states have been exonerated and freed after they were acquitted, granted a full pardon, or all charges were dismissed, including seven in 2014  (925). Amnesty International, among many anti-death penalty organizations, are campaigning for a world where human rights are enjoyed by  (Amnesty International). Although standing for justice in all aspects of society, in regards to the death penalty, Amnesty International opposes the death penalty in all circumstances and works to end executions across the world. Figure 1 takes advantage of all aspects of visual rhetoric to gain the attention of any person who currently supports the death penalty. Logos, as defined by Rhetoric Matters, is the consistency and clarity of an argument as well as the logic of evidence and  (Hoffman 30). The words All those in favor of the death penalty, raise your  centered and bolded in black font draw the viewers attention, immediately. The words are nearly as powerful as the image itself, informing the audience that supporters of the death penalty are accompanied by some of the most inhumane leaders of the world. Pathos, a rhetorical device that can be used to draw in the audience and help them connect with the  (Hoffman 35), is the most powerful part of this image by provoking guilt and embarrassment in those who support this method of punishment. The fact that they decided to use powerful, yet cruel and inhumane leaders, well-known across the world, as supporters for the death penalty causes the viewer to reconsider their position on this issue. Similarly, the fact that the photo is in black and white adds seriousness to the overall message. It can also be portrayed as adding  to the photo, and emphasizing the bad in the figures chosen. Ethos is used to validate their argument and advertisement in general, they have included the name of their organization in bolded letter at the bottom of the page along with their phone number so the viewer can call, as they please, for Rodriguez 3 more information about their movement. Also in small print, located at the bottom of the advertisement, are the words it time we took a firm stand against the death  this uses the kairos appeal (timeliness) to show that this issue needs to be addressed now, as does the black and white color itself, provoking a sense of urgency. Through the use of various aspects of visual rhetoric, amnesty international has created an emotionally appealing advertisement to cause all individuals to reconsider supporting the death penalty. Figure 2 is another very emotionally appealing ad, although, not necessarily apparent at first sight, targeted at any individual who may be for the death penalty. The most powerful part of this advertisement is found through logos, addressed in the words This was Ruben Cantus last meal. Executed in 1993. Proved innocent in 2010. If you stomach this  This goes to show that one of the many horrifying, possibilities of the death penalty involves wrong accusations. To appeal to the sense of disgust (pathos), they use a bright orange color so that the eyes are automatically drawn to the tray of food, consequently, showing the last ever meal of an individual who was executed. It is learned that the individual, Ruben Cantus, was found innocent 17 years later. The tray of food is a very good representation of humanity. Although he was able to choose his very last meal, the way in which the food is presented on this prison-like tray is very unappealing. It does not give off a warming feeling to someone who is about to be executed. If Ruben were to represent humainty and the tray, the prison-system, this advertisement unleashes the honest truth behind the death penalty. Similarly, they are trying to get the audience to act now, through the use of kairos, by saying if you stomach the act, sign up for the petition against the death  Most viewers of this advertisement cannot, stomach this  and therefore will be inclined to sign up for their campaign. As with all advertisements it is necessary to prove ethos. Thus, amnesty international Rodriguez 4 has included their logo on the bottom right corner along with the link to their Facebook page so that anyone who wants to learn more about the topic can do so as they wish. With the use of advantageous rhetorical appeals, this ad provokes a great amount of guilt and disgust, in the saddening truth behind the fact that an innocent individual has the potential to be executed through capital punishment. Logical Fallacies, instances where the use of logic misleads the audience, uses flawed reasoning, or simply does not make  (Hoffman 51), are strategically used in most advertisements to make their argument appear more appealing to a given audience. The strategic placement of incomplete information, misleading the thoughts, is part of the reason advertisements are so effective in making individuals feel a certain way about a given issue. As with Figures 1 in particular, a few questionable conclusions were drawn. For example, the advertisement suggests that the men in the images were raising their hand in support for the death penalty, however, there is no evidence to support that those men actually support capital punishment. This takes advantage of false cause, a way of thinking that because two things happened simultaneously, then one must have caused the  (Hoffman 55). Their argument is effective in trying to provoke guilt and embarrassment in those who support the death penalty, although they do not have clear evidence to link the men raising their hand with support of the death penalty. Together, Figures 1 and 2 represent Amnesty International as an organization. They have included effective elements of visual rhetoric as well as sneaky placements of logical fallacies to make their mission more clear to the viewer. Without a doubt, Amnesty International is clearly against all aspects of the death penalty. As it can be seen through figures 1 and 2, they have a tendency to provoke guilt and disappointment in attitudes toward capital Rodriguez 5 punishment. They do this in an effort to raise awareness of the issue and to share the shocking truth behind the death penalty, in hopes that people will take a stand and join them in their efforts to abolish the death penalty, worldwide. The death penalty is still practiced in approximately one third of the world today (Amnesty International). Through the continuous use of emotionally, eye opening advertisements, Amnesty International can reach their ultimate goal of bringing that number down to zero. The use of ethos, pathos, logos, and kairos bring a great amount of awareness to the death penalty. Regardless of opinion on the largely controversial issue, Amnesty International has a way of gaining public attention in an effort to draw more support toward the death penalty. Rodriguez 6 Rodriguez 7 Rodriguez 8 Works Cited Amnesty International: Death Penalty. Amnesty International, https://www.amnesty.org/en/what-we- do/death-penalty/. Accessed 15 February 2017. Death Penalty Information Center: Facts About the Death  The Death Penalty Information Center, http://www.deathpenaltyinfo.org/. Accessed 20 Jan. 2017. Dieter, Richard C. The Future of the Death Penalty in the United  University of Richmond Law Review, vol.49, 3, 2014, pp. 921, 925. Hoffman, Allyson, and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric  Rhetoric Matters: Foundations of Rhetoric and Composition. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 30-55 Print.