Gad 1 Androw Gad Professor Fennel English Composition 1102 April 26 th 2017 Legalization of Marijuana It is high time that world nations go back to the drawing board and legalize marijuana. Lately, issues regarding the legalization of marijuana have triggered controversies in many countries. For instance, for the first time in World history, the masses are pushing for the legalization of marijuana more than ever before. In fact, two states in United States of America, Colorado and Washington, have started to pave the road to the adoption of laws to legalize the substance. Besides, statistics have proven that 58% of the American citizens are for the decriminalization of the drug (Kilmer et al. 1). Legalizing cannabis will increase the internal revenues of nations. Colorado and Washington are just two of the states that voted for the legalization of the drug. Interestingly, economists have made a rough approximation stipulating that legalizing marijuana in the two states will generate approximately $550 million for the states (Kilmer et al. 1). Imagine how much revenue could be generated by all 50 states. Imagine how much revenue could be generated by all nations. Revenue that could be used to pay back debts, boost education and social programs, and improve the quality of living throughout the world. Competitive nations will essentially grab all economic situations that are likely to boost their sources of revenue as Gad 2 soon they appear. Thus, legalizing marijuana will be a remarkable step in improving economic developments in countries due to increase in sources of revenue (Choo et al. 162). In addition to increase in revenues, legalizing marijuana is also likely to increase employment opportunities in the subject countries (Monte 1). Consequently, the challenge of unemployment has been a core issue in a majority of countries. Thus, getting opportunities of resolving the issue by legalizing marijuana will be extremely important in improving economic growths of the concerned nations. It should be noted that incorporating the selling and buying of marijuana will lead to development of processing industries that will create employment opportunities to the native citizens. Also, there will be further opportunities for people who will specialize in educating the members of the societies about healthy techniques of using the drug (Kilmer et al. 1). Cannabis should be legalized because there is no case of death that has been recorded so far regarding its use (Monte, Zane & Heard 1). Thus, as far as other drugs like alcohol can kill individuals, marijuana should be legalized because other than improving tax imposition grounds, the drug will also necessitate healthy lives amongst the users that are instrumental in economic growths. This is due to more research being produced to discover healthier ways of consumption as well more beneficial uses for the drug to exploit its analgesic properties. Also, there are many prominent people from different parts of the world who use marijuana. That means that despite using the drug, they can still perform their economic tasks without difficulties. Moreover, that also implies that cannabis has nothing to do with interfering with economic mind sets (Choo et al. 162). Thus as far as its users can take part in economic developments, marijuana should be legalized because it does not interfere with the prosperity of a given nation. It is also significant to note that since marijuana does not have a lot of health complications, legalizing the Gad 3 drug and modifying it to replace other drugs will be an amazing step for cutting down health costs (Hickenlooper 244). Nations are also likely to improve their infrastructure by legalizing cannabis (Kilmer et al. 1). As far as there will be construction and development of industries, the buyers and the sellers of the drug will essentially seek the developments of infrastructure to necessitate their business activities. Additionally, the extra revenue that will be acquired from imposing taxes on the drug can be redirected at improving infrastructure and other developmental initiatives. Thus, legalization of marijuana will have magnificent effects in the development of infrastructure of their subject countries (Choo et al. 162). Taking the initiative of legalizing cannabis will also play crucial role in reducing government spending in the subject countries (Monte, Zane & Heard 1). Consequently, nations have been allocating relatively high amounts of their budgetary allocations in prohibiting the marijuana in their nations. Thus, legalizing the drug will be a magnificent step of cutting down such allocations and redirecting the funds to other economic developments. Moreover, the costs of enforcing the law and inducing justice to individuals who are engaged with the drug are also likely to be reduced tremendously with the legalization of the drug. Most importantly, justice departments will redirect their activities and handling issues of economic significance to their nations rather than wasting their times and resources to curb the drug (Hickenlooper 247). Far from that, it is also reasonable to legalize marijuana to reduce cases of tax evasion (Kilmer et al. 1). Consequently, a majority of cannabis dealers tend to conduct their businesses in black markets that are tax free. Thus, the only way of winning their incentive and acquiring revenue from such business activities will by legalizing the drug. Most importantly, the subject Gad 4 countries will design an effective protocol for imposing strict rules and regulations that will be subjected to individuals who are likely to continue participating in tax evasion activities (Hickenlooper 245). Legalization of the drug will improve industrialization in the subject countries (Choo et al. 162). Obviously, there will be the creation and development of processing and packaging industries for manufacturing the drug into different forms. Nonetheless, the industries will not only serve to address the issue of unemployment; it will also provide a healthy platform improving tax collection and increasing revenues of nations. Therefore, countries should opt to legalize marijuana if at all they would need to increase the number of industries in their countries. It is also advisable to legalize marijuana to necessitate its standardization and regulation (Hickenlooper 246). By so doing it will be possible to do away with unhealthy use of the drug thus leading to the development of a healthy nation. Consequently, a healthy nation is the core foundation of cultivating prosperities of nations. Most importantly, bhang users will have opportunities acquiring guidance regarding the use of the drug to ensure that they remain in good shape to participate in the economic activities of their countries. Another crucial significance of legalizing bhang is the fact that the drug will boost global economy (Kilmer et al. 1). We can imagine a scenario where a majority of countries will legalize the drug in the domestic markets. On that regard, the drug will not only boost the local markets in the subject countries; it will also improve the level of the global economy as a whole. More importantly, it will improve world sustainability and economic success of the world as a whole (Choo et al. 162). Gad 5 Other than that, legalizing marijuana and instilling federal regulations will make the drug to be beneficial to all the concerned parties (Hickenlooper 244). Thus, in the long run, governments will be in apposition to meet their revenue expectations through tax imposition. On the other hand, marijuana sellers will find convenient environments for selling their products without fear. Thus, as long as the correct sets of measures and procedures are set to govern the legalization of marijuana, it will have a remarkable significance in the economic developments of the subject countries. Counterargument Just like other drugs, unregulated use of marijuana can lead to health complications amongst the users. Thus, as far as economic prosperity of nations requires healthy and energetic citizens; legalizing marijuana can deprive working enthusiasm from its users due to health complications. Thus, other than working to meet the goals and dreams of their respective countries, bhang users will not be in good working shapes to contribute in developments. Thus, it would be better off if marijuana was to remain illegal for the sake of enhancing economic prosperity of countries (Monte, Zane & Heard 1). Conclusion From the above arguments, it is imperatively evident that legalization of marijuana has more advantages that disadvantages. Countries should reconsider their views about the effects of initiating the process of legalizing marijuana. The fact that decriminalization of marijuana is gaining popularity in countries like the United States should not come as a surprise because its values have outweighed the associated adverse effects. Notions about marijuana that have no substantial pieces of evidence to support should not sway us. More importantly, organizations Gad 6 and governments should be encouraged to embrace, spearhead, and apprehend campaigns that are likely to necessitate decriminalization process of marijuana because of its underlying benefits (Kilmer et al. 1). Gad 7 Works Cited Choo, Esther K., et al. The impact of state medical marijuana legislation on adolescent marijuana  Journal of Adolescent Health 55.2 (2014): 160-166. Hickenlooper, Governor John W. Experimenting with pot: the state of legalization of  Milbank Quarterly 92.2 (2014): 243-249. Kilmer, Beau, et al. Altered state?: assessing how marijuana legalization in California could influence marijuana consumption and public budgets. Santa Monica, CA: RAND, 2010. Monte, Andrew A., Richard D. Zane, and Kennon J. Heard. The implications of marijuana legalization in  Jama 313.3 (2015): 241-242.