Barrineau 1 Jacob Barrineau Gregory Van Winkle ENC 1102 26 April 2017 Project 3: Final Draft Throughout the United States there is an epidemic. Obesity rates have skyrocketed in the last 30 years with there now being over 20% higher rates than there were in 1980. As well as this, over one third of all people in the United States are above a healthy weight and another third fall into the category of obese. (Fryar) A contributor to this widespread obesity is the overconsumption of sugary beverages like soda. Soda has not only been linked to the rising rates of obesity in the United States, but its overconsumption has been proven to increase risks of heart disease and diabetes. Drinks and As a city, Tampa Bay needs to make a stand against this plague that has been ravaging the lives of so many of its citizens. Only 35.5% of Tampa residents are considered to be at a healthy weight and as a community something needs to be done to combat this. Obesity Rates for States, Metro ) As a community, supporting the End Obesity Tampa Movement by signing their petition for healthy legislature and participating in the first ever Walk/Run to End Obesity will in return help to reduce the obesity rates in the Tampa Bay Area. Most people are aware that the United States has a weight problem. However, many understand the magnitude of the issue and the negative effects that it has on our population. On average, every hour 8.7 people die from diabetes. In 2016 alone, 147 billion dollars were spent on obesity related healthcare. In the city of Tampa, over 99 thousand people currently suffer from obesity. Obesity Facts and ) These numbers are increasing every year and a Barrineau 2 change needs to be made to stop these alarming rates. People all around the city are suffering and it is the responsibility of the people around them to assist in this public health crisis. In the past, individuals have attempted to target soda consumption to improve the health of Americans. In 2013, a ban on all large sized sodas was implemented in New York City. The goal of this ban was to stop the overconsumption of large sugary beverages, therefore pushing inhabitants of the city to practice moderation. Although it had good intentions, the ban failed and was deemed unconstitutional. After the failure of the soda ban, no major health initiatives have been implemented in New York City. (Grynbaum) Regardless of the failure in New York, the city of Tampa can still step forward to be a leader in the fight against obesity. A solution that could be easily implemented is an increased tax on large sized beverages that are deemed to be unhealthy. This increased tax would mimic the sin taxes that are currently placed over tobacco products throughout the country. Essentially, if individuals attempted to purchase large, unhealthy beverages, then the sales tax would be increased therefore making healthier options more economical and in return influencing people to make choices that are better for their health. As wall as this, it would push beverage producers to create healthier beverages. The tax does not limit freedom to choose as they can still purchase any products that they can right now, they just have to pay a higher price for their unhealthy habits. Overall, it allows people to keep their same selection while advocating for better health throughout the city. A large obstacle to the movement to end obesity is the lack of people informed on the true scope of the issue. Americans generally view obesity as a distant problem, or something that does not require attention. By increasing awareness of how detrimental Americas weight problem is, people will become more likely to begin advocating for programs and legislature that promote good health. One sure way to increase awareness is a Walk/Run to end obesity, taking Barrineau 3 place in downtown Tampa. The rationale behind the event is for people to come together raising awareness about the epidemic of obesity and for all participants to spend the afternoon being physically active. By participating, people can showcase the healthy lifestyle required to maintain a healthy weight, while informing the rest of the city that the obesity crisis is one that needs to be fought. Overall, this event is to inform Tampa residents that widespread obesity is in their back yard and that it is not some far-off issue that cannot be helped by those that are unaffected. Unaffected people can make a difference if they are just informed that the issue effects their friends and family and if they are made aware that they can make an impact. As well as this, all proceeds from the inaugural Walk/Run to End Obesity will go towards various Tampa initiatives to help the city overcome this epidemic. The End Obesity - Tampa organization, or EOT, acts as an advocate for people that are trying to end obesity and it wants to equip the city to have the best physical health that it can. The EOT has made it easy for anyone to get involved in the movement. On their website, links can be found to sign up for the Walk/Run as well as a place to sign a petition to implement the sugary beverage sur tax. Their website can be located at https://barrineau.wixsite.com/endobesitytampa. Getting involved could potentially save the life of someone who struggles with obesity or even prevent obesity from ever occurring. By signing up for both the walk and signing the petition, you can play a part in helping individuals overcome a serious illness and prevent obesity from rising in the future. Obesity is at an all-time high in the United States and Tampa is not immune to this epidemic. Over one third of Americans are currently diagnosed and rates are rising every year. Many people think that they can help the situation but that could not be farther from the truth. A health crisis this large is going to take everyone working diligently together to fix. Do Barrineau 4 your part to fight this illness. By spreading awareness and getting involved you can help to end this disease for this generation and for generations to come. Barrineau 5 Works Cited Fryar, Cheryl, and Cynthia Ogden. Overweight and Obesity  National Institutes of Health. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Oct. 2012. Web. 05 Apr. 2017. Grynbaum, Michael. New Ban on Big Sodas is Rejected by Final  New York Times (2014): A1. Obesity Facts and  The Campaign to End Obesity. Campaign to End Obesity, 15 Jan. 2014. Web. 18 Apr. 2017. Obesity Rates for States, Metro  Governing: The State and Localities. Governing, 2011. Web. 07 Apr. 2017. Drinks and The Nutrition Source. Harvard University, 17 Mar. 2016. Web 10. Feb. 2017.