Kelley 1 Jen Kelley Instructor Adam Carter English Composition II 30 April 2017 Raising Awareness about the Deaf Culture Imagine a world where people on earth communicated with aliens. Douglas Adam explores this idea in the Hitchhikers Guide to the Galaxy books. In these books, a Babel fish is placed on the main ear so that he can communicate with aliens, which leads to extreme consequences like war between the universes. Robert Sparrow, a writer for a philosophy journal, compares this mystical technology to a reality: cochlear implants (Sparrow). Cochlear implants are surgically implanted into the inner ear allowing electronic signals to bypass the damaged parts of the ear reaching the brain. Then, the brain interprets the signals as sound Implants in Therefore, the Babel fish is a metaphor for cochlear implants in that they both raise great controversy by invading another culture. It can be a surprise that the people cochlear implants were created for greeted them with little enthusiasm; however, there are several reasons for this. Cochlear implants infringe a majority culture on a minority culture; therefore, you should attend the raising awareness event to learn about the Deaf Culture and the importance of avoiding its extinction. The cochlear implant debate is differentiated between the medical and the cultural model, and first, we will explore the medical model. Specifically, these are people in the medical professions like audiology. According to the American Academy of Audiology, children Kelley 2 demonstrate improvement in sound detection and perception after receiving cochlear implants Implants in The medical model also highlights the importance of receiving cochlear implants as soon as possible to maximize the effectiveness of the implants. A study done in Ear and Hearing confirms this. They found that children who got implants between ages 12 and 24 months got better scores on expressive and receptive language than older children (Dettman et al. 17). More importantly, medical professions support the implants because they lend safety to children. For example, the child can hear sounds considered like gunshots. For these reasons, medical professionals say that cochlear implants benefit children who are deaf immensely. Now, we will examine the cultural opinion on cochlear implants, which is more hostile. According to Sparrow, the technology continues to improve then one day we may live in a world where no one needs to be (Sparrow). This indicates that medical professionals are seeking a and a for deafness thus depleting the size of the Deaf Community. Furthering this idea, James Cherney from the Department of Communication wrote that when the FDA approved cochlear implants in children, the Deaf saw this as doctors viewing deafness as an intolerable condition, and that living outside the hearing world was a severe (Cherney). Each word in this quote equals the idea that the Deaf Culture is a For this reason, people who are deaf ultimately saw cochlear implants paralleling intrusive over helpful. With both sides considered, we (the hearing culture) should take the time to learn about the Deaf Community as opposed to siding with medical professionals because cochlear implants are shrinking another culture. For instance, 90 percent of all deaf children are born to hearing parents (Cherney), and this strongly signals that parents may be uninformed choosing a complex Kelley 3 surgical process over the less invasive options. From there, the parents may place learning American Sign Language (ASL) on the backburner focusing heavily on the child becoming fluent in spoken language. We should care about this because many of us students will decide to have children later on in life or already have children. a possibility that we will have a child who is born deaf; therefore, we should fully understand the options. Along with this, you may not be part of a minority culture; however, chances are you know people who are part of one. You understand that they want to lose their culture, so why should people who are Deaf lose theirs? The Deaf culture relies heavily on us because if we have a child who is deaf, it is us who makes the decision to go with cochlear implants or not. Furthermore, the cochlear implant surgery is a complex surgery which may or may not benefit the child fully. In a study done comparing language achievement in children with cochlear implants to children using hearing aids, they discovered that there was significant variability in language development for people with the implants (Tomblin et al.). This concludes that the cochlear implant may or may not have the effects that parents hope because the effect varies from child to child. Also in this study, mentioned that there have been no prior studies that show the levels of improvement in learning English allow the person who is deaf to be fully part of the hearing society. Not only is the child now deprived of being fully part of the Deaf Community, but he or she is also deprived from being fully part of the hearing culture too. You should care about this statement because when you have children, you want your child questioning his or her identity. Cochlear implants may make your child question his or her identity because he or she know who to identify with. Therefore, the effect of the implant varies, and the child could find his or herself stuck between the hearing and the deaf culture. Kelley 4 You should attend the raising awareness event about the Deaf Community because it will enhance your understanding of the Deaf Community. Raising awareness is important because it gets people talking about the issue while sending a message. The event is free; however, if you choose to do so, there will be a private auction. All proceeds will go the National Associate of the Deaf (NAD), which is a civil rights organization for people who are deaf. In hopes, the event will influence people to see deafness as a culture and not a disability. The event will be divided into sections, and you can schedule to either come to one of the activities, or all of the activities. First, there will be speakers from the Deaf community that will express their experiences being part of a minority culture. They will sign their stories while an interpreter translates it into spoken language. Secondly, there will be a small 45-minute class on some basic signs in sign language with the hope to inspire you to pursue learning sign language. Here, there will be a sign-up to take additional classes if you choose to. Thirdly, there will be a part of the event oriented toward how to handle communicating with people who are deaf. According to Kevin Cole at Gallaudet University, two to four people out of one thousand are considered functionally deaf (Cole). Although this does not seem like a lot, we will encounter people who hear, and we should know how to navigate through the conversation. It will include and do when we are hit with this language barrier. Lastly, there will be a section that will educate you about the long history that the Deaf culture has undergone and how it truly is a culture today. extremely important to note that cochlear implants invade on the Deaf community because children may be less likely to learn ASL, which decreases the size of this culture. You really should come to the event to learn about being Deaf first-hand from people who are part of this culture. It will also go through the history of the Deaf in hopes of gaining a larger Kelley 5 appreciation from the hearing society of the non-hearing society. This minority culture has fought to be considered a culture, and the cochlear implants reverse that idea by erasing that deafness is a culture, and writing in pen that a disability. Kelley 6 Works Cited Cherney, James. Deaf Culture and the Cochlear Implant Debate: Cyborg Politics and the Identity of People with  Argumentation and Advocacy (1999): 22-34. Proquest. Web. 18 Apr. 2017. Cochlear Implants in  American Academy of Audiology, Web. 29 Apr. 2017. Cole, Kevin. Gallaudet  Gallaudet University. N.p., n.d. Web. 18 Apr. 2017. Dettman, Shani J., Darren Pinder, Robert J. S. Briggs, Richard C. Dowell, and Jaime R. Leigh. Communication Development in Children Who Receive the Cochlear Implant Younger than 12 Months: Risks versus  Ear and Hearing 28. (2007). Web. Sparrow, Robert. Implants and Ethnocide: Learning from the Cochlear Implant  Disability & Society 25.4 (2010): 455-66. Web. Tomblin, J. Bruce, Linda Spencer, Sarah Flock, Rich Tyler, and Bruce Gantz. A Comparison of Language Achievement in Children With Cochlear Implants and Children Using Hearing  Journal of Speech Language and Hearing Research 42.2 (1999): 497. Web.