Chen 1 Wei Chen Gregory Van Winkle ENC1102 7 April 2017 Behind the Gas Pump The cheapest method of producing products is often the most environmentally damaging, and this has consequences on nature and atmosphere. Many people assume that cheaper products are better, that there is no issue if they do not directly harm you, but this statement is the stem of the problem. Complaining about gas prices may be an easy way to evoke conversation, but most people do not know the process it takes to obtain the oil. Making prices cheaper will only promote our dependence on oil and encourage petroleum companies to drill for more. The Keystone XL Pipeline (KXL) was recently approved by President Trump, and his approval only serves to promote environmental damage as a convenient way to make profit. While gas prices will drop as a result of its construction, many people do not realize the consequences they will face if the plan follows through; pollution from the pipeline will contaminate drinking water. Additionally, extracting the tar sands has been shown to be inefficient, producing more air pollution in the process than it does to use the oil for commercial use (Friends of the Earth). To bring KXL into public and government awareness, the people of South Dakota will band together to sign a petition, showing the president of the number of people who oppose local construction of the pipeline. KXL is proposed 36-inch-diameter crude oil pipeline, beginning in Alberta, and extending south to (TransCanada). KXL is projected to make gas prices drop in the United States because of how close Canada is compared to the Middle East. Cheaper gas may Chen 2 be beneficial for people with a budget, but they would have to pay more to purchase products that were affected by construction. According to the Natural Resources Defense Council, building the pipeline would only to pollute freshwater supplies in agricultural (ProCon). This means that domestic food and water prices would increase as a result of the construction. Though this is given if the pipeline spills, it is reported by Inside Climate News that only five percent of leaks are reported by remote pipeline sensors (Inside Climate News). In 2012, a Keystone Pipeline spilled was underestimated; instead of leaking 187 gallons, it leaked over 16,800 gallons of petroleum (Tech Times). Because tar sands are denser than petroleum, tar sands would sink into the ground, making it harder to extract them from underground water supplies known as aquifers (Friends of the Earth). Contaminated aquifers would then be extracted by farmers and sprayed on the land, damaging and killing plants. Products such as bread that need plants to be produced would have a shortage as a result, and make food products more expensive to purchase, and at what cost? To make gas prices cheaper? Assuming you watch the news for your weekly weather reports, meteorologists always seem to be discussing record-high temperatures. warming is the term used to describe a gradual increase in the average temperature of the atmosphere a change that is believed to be permanently changing the (LiveScience). Each new year breaks the record temperature of previous years, and this trend will not be stopping for a while with the way the global economy functions. Here in the United States, the way businesses earn money is no different than in most countries. The objective of a business is to make profit, and most of them try to find the most inexpensive way to produce goods. What is the harm in making cheap products if you are paying less out of your wallet? According to Inside Climate News, Chen 3 most of the highest quality resources already exhausted, companies are turning to formerly undesirable alternatives such as tar sands oil, which come with higher energetic price tags yet lower (Nuwer). Tar sand, while cheap to transport and extract, costs more to extract than to sell it for commercial use. Conventional oil produces twenty-five units of energy for every one unit of energy required to extract it (Nuwer). However, tar sands produce five units of energy for every unit that is extracted (Nuwer). As a result, of carbon dioxide emissions are three to four times higher than those of conventional accelerating the process of global warming (Friends of the Earth). This means more warmer days at the beach, right? Correct, but also higher sea levels. Polar ice caps will melt as a result of the higher temperatures, and we are already witnessing it happen. In January, 1930 square miles of iceberg broke off from Antarctica, the largest amount ever recorded yet (Griffin). Huge chunks of ice are continually breaking off of glaciers and landmasses, which are then melted into the water. These melted pieces of glacier add to the already increasing levels of seawater in the ocean, with the potential to flood coastlines across the world. Combining tar sand refining with its commercial usage would displace 2.4 million people and 1.3 million damaging the American economy while also displacing the local population; elevation is near sea level, and if the rate of sea water increases suddenly, then most of the panhandle will be covered in water (Strauss). According to Surging Seas, than half the population of more than 100 Florida towns and cities lives on land [four feet below sea (Strauss). South people need to stand against KXL and its poorly regulated spills. Cheaper gas is music to ears, but higher prices on food and water are not. It is also not worth the health risk of South Dakotans to drink local water contaminated with petroleum sludge. With the potential dangers of construction explained, a petition can help stop the government Chen 4 from continuing the plan. Petitions are formally drawn request, often bearing the names of a number of those making the request, that is addressed to a person or group of persons in authority or (Dictionary.com). With enough signatures, the issue will gain enough public opinion to steer the government into cancelling the plan. South Dakota will be able to continue its agricultural and tourism growth if KXL is cancelled (NewsMax). These industries create enough revenue to support the economy of South Dakota and maintain inexpensive prices for generic food and water products. Along with cheaper food prices, health risks will go down due to the lower probability of pollutants entering South water sources. Though petitions alone will not bring massive change to a cause, they are the first step to the issue; by recognizing the issue, information about it will spread to others and eventually provoke action for the cause (Ablow). KXL was successfully stopped during the Obama term, but it can be stopped again during the Trump term with this petition; news sources will recognize the issue and create articles and stories, public opinion will be signaled towards Trump, and the opposition will spur additional action and raise money for the cause (Ablow). Though it seems miniscule to have people sign their names on a piece of paper, each signature establishes a person who is willing to side on an issue, and potentially stop it together with the help of others. With the help of your signature, the strength against the cause will grow by one; each number matters, as signatures can accumulate. While KXL may have been approved by the President, it is still possible to stop the project. The lack of education on how products are made allows for people to assume that products come as they are when sold in stores, and in this case, a gas station. For the safety of South future, it is vital to inform the public on the environmental and health consequences of using tar sands as an inexpensive energy source. Signing the petition will spark Chen 5 public awareness and evoke a snowball effect, accumulating enough opposition to bring the issue to the attention. At what costs do we have to go through in order to attain cheaper gas? It is time to prioritize matters; plan for the future, not the present. Chen 6 Works Cited KXL Pipeline  TransCanada Corporation. N.p., n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Keystone XL  Friends of the Earth. N.p., n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Global Warming: News, Facts, Causes &  LiveScience. Purch, n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Strauss, Ben. Florida and the Rising  Surging Seas. Climate Central, n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Should the United States Authorize the Keystone XL Pipeline to Import Tar Sand Oil from  Procon. N.p., n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Griffin, Andrew. Huge Antarctic Iceberg about to Break off and Slide into the  The Independent. Independent Digital News and Media, 06 Jan. 2017. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Nuwer, Rachel. Oil Sands Mining Uses Up Almost as Much Energy as It  Inside Climate News. N.p., 19 Feb. 2013. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Ablow, Gail. The Explainer: Do Online Petitions Really  BillMoyers.com. N.p., 21 Sept. 2016. Web. 09 Apr. 2017.  Dictionary.com. Dictionary.com, n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. Jones, Shannon. Top 5 Industries in South Dakota: Which Parts of the Economy Are  Newsmax. N.p., 10 Apr. 2015. Web. 20 Apr. 2017. Song, Lisa. Few Oil Pipeline Spills Detected by Much-Touted  Inside Climate News. N.p., 19 Sept. 2012. Web. 20 Apr. 2017. Times, Tech. Keystone Pipeline Leak In South Dakota Not 187 Gallons But 16,800 Tech Times. N.p., 09 Apr. 2016. Web. 20 Apr. 2017.