Steuer 1 Abi Steuer Mr. Carter ENC 1101 30 April 2017 Text vs. E-books There are currently more e-books being sold than hardcopy books and at the rate things are going, all our books may be stored online in the near future. As convenient as that sounds, we will lose the intimacy of reading tangible books. This influx in e-book purchases is also decreasing pay and it is causing some to quit or put out fewer books. The consumers control this pathway, though, and if we change what we invest in, the route of our future will alternate for the better. Since the internet is quickly eating up our books and decreasing author pay, the best way to keep written text alive is by supporting your local bookstores and purchasing hardcopy books over e-books. Recent studies show that sixty-three percent of colleges offer e-books and twenty-seven percent plan to (pewresearch.com). This does not mean that every student uses that technology, some like having the book in their hands, but many are purchasing e-books because it is cheaper. That is the defining factor: text online costs less than most other college textbooks. Publishers notice that students are buying electronic books and are therefore putting more online for students to purchase. They realize the market is thriving on the internet and the publishers want to keep up with the times. The lower the prices become and the higher the number of e-books posted, the more students will continue to buy these books. This is harmful for two reasons, however. First, reading books online is bad for an eyesight. Our eyes are not made to sit and stare at a screen. If we use technology for a long while, we often get a headache from Steuer 2 too much exposure to the monitor. As the years have gone on, overall eye sensitivity has increased (medicaldaily.com). Our constant use of electronic devices has truly depleted our full potential. Studies show that watching a screen for too long can give individuals permanent eye damage and can set off certain types of brain impairment, as well. That, in it of itself, is enough proof to back up the claim that electronic books are not beneficial to us. The second reason the practice of buying e-books is harmful is because it is contributing to the closing of bookstores. Since e-books are selling faster than hardcopy books, the electronic book market is obliterating their competition: old fashioned book stores. Most stores that sell books cannot stay in business unless they join the fad of selling e-books. This switch to online text then begins to kill profits for writers. The more people that invest in e-books and support Amazon, or other online book companies, the less authors get paid. There is little money to be made when publishing online text, but since it is thriving in the consumer world, authors are forced to publish their work on this domain and make a much smaller profit than if people were to buy their hardcopy books. These are two problems everyone should care about because they directly affect every individual in a negative way. This especially goes for college students since they are notorious for using electronic textbooks. If people continue to use tablets instead of reading paper books, their eyes are going to increasingly worsen. That is a troubling thought not only because people do not want impaired eyesight but also because glasses and eye appointments cost a lot of money. That is a concept many would shutter at the thought of. Money is hard to come by for most individuals, particularly if you are living on a college budget. Therefore, we should make an effort to spend less time staring at a screen and more time using paper books. The other reason you should care about this issue is because quality of material is Steuer 3 majorly going to decrease and eventually they will stop creating books. Since paycheck is quickly diminishing there are few reasons for them to stay in this line of work (observer.com). Whether you are an individual that loves books or one that barely reads, a depletion of books is a depletion of knowledge. The world will not be the same if our authors disappear. This potential tragedy can be stopped dead in its tracks, though. If consumers were to buy hardcopies over e-books, it would set the track our world is headed on back a few years. However, it is unreasonable to ask everyone to stop buying e-books and to make publishers and authors discontinue their internet businesses. People from all over use this as their main source of education, mainly because people cannot afford hardcopy textbooks sometimes. In this case, the best and most reasonable solution to stifle the technology market is to support your local bookstores. There are numerous stores that make their income on selling tangible books and they house events. They are always looking for new authors to come in and speak and every time they have them come in, the store opens the event to the public. A great way to give the company support is by going to these fun, local flings. The people that come in pay the bookstore and help the company thrive. The store gives resident individuals some good, clean entertainment and their name is spread among the people that visit there. When stores do events like this, it helps their business and it sparks intrigue in the visitors. Many times, people come back after small shows like this and they apply to work or volunteer there. All in all, the best and most logical way to hinder the technology market and keep our tangible books alive is to begin supporting your local bookstores. If we all came together and did this, we would see a change. As a USF student, a great way to begin helping is by going to Mojo Books. It is right next to campus and they constantly house events. Their next happening is on April 29 th and they are having an Steuer 4 interactive auction with signed vinyls and books (mojotampa.com). Going to this event supports the bookstore and creates interest among other students on campus. As one can see, the rise of e-books is harmful rather than helpful for it will lead to a destructive future. This form of technology has the potential to hurt our eyesight and diminish every pay. It may sound like a light and unimportant topic to certain people, but in all honesty, the loss of tangible books will effect everyone in some way, whether they realize it or not. This knowledge can spark a change and we can be the generation to stop the up rise of e- books before it gets out of hand. If we all were to visit our local bookstores and invest time and money in that area rather than in the e-book market, the technology housing the electronic books will be stifled. This way, readers will continue to buy tangible books and authors will get equal and full payment for their work. We can have a harmonious ending to this increasing controversy if we simply support our local bookstores and tell others about the downfalls of e-books. Steuer 5 Works Cited Bushak, Lecia. Why We Should All Start Reading Paper Books  Medical Daily. N.p., 12 Jan. 2015. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. <http://www.medicaldaily.com/e-books-are-damaging-your-health- we-should-all-start-reading-paper-books-again-317212>. Dale, Brady. In the E-Book Economy, Big Authors Lose Money to Big Publishers Losing  Observer. N.p., 13 July 2015. Web. 28 Apr. 2017. <http://observer.com/2015/07/authors-guild-e-book- profits-amazon/>.  Mojo Books & Records. N.p., n.d. Web. 28 Apr. 2017. <http://www.mojotampa.com/events.html>. Rainie, Lee, and Andrew Perrin. Slightly Fewer Americans Are Reading Print Books, New Survey  Pew Research Center. N.p., 19 Oct. 2015. Web. 18 Apr. 2017. <http://www.pewresearch.org/fact-surv tank/2015/10/19/slightly-fewer-americans-are-reading print-books- ey-finds/>. Automation and  The Economist. The Economist Newspaper, 25 June 2016. Web. 18 Apr. 2017. <http://www.economist.com/news/special-report/21700758-will- Steuer 6 machines-cause-mass-unemployment-automation-and-anxiety>.