Carr 1 MacKenzie Carr Professor Van Winkle ENC1102 26 April 2017 Love Thy Neighbor Friday, January 27th at 4:43 P.M Trump signed the executive order on immigration, the nation from foreign terrorist entry into the United which bans all people from Iraq, Syria, Iran, Sudan, Libya, Yemen, and Somalia from entering the United States for 90 days. The action also orders the suspension of the US refugee program for 120 days and indefinitely blocks Syrian refugees from entering the United The leader of our country made a very serious statement for our nation as a whole on this day; this changed us from being the melting pot of the world. We must stand together as the future generation of our beautiful country, in order to make a difference. We would be able to make a difference by continuing the vision that our founding fathers always unity. In order to increase public awareness in the United States of America, the Love Thy Neighbor Foundation took action by flying out Mass Communication majors from the University of South Florida to Acuna, Mexico. These students reported their findings. The documentary will premiere on International Immigration Day, December 18th, 2017 at the Royal Palm Ballroom in the Marshall Student Center. From there, the Love Thy Nation Foundation will then spread awareness of how USF students would be able to join our plan, and make a real difference. I am an eighth generation Tampa Floridian. I have never understood what it is like to be considered an That was until I went on a trip with my significant Lebanese Carr 2 family to Las Vegas for New Years. We were getting onto our connecting flight in Minnesota. I could tell the entire family was on edge. I travel for work constantly, but it has always been smooth sailing. I was the first in line, so I easily went through security. My significant father went through the metal detector, and nothing went off. I noticed out of the corner of my eye that the airport manager told one of the security guards to check all of his bags. We stayed an additional fifty minutes in order for the airport staff to feel comfortable with him getting into the plane. It was not until that exact moment that I understood what outsiders felt like. When I tell this story, I am not taking away from that security team when I tell this story, they were just doing their job. Watching, what I consider a family member, be labeled a threat to society really made me start asking questions. Security is vital in order to keep the United States of America safe. Former President Barack Obama pulled U.S troops from Iraq in 2011. The world spoke, and it was not happy. According to former Florida Governor Jeb Bush, Barack Obama became president, and he abandoned Iraq. He left, and when he left al Qaida was done for. ISIS was created because of the void that we left, and that void now exists as a caliphate the size of (Fordham). Knowing history, ISIS was not created from this happening. With that being said, ISIS did become much stronger of a terrorist group. When we do not monitor the world that surrounds us, groups such as ISIS are formed, and even worse become stronger. Security blockading the outside world is not the right answer. America is known for the variety of cultures that formed what we are today. Without all of the different ethnicities, there is no America. Security is important, but an excess amount will lead to panic. Panic with those who feel afraid of what America considers Panic to those who feel like outsiders, who are no Carr 3 longer accepted into the land of the free. Panic such as children being smuggled into America in order to be reunited with their parents. According to NBC news, advocates suggested many of these children, mostly teenage boys, are fleeing drug and gang violence in Central America. Another theory is that Central American and Mexican parents already living in the United States illegally, and who are afraid to return home and face the prospect of being caught by U.S. border officials, will often hire smugglers to bring their children to them, paying thousands of dollars per child. News ). The worst part of youth trying to reunite with their parents, who are most likely illegal as well, is the overarching numbers. With the vast amount of children who are successful crossing the border, their right to a fair chance in America is limited. advocates worry that the rise in children held by the government will make it difficult to properly house all of them and to find enough volunteer attorneys to represent them before immigration News). With the many struggles of immigration rights, and the borders that are limiting them, there is a very serious question to be asked. Why should you care about immigration rights? You as a USF college student should care, because this is your future. During Summer 2016, an organization known as Casas Por Cristo gave the experience on the other side of the looking glass. por Cristo relies on the labor and resources of full time a board of over 100 pastors and community leaders from and Raimundo, and the and nearly 7,000 annual volunteers from across North America. Through these cross-cultural partnerships, volunteer teams are presented with an amazing opportunity to build a home for a family in Por Cristo. What We  Casas Por Cristo - Mission Casas Por Cristo, n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017). A group of Mass Carr 4 Communication Majors from the University of South Florida were flown to Acuna, Mexico and reported all of their findings. From these findings, a documentary was created. This documentary is called, a Helping This documentary that was created by the Love Thy Neighbor Foundation, and will be shared with your school on International Immigration Day, December 18th, to spread awareness of how severe this issue has gotten. Before each individual walks into the Royal Palm Ballroom in the Marshall Student Center, they will be given a picture of a person who lives in Acuna, Mexico and what their everyday life looks like. You will be apart of not only a life changing opportunity, but also be apart of a movement that could change the life of others. Join us on this very important day, to witness the premiere of a Helping From there, you can find ways to help join our foundation. Immigrants are not gifted the same love and acceptance that many Americans experience on a daily basis. We cannot shut out immigrants who want for their families, what you as college students hope for, the American dream. Help our foundation spread awareness of how serious this issue has become. Our foundation not only informs about immigrant rights, but takes a deeper look into how those rights are being stripped from innocent individuals. Our foundation educates, and with knowledge comes power. We empower people, by creating opportunities to help join such an important cause. The Love Thy Neighbor Foundation does not just want you to know about us, but to join us. Please join us on International Immigration Day, December 18th, 2017 at the Royal Palm Ballroom in the Marshall Student Center. From there, the Love Thy Nation Foundation will then spread awareness of how USF students, such as yourselves, would be able to join our plan, and make a real difference. Carr 5 Works Cited Acuna, Mexico Mission  Por Cristo - Mission Casas Por Cristo, n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. <http://www.casasporcristo.org/acuna-mexico-mission-trips/?gclid=Cj0KEQjwt6fHBRD tm9O8xPPHq4gBEiQAdxotvNAgSbBxNRVHlsp0TQKe6EBeg9JOMjeMVH6V2vTpBs YaAjXH8P8HAQ>. Casas Por Cristo. What We  Por Cristo - Mission Casas Por Cristo, n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. <http://www.casasporcristo.org/what-we-do/>. Fordham, Alice. Fact Check: Did Obama Withdraw From Iraq Too Soon, Allowing ISIS To  NPR, 19 Dec. 2015. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. <http://www.npr.org/2015/12/19/459850716/fact-check-did-obama-withdraw-from-iraq-t oo-soon-allowing-isis-to-grow>. Globe, The Boston. A Timeline of Immigration  N.p., 1 Feb. 2017. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. <https://apps.bostonglobe.com/news/nation/graphics/2017/01/travel-ban/>. Kids Cross Border Alone, Fleeing Drugs and  NBCUniversal News Group, 3 July 2012. Web. 09 Apr. 2017. leeing-drugs-and-gangs>.