Mogollon 1 Alida Mogollon Angelica Aranda ENC 1102.032 16 April 2017 The Dangers of Alcohol on America Many people assume that because it is illegal for people under the age of 18 to obtain alcohol in the United States, that underage drinking is not a big problem. By the age of 18, however, about 60% of teenagers have had at least one drink (NIAAA). And, although teenagers drink far less than adults, when they do drink they tend to do so excessively (NIAAA). Despite the current laws in the United States, which make it illegal for anyone under the age of 21 to obtain alcohol, adolescents are still finding a way to drink. The law is doing little to keep adolescents from drinking, and is instead encouraging a binge drinking culture, which in turn is causing unhealthy habits as these adolescents grow older. Something has to be done to help the future of American adolescents. Alcohol companies must stop advertising on medias that are specifically geared towards children and adolescents. Help should be sought for adolescents who are currently being negatively impacted by the drinking culture in America. To do this, the University of South Florida is teaming up with the Center on Alcohol Marketing and Youth (CAMY), an organization based at Johns Hopkins University, to put an end to alcohol marketing and holding an informational course about the effects of alcohol on adolescents from May 1 st through May 5 th , 2017. Through alcohol marketing, children are introduced to alcohol at a very young age. Alcohol marketing strategies includes commercials broadcasting certain alcohol companies or alcohol being used both by adults and adolescents in movies, television shows or video games. Mogollon 2 Alcohol marketing is also present in magazines and books. From a very young age children are exposed to underage drinking in these sources, making drinking as a teenager seem normal. One of main goals is to put a stop to alcohol marketing, as research shows that parents, peers and alcohol marketing all impact a decision to drink. And a national study conducted by the Department of Communications Sciences showed that each additional ad that a young person saw [above the national average of 23 ads per he or she drank 1% (Snyder et al 18-24). Another study conducted by the National Survey of Youth 1997 suggested that decreasing alcohol marketing would in effect decrease the amount of adolescent participation in alcohol per month (Saffer and Dave 617-637). As research shows, putting an end to the constant exposure that children have to alcohol is an important step to decreasing the drinking culture in the United States. For this reason, it is important to aid and support efforts to and reduce youth exposure to alcohol According to the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism (NIAAA), is the most widely used substance of abuse among The main problem is not that adolescents are drinking, it is the amount which they are drinking. Teenagers drink less often than adults, but they consume most of their alcohol through binge drinking. This results in the age group from 12 to 20 being responsible for drinking 11% of the alcohol consumed in the United States (NIAAA). This binge drinking is responsible for many serious and sometimes fatal injuries among adolescents. By supporting the new CAMY branch at USF we can work to eliminate the binge drinking culture created by the exposure that children and adolescents have to alcohol through the media. Drinking among adolescents poses enormous health and safety risks (NIAAA). Alcohol can cause teenagers to fatally injure themselves. Some of the leading causes of deaths caused by Mogollon 3 alcohol include alcohol poisoning, motor vehicle crashes, homicides, and suicides (NIAAA). Alcohol also impairs judgement, which can lead to drinking and driving, poor decisions on sexual activity, or violent behavior (NIAAA). Underage drinking has also been linked with alcohol related problems later in life. Studies show that who start drinking by the age of 15 are four times more likely become alcohol dependent at some point in their lives (NIAAA). Furthermore, tendencies to binge drink can result in alcohol use disorder (AUD), becoming dependent on alcohol consumption, which requires treatment in a specialized facility. In 2015, an estimated 623,000 adolescents from the ages of 12 to 17 had AUD, and of this number, an estimated 37,000 received treatment at a specialized facility. Alcohol is a substance that affects everyone, not just the adolescents engaging in underage drinking and their families. Behavior can be altered by alcohol, meaning that an adolescent currently being affected by an alcoholic substance could suddenly start acting aggressively towards anyone in their surroundings. Alcohol also impairs judgement, which can lead to a drunk teenager deciding to drive, putting anyone on the road in danger. This is especially relevant on college campuses as studies show that approximately 60% of college students have consumed alcohol in the past month (NIAAA). Because of this, it is important for students to join their efforts to put an end to the binge drinking culture in America. In an effort to decrease the binge drinking culture in the United States, the University of South Florida is starting its very own CAMY chapter. The CAMY chapter at USF will be conducting further research on the effects of alcohol and alcohol marketing on youth. It will also be working to begin an informational program at USF, where students can get information on AUD and other long term effects of alcohol on youth. Students will also be able to go into the CAMY offices for counseling or to find other help if they are currently struggling with alcohol Mogollon 4 substance abuse. To celebrate the opening of this chapter, the CAMY branch at USF will be hosting an event the week of May 1 st through May 5 th , 2017, so that students can go in and learn about all of the negative side effects of both alcohol and alcohol marketing, and how alcohol can affect adolescents in the long run. This event will be held in MSC 2032 and will include informational sessions held by professionals and testimonials from other students. Stop by for a free t-shirt and an opportunity to win prizes! Underage drinking is a problem that has been present for generations and it is time to put an end to it. The new CAMY branch at the University of South Florida is seeking to do so by starting to educate this generation, in the hopes that they can pass their knowledge off to younger generations. It is important for adolescents to stop endangering their lives by binge drinking. And it is just as important for every student to take action and become better educated on the issue by attending the event being hosted by CAMY. Mogollon 5 References Center on Alcohol Marketing and Youth. camy.org. April 2007. Johns Hopkins University. 12 April 2017. <http://www.camy.org/resources/fact-sheets/alcohol-advertising-and- youth/>. H. Saffer and D. Dave, Alcohol advertising and alcohol consumption by  Health Economics 15 (2006): 617-637. L.B. Snyder, F.F. Milici, M. Slater, H. Sun, and Y. Strizhakova, Effects of Alcohol Advertising Exposure on Drinking Among  Archives of Pediatrics and Adolescent Medicine 160 (2006): 18-24 National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism (NIAAA). niaaa.nih.gov. February 2017. NIH. 12 April 2017. <https://pubs.niaaa.nih.gov/publications/UnderageDrinking/UnderageFact.htm>.