Lyn 1 Mellissa Lyn Professor Aranda ENC 1102 April 30, 2017 Dangers of the Internet Anyone in society who has ever used the internet knows that it can be a dangerous place, especially for children. The internet is a global communication network that allows all computers worldwide to connect and exchange information. It is presently the most popular technology used conveniently by individuals, particularly in schools. However, just like everything else, it has its disadvantages. These drawbacks affect the younger generation and preys on them by making them vulnerable to online pornography, anonymous chat room, cyberbullying, sexual predators and pedophiles etc. To create more awareness of internet safety for the children, the parents of young victims should partner with the EIE organization to get more people involved to tackle the issue. Enough is Enough (EIE) is an organization that advocates on behalf of the families and loved ones of children with the mission of making the internet safer for them to use. Both the parents and the organization believe by supporting this issue they can change the present situation for the better and to promote a healthy mind and sexuality for children. With this call to action, parents along with the organization can actively reach out to persons who were victims to these dangers. To be a part of this cause, individuals can sign up for the conference/seminars on the EIE website. These seminars will be hosted at participating schools on the last day of each month starting in August until the end of the school year. Lyn 2 The internet is known to drive the curiosity and intensity of the mind and so it is a way to lure children into the unknown online dangers. To control or suppress what is accessed, published and viewed on the internet can limit criminal activity, protect the children and strengthens online security. Particularly with the same interest, Enough is Enough (EIE) has been an organization dedicated to raising public awareness about the dangers of internet pornography, sexual predators and cyberbullying among other dangers. They strive to protect the innocence of the children, for a healthy sexuality and to build a society free from the sexual exploitation (enough.org). This outreach has greatly impacted families and the society and they have been recognized for it. Mr. Andrew G. Oosterbann, the Chief of the United States Department of Justice, Criminal Division, Child Exploitation and Obscenity Section, stated the EIE, has been a leading force in raising national recognition of the critically serious problem of Internet child pornography and sexual predation, (enough.org). Parents of the children shares the same interest as EIE and are willing to help spread the influence of the cause. A mother of a victim of internet pornography stated that, Donna and Enough Is Enough are doing is fabulous, because the prevention is huge (enough.org). They have seen difference in their lives, and the reality is that the SAFE seminars will be able to reach more students, as they are more vulnerable to an attack. It is so easy to just access the internet and be captive to its dangers but to prevent these dangers, the children should fully understand how to not be a prey to the dangers by knowing the real-life perspectives of these dangers. With being engaged in this cause, people should be aware of the true nature of the situation. On average, 12-15 years old spend 17 hours a week on social media and online. The more they spend on the internet, the more they are vulnerable to sexual predators, sexual offenses, porn and cyberbullying. At this age, children should be involved in extracurricular Lyn 3 activities, going on family outings, spending quality time with friends, having a hobby, doing homework or just being creative. Statistical data shows that 75% of the victims of internet- initiated sex crimes are girls, with a large majority of them being between 13 to 15 years of age (kidslivesafe.com). The site explicitly goes on to explain and show statistics of the number of aggressors. The number of sexual predators and online sexual offenses has more than doubled in the last three years, with more than 82% of online sex crimes originating from social networking sites that predators use to gain insight into their habits and likes (kidslivesafe.com). It is difficult to comprehend that in the community of kids so many are left in the dark, unware of the true dangers of their actions, and this has become prevalent throughout the years. The evidence of internet dangers does not only surround sexual content. In this instance, thirteen-year-old, Hope Witsell of Sundance, Florida committed suicide because she was cyberbullied (puresight.com). The incidents of cyberbullying have spiraled out of control and 65% of 8-14 years old have been involved (kidslivesafe.com). Cyberbullying threatens existence as it spreads rumors of society formed opinions and very rude comments. This online danger provokes the minds of these victims making them feel unworthy and not good enough. Also, their need to have people accept them and be their friends. To avoid this, parents should be involved in their life 100%, teaching them that they are good enough and that sexting is wrong. These supportive relationships, including the SAFE seminars can help result in a change for the children. This situation is very delicate and it deserves all hands-on deck. Everyone with concern are welcome to help and be a part of the cause. Ultimately, not all incidents from the internet are reported. This does not mean that they should be left in the dark and be locked away in the cold cases. It is better to speak up and fix the matter before someone else becomes a Lyn 4 victim. The key to moving on could be reliving what happen and accepting that it happened and move on. In January of 2002, Alicia Kozakiewicz became the victim of an Internet luring and was abducted to another state where she was held captive (aliciaproject.org). Alicia has used her recovery and experience to spend her life educating and protecting children, sharing her story and helping to get the word out to parents and kids about the real-world dangers posed by online predatory offenders. A grade 7 student from Chicago thanked Alicia for her remarkable insight, Alicia, I am so grateful that you took the time to come to our school and share your story. Your presentation taught me how to be more careful online and be more aware of online predators. I did not realize how dangerous it could be, until I heard it from you. Thank you for sharing your experience and teaching me a valuable (aliciaproject.org). The organization in which she has built has changed the lives of other children. She accepted what happened to her and saw a way in which she can live with it by being an inspiration for others. An investigator from Internet Crimes Against Children, Terry Buckley quoted, amazing how students respond to Alicia Kozakiewicz in the classroom. She is able to connect with kids in a way that law enforcement cannot. Additionally, The Alicia Project brings a unique perspective to child abduction and child sex abuse from the eyes of a survivor. As a law enforcement officer, it is crucial to understand both sides of this gruesome crime, not only for the purposes of prosecution, but for the influence and support that I want to have with my (aliciaproject.org). Her devotion is raising awareness, and the SAFE seminars can also. The monthly SAFE seminars will offer the guidance, inspiration, lessons and real-life perspectives to lead the change. To be a part of this change, sign up on the EIE website, www.enough.org. Lyn 5 Works Cited of 8 Advantages and Disadvantages of Internet Censorship, Future of Working.com, https://futureofworking.com/8-advantages-and-disadvantages-of-internet- censorship/ Live Online Predators and Cyberbullying Statistics, KidsLiveSafe.com, http://www.kidslivesafe.com/child-safety/online-predators-and-cyberbullying-statistics Life Hope Witsell, Puresight.com, http://www.puresight.com/Real-Life- Stories/hope-witsell.html Alicia About Alicia Kozakiewicz, Aliciaproject.org, http://www.aliciaproject.org/about-alicia-kozakiewicz.html Testimonials, Aliciaproject.org, http://www.aliciaproject.org/testimonials.html Our Home, Enough is Enough, http://enough.org/