EVANS: 1 Colton Evans ENC 1101 Friday 8-10:45 April 30 th , 2017 More Violent Video games More crime Despite the crime rate consistently going down since the early there has been a great deal of discussion of what is causing violent crimes to rise in the national media in recent years. This conversation has been escalated in recent years with recent tragic events occurring, such as the columbine shooting. As a result of these events, many politicians and members of the media used guns and violent video games as scapegoats for these tragic events. These claims are made emotionally without much data to support their claims. Although many video games depict gratuitous violence and/or criminal acts, there is no causal link between video games and criminal behavior. Unfortunately, in recent years despite crime in general decreasing, there seems to be a new horrible trend in regards to bringing firearms to school and shooting the students. For instance, the columbine massacre had two members of the high school come to school with automatic weapons and murdered 12 students. The perpetrators at the time before the act played the a violent video game where the player kills as many demons as possible. Many believe that this is one of the key factors in why they committed the atrocity. act just like police and military simulators, providing conditioned responses, killing skills and desensitization, except they are inflicted on children without the discipline of military and police (Grossman, 2017). Their reasoning, is that the video game taught them how to commit the mass shooting by teaching them how to shoot firearms by using weapons in the game they played. Although their intention in finding a cause in something horribly random is noble, their EVANS: 2 argument is flawed and not supported by logic or fact. First person shooter games (the category of gaming doom is under) do not teach players how to use firearms in real life, because many of the weapons in videogames only exist in the video game not the real world. Even if a weapon in the game is based on one in real life, the detail in regards it is often greatly exaggerated. Even if video games did have realistic enough weapons to teach players how to use the real ones, that does not mean they would use the skill to kill people. There are tens of millions of gun owners in the united states and an overwhelming majority of them do not use them to kill other people. This is because almost all people have a built in moral compass that prevents them from killing other human beings unless their life depends on defending themselves. The reason why the columbine shooters committed the horrendous act is because they were sociopaths who lacked empathy for other human beings. No video game can cause their sociopathy or prevent it. Logically if first person shooters or other violent video games caused these types of tragedies, why these tragedies increased in occurrence with the rising popularity of video games? If violent video games really did cause criminality there would be an obvious positive correlation between crime and the sales of violent video games. to this the fact that the gaming industry is now measured in the tens of billions of dollars every year, with global revenue well over $60 billion (Kain, 2012). The opposite is actually happening, there is a negative correlation between violence and video game sales. This data alone simply does not support the fact that violent video games cause an increase in violent or criminal behavior. The same people who claim that video games caused the columbine massacre will often quote that studies suggest violent video games cause an increase in violent or criminal behavior. However, these same research studies are more often than not have confirmation and/or publication bias. Many of these studies set out to confirm that video games are harmful to the EVANS: 3 psyche and cause violence or criminal behavior, and overlook factors that have been proven to cause criminality. Other studies would be conducted by organizations that are already against violent video games. Of course, those same organizations are going to find that video games are damaging to morality. indicate that propensity score matching decreases the already modest effect from gaming, often to nonsignificance. In comparison with other risk factors in the models, the effects are also relatively (Decamp, 2015). According to Decamp many studies do not compare their results to known risk factors of violence such as being born into an abusive family. When he factored his results with the known risk factors like child abuse, the likability of becoming more violent due to playing violent video games went from moderate to nonexistent. and Kilburn suggested that the effects of violent video games were overestimated as a consequence of the biases introduced by publications challenging the correlation of aggressiveness with video games. Once the publication biases were corrected, the extent of the effect (eg, the strength of the association between violent video games and aggressiveness) dropped to 0.04 Also, by taking other variables into account, such as intra-family violence, the correlation between video games and aggressiveness could no longer be (Ferguson, 2007). This article clearly shows that publication bias and other biases are a huge problem when conducting these types of studies. When the biases are accounted for there is little association between violent video games and increased aggressiveness. The correlation could no longer be seen after Fergusson took known risk factors of aggression into account. In depth research into the behavioral effects (or lack thereof) of playing violent video games, does not support the theory that video games cause an increase in criminality or violent behavior. EVANS: 4 Another aspect of video games that many people including the that are heavily against violent video games forget is that video games are indeed a form of art. Although the goal of many video games is to be entertaining to the player, many of them have deeper meaning and concepts behind them. The Halo series is one of the most popular video game sagas of all time. It is also one of the most violent video game series ever, with each game earning a mature rating by the ESRB (Entertainment Software Rating Board). However, there are many complex themes incorporated in the story. Themes such as the limits of artificial intelligence, the negative aspect of religious fundamentalism, and even call backs to ancient biblical stories like Ark. In the Halo story an alien galactic alliance known as the is trying to eradicate the human race in order to gain access to ancient alien technology in order to start Great to salvation. It is later learned in the series that the ancient technology was originally intended to wipe out all life in the galaxy in order to prevent the spread of a parasite known as the and that many of the religious tenets of the covenant were wrong. The leaders of the covenant know this information but still manipulate the rest of the covenant to continue the genocidal campaign against the humans. This story shows how religious fundamentalism/extremism can be inherently dangerous to well-being of people, and can cause people to do atrocities in the name of their religion. Considering that many of these games came out during the height of the war on terror (2001, 2004, and 2007), it can be easy to say that this story can be seen as a reaction to Islamic Terrorism at the time. Games like these can be important talking points of debates, concepts and ideas in our modern world. It is important that these voices are heard and not censored. In conclusion, violent video games do not and cannot teach a person to commit violent, or criminal acts. Many studies that show that video games are linked to violent behavior are EVANS: 5 inherently flawed due to publication and confirmation bias. There are key psychological, sociological, and genetic factors that would cause someone to participate in violent or criminal activity that have nothing to do with video games. Video games are an artform that needs to have its collective voice heard and not bastardized or heavily censored. There needs to be a focus on the psychosocial aspects that cause someone to become violent or a criminal, not the gratuitous aspects of a piece of art/entertainment. EVANS: 6 Work cited DeCamp, Whitney. Impersonal Agencies of Communication: Comparing the Effects of Video Games and Other Risk Factors on  Psychology of Popular Media Culture, vol. 4, no. 4, Oct. 2015, pp. 296-304. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1037/ppm0000037. Ferguson, Christopher. The Good, the Bad and the Ugly: A Meta-Analytic Review of Positive and Negative Effects of Violent Video  Psychiatric Quarterly, vol. 78, no. 4, Dec. 2007, pp. 309-316. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1007/s11126-007-9056-9. Fournis, and Nidal Nabhan2 Abou. Violence, Crime, and Violent Video Games: Is There a  Psychiatric Times, vol. 31, no. 9, Sept. 2014, pp. 1-4. EBSCOhost, ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=s sf&AN=99271884&site=eds-live. Frithjof, et al. Hostile and Hardened? An Experimental Study on (De-)Sensitization to Violence and Suffering through Playing Video  Swiss Journal of Psychology / Schweizerische Zeitschrift Psychologie / Revue Suisse De Psychologie, vol. 67, no. 1, Mar. 2008, pp. 41-50. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1024/1421- 0185.67.1.41. Kain, Erik. As Video Game Sales Climb Year Over Year, Violent Crime Continues To  Forbes. Forbes Magazine, 24 Apr. 2012. Web. 10 Apr. 2017. Cooke, Charles C. W. Careful with the Panic: Violent Crime and Gun Crime Are Both  National Review. N.p., 30 Nov. 2015. Web. 10 Apr. 2017. EVANS: 7 Dave Grossman Lt. Col. Army (ret.). Videogames as  Variety. N.p., 26 Mar. 2013. Web. 30 Apr. 2017.