Araimi 1 Hamed Al Araimi Gregory Van Winkle ENC 1102 26 April 2017 Video Games and Violence Most people believe that video games are just a way for youths to pass the time, something that keeps them occupied during their free time. Often times, parents feel more comfortable knowing that their children are in the house playing video games than they would be if their teens were at the risk of being influenced into immoral activities such as doing drugs or engaging in crime by their peers. Parents, like most people, are of the assumption that interaction with negative crowds could have a negative influence on their children, and most prefer that they spend their time indoors free from negative influence. What they do not know is that children are as much at risk of being influenced by video games as they are by their friends. A research conducted by Pew Research Center revealed that 97 percent of youths between the ages of 12 and 17 years played video games and most of them had violent content (HHP 1). Furthermore, uncontrolled viewing and playing of video games exposes young adults to violence at a rather early age and this exposure has a likelihood of leading them to become violent, either as adolescents or as adults. Therefore, the goal is to understand the influence that video games have on children and how over exposure could result to children becoming violent not only in the adolescent stage but throughout their adulthood. While the effects of video games are normally felt by the children who play them, several propositions on educating parents and guardians will be suggested, since they are the ones who either buy the video games for their children or allow them to play despite their violent content. Araimi 2 This passive campaign will therefore target adults who are not yet parents but plan to have kids as well as parents intending to buy video games for their children. The goal is to help reduce the violence exhibited by children and young adults as a result of the video games they play. Parents will be able to determine the types of games that are allowed, the duration in which a child gets to spend playing games, and also offer guidance to children on the importance of avoiding violence. When children spend too much time playing video games, they are likely to become immune to the violent images depicted on the screens and even be tempted to carry out the things they do in the video games in reality. Often times, children tend to become more aggressive the more they play violent games. With the various advancements in technology, video games are becoming more realistic, and this increases their ability to influence children. Spending too much time playing such games has been proven to have negative impacts on various aspects of lives. Those who over indulge in playing video games develop poor social skills, end up spending fewer time with family and friends, start getting poor grades due to lack of concentration in school as well as developing aggressive behaviors and thoughts (AACAP 1). Because of the way the video games are structured, children start viewing violence as the logical way to solve problems because this is what they do in video games. In most video games, the player has to go on a mission and accomplish a certain task before progressing on to the next level. In a game by the name Call of Duty, the thirteenth mission is set up in such a way that the player is in a sewer where prisoners are being led at gunpoint through the street (Keim 1). The imagery and graphics are presented in such a way that the person playing feels as if they are part of what is going on. A few minutes later, a lot of violence ensues and twenty-one people, most of them prisoners, end up being killed mercilessly. Various weapons are used to kill and in the end Araimi 3 there is a lot of blood, some of which even splatters on the screen (Keim 1). In just one scene, a child playing such a game is exposed to many different ways of killing and this is likely to lead them into a life of violence. Children who observe adults behaving violently are likely to emulate their actions and start behaving in the same ways (Toppo 1). However, this effect is not limited to peers, but also to the experiences that children go through when growing up. The influence of video games has been so severe that their users have been known to engage in violence that has resulted in the death of others in real life. One example is the case of Adam Lanza, a twenty-year-old student, who went into Sandy Hook Elementary School and ended up killing twenty- six people. Lanza was a big fan of playing video games and would spend hours at the local arcade playing games. When police officers looked at the content on his computer after the incident, they found pictures of known killers, instructions on how to make explosives, and copies of various games among which were or and of While it is not clear why he decided to carry out the shooting, his overexposure to violence through video games strongly suggests that the games he played influenced his disposition to violence (Toppo 1). Almost all aspects of the video games preferred by the youth currently require them to use violence in order to accomplish a task. Violence is evident not only in the content, but also in the packaging and the names given to the video games. Some of the titles for popular games include phrases such as and of to mention a few. Even before the child begins playing, the mind is prepared for an environment of violence and this may become how a child views most, if not all aspects of life (Scutti 1). The posters used to package the video games also portray pictures of violence. This imagery further increases the chances that the person playing the games will become more aggressive. Araimi 4 Children are more susceptible to the message a medium communicated because their minds are still developing and they are still learning. Since this is the case for all children, it also means that all children are at risk of the dangers brought about by the violence depicted in video games. Children who habitually play violent video games are more likely to engage in real life violence. Because of this, there is the need to regulate the amount of violence that is portrayed in such games and how often children have access to them (Dominick 1). The solution to solving the problem that violent video games create mostly rests on the shoulders of parents and caregivers. As parents, it is their responsibility to ensure that any video game that they buy for their child has no form of violence that is likely to encourage them into behaving the same as the characters in the games. Since parents are the ones who provide for their children, they should ensure that they go through the content of the games that their children want to play. Instead of just buying games, parents must first read through their Entertainment Software Rating Board ESRB ratings to check the content. Parents must also limit the time that children spend playing games at home or in gaming arcades (Kleinman 1). This will ensure that there are as few chances as possible of the child being influenced by the content of the game being played. In order to teach parents on the effects of video games, a good solution would be to visit the various institutions offering education on the issue. An example is the EventTale Gaming Event which will be held at the Miami Beach on Friday 20th July from 11:30 AM (Eventbrite 1). While video games are a good way of keeping children entertained, some of the content in some video games comprises of material that is likely to mislead children into thinking that violence can be used to solve problems. It is therefore important that adults who are soon to be parents and parents intending to buy video games for their children to ensure that they check the Araimi 5 content of the games. While the goal is to entertain parents and those who are expecting must know what elements to look for as signs that a video game could lead a child into violence. Such information is shared through seminars that are held in various institutions with the purpose of educating parents on the type of games that are ideal for children. Parents must also check the rating of games under the Entertainment Software Rating Board so as to decide whether a game is ideal or not. By attending such seminars and checking the ESRB, parents will be able to prevent their children from being negatively influenced by video games. Araimi 6 Works Cited Aacap. Children and Video Games: Playing with  Children and Video Games: Playing with Violence. N.p., n.d. Web. 05 Apr. 2017. Dominick, Joseph R. Videogames, television violence, and aggression in  Journal of Communication 34.2 (1984): 136-147. EventTale Gaming  Eventbrite. N.p., n.d. Web. 20 Apr. 2017. Harvard Health Publications. Violent Video Games and Young  Harvard Health. N.p., Oct. 2010. Web. 5 Apr. 2017. Keim, Brandon. What Science Knows About Video Games and  PBS. Public Broadcasting Service, 07 May 2013. Web. 05 Apr. 2017. Kleinman, Zoe. Do video games make people  BBC News. BBC, 17 Aug. 2015. Web. 06 Apr. 2017. Scutti, Susan. Do video games lead to  CNN. Cable News Network, 26 July 2016. Web. 05 Apr. 2017. Toppo, Greg. Do Video Games Inspire Violent  Scientific American. N.p., 29 May 2015. Web. 05 Apr. 2017