Sadsad 1 Chrissy Sadsad Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 30 April 2017 Be a Tree Hugger Enclosed in a block of tall brown and green giants are found everywhere on the University of South campus (About USF). Many students would say that it is the nature of these giants that makes this campus attractive, and these giants are trees. Trees are more or less found everywhere and cover a vast amount of this campus and the land. The trees on campus are strategically placed to create a sense of beauty. Though, even a majority of not only students but also the population would admire trees for its exquisiteness or the shade they provide; however, there is so much more to what trees offer to the world. While the appreciated trees on campus stand freely with no fear of being harmed, there are endless groups of trees or rather known as forests being cut down. Deforestation is causing a decrease in the tree population and the increase of this action needs to be stopped immediately. Trees are living organisms, and likewise, they are the essence of the life of other species. Thus, because forests are increasingly being ripped from their roots, teenagers need to protest against deforestation in order to protect the last of the forests and continue life around the world. Focusing on forests, the World Wildlife Fund (WWF) claims they are important for oxygen, medicine, food, natural resources such as water and wood, and it is also a home for many. It is clear inhabitants of the earth are dependent on forests for many reasons. Moreover, WWF states, the trees, the ecosystem that supports the human population can fall WWF is one of the many nonviolent organizations that focus on protecting many parts of Sadsad 2 the earth, its resources, and the people. Likewise, it is the utmost importance the teenage generation of world follows the footsteps of such conservation groups. In modern society, countless individuals take life for granted and seem to forget it is perhaps the simplest things that continue human existence on earth. Trees are in desperate need of saving. Teenagers can unquestionably make a change and play a crucial role in causing the world to become tree huggers. The reason this age group is so significant is because this is the generation that all eyes are set. Teenagers are frequently setting new trends in society, constructing original and fresh ideas, working well and keeping up with social media, and with such skills, they will be able to truly put this problem out there for the world to acknowledge and take action. By following through with the countless call-to-action plans offered, teenagers will be able to raise awareness universally over the major issue of deforestation. Furthermore, with the help and support of such an age group, forests will begin to see a reduction of global threats. Countless individuals do not consider the significance of forests. While natural disasters do contribute to deforestation, human activity is the primary reason (Ronca 2). are being destroyed at an alarming rate. More and more businessman are pushing through forests to gain land for industrial or commercial purposes. The environment is being sacrificed for the sake of (15+ Phenomenal Ways To Stop Deforestation and Protect Our Planet). Modern society is filled with materialistic people. Such individuals only aspire to be wealthy and some obtain their wealth through the destruction of forests. However, these people who tear down forests, do not look for a method of replacing the trees, overlook the future consequences of deforestation and seem to even forget that soon their money will be lost once there are no more trees left. Schwartz states, they still cover about 30 percent of the land area, we lose an area roughly equivalent to the size of Panama in forested land every year. At this rate, there Sadsad 3 would be no forest left by around 2100. Even where forests are protected on paper, they protected in Schwartz points out the corruption behind keeping track of deforestation and even shows people or businesses greediness for trees. Likewise, he signifies if people continue to oversee their actions and how much forest is left in the world, then soon enough all forests will disappear. In order to continue human existence, not only forests but also portions of it that contain concentrations of biodiversity (e.g. endangered species) or fragile ecosystems, or areas which are fundamental to meeting basic or traditional cultural needs of local communities (high conservation value must be preserved (RSPO). If such areas of the forests were to be cleared, then this could further endanger the lives of many species, possibly affect various ecosystems due to the loss of life, and could eventually cause future issues for humans. There are countless approaches teenagers or any individual can do to push for a (Solutions to Deforestation). Firstly, one can simply inform others on this particular problem so they are more aware of the effects of deforestation. This will help communities become more educated and hopefully positively modify their mindset towards forests so they can appreciate such areas a little bit more. Donations to WWF or any nonprofit organizations that seek to stop deforestations are also available. Whether donations are small or large, either amount will surely help. Not only can one donate to such organizations, but on the WWF website, becoming a member, joining marches, or even adopting an animal is an option. Moreover, petitions can be created to push for a zero deforestation policy in high biodiversity areas, forest conservation rules can be put in place in order to stop the behind the scenes corruption, or transform businesses into green companies by making them produce sustainable products. Additionally, a process known as reforestation can take place. Reforestation is the Sadsad 4 procedure of planting more trees in renewed fertile landscapes (Ronca 4). Individuals can similarly start to make informed choices about products and aim to only purchase those that are forest-friendly; by doing so, corporations may start to see a decline in their sales, figure out why, and perhaps aim to manufacture only forest-friendly merchandises. These are not the only ways teenagers and other individuals can support forests; there are so many other methods of creating a better future for the tree population. Deforestation has been a significant problem for many years and for many reasons. hold value that exists beyond use by anybody or anything, just by their very nature as forests. We risk all of it as we let them (Schwartz). This value forests hold is clearly not taken seriously or into consideration. If forests were to continue to disappear then there is a probability that all ecosystems would die out (Sustainable palm oil). small step by you, leads to twenty or more giant leaps towards a global campaign against (15+ Phenomenal Ways To Stop Deforestation and Protect Our Planet). Even just a single individual can make a huge difference and positively influence forests and their peers. Though, teenagers are the generation to be. This group can revolutionize deforestation and live it out to the end to witness the modifications made. However, some type of action must be done now, or rather sooner than later before it is too late because the few forests that are left are rapidly disappearing. Striving for a deforestation-free future and pursuing with the multiple calls to actions offered will, without a doubt, help reduce the negative impacts on the environment and prevent the extinction of life. Word Count: 1252 Sadsad 5 Works Cited Phenomenal Ways To Stop Deforestation and Protect Our Conserve Energy Future, http://www.conserve-energy-future.com/phenomenal-ways-to-stop-deforestation- and-protect-our-planet.php. Accessed 16 April 2017. USF, http://www.ugs.usf.edu/catalogs/0102/aboutusf.htm. Accessed 16 April 2017. Ronca, Debra. Deforestation How Stuff Works, http://science.howstuffworks.com/environmental/green-science/deforestation.htm. Accessed 16 April 2017. Schwartz, Jason. Reasons Stopping Deforestation (Still) Greenpeace, 14 May. 2014, http://www.greenpeace.org/usa/6-reasons-stopping-deforestation-still-matters/. Accessed 16 April 2017. to Greenpeace, http://www.greenpeace.org/usa/forests/solutions-to- deforestation/. Accessed 16 April 2017. palm RSPO, https://www.rspo.org/about/sustainable-palm-oil. Accessed 16 April 2017. World Wildlife Fund. http://www.worldwildlife.org/. Accessed 16 April 2017.