Dang 1 Si Dang Instructor: Gregory Van Winkle ENC 1102 20 April 2017 Freshwater Resources Issue Water is one of the most important factors in life on the Earth. Humans and other species cannot survive in an environment without water for more than ten days (Binns, 12). According to the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS), about 71% of water on the Earth, but only 1% is the accessible freshwater that humans need. We are sharing about 1% of the freshwater with more than 7 billion people and many other species (Water Science Photo Gallery). As the population and pollution increase, water supply increasing. The amount of freshwater that everyone can own will decrease, so the need of freshwater in the future will be a significant problem. From April 15, 2017 to April 25, 2017, there will be celebrations of the Earth Day held in many cities in the world including in Tampa, Florida. Earth Day will demonstrate support for environmental protection and one of the main objects of the event is the freshwater issues. The goals of the event are to prompt people in developed countries to help with protecting and saving the Earth in general, particularly freshwater resources, by simple daily actions. Freshwater resources should be protected in order to live a healthy and peaceful life in the future and to do so, people must come forward to do their part. According to Conversation International, water life. It is vital. It supports the immense diversity of life on Earth. It is a source of food, health, and (Fresh Water). As we know, water is the key to consider a planet which has life on it. Moreover, the Earth is the only planet which has life on it as far as we have discovered. Throughout the years, from the first civilization Dang 2 until now, a community of humans mostly settle by the rivers, lakes, or streams so that they can get fresh water to maintain their life and develop agriculture. Nowadays, people are using freshwater resources in many active ways. The effort of recycling water is opening a new chapter for humanity as the world population is increasing day by day. In the article Much Water Should You Drink per that was posted in Authority Nutrition website, they mention that the authorities commonly recommend eight 8-ounce glasses, which equals about 2 liters, or half a of water (Gunnars, 16). Also, every person needs about 20 to 25 liters of freshwater for daily needs. The demands of using freshwater is very important, not only for our daily needs, but also to keep us healthy. There is a lot water on the Earth surface but the human can only drink 1% of it, because about 97% is saltwater and about 2% is underground freshwater and ice caps in the poles (John. G and Hank. G, 20). Pollution is becoming the main reason that makes the amount of freshwater decrease. In the article Are the Main Causes of Fresh Water four main sources of freshwater pollution are mentioned as industrial wastes, domestic wastewater and sewage, physical pollutants, and agricultural wastes (Iasija, 6). We can conclude that humans are the main reason for freshwater and environmental pollution. We are destroying our life every day. It is true that water, in turn, possible without a healthy planet and human actions are putting a healthy planet at (Fresh Water). Besides economic system, safe water resources should be a standard factor to evaluate the development of a country. A developing country must own a strong economic system and provide a good standard living for the citizen. According to the VOA News, about one billion people will not have access to safe water resources in 2050 (The Importance of Fresh Water 2). In the recent years, industries are expanding to some isolated areas, and their waste is destroying Dang 3 the environment around them. Besides waste gas, they also discharge dirty and toxic water into the rivers and streams and kill the ecosystems. The pollution is also the main reason that reduces the amount of freshwater, which is scarce. of the hospital beds are filled with people suffering from water-borne (The Importance of Fresh Water). It is horrible to know that it is happening now. Every year, almost 4 billion people get sick with diarrhea by drinking unsafe water. There are about 2 million of them who are dead, and most of them are with poor health conditions and children under age of 5, living in developing countries (The Importance of Fresh Water). As the world population grows, industries must expand to meet the consumer demands. A thorny problem in that the environment is causing headaches in developing countries. percent of all waste is discharged untreated, often because of lack of regulations and (The Importance of Fresh Water). In some countries in Asia, people are discharging domestic wastewater directly into the river every day, and the government has not acted with any deterrent action. Timely reforms on industrial waste disposal, as well as domestic waste disposal, are essential at this time. Also, awareness of the harmful effects of the environmental pollution is a necessary and an important issue. Nowadays, people who live in some developed countries may not notice that the water resources are getting worse. This is because of the development of technology; dirty water was used will be recycled. Also, some countries in the world lack rivers, lakes or streams, so people will not be able to recognize that our are dying. It is clear that human activities are the biggest threat to water resources and the environment. Many cities in Florida such as Clearwater, Sarasota, and Orlando will be holding the Earth Day event from April 15, 2017 to April 25, 2017. Government is doing well Dang 4 in providing safe water for citizen, and that was caused by someone who has not considered the problems with our water storages. The event will have people talking about environmental issues and giving information about the Earth life one needs. People can also donating money to some environmental organizations who are working to protect human life, and prevent people from environmental destruction. It will be a nice time if people join some environmental groups as volunteers to propaganda and raise awareness to others in our community to keep the ecosystem clean around us, especially the freshwater resources. The Scientology Information Center and the Way to Happiness Foundation of Tampa Bay will celebrate the Earth Day with inspiration and music. Also, everyone can come and share experience and activities to help protect wildlife and keeping the community clean. You can learn more at: https://goo.gl/pG71aM. The Earth Day event wants us to know the real values of the environment and the water resources which are essential for life. The event is the road that lead us to the future of humanity. Saving the Earth is also saving our life because the Earth is the only planet we can live on. Lack of freshwater will be the biggest problem to the human race in the future. Humans are using the importance of industry for the economic system to advocate for their environmental destruction. The increasing world population is an underlying factor, leading to the depletion of clean water resources and environmental pollution. Although, the governments are trying to stop some activities that cause environmental and water resources pollution, people should try to contribute to save their lives by doing their part. The number of people who are dead per year because of infections caused by drinking unsafe water is higher than one billion people. Tampa Bay area is celebrating the Earth day event to review what people have done to the environment in the past years. This is a great event where people can learn how to protect the ecosystem and water resources. People can donate or join some environmental activities as a volunteer. We all Dang 5 have abilities to make a difference just by doing whatever we can to save our Earth. Even a smallest thing can make a big difference, when people join together for the same cause. Dang 6 Works Cited Binns, Corey. How Long Can a Person Survive Without  LiveScience. TechMedia Network, 2012. Web. 1 Apr. 2017. Fresh  Conservation International. N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Apr. 2017. Gunnars, Kris. How Much Water Should You Drink Per  Authority Nutrition. N.p., 18 Aug. 2016. Web. 01 Apr. 2017. Iasija, Mohit. What are the Main Causes of Fresh Water  What are the main causes of fresh water pollution? N.p., n.d. Web. 01 Apr. 2017. Rinkesh. Causes, Effects and Solutions of Groundwater  Conserve Energy Future. N.p., 24 Dec. 2016. Web. 01 Apr. 2017. The Importance of Fresh  VOA. VOA, 21 Mar. 2010. Web. 01 Apr. 2017. Water Science Photo Gallery How Much water is on  U.S. Geological Survey (U.SGS). N.p., 02 Dec. 2016. Web. 01 Apr. 2017.