Trotter Duce Duce Professor Aranda ENC1102 April 14 th , 2017 1 Hunger: Fed Up Yet? Since the beginning of civilization, man has faced the issue of going hungry. Food is an essential part of survival for any species, and over time humans have mastered the art of producing it. The United States and many other countries even have where animals are fed and raised en masse in a large building until they are old enough to be But in less- developed countries, these kind of food production means are simply not possible. Due to unequal distribution of wealth, many countries have simply been forgotten about when it comes to fair distribution of food. Today about one in three people in the world suffer from some form of malnutrition (World Food Programme).According to freedomfromhunger.org, hunger goes hand in hand with poverty, and it becomes an endless cycle for billions of people living in poor countries, stating that the effort of constantly securing food consumes valuable time and energy, allowing poor people less time for work and earning (Freedom from Hunger). Due to this, people have less money to be able to afford food because they spend the majority of the time trying to get food just to make it through the day. As a result, in 2010 roughly 7.6 million children died due to hunger related health issues (DoSomething.org) This year nearly 9 million children will die as well, for the same reason. Health effects from hunger include high infant mortality rates, vulnerability to common illnesses, and impediment to proper growth. Additionally, pregnant women or women who are nursing are at an even higher risk of malnourishment and dying during childbirth (Freedom from Hunger). To combat these staggering statistics, countless organizations have been formed all over the Trotter Duce Duce Professor Aranda ENC1102 April 14 th , 2017 2 world with the purpose of feeding those in need. An excellent example of one such organization is Rise Against Hunger, formerly known as Stop Hunger Now. Rise Against Hunger currently is made up of over 376,000 volunteers with one mission: end hunger in our lifetime by providing food and life-changing aid to the most vulnerable and creating a global commitment to mobilize the necessary resources (Rise Against The work that Rise Against Hunger does is mostly distribution of meals packaged by volunteers to partners in areas with high hunger rates. These partners are carefully selected and have close ties with the community they are working for in order to ensure that everyone has an opportunity to eat their fair share. Once the partners have been established, the packaged meals are sent to the location and distributed among the community. I personally have participated in one of the packaging events twice through my church. The events are usually set up in a large room like a gathering hall or gymnasium. Tables are placed in rows and contain one or two packing stations per table. At each station there is a funnel that is used to put scoops of rice, vegetables, protein, and vitamin powder. These events last no more than two hours and the amount of bags of food packaged is impressive to see at the end. Since their founding in 1998, Rise Against Hunger has packaged 320,569,333 meals and sent them to 74 different countries, serving over a million people in 2016 alone (Rise Against Hunger). Additionally, Rise Against Hunger maintains a strong educational program that sees volunteers going directly into communities that need the most help. The volunteers teach the members of this community about sustainable ways to grow food, both animals and crops. This not only helps the community Trotter Duce Duce Professor Aranda ENC1102 April 14 th , 2017 3 members have access to a constant source of food, but also helps diversify their diets, allowing them to have a wider range of vitamins and minerals to nourish them. They most recently did this in the small mountain village of Pala in Guatemala., where they built five concrete tanks for tilapia to be raised and eaten. The villagers have learned how to feed the fish, wash the tanks, and make sure the water is the proper temperature (Rise Against Hunger). This also helps combat poverty, the biggest cause of hunger, because the community members can then use those skills to sell parts of their yields once they become able to grow more than they need to eat. This organization also provides relief to areas hit by disasters like floods, storms, wildfires and war, much like the Red Cross and FEMA. Rise Against Hunger is one of the best organizations to get involved with due to these reasons, and also because they have such a vast network of partners and volunteers around the globe. To become involved with Rise Against Hunger, simply go to their website and click the tab. From there, one can donate to the organization, host a meal packaging event, or become an ambassador for them. Rise Against Hunger is all about involvement and advocacy by getting people to become aware of the epidemic that is hunger, and to step up and do something to stop it. Trotter Duce Duce Professor Aranda ENC1102 April 14 th , 2017 4 Works Cited 11 Facts About World  DoSomething.org Volunteer for Social Change. N.p., n.d. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. We Stop after the  Rise Against Hunger. N.p., n.d. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. World Hunger  Freedom from Hunger. N.p., 19 Feb. 2013. Web. 14 Apr. 2017. Food Front Page World Food Programme. N.p., n.d. Web. 30 Apr. 2017.