Gatdula 1 Jean Royce Gatdula Professor Jubalee Penuliar ENC 1102.011 26 February 2017 Overview: Goal of the Association of American University For centuries, people have tried to perfect the educational system in the hopes of creating a non-biased, academically and physically engaging environment for students. There were several notions on improving the quality of education but, based on the current generation, employers look for experience in their prospective employees. Because of this need for experience, students in the university level try to engage in volunteer works, internships, organization projects, and undergraduate research. Organizations like the Association of American University (AAU) advocates for the growth of undergraduate research in public and private universities (A Better Nourished Tomorrow). They encourage students to pursue degrees in research intensive universities because they believe that research, equipped with sufficient academic rigor, can transform them into successful leaders of the society (A Better Nourished Tomorrow). They have represented the progress of their accomplishments and mission in forms of images. The two images that will be discussed in this paper will involve their visual strategies that relate to the audience. The visuals will convey the main mission and vision of AAU which is the importance of research in the educational system and the idea of education and research being essential because it is seen as a driving force to success and innovation (A Better Nourished Tomorrow). The visuals conveyed it through logos for both images and also pathos for image 2. Image 1 used a Logo appeal that captures the idea that learning can extend beyond the mainstream forms of teaching but can also extend to research as a form of teaching medium Gatdula 2 to students. Image 2 however, conveyed the logos appeal by painting an image that people rely extensively on research in the current generation compared to past eras. In addition Image 2 also portrayed the pathos appeal through the color blue which makes us feel or think about rationality and the educational system. The Association of American Universities (AAU) is a nonprofit organization that focuses on issues that are important to research-intensive universities, such as funding for research, research policy issues, and graduate and undergraduate education (A Better-Nourished Tomorrow). Their mission its members to collectively help shape policy for higher education, science and innovation; promote best practices in undergraduate and graduate education; and strengthen the contributions of research universities to (A Better Nourished Tomorrow). They also mentioned that they continually contribute to society through the research, discovery, and innovation opportunities they offer to students in the undergraduate or graduate level of education (A Better-Nourished Tomorrow). This organization fulfills their mission by advocating the advancement of research and discovery alongside the road of academics. To portray the mission of AAU better, Image 1 encapsulates the idea that learning is not only limited in reading, writing, and vocalizing thought, but it is also open to endless opportunities such as hands-on experience and research opportunities. The image focuses on its appeal to logic or what is called Logos. Its Logos appeal highlights the idea that learning can extend to countless forms that offer a student better experience and engagement instead of the mainstream forms of learning which is reading, writing, and speaking. Experiences such as internships and research integrate those typical forms of learning and it also exposes people to real-life problems. This will help them visualize it like in a real working environment, Gatdula 3 learning how fast an employee has to be or being asked critical questions simultaneously will develop them as a mature and professional contender for their future careers. Like in the picture, students are seen as busy and taken into the notion of completing a certain task that can impact their research in many ways. It can be observed that they are wrapped up in the task because they are keeping a close eye contact or attention to what they are doing; everyone seems so absorbed by the job they are doing that they are paying close attention to it to avoid any flaws or repetitions from ever being created. They are learning in different forms, learning different ideas that incorporate their knowledge from classes to a practical application of it. Image 1 captures the essential idea of mission, which is to improve the educational experience by integrating intensive-research alongside theoretical academic learning (A Better Nourished Tomorrow). In fact, according to Sarah Webb, a Ph.D. chemist covering science, health, technology, and the environment, states that research offers students a taste of the culture of research and life as a scientist. a short-term, risk-free way to investigate whether a research career or a particular field is a good (The Importance of Undergraduate Research). Testing the path of research will help in determining whether the student can establish a personal connection to the work and a feeling of ownership or not (The Importance of Undergraduate Research). In addition to this, aside from learning research techniques and problem-solving skills, students can spend time communicating with graduate students and researchers to learn more about their future science careers (The Importance of Undergraduate Research). Finally, aside from the benefit of communicating with prospective employers, undergraduate research opportunities can be a determinant whether a person is willing to go through the challenges of a graduate school. Gatdula 4 Another perspective to look into is through Image 2 which encapsulates the idea of research being the driving force of success and innovation in the future. This image suggests a Logos, an appeal to logic and reasoning and a Pathos appeal, an appeal to emotion. A logos appeal is how the image paints a message on how people rely so much on research in this current century compared to the previous eras. This is observed by associating knowledge or the educational system literally powering the world, hence the power plug connected to the world in Image 2. Unlike before, population leans more on inventing, innovating, discovering, and researching things that are yet to be discovered. Technically speaking, the image speaks about how research powers the world through the representation of a charging plug literally connected to the world as a source of This suggests that intensive research and innovation are crucial in the growing era of science and technology. Image 2 also implies as seeing the world in a different light because now people see the world as a world powered with power, wit, and intelligence supplied by the educational system. It views education as a global movement towards powering the new, advanced, and better tomorrow. On the other hand, the Pathos appeal to this is how the color blue makes people feel or think about rationality and the educational system. The color renders humankind to think academically and think about educational institutions (Blue.). This might be a strategic color scheme of how the color blue triggers the human mind to think about logic and reasoning being the powerhouses of the globe (Blue.). These representations clearly embody the gist of mission and vision statement. It is apparent that upon viewing Image 2, an individual thinks about education becoming the powerhouse of the future, where innovation, technology, and research is vital to advance even further which is in-line with the statements of AAU. According to Susan Gatdula 5 Henderson, a New York City-based Queens College vice president of institutional advancement, allows students to become much more engaged in constructing their own knowledge, and cognitive studies show that ability is key to learning (The Future of Higher Education: How Technology will Shape Learning). Technology and research makes student more inventive and creative with their ideas, this makes students create fresh new ideas that has not been introduced yet into the public thus, harnessing new ideas from a fresh perspective. In addition according to Jill Morton, a color psychologist working in the University of Hawaii, mentions that blue signifies intelligence, dignity, trust, and authority Most blues convey a sense of trust, loyalty, cleanliness, and (Blue.). This explains that the feeling of intelligence and the educational system that being the powerhouse of the world in the image is explained by the color blue being associated with intelligence. It has been proven that different shades of blue can improve concentration, stimulate thinking and provide mental clarity (Blue.). With these supporting details, it can be concluded that the message being portrayed by the image is in par with the statement of AAU. As a conclusion, the two visuals convey the main mission and vision of AAU which is the importance of research in the educational system and the idea of education and research being essential because it is seen as a driving force to success and innovation. Image 1 highlighted the logos appeal of the mission. The first image highlighted the importance of research, where research is seen as an integrated approach of learning by capturing the scene of students occupied by the job they are assigned. The students are seen to be involved and concentrated because they are keeping a close eye in what they are doing probably to avoid mistakes during the process of performing the job. Furthermore it also highlighted that research can be a potential medium of learning like the mainstream styles like reading, writing, speaking. Gatdula 6 The second image however, highlighted the logos and pathos appeal to the audience. Image 2 focused on viewing education as a global movement towards powering the new, advanced, and better tomorrow where education is represented by the abundance of color blue in the image. These analyses are supported through the interpretation of the power plug connected to the world and the color theory mentioned by Jill Morton. The color theory of the said psychologist states that blue signifies intelligence, dignity, trust, and which come in-line with the image of AAU being colored in blue color, to assert a sense of authority and intellectual aspect into it (Blue.). All in all, the images that AAU used fully represented their primary goals towards society, a mission to pinpoint intensive-research alongside the rigorous road of academia. Gatdula 7 Works Cited A Better-Nourished  Association of American Universities. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Webb, Sarah et al. The Importance of Undergraduate  Science AAAS. N.p., 12 Jan. 2016. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Economist Intelligence Unit 2008. future of higher education: How technology will shape Report for the New Media 26 Feb. 2017 Available at: http://www.nmc.org/pdf/Future-of-Higher-Ed-(NMC).pdf Morton, Jill.  Blue. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Gatdula 8 Image 1 Image 2