Jonathan Hernandez ENC1102 Adam Carter 18 April 2017 Project 3: Composing Multimodal Arguments Since Americas founding, the role women play in society has always been an uphill battle. In the past decade, with the help of modern education and social media, this role has been in the limelight. Even more recently with the most recent, election and the policies that candidates did or did not present, rights are at the peak in societies eyes. With societies ability to change opinions with a single post on a social media site, these issues are always in the topic of discussion, and even argument. Many times with issues like this that have such strong positions on both sides, a compromise or even a way to take action between the two is difficult to see. The most supported, and most agreeable for most Americans, is the side that supports the rights of women, feminism. One way for those who want to be involved in fighting for rights can get involved is to rally together and make there voices heard. By speaking out in numbers, no matter what side they support, people can empower not only themselves but also those around them, including the governing officials that they want to persuade. By finding real groups that support rights, to the extent that they strive to make a real difference for their American sake, people will be able to take action against any injustice where they see fit. Both sides of any argument would insist that their side is the only correct way to view an issue. However, in this case, there is evidence that supports the feminist side and it is the responsibility of the individual to find organizations such as the NOW organization (National Organization for Women) who are actively protesting and fighting the higher ups in government for equality. Which ever side one supports, there is room for improvement, the main reason that the best way to take action is to physically support their respective sides. There are many ways to get involved with the NOW organization, one is their protests happening here on the University of South Florida campus. In the month of May, they will be having a protest on the steps of the Marshall center. From nine in the morning to twelve in the afternoon, each Thursday of the moth they will be outside of the center holding rallies in which any individual can get involved. If you want to make a difference for the women in America, then this is a great place to start. To better understand what this feminist side wants, there is real room for better education on the subject matter of American women and the rights they may or may not have. The most recent argument that has recently surfaced, and gained even more momentum from the recent elections, is the idea that the wage gap is a construct set in place solely by sexism in the work place. Groups like NOW have been actively fighting this with efforts to get rid of the cents to every rally point (Lui). This statement implies that there is a underlining source of sexism in the work place that impacts not only the moral of these working women, but their actual paychecks. Although recent studies have shown that these numbers may be overgeneralized, the fact still remains that women in America are suffering based off of their gender (Ludsteck). Because this issue is so important to many Americans, an individuals choice to side with either side will depend heavily on what evidence they are presented with. This is another reason why the education on this matter is so important. By ones own research on issues such as wage gap or workplace sexism, they can gather the information needed to decide whether or not taking up an action such as protesting or rallying behind they respective side is the path needed for what they see as justice. The importance of this issue lies in an individuals want to do more for women in America. Because it has such a large amount involved individuals, its impact is equally great. It effects not only the people involved, most importantly women, but also those around them. The people of America, man or woman, are all apart of this issue because whether or not they have an opinion on the matter, it will still effect America as a whole. The way Americans look at and treat women in their own country will also directly impact the way the world looks at women. Because America is always in the spotlight, good or bad, it would be foolish to think we as a nation do not have huge impacts on other countries social tendencies. This is why making a choice on this subject is so important. It has implications that reach farther than just having a woman for president or more women leading roles in movies. It is about protecting women and the need for more change or being contempt where things are now. No matter who you are, there is a direct connection between rights and yourself. Everyone has a women, whether mother or daughter or cousin, that has had an impact on your life. These women being affected by these issues are all around us and have impacts on society that can not be kept in place without them. Neither side would argue that women do not need protection or that they are not important enough for this kind of national attention. Instead there is the conflict on how or why these issues are some prevalent and how they came to be so riot worthy here in America. There will always be a debate on the amount of rights groups of people have in America. In the instance of women it is usually either work related or a need for equality in societies eyes. With any national debate, there is never an easy way to solve the most pressing issue. However, in the instance of rights in America, rallying with a group that supports your own personal decision has been proven to be the most effective way to get your ideas across. The rally here at the USF campus is the most local and contemporary way in which you can be involved. By making any of the days in which they are rallying in May, you can make a difference by getting the attention of local officials. Rallying, just like the march in Washington during the inauguration, is the best and easiest way for peoples thoughts and needs to reach those in power who can make the changes. rights, like any argument, has two sides that both see their views as the only right way. However, as recent years has proven, it is never as black and white as it may seem. By giving more attention to the education side of the argument, those who want to make a difference will be able to better understand the situation. This education is important because it impacts everyone. Whether you want it to or not, rights affect everyone. They are your mothers, sisters and friends that are all directly discriminated against. By choosing to rally, like the opportunities the NOW group is offering here on campus, you can make a real difference for those who are impacted the most, American women. Works Cited Liu, Kai. Explaining The Gender Wage Gap: Estimates From A Dynamic Model Of Job Changes And Hours  Quantitative Economics 2 (2016): 411. Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Ludsteck, Johannes. The Impact Of Segregation And Sorting On The Gender Wage Gap: Evidence From German Linked Longitudinal Employer- Employee  Industrial & Labor Relations Review 67.2 (2014): 362-394. Business Source Alumni Edition. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Miller, Kevin. The Simple Truth about the Gender Pay Gap (Spring  AAUW: Empowering Women Since 1881. N.p., n.d. Web. 20 Apr. 2017.