Lee 1 Yejin Lee Kristen Rouisse ENC1102 29 March 2017 Legalization of Marijuana in the United States The federal government has prohibited either recreational or medical use of marijuana through the Controlled Substances Act (CSA). However, since 1996 in which California first legalized the medical use of marijuana, 29 states, the District of Columbia, Guam and Puerto Rico have legalized either medical use or recreational use of marijuana Medical Marijuana Laws Furthermore, the public support towards the legalization of marijuana has been increasing since 1970s. According to the General Social Survey, public support has steadily increased to 57% in 2016 compared to the 43% in 2012. Also, the graph that indicates public supporting rate since 1973 shows the tendency of increase since 1990 to 2016 Marijuana be Made Legal GSS Data The statistics of the Gallup News Service shows the similar result; Public support has increased to 60% in 2016 compared to the 58% in 2013 and the rates tends to increase since the late 1970s (Swift 1). A reason for these phenomena is the medical effect of marijuana. Medical marijuana is effective in relieving pain that is caused by nerve damage, in treating spasticity, glaucoma, movement and can be used as an appetite stimulant especially for the AIDS wasting syndrome or dementia Use Furthermore, marijuana is neuroprotective that it can prevent potential patients from malignant tumors (Van Der Stelt et al. 6475). The other reason for these phenomena is the increasing arrest rate of marijuana offenses. Lee 2 Over 693,000 Americans were arrested in 2013 and over 5 million Americans have been arrested for marijuana charges in the past decade in which simple possession accounts for about 90 percent. People have criticized that the government has squandered law enforcement resources for minor marijuana offenses and argue that arresting someone for minor marijuana offenses is an outrageous punishment that may cause social exclusion in lives Therefore, individuals that may be potential patients or their families who may need marijuana in the future should participate and be concerned with the legalization of medical marijuana to wisely reflect the public opinion about marijuana, assure the safe use of medical marijuana for patients and physicians, prevent legal conflicts between state and federal laws, and eliminate the racial discrimination, outrageous punishments and social exclusion towards minor marijuana offenders. To understand the problems of current marijuana law and to feel the necessities of reasonable legalization of marijuana, several specific victim cases need to be discussed. First case can be represented by the story of Frank Ungaro who was a pizza delivery man selling marijuana for a living and was arrested at the age of 23. 18 month-probation was sentenced as a class 6 felony and the convict left 6 months earlier by attending behavioral treatment program. However, to have a lawful living, it was required to write a personal appeal to the Colorado Division of Real Estates to get a real estate license. Furthermore, he was not allowed to live in Kentucky or Virginia and workplaces asked the explanation about the felony conviction (Kamin and Warner, Plight of the Pre-Legalization Marijuana Ironically, victims of current marijuana law are the marijuana offenders themselves and they remained as consecutive victims even after they got released. The criminal records have attached stigma to offenders and have excluded the change of beginning lawful lives. Lee 3 The second case can be represented by the racial victims, especially African Americans. According to the data of American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU), the Black arrest rate due to marijuana offenses was 537 per 100,000 blacks and this had risen to 716 in 2010 whereas the White arrest rate was 192 per 100,000 whites in both years although the Whites and the Blacks have used marijuana at similar rates of 12% and 14% in 2010 and 9% and 10% in 2001 (Edwards et al. 15-22). These statistics show that although the African Americans and White Americans have used the marijuana at similar rate, Blacks have been arrested more frequently. That is, Blacks have been more vulnerable under the prohibition and criminalization of marijuana and have been the victims of racial criminal justice system. The last case can be represented by the conflicts between federal and state law. As it was mentioned from the beginning, the federal government and the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) have prohibited the entire use of marijuana. Through the Controlled Substances Act (CSA), marijuana has been classified as a Schedule I that is highly additive without any acceptable medical use. (Crane, Legal Risks with Medical However, some states have legalized marijuana by state law. This has caused chaotic situations to law enforcement officials, doctors, marijuana-related business people and patients. Due to the Supremacy Clause that says the federal law wins the state laws in the case of law conflicts, physicians and patients face difficulties when it comes to prescribing or getting marijuana for medicinal purposes. For, physicians, they cannot legally prescribe marijuana. They can only write recommendation letters to qualify the eligibility to get medical marijuana. For patients, they are asked to visit a licensed dispensary to get medical marijuana. Coats v. Dish Network implies the main conflict between the federal and state laws when it comes to the use of medical marijuana. A plaintiff, Mr. Coats, was a quadriplegic patient who Lee 4 legally used medical marijuana by Colorado state law and sued for an injustice termination from his company because of his positive marijuana test result. However, the Colorado Supreme Court ruled against the plaintiff by interpreting the terms prohibition of legal of the Colorado labor law in terms of federal marijuana laws which prohibits the entire use of marijuana (Hudak, Conflict between Federal and State Marijuana Laws Claims a Furthermore, the discussion between legal experts and lawyers of the American Bar Association, Ethics and the Business of also represents the legal conflicts of current marijuana law due to the Supremacy Clause. Rule of Profession conduct of the American Bar Association specifies that the lawyers not counsel a client to engage, or assist a client, in conduct that the lawyer knows is criminal or This has caused confusion to lawyers whether it would be illegal for them to advise marijuana-related businesses, patients, and doctors or not State and Federal Marijuana Laws Create Ethical Complications for Lawyers To address these chaotic legal situations that severely affect lives, to reflect the public opinion towards the legalization of marijuana use, and to assure the safe medical use of marijuana for patients and physicians, the entire legalization of medical marijuana for both federal and state aspects should be realized. To realize it, individuals that may be potential patients or their families who may need medical marijuana in the near future should be concerned and participate the entire legalization of medical marijuana. Individuals can participate through the state medical marijuana election or by signing up for the CARRERS ACT in the Drug Policy Alliance Website. By signing up for the CAREERS ACT, individuals can convey the support and importance of medical marijuana legalization to the Senate to act for the legalization. To participate in persuading others to support, individuals can sign up the marijuana legalization websites like Drug Policy Alliance, Lee 5 National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws (NORML) and Marijuana Policy Project (MPP). Furthermore, individuals can take part in campaigns of these organizations or donate to help them manifesting the entire legalization of medical marijuana. Although the federal government has prohibited marijuana, lots of states have legalized use of marijuana and public supports have been increasing. However, due to the federal prohibition of marijuana, there have been victims like ex-marijuana offenders who are s, patients who had difficulties in getting or taking medical marijuana and lawyers who got confused with the current law system and racial discriminations in marijuana arrests. To address this social, medical and legal problems, entire legalization of medical marijuana should be passed for both federal and state legislatures. To realize this, the actions and participations of individuals that may be potential patients and their friends who may need medical marijuana in the future are required. They can reflect their opinions by signing up for each marijuana supporting organizations, participating in their marijuana campaigns and donating to these organizations. Most importantly, actions can be well represented by practicing one important votes for medical marijuana elections and this can contribute to establishing more liberal, safer, and more justice United States. (Word Count = 1410) Lee 6 Works Cited Crane, Mark. Legal Risks with Medical Medscape, 04 June. 2015, http://www.medscape.com/viewarticle/845686. Accessed 14 Apr. 2017. State and Federal Marijuana Laws Create Ethical Complications for Lawyers - American Bar Association Defending Liberty Pursuing Justice ABA. an.html. Accessed 14 Apr. 2017. Daunt, Lesley. vs. Federal Law: Who Really Holds the Trump The Huffington Post, 30 Mar. 2014, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/lesley-daunt/state-vs-federal-law-who- Accessed 14 Apr. 2017. Edwards, Ezekiel, et al. The War on Marijuana in Black and  American Civil Liberties Union, June. 2013, pp. 15-22. - Working to Reform Marijuana Laws NORML. http://norml.org/faq. Accessed 14 Apr. 2017. Marijuana Law Americans For Safe Advancing Legal Medical Marijuana Therapeutics and Research - Americans For Safe Access. Accessed 14 Apr. 2017. Hudak, John. Conflict between Federal and State Marijuana Laws Claims a Newsweek, 20 June. 2015, http://www.newsweek.com/conflict-between-federal-and-state- marijuana-laws-claims-victim-345099. Accessed 14 Apr. 2017. Lee 7 Kamin, Sam and Joel Warner. Plight of the Pre-Legalization Marijuana Slate, 17 Sep. 2014, Accessed 14 Apr. 2017. Medical Marijuana Nationwide We are the Drug Policy We are the Drug Policy Alliance. https://engageLdrugpolicy.org/secure/legalize-medical-marijuana- Accessed 14 Apr. 2017. Use Working to Reform Marijuana Laws NORML. http://norml.org/marijuana/medical. Accessed 14. Apr. 2017. Marijuana be Made Legal GSS Data GSS Data Explore. https://gssdataexplorer.norc.org/trends/Civil%20Liberties?measure=grass. Accessed 14 Apr. 2017. Medical Marijuana Laws National Conference of State Legislatures NCSL. http://www.ncsl.org/research/health/state-medical-marijuana-laws.aspx. Accessed 14 Apr. 2017. Swift, Art. for Legal Marijuana Use Up to 60% in Gallup News Service, 19 Oct. 2016, p. 1. Van Der Stelt, M., et al. by the main active compound in marijuana, against ouabain-induced in vivo The Journal of Neuroscience, vol. 21, no. 17, Sep. 2001, pp. 6475-79.