Mathers 1 Seamus Mathers Adam Carter ENC.1102 28 April 2017 The No-Kill Movement When you go into an animal shelter, all the animals you see are either surrendered due to their previous inability to take care of them or found. However, these animals have one thing in common, they are all at risk of being euthanized. estimated that 56 percent of dogs and 71 percent of cats admitted are euthanized in American animal shelters. This amounts to about 3.7 million animals being euthanized each year Shelter In two counties in central Florida, out of 100,000 animals admitted, 67,000 were euthanized (Williams). These animals could be euthanized for any number of reasons. Some are euthanized because their health is too poor to merit the expensive procedures that are required to save them. Others are euthanized because they are too old and unlikely to be adopted. However, some perfectly healthy animals are euthanized purely because the shelters need more space (Gray). As a college student, you may wonder why this matters to you, however, if you ever had a pet during your life you know how happy an animal in the right home can be. These animals that are euthanized are being denied the right to having a full and happy life in a home that loves them. Luckily there is a movement that hopes to end the need for unnecessary euthanasia in shelters. The No Kill movement has many members and multiple shelters have adopted the No Kill philosophy of only using euthanasia when the animal is undergoing irremediable suffering, meaning that the animal has such a grave prognosis that the Mathers 2 animal will not live without serious physical pain regardless of medical treatment No These shelters help save animals and find them homes, and luckily there is a No Kill shelter 15 minutes away from USF. Now is the time to help the animals that need it and volunteer, donate or adopt at the Tampa Bay Humane Society. Euthanasia in shelters is preferably done through a lethal injection of sodium pentobarbital, an anesthetic that when applied correctly allows the animal to drift to sleep and then to death peacefully (Geisler). However, there are many other ways that have been used in shelters that are far from humane. These include decompression chambers, chambers that spin and make the animals unable to breathe until they die from oxygen deprivation, gas chambers, which fill with carbon dioxide and kill animals through oxygen deprivation, electrocution by probes attached to the lips and inserted into their anus or even drowning. Federal law has banned most of these, citing them as inhumane, however, these methods have still been reported as being used PETS ARE KILLED IN POUNDS AND The reason why these animals go under euthanasia in shelters is due largely to irresponsible owners. The owners who appropriately house their animals, spay or neuter them or tag them correctly are the largest contributor to stray animals in the United States Shelter Dogs who spayed can give birth to litters of four to six puppies each year and cats that spayed can give birth to two to three litters per year of one to eight kittens each, left uncontrolled a single pair of cats and their kittens can give birth to four-hundred- twenty thousand cats in seven years These animals are a large part of why shelters need to euthanize animals. Mathers 3 No Kill shelters are different from kill shelters in that they aim to not kill any animals regardless of any situation that the shelter is in. They enlist volunteers and foster homes to avoid having to kill animals even if the shelter is full. These shelters take animals even if they are poorly socialized, have treatable, albeit communicable, illnesses or are older than what is considered typically These shelters aim at using the resources in their community to save as many animals as they possibly can and avoid euthanasia at all costs unless the animal will suffer without the possibility of recovery No By identifying and helping the no-kill shelters in your area, you are helping save lives. If you ignore them However, saving animals the only benefit that comes to shelters who adopt the No Kill philosophy. These shelters tend to attract and retain more volunteers, have an increased level of morale, have more community support and have an enhanced image compared to other shelters Reasons to Consider It has been shown that shelters that have high euthanasia rates have a higher turnover rate for their volunteers (Rogelberg et al.). What this means is that if the shelter adopted a low-kill or better yet a No Kill policy, they would be able to make so more volunteers would stay on and they would be able to save more animals. A group that is continually working to help these animals get their voice and get the love and care they need is the Humane Society of Tampa Bay. The Humane Society here has been around since 1912 and has staff dedicated to help end animal homelessness and provide care and comfort for companion animals in need This shelter has helped thousands of animals and continues to help them through providing medical care through their animal hospital and providing spaying and neutering for every animal that comes through its doors. However, they do this alone. They have hundreds of dedicated volunteers and supporters Mathers 4 and are always looking for more. It takes 300 donations of 25 dollars to keep the shelter running for one day and this means that it takes volunteers to help socialize, train and take care of the animals. They are dedicated to getting all their animals into their forever homes and have been No Kill since 2008 The best way to help make this happen is to volunteer there. If you have the time to volunteer, you can donate. Any amount helps. Also, if you are in the market for a pet, think of adopting from the Humane Society first, rather than buying one from your local pet store. If none of these work for you, the least you can do is go to one of their events and have some fun. They have events that range from happy hours at local bars to give back days at local restaurants, the profits for all of which are sent to the Humane Society By helping the Humane Society, you help all of the animals in the Tampa area. When an animal is euthanized in the shelter it loses its one chance at having a life better than living in a concrete cage. It know what it feels like to be loved and have a chance for to have a family that loves it. However, the No Kill movement gives these animals the chance for a life beyond the shelter. By allowing these animals to live even if they conventionally these shelters enable people who want to adopt an animal that to save the life of an animal that would otherwise die in the shelter. By volunteering at your local shelter, you can help these animals live to see another day. Mathers 5 Works Cited Humane Society Tampa Bay, humanesocietytampa.org/about-us/. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. Shelter American Humane, www.americanhumane.org/fact- sheet/animal-shelter-euthanasia-2/. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. NO No Kill Advocacy Center, www.nokilladvocacycenter.org/defining-no- kill.html. Accessed 12 Apr. 2017. Humane Society Tampa Bay, humanesocietytampa.org/events/. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. Fayette Humane Society, fayettehumane.org/fun-facts/. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. Geiser, Dennis. How Does Euthanasia of Animals by Veterinarians Compare to Lethal Web-Based Clearinghouse, www.law.berkeley.edu/clinics/dpclinic/LethalIn jection/LI/QA/12.html. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. Gray, Allison. Big Reasons Why Animal Shelters Euthanize Petful, 7 July 2015, www.petful.com/animal-welfare/why-do-animal-shelters-have-to-euthanize-pets/. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. PETS ARE KILLED IN POUNDS AND HOW PETS ARE KILLED IN POUNDS AND SHELTERS, .html. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. Humane Society Tampa Bay, humanesocietytampa.org/meet-gp/. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. Reasons to Consider Fund, www.maddiesfund.org/ten-reasons-to- Mathers 6 consider-no-kill.htm. Accessed 12 Apr. 2017. Rogelberg, Steven G., Charlie L. Reeve, Christiane Spitzmaller, Natalie Digiacomo, Olga L. Clark, Lisa Teeter, Alan G. Walker, Paula G. Starling, and Nathan T. Carter. Impact of Euthanasia Rates, Euthanasia Practices, and Human Resource Practices on Employee Turnover in Animal  Journal of the American Veterinary Medical Association 230.5 (2007): 713-19. Web. Williams, Evan. Euthanasia Rates Show a Persistent Charlotte County Florida Weekly, Accessed 28 Apr. 2017.