Acevedo 1 Marisela Acevedo Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 30 April 2017 Stop Factory Farming When people think of animals, they think of animals roaming around free. They think of dogs and cats happily playing in the backyard of a house or a fish or a bird being properly fed on a daily basis. What about the animals that are being served on a plate? What happens to these pigs, cows, and chickens? Truth is, majority of the public has no idea of the cruelty animals go through in order to become edible for humans to eat. Factory farming has become a large industry that is more interested in seeing a profit, then putting more emphasis on the way animals are treated at these places. All animals have hearts, organs, eyes, legs, etc. so why are animals on factory farms being tortured for food, while other animals, not residing on these farms, are being treated fairly? This must stop; all animals are alive and should not be summoned to a disgrace like this. Thus, because of the mistreatment of animals on factory farms, people with pets should consider transitioning to vegetarian diets. This would allow meat companies to no longer need to produce an excessive number of animals for food and begin to rightfully care for them. Factory farming is an industrial operation that is dedicated to raising very large numbers of animals to use for food. Currently, more than 99% of farm animals in the United States are raised in factory farms (Farm Animal Welfare). Birds including chickens, turkeys, ducks, and geese are slaughtered 10 times more than any other animal. 8.5 billion chickens are killed for meat and 300 million chickens are used for egg production every year (Animals on Factory Farms). Selective breeding forces chickens to grow their breasts quickly, causing them to suffer Acevedo 2 from heart failure, have trouble breathing, have chronic pain and in many instances, cannot support their own weight. Image 20,000 chickens raised indoor in a shed, crammed together, living in their own waste with high levels of ammonia irritating and burning their eyes and throats (Animals on Factory Farms). To constantly keep chickens, that are used for meat, eating, the light is always kept on where the chickens are confined. This allows the chickens to constantly eat and rapidly grow while limiting the opportunity for them to sleep and rest. who survive their time in production are often slaughtered at just 42 days (Farm Sanctuary). Chickens used for eggs are the most abused. Female chicks are debeaked using a hot blade to prevent the abnormal feather-pecking from the stress of being confined to battery cages. A beak contains nerves and this process of debeaking is very severe and painful. Male chicks are not useful in this industry and therefore serve no purpose or value. Upon hatching, these male chicks are killed using a grinder while still being alive and conscious (Farm Sanctuary). This is a very unfair treatment considering that chickens are as intelligent and social as mammals like dogs and cats (PETA). Meat companies think it is okay to have an excessive number of animals with no proper treatment. However, chickens are not the only animals affected by factory farms. Pigs and cows are mistreated while confined to small spaces. Piglets are separated from their mother once they are born. Almost immediately they are castrated and have a portion of their tails removed along with their teeth pulled in order to keep them from biting other piglets. They are confined to pens until they reach the ideal This confinement makes it difficult to stand, move around, lay down comfortable causing abnormal, neurotic behaviors. Once they have reached the right weight, they are slaughtered. In many instances, they are killed while still alive (Farm Acevedo 3 Sanctuary). In the same manner, calves undergo stress and become sick, stop eating and cry nonstop when they are taken away from their mothers. Males are castrated, dehorned and branded, yet serve little value in the industry, therefore, are sold for meat. Dairy cows are confined and repeatedly impregnated with little care. Majority of the time, cows live indoors, on hard floors, while connected to a milking apparatus. They are forced to produce more milk which causes swelling of glands of the udder (Farm Sanctuary). These cows and pigs are of great benefit to this factory farming, yet are not taken care of properly. Since these poor chickens, pigs and cows are being treated inhumane, now image a pet cat or dog being eaten. If this does not sound right, well these practices do exist. Maybe they do not happen here in the United State that humans are aware of but countries such as China, South Korea, and Vietnam allow for this to happen. China hosts an annual Yulin festival where thousands of dogs and cats are killed and eaten. Even though a petition has come to motion to shut this down, it continues. 2.5 million is the number of slaughtered dogs in the South Korea every year (Dore). Dogs are said to be a best friend, and it is likely that no person would like to summon their dog to this slaughter process, so chickens be summoned to it either. Chickens can be pets too just like dogs can be. However, the number of animals that are on these factory farms can be reduced. It is certain that all people cannot just suddenly stop eating meat completely. It is understandable that this is a process and can take time. Even if it will take time, switching up to a vegetarian diet is not impossible. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animal (PETA) is an organization that believes animals are not meant for humans eat, wear, experiment on, use for entertainment, or abuse in any other way The founders of this organizations wanted to find a way to change society by promoting a healthy vegan diet. There are many vegan and vegetarian options Acevedo 4 out there in the world today. Over the years, it has become easier to find meals; websites such as www.vegetariantimes.com and www.vrg.org make amazing places to find delicious and healthy recipes that make transitioning easier. All these vegetarian recipes allow people to be compassionate to the planet and its inhabitants while being healthy for the body. To change the world, first, one must change what is on their plate. Maybe people can start from not eating meat at all on a certain day of the week, then from there, it can escalate to not eating meat two days of the week. If people really commit to taking a step like this, it is possible to not only change lifestyles but that of animals as well. Also, donate to places such as PETA and the American society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (ASPCA) who are dedicated to protecting the rights of animals. Truth is, animals are being treated unfairly in to be served as food. Many people do not realize all the brutal processes animals go through on factory farms. They do not realize farm animals are the least protected in the animal population in the nation. They are mistreated, abused, forced to grow bigger than their normal size, and slaughtered while they are still alive. Image a pet dog or cat being killed for food. Animals such as pigs, cows, and chickens are pets too and deserve better than what they are treated during their lifespan on factory farms. It is up to the public to change their lifestyle and way of eating in order for meat companies to decrease the excessive number of animals they have. With fewer people eating meat, less animal will be needed for food production and with a controlled number of animals, they can be treated properly. It is up to consumers to stop the animal abuse that happens on factory farms. WORD COUNT: (1307) Acevedo 5 Works Cited Animals on Factory  ASPCA. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Chickens Used for  PETA. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.  Farm Sanctuary. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.  Farm Sanctuary. N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Apr. 2017. Louis. The Countries Which Eat Dog Meat the  Indy100. N.p., 22 June 2016. Web. 16 Apr. 2017. Farm Animal  ASPCA. N.p., n.d. Web. 16 April 2017  Farm Sanctuary. N.p., n.d. Web. 25 Apr. 2017.