Gharbi 1 Mohamed Gharbi Mrs. Hannah Lay ENC1102 047 16 April 2017 Bullying in High School High school is an institution where a student spends four years getting education, making friends, and spending his adolescence. During these 4 years, he goes through different situations and stages that play an important role in building his personality and in the transition to adulthood. However, as high school can be a place where the teenager would spend a great time, it can be a place where he can live the worst four years of his life, a nightmare that can weaken his personality and ruin his future life because of some other students who decided to make him miserable, to feed their arrogance and give value to their existence in the school. Bullying is a daily life for many students who go to high schools. Many students get beaten up, mocked, and intimidated in different ways every day by their fellow students. In addition to that, a new type of bullying is now taking place in the last two decades thanks to the social media that controlled our brains and called: Cyberbullying. Despite the fact that high school is supposed to be a place where a student can socialize, learn, and interact with his surrounding, some students are living the worst time of their life because of some others who feel superior and better, and decided to bully anyone that they like. Bullying is a fact that should be taken seriously by the school, the parents, the society, and the government; it can be a reason why students transfer to other schools and find themselves in the same situation, and it is absolutely a major reason why suicide is the third cause of death among teenagers. why, college students should get Gharbi 2 involved and help to stop this phenomenon: they can organize some events and campaigns in high schools around their campus, represent the student board in one of the high schools to solve all kinds of problems between students that involve bullying, based on their experience and the small age gap. Bullying is a very serious issue that happened to many students for different reasons such as their color, their weight, their sexual preference, and even their disability. It can ruin their future, destroy their self-confidence, and even take their lives. According to Nobullying.com in 2014, more than 77% of students have experienced bullying whether physically, verbally, or mentally. Additionally, 70.6% of teens have seen bullying either in the classroom, in the hallways, in the cafeteria, in the gym class, or even in the bathroom. However, only 20 to 30% of the students who have been bullied told their parents or the administration about their situation. Moreover, 160,000 teens skip school every day due to bullying and 10 % have completely dropped out. Furthermore, social media played an important role in helping this phenomenon to take wider perspectives and helped students to exercise such behavior behind the screen of their devices by griming reputation using videos, pictures, and messages; According to bullyingstatistics.org, about 50% of teens have lived an experience of some form of cyberbullying, and 15% of them have experienced it daily. Unfortunately, only 10 percent of them told a parent about it, and only 20% have been reported to Despite bullying is a behavior problem, students and teen who use their strength and reputation to make lives miserable think that what they are doing is amusing and funny, but they are totally unaware of the consequences. Bullying has very dangerous effects on Gharbi 3 lives and also on their families. According to national bullying prevention center, student who experienced bullying are more likely to get lower grades, anxiety, depression, and sleeping disorders of In addition to that, bullyingstatistics.org has stated that there is a strong correlation between bullying and suicide; suicide is the third leading reason of death among teenagers, with an amount of 4,400 deaths every year. Also, 14% of high school students have taken it into consideration and 7% attempted Bully-related suicide can be related to any form of bullying, whether physical bullying, emotional, cyberbullying, sending nude photos about a student to the rest of the school, and sexting. All these kind of behavior can end life and ruin their life. and Bullying can cause severe problems. It is an issue that is very hard for a student to discuss it with a parent, an adult, or an administration. The bullied teen keeps bearing the situation he is living in and then runs to an extreme solution, like suicide or dropping out, that be good for him or for his surroundings. why college student should get involved to stop this phenomenon from happening and protect the teens from any kind of harassment and abuse. Choosing college students to be part of the solution is very important, effective, and beneficial; the age gap between the college student and the teenager is small, so the teenager can feel comfortable talking about their issues. In the same way, college students understand high school life, many of them are survivors of bullying who learnt how to deal with their situation and get over it, and many others are the bullies who regret being that person, know their weaknesses, and are able to talk to the other bullies and share some awareness about the consequences of their actions. Additionally, College student are young adults as well, so they can be the intermediaries between the parent and his child, and between the student and the administration. Gharbi 4 However, the question is: How can college student do all of these things? In every high school, there is a board of honor students that is formed to solve any kind of problems between others and make an administrative decision. However, this board can be biased and can be part of the bullying itself. why, this board should be represented by volunteer students of a neighboring university; they are neutral, understand high school life, and are adults. Moreover, this board can have more power; it can be an intermediary between the student and the office in any case that involve any form of bullying. Furthermore, college student can establish associations and clubs that organize campaigns in high schools to share awareness about bullying, and create group talks where high school teens can talk about their feelings and make college student aware about the phase that they are going through, and take some actions. Although, what actions should be taken? To know the warning sign of a child being bullied or may be suicidal, College Students can organize some information session to parents about the signs and how to take precautions. According to Abusivekids.com, the warning signs of a student being bullied or thinking about suicide include losing interest in school or anything that he used to enjoy. He may talk or write a lot about hatred, death, and stopping his life. Warning Signs of Bullying and Suicide Go Hand-in As a result, some actions should be taken immediately to avoid any bad consequences; college students should talk to the child and make him feel safe and wanted. You, as a board of students in the high school, should talk to the parent, and to the administration in order to take action on their own or even file a lawsuit. Finally, one of the major missions of the association of anti-bullying that should be created by college students is to take initiative to pass a law that forbids bullying and cyberbullying; Stopbullying.gov states that there is no federal law that applies to nor Gharbi 5 cyberbullying. Moreover, only 34 states out 50 has local laws and policies against cyberbullying. and Any kind of bullying should not be allowed or used by anyone who thinks that it is fun and amusing to do so. These kinds of behavior can result severe problems and affect lives and may destroy them mentally and psychologically. why some actions should be taken to stop such behavior from occurring, and college students should be involved in advising teens whether when being bullied or being the bullies. College students were in high schools not so long ago and can understand the situation more than anyone else and, hence, they can be the intermediary between them, the parents and the administration. Gharbi 6 Works Cited and Bullying Statistics, http://www.bullyingstatistics.org/content/bullying- and-suicide. Accessed 16 April 2017. No Bullying, https://nobullying.com/bullying-statistics-2014/. Accessed 16 April 2017. of Pacer, http://www.pacer.org/bullying/resources/stats.asp. Accessed 16 April 2017. and Stop Bullying, https://www.stopbullying.gov/laws/. Accessed 16 April 2017 Warning Signs of Bullying and Suicide Go Hand-in Abusive Kids. http://www.abusivekids.com/suicide-and-bullying.html. Accessed 16 April 2017