1 Daniel Harley Campbell English Composition II 18 April, 2017 Refrain and Sustain Electrical power over the past few decades has turned more into an essential resource for communities rather than a business good to provide. Because of this dependence on electrical energy, some utility organizations are trying to generate their power as efficiently as possible, but only a few are accepting their responsibility to also be environmentally efficient and keep the Earth healthy while producing more energy. From this, we are the ones that fuel the destruction of the environments as we demand more from fossil fuel industries, like Shell, who deceive us into furthering their private success while we and our planet suffer the true cost. We are at a point where green is not a place to settle, but instead a light to go beyond and achieve energy while rehabilitating our planet back to health. By joining together as energy consumers, we can enact new federal policies and shift consumer demand to finally magnify sustainable energy sources. This is the key for us and future generations, our sons and granddaughters, to live a bright and healthy life. In contrast to previous decades, energy consumers are not only using more electricity, but are also becoming more economically and environmentally aware as to how their energy is being generated. As of 2015, the average American uses almost 30,000 Watthours of electricity per day Energy Information This is why many electricity providers are focused on their production efficiency so that they can keep up and continue profiting with this 2 increasing demand. But the line on what is truly efficient for all when it comes to producing energy starts to get blurry from a and point of views. As the need for more electricity surges, many power industries prioritize energy generation to maximize financial profit. This is basic economics: as demand goes up, supply must go up, which will increase the cost of production to then be paid off by the increased consumption. But this is different for producing energy. Many fossil fuel industries in the US do not regard pollution as a substantial cost to energy production since the major penalty is only a small fee that is almost always outweighed by the obtained profit from doing such criminal acts guidance, At the end, these companies prioritize financial efficiency to take more of your money while you then suffer the cost of pollution build up. In contrast, energy consumers now want these stakeholders to take more responsibility. As of 2016, 53% of US adults agree that Energy Industry Leaders should be involved in policy decisions related to global climate change, which just follows 56% in favor for the general public to also have a major voice (Peer Research Center).With this, public pressure is already pressing on energy producers to be more environmentally efficient. But many powerful energy stakeholders, almost all in fossil fuels, instead view this, your opinion and good will, as an annoyance. Although these industries will still make more money with increased consumption, once policies are enacted to adjust production procedures so that they will take better care of you, the consumers, their private profits will projectively decrease from what it could be. This is where many parties that are against safety and environmental policies draw their concerns and argue that they hinder businesses. But they do this without furthering this correlation to the degradation of the environment and disrespect to your well-being since we, following their rationale, are 3 worth less to them than a few extra dollars. Nonetheless, energy producers recognizes this correlation between consumers and the promise for a future. This message, whether supported by substantial efforts or not, is now being used by many energy stakeholders in advertisements for new customers. Shell, a top global energy provider that mostly processes natural gas and other fossil fuels, is trying to take a middle position in this by recognizes its contributions as an energy stakeholder to better the Earth by lessening pollution. In the provided advertisement, Shell caters the of a greener using rhetorical appeals with metaphorical imagery. first use of Logos presents itself as the mentioned, depicting solar panels and wind turbines since no other energy generating mechanisms are shown (although including the word does hint at the fact that these greener energy sources would be used along side present natural gas processes). The text then creates a general causality that will result in results. But these desired results, as the ad continues, can only be fulfilled with Shell since Shell is committed to creating a brighter energy future for  Shell there is using Ethos and Pathos techniques in addressing themselves as the only one you need for good energy and assurance in a  choice for  energy. Overall, the use of rhetorical devices pushes the audience to think more of the future. This use of Kairos then persuades the present actions to align with goals for a future. Although this advertisement tries to convey an engaging message for an enhanced future while showcasing small steps in branching out and investing efforts in greener wind energy, this is not enough. 4 The environmentally harmful methods that companies use to increase their energy production are actually where some consumers get turned off. With 97% of climate scientists, who are actively publishing research on climate fluctuations, reporting that major climate change is manmade and should also be addressed as a global crisis, many energy consumers are persuaded against using energy that corrodes our planet with fatale pollutants (Tenenbaum). With this, many energy consumers instead support not only greener sources, but also, the more effective alternative, sustainable energy processes. Sustainable energy is unknowingly used interchangeably with energy or energy, but they are different. As Mercedes Martty, an architectural journalist from Buenos Aires University of Architecture, explains, sustainable energy has potential for long-term maintenance of well-being, which in turn depends on the well-being of the natural world and the responsible use of natural This is different than just a alternative, because sustainability accounts for more factors to the overall process rather than just addressing the application of one substance compared to another. Mercedes also provides an excellent example by saying bamboo flooring that is from a renewable resource is green, but most bamboo flooring is made in China and transported by ships and trucks to different countries all around the world. The air pollution caused and the fuel used to transport the material turn it into the opposite of a sustainable Although the use of natural gas from Shell is cheaper and less toxic to the environment than crude oil and coal, like Mercedes explained, the company makes up for this by spending a lot of resources continuously shipping gas and energy containers to their many clients (Transforming natural gas). On the other hand, more sustainable energies, such as wind and solar, only need maintenance periodically to their mechanisms because they are instead dependent on the flow of 5 natural wind or light. With our understanding of greener energy techniques, we can now go beyond and pursue truly sustainable energy sources that is both environmentally and economically efficient. An evolution from our fossil fuel dependency to a sustainable energy enlightenment is needed more so today than ever before. With our environment and global health on the line, you may ask why we heard of or engaged in sustainable energy businesses sooner? As one of the top wind turbine manufacturer in the world, Enercon is an energy stakeholder that continues to progress their energy production while regarding pollution as a true cost. Progress has been made like in 2015 when electricity generated by wind energy avoided 132 million metric tons of carbon dioxide (CO2), which is the equivalent of reducing power-sector CO2 emissions by 6% while avoiding the consumption of over 73 billion gallons of water Wind But Enercon and many other more sustainable energy producers still, at times, are crippled by the lack of outside funding and a more public market of consumers to grow, which, in contrast, contributes to the large success of fossil fuel industries. From this, sustainable energy is often criticized for not being more financially efficient. At this short-term obstacle of initial costs, rather than long-term costs, for sustainable energy, is where fossil fuel industries, like Shell, take the lead on production and, at the end, consumer preference. But this is where we come in. We, as energy consumers, are framed as an independent variable to fossil fuel corporations. Regardless of what they do, they think that we will always be there for them because of their strong existing hold on the energy commercial market. But the other side of this coin is rarely revealed as it substantiates a way for us to flip this situation in our favor because the energy providers are actually dependent on us. We are the ones funding their businesses, 6 paying with our hard earn money, and without it -- they will have nothing but coal dust to fill their pockets. Along with a free market, consumer control is a powerful method to persuade energy stakeholders to abide by safety and environmental policies while we cross over into using and growing sustainable energy processes, like wind and solar. With this flood of consumer interest, sustainable energy providers will now not only have enough funds to further develop in environmental efficiency, but also allows them to become financially efficient as they lower the cost for utility electricity now that their overall market has increased. So make the change now with us! Find your local home solar cell company, drive yourself to success with an electric car, and let us make our own future where we and and future generations, our sons and granddaughters, can live a bright and healthy life. 7 Work Cited Martty, Mercedes. Difference Between Green and October 6th, 2015. Web. January 29, 2017. Tenenbaum, Laura. consensus: climate is Climate Change. 28 Jan . Accessed 25 Feb, 2017 natural Shell, 2016. . Accessed Jan 29, 2017. Energy Information Energy Information Administration. 18 Oct 2016, , Accessed: 25 Feb, 2017. Wind Industry Fourth Quarter 2016 Market Wind Energy Association. Nov. 11, 2017. . Accessed: 25 Feb, 2017 8 Image 1: http://www.northernmonkey.gallery/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/shell-ads-new2-02.jpg