Kayla Prive Professor Spencer ENC 1102 30 April 2017 End the Test Standardized testing has been apart of the American Education system since the mid-1800s, and there is still an on going debate on whether or not this form of testing precisely measures a academic ability. These high stakes tests are made to asses students, teachers, and used to judge the quality of education of the school overall, thus placing a tremendous amount of pressure on everyone involved. It is important that the people get involved by voicing their take on standardized testing by opting their children out of this or even just writing to politicians. If this test continues to be administered, then in the long run students will not obtain a quality education, and will just be in school to the impacting everyone of the United States. To begin with, what exactly does standardized testing mean? W. James Popham, former president of the American Educational Research Association, defines standardized testing as any test administered, scored, and interpreted in a standard, predetermined  (paragraph 4). They are typically multiple-choice tests with the same uniform questions, and scored by an automated machine. According to the US Department of Education, provide necessary information for educators, families, the public, and students themselves to measure progress and improve outcomes for all learners. Done poorly, in excess, or without clear purpose, they take valuable time away from teaching and learning, draining creative approaches from our (Testing Action Plan, 1) This seems to be the problem that American Education is struggling with today because they are abused, often determining which students will pass or graduate, which teachers will maintain their job or be given a raise, and which schools will receive more or less money (National Council Teachers of English, 1). It can be concluded that high scores are equivalent to the school doing well in teaching its students, while low scores mean that teachers are not doing a great job in educating students. However, this is not always the case because ultimately it is up to the student. A student with a great deal of stress may not pass this standardized test but it the fault of the teacher or school, it is just that these tests do not accurately measure a performance. Not only is the increased use of standardized testing affecting those students and teachers involved, but it is also indirectly affecting the average US citizen taxpayer. Brown Center on Education Policy conducted a study that discovered that a quality education that standardized testing is costing students, teachers, and taxpayers. This study found that 1.7 billion dollars was spent collectively by 44 states grades K-12. (EduFocus, Paragraph 1) Also, retired teacher Dan Hornberger stated, payers, I think, truly know that the money they pay goes into paying for these companies to design and administer these tests, which really do So although you may not have a child who attends school, you fund these tests through your taxpayer dollars. So, what can be done to address this problem? Whether you are a student, parent, or concerned taxpayer, you can of standardized testing. Opting out is the refusal to take government-mandated standardized tests (FairTest, Paragraph 2). Opting out is a very effective approach in protesting this corruption of the education system. If you choose to opt out, you are sending across the message that time being spent in school should be all about thoroughly learning new information, not spending hours and hours prepping for the big test. If you are a parent of a student, to do this, you can send a letter to the school principal informing them that you do not want your child to partake in the standardized test that is being given that year. If not, then writing to your local politicians stating that you do not approve of this testing will pave the way to change. You would not want your tax payer money to be the contributor to this unnecessary testing, because you would be in a way, contributing to student and teacher stress in the long run. If the main focus is to only memorize information that will be on the test, this just denies the students natural desire and need to learn. More time needs to be allotted for more in depth, insightful learning, and the needs must be taken into consideration, in order to raise intelligent individuals that the future of our society depends on. In conclusion, standardized testing is beginning to become the main means of testing in schools across the country. Stress is placed upon students, parents, and teachers in order for the children involved to do well on these exams. Students spend hours and hours preparing for these tests, in and out of school, and this extra stress can result in the child opting out of school entirely, or even becoming depressed or suicidal. Given the limitless problems that society is faced with today (unemployment, the falling economy, problems with other countries), these young people have much more to worry about than one test. So, if the United States wants a nation of prosperous individuals, we need to develop young people who will be prepared to handle complex situations and find the solutions to the problems of world without standardized testing because that will do nothing for us. Works Cited Edu FOCUS Staff. The Real Costs of Standardized  Edufocus. N.p., 10 Feb. 2015. Web. Fact Sheet: Testing Action  Fact Sheet: Testing Action Plan U.S. Department of Education. N.p., 24 Oct. 2015. Web. How Standardized Tests and Learning (n.d.): n. pag. Web. ProCon.org. Background of the  ProCon.org. 2 June 2016, 9:22 a.m., standardizedtests.procon.org/view.resource.php?resourceID=006521