Boatman 1 Christopher Boatman ENC 1102 Angelica Arranda 11 April 2017 Teacher Salaries Our children are the future of tomorrow. Teachers are the main vessel of the vast knowledge that is passed down to students, promoting a successful future. But despite the importance of their job, teachers across the nation are leaving their careers in search of higher paying and better quality positions. Teachers spend hours outside of their jobs training and planning, ensuring the best education for their students. Studies provided by Rand Education (2006), a study group dedicated to improving policies, programs, and practices, show that there is a relationship between the amount teachers are paid and the outcome of students. Accordingly, teachers who work for lower pay produce relatively lower test results than those working for more. Organizations such as the National Education Association are working hard to increase teacher salaries and enhance the quality of teaching. The unengaged audience that should be more involved is parents. The goal is to get as many people as possible to engage themselves. Without a second voice, teachers stand no chance at a higher quality future. When a teacher graduates from college with their degree they can apply to any school of their choice and hope for the best. When hired, there are multiple factors that affect the amount they are paid. Teachers consider the following: the location of the school and the grade level they are teaching, whether or not they are teaching students with special needs, and more recently student test scores. Not to mention, teachers are not paid during the summer when they have off. Boatman 2 Luckily they have the option to set money aside during the school year to use during that break. Some teachers even have to find a second job or apply to teach summer school. Many people believe teachers get special privileges that no other employees receive and that therefore do not deserve an increase in salary. and Facts about Educator provided online by the NEA, says to a recent study by the National Association of Colleges and Employers, the teaching profession has an average national starting salary of $30,377. Meanwhile, NACE finds that other college graduates who enter fields requiring similar training and responsibilities start at higher when faced with the that teacher make more compared to other similar professions. What the unengaged audience may not realize is that when teachers find better jobs their child may be left without a teacher. In 2002 the No Child Left Behind Act was put into place to warrant a fair opportunity for all students to obtain a quality education (k12.wa.us). It is important for parents to get involved because teacher salaries inadvertently affect student outcomes. This is because teachers who are paid more feel more relieved and respected than those who are paid less and that attitude reflects in their teaching styles. Unfortunately this results in lower test scores for students and this also circles back onto the teacher since most teacher salaries are influenced by student test scores. Parents should care more about salaries because of the impact it has on their future. Organizations like the Parent-Teacher Association provide parents the opportunity to work with teachers to increase the voice of our children. in PTA is open to anyone who wants to be involved and make a difference for the education, health, and welfare of children and (pta.org). If big-name organizations are too much of a hassle for parents then they should consider joining smaller local groups dedicated to improving student- teacher relationships and therefore an increase in teacher salaries. It is important that an Boatman 3 unengaged group on of individuals becomes involved because otherwise teachers would not have a chance at achieving this goal. Another reason parents should get involved is because teachers could eventually begin to find new jobs leaving their children without an instructor. Teachers often leave their position for a different school or maybe even a different grade. But more than that teachers are leaving their positions for a different career. teachers get into the profession for the dough, money is a says NPR writer Eric Westervelt, author of Are The Main Reasons Teachers Call It Westervelt continues to explain that teachers are leaving for other factors such as lack of preparation and the true intentions of the school board meaning they care more about students passing than actually learning the material. He also throws in the fact that the average resigning rate for teachers is eight percent a year. Joining an organization is as easy as it sounds. Simply find a local or nationwide organization dedicated to the increase of quality for teachers and join. Even small contributions to the community will help. If everybody in the community put forth one dollar towards a cause the result would be shocking. No one person is expected to do the absolute most they can. Power from the people comes in numbers and parents should become part of the cause. However for this cause, putting a dollar towards salaries is not feasible. A more realistic option is for parents to pay more attention to news from school boards and state news regarding education status. Writing letters may seem ineffective but enough letters will signal an issue and maybe something will be done about it. Speaking out against low paying education jobs in another effective way to spread the word and potentially make a difference. More than anything parents should care about teacher pay because it has an indirect effect on their children. The No Child Left Behind Act was installed to give every child the right to a fair education. Although this is a great opportunity for students to succeed in life it also puts a lot of pressure on teachers. One Boatman 4 major reason being that every student learns a different way, so adding more rigorous material to curriculum creates more difficulties for teachers. Unfortunately, not every student is going to excel and that will reflect back on the teacher, and in the long run, their salary. If parents could become educated on the reasons why adding this much course work and rigor to students, especially those in the lower grades, is not helping students and affecting pay then they could speak out about this issue. Boatman 5 Works Cited Education, Rand. Effect of Teacher Pay on Student Performance  N.p., Apr. 2006. Web. 10 May 2017. National Parent Teacher Association -  National Parent Teacher Association - PTA. N.p., n.d. Web. 10 Apr. 2017 No Child Left  No Child Left Behind - ED.gov. N.p., n.d. Web. 10 Apr. 2017. Westervelt, Eric, and Kat Lonsdorf. What Are The Main Reasons Teachers Call It  NPR. NPR, 24 Oct. 2016. Web. 16 Apr. 2017.