Montoya !1 Sergio Montoya 4/16/17 Mrs. Aranda ENC 1102 Climate Change Climate change is such a complicated topic because it involves, dimensions science, economics, society, politics and moral and ethical questions and is a global problem, felt on local scales, that will be around for decades and centuries to come Innovations). With the continued release of carbon into the atmosphere and land being destroyed, conditions on Earth are only getting worse. A few of these irreversible consequences that have been noticed include the rise of sea levels, increase in heat waves, and a rising intensity of natural disasters (Global Warming). In this paper, the goal will be to enlighten people about climate change, show just how climate change is effecting human prosperity, and bring up a few ways each person can actively mediate Climate Change. One of the largest problems with Climate Change, is a lack of awareness. Something many people do not acknowledge is that, All but one of the 16 hottest years in 134-year record have occurred since (Global Warming 101). The planet is at the hottest it has ever been and many species of plants and animal are becoming extinct because their habitats are either disappearing or being destroyed by human activity. The leading contributions to climate change are the burning of fossil fuels and carbon emissions from transportation. The main problem lies within the carbon levels in the atmosphere because it traps sun radiation in the Earth rather than Montoya !2 releasing it back into space, which is why the Earth is heating up. On top of the excess amounts of carbon being released, deforestation has made it so that even more carbon is released and wont have a place to store itself. The threat of Global Warming should the hold of everyones attention because it threatens us all. If the loss of species diversity and habitats are not enough to inspire everyone to be environmentally conscience, the economic losses should be. If steps are not taken to mediate this threat, consequences will continue to intensify, grow ever more costly, and increasingly affect the entire (Global Warming). The economy will be affected in that with the rise of sea levels, coastal cities and towns will displace an estimated billion people. In addition, prices will as resources become scarce. The most immediate essential resource that is becoming scarce is fresh water. To mediate Climate Change, carbon levels in the atmosphere must be reduced (Global Warming). There are a few steps that could be taken to ensure that carbon emissions are reduced and the levels in the atmosphere are stabilized. One such mitigation is to change the way society relies on fossil fuels for energy. Countries such as Ireland, Sweden, and British Columbia have already adopted a carbon tax. Placing a tax on carbon will not only produce funding to further efforts to heal the earth but will reduce the amount of fossil fuel usage because people will naturally look for cheaper alternatives which will hopefully lead to an energy revolution. Another mitigation of global warming that would be for all stakeholders would be to stabilize greenhouse gas levels by helping out things that absorb them such as oceans, forests, and soil. Only 1% of the ocean is environmentally protected but if we can clean the waste in it, more species will thrive and the environment can correct itself. Montoya !3 Trees are also important for storing carbon and producing oxygen which are both essential for life on Earth. By starting a movement of awareness, corporations can be led to stop deforestation and new trees can be planted in the destructive wake of deforestation. With the knowledge of all the elements that play a role in climate change such as the science behind it, economics, and role, we are getting closer to correcting humanities mistakes. Awareness and making this a common dinner table conversation for families across the world is the best way to make change. By making this a common conversation, people will eventually correct their ways in light of their awareness. Some manageable contributions to keeping the Earth healthy could include managing water usage during showers and when brushing teeth as well as transitioning to different modes of transportation that burn less fossil fuels. A few alternative means of transportation could include using the bus, carpooling, getting an electric car, or simply riding a bike to local places. Planning out the way we live our lives is the only way to success in this endeavor. If action is not taken willingly, mother nature it will correct our ways by lethal means for not just humans but all living creatures on Earth. Montoya !4 Works Cited Board, The Editorial. A Rare Republican Call to Climate  The New York Times. The New York Times, 13 Feb. 2017. Web. 22 Feb. 2017. Global Climate Change: Energy  NASA. NASA, 10 Dec. 2015. Web. 22 Feb. 2017. Global  Union of Concerned Scientists. N.p., n.d. Web. 22 Feb. 2017. March 11, 2016 Amanda MacMillan. Global Warming  NRDC. N.p., 21 Dec. 2016. Web. 22 Feb. 2017.