Wesolowski 1 Ryan Wesolowski Professor Kristen Rouisse ENC 1102 13 April 2017 The Stigma Surrounding the Mentally Ill and Gun Violence Everyday there are mass shootings and gun related homicides in the United States of America, from schools, to clubs, and even movie theaters. 93 people die from homicides involving firearms daily; this is much too high for a country that claims to protect the rights of its citizens (everytown). In response to this, many proponents of both sides of the gun control debate, usually the anti-gun control advocates, tend to attribute the mentally ill to these homicides and mass shootings. Examples of this being commentator Anne Coulter provocatively proclaimed that kill mentally ill and a contentious press conference, National Rifle Association President Wayne LaPierre blamed for violence in the United States, while calling for a of persons with mental (NCBI). The ideology that the mentally ill are responsible for these mass shootings in America, is just an irresponsible one. Due to the epidemic of mass shootings that has spread throughout the United States, the mentally ill have come to be seen in a negative light by the public. The citizens should try to further inform themselves of the entirety of the gun control debate; in doing so people will come to recognize that gun crimes, gun access, and mental illness are extremely interrelated and may not be simplified further. The general public should also do their best to donate to organizations that contribute to the mentally ill, such as the National Alliance on Mental Illness (NAMI), and the American Foundation for Suicide Prevention (AFSP); these organizations aid the mentally ill who are dangerous to themselves, and proliferate the idea that the mentally ill do not cause gun violence. Wesolowski 2 Many people in the United States like to accuse the mentally ill of most gun related crimes, as they are deemed unfit to live normally and must have a higher penchant for violence. Taking a step back from the ideology that is being pushed by gun lobbyists and their affiliated politicians, one will come to understand that of the 120,000 gun-related killings in the United States from 2001 to 2010, only five percent were committed by people with diagnosed mental illness (NCBI). Many politicians, such as Marco Rubio, who was a Republican candidate in the 2016 presidential race, are perfect examples of people who love to push this stigma of the mentally ill being the primary cause for gun-violence on the unknowing public, going so far as to state, of the proposals that are out there now on gun control would not have prevented that attack or some of the others that seen in the and in cases of mental not going to follow the (The Hill). These politicians spread this false idea and normal people like to pick up and latch on to it because it is a convenient explanation for why these tragedies occur rather than focusing on the broader issues, or bringing the attention to the politicians of this country. The media seems to be the most comfortable with attributing mass murder to when in reality, existence of a psychiatric disorder does not tell us anything useful when it comes to violence. In any given year, 20 percent of people will experience an episode of psychiatric illness, and over the course of a lifetime, half of us will meet the criteria for a mental (Baltimore Sun). There are many more risk factors than being mentally ill that would cause people to commit an act of gun violence. Factors such as, and drug use increase the risk of violent crime by as much as 7-fold, even among persons with no history of mental a history of childhood abuse, binge drinking, and male gender are all predictive risk factors for serious (NCBI). Being mentally ill is Wesolowski 3 not as good as a predictive factor that the media and politicians want the citizens to believe, the significant issues arise when someone who is not mentally sound, because of mental illness or some sort of prior abuse, abuses alcohol and drugs. These people are not seen as a threat because they are not clinically diagnosed with a mental illness and thus their ability to get a firearm in the United States is not hindered, especially because it is relatively easy to obtain a firearm. Obtaining a firearm is a relatively easy thing to in the United States of America, and most of the time having a past criminal offence or diagnosed mental illness will not impede someone from receiving a firearm or even obtaining a license to use a firearm legally. As Boston based reporter and writer Thom Dunn found out, it is not difficult to obtain a legal license to use a firearm, even as someone who is diagnosed with a mental illness. While watching the news coverage of the Umpqua Community College shooting, Thom Dunn decided that he wanted to actually explore this link between mental health and gun related crimes, as I sat and listened to yet another dour cable news expert rattle on about how the 20% of Americans who are like me are basically tragic but indisputable monsters because we have psychiatric conditions, I decided just about had enough of this unfounded link between mental health and gun (upworthy). In his case study, he came to find out that after looking up gun listings in his area he could purchase a gun for the measly price of 115 dollars and that if he really was, to get a gun, I could have just applied for a Utah gun permit (which is available to any U.S. resident by mail for just $49 and is recognized in 36 other states) then driven an hour north to New Hampshire and purchased a (upworthy). This all goes to show that the United state- by-state gun laws are confusing, and generally susceptible to manipulation. When those with dangerous unchecked mental health conditions and prior felons can do the exact same thing Wesolowski 4 Thom Dunn did, it makes one realize just how broken the gun rights are. Not only is it easy to obtain a gun in the United States, it is difficult to receive mental health care. Most insurances cover it, meaning that people with these issues will be paying a lot of money and wasting a lot of time to try to get in to see a psychiatrist, all on top of the social stigma about being labeled mentally ill. Thom Dunn recognizes this and states, treated like a leper or made to feel like broken or weak just for seeking help which tends to happen in this country that only serves to make the problem (upworthy). When the average citizen of the United States gets rid of their prejudice against the mentally ill, and the public stops relating mental illness to violence and mass shootings, only then will the country move forward in the gun control debate, also contribute more to our continued gun problem than mental illness ever will because they prevent us from having a productive (upworthy). The more informed the US public becomes, the more the social stigma of receiving help will go away and in turn, people will learn not to connect mental illness with gun violence. Many citizens should look to get involved with the many charities, philanthropies, and organizations that exist to aid people with mental illnesses. Organizations such as the NAMI and AFSP take donations directly from their websites, and host many events to raise money and to raise awareness for people with mental illnesses. The websites alone offer a wealth of information on the specific causes of mental issues such as suicidal tendencies, and schizophrenia. The more funding these websites receive and the more people who attend their events, such as the NAMI national convention, these organizations will flourish as they will be able to hire more staffers and as an effect they will be able to recruit more volunteers. Even if one does not have money to Wesolowski 5 donate simply volunteering time is enough to help these people who are in need, and even if one does not have the time to volunteer, simply becoming more acquainted with these websites and understanding that the relation between mental illness is not as simple as gun advocates make it out to be. It does not take long, and in doing so one can take a huge step toward getting people who need it proper mental health care and raise awareness so that others can recognize that their siblings, or people they know might also be a danger to themselves or to others and may act fast enough to get them help as well. The connection between gun violence and mental illnesses are much more complex than public opinion and current legislation will allow for. The point being is that the mentally ill are not the sole cause of the rising amount of mass shootings, and police shootings, guns away from the mentally ill eliminate mass unless such efforts are linked to larger prevention efforts that have a broader impact on (NCBI). Politicians and the media blaming the mentally ill for mass shootings has made the public draw the conclusion that people who do this obviously have some sort of undiagnosed schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, or have loner personality traits. In reality, the issues that cause those with acute mental illnesses to commit gun violence is because guns are much too readily available, social stigmas against receiving help for mental issues exist, and because alcohol and drug abuse in people who own firearms are much too prevalent in the United States. The average citizen must come to realize that mental illness, gun violence, and access to firearms are all interconnected issues. the ways our society frames these connections reveal as much about our particular cultural politics, biases, and blind spots as it does about the acts of lone, and obviously troubled, (NCBI). In order to properly address the gun control issue, people need to donate Wesolowski 6 more of their time to understanding the mentally ill and gun violence, which will in turn degrade the stigma surrounding the mentally ill, and help push the gun violence issue forward. Wesolowski 7 Works Cited American Foundation For Suicide . AFSP. N.p., 2017. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Beckett, Lois. Myth Vs. Fact: Violence And Mental . ProPublica. N.p., 2017. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Brady Campaign To Prevent Gun . Bradycampaign.org. N.p., 2017. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Byrnes, Jesse. Rubio: Gun Control Have Done To Prevent Oregon . S TheHill. N.p., 2017. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Dunn, Thom. I Have A Mental Disorder. This Is What Happened When I Tried To Buy A . Upworthy. N.p., 2017. Web. 15 Apr. 2017 Gun Violence By The . EverytownResearch.org. N.p., 2017. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Krogstad, Jens. Gun Homicides Steady After Decline In Suicide Rate Edges . Pew Research Center. N.p., 2017. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Local Organizations With Mental Health Expertise . Mentalhealth.gov. N.p., 2017. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Metzl, Jonathan M., and Kenneth T. MacLeish. Mental Illness, Mass Shootings, And The Politics Of American . N.p., 2017. Print. Wesolowski 8 Miller, Dinah. Tragedy Again Spotlights Mental . baltimoresun.com. N.p., 2017. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. NAMI: National Alliance On Mental . NAMI: National Alliance on Mental Illness. N.p., s2017. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. NRA . Home.nra.org. N.p., 2017. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Renzulli, Kerri. Want To Help People Like Robin Williams? One Thing You Can . Time.com. N.p., 2017. Web. 15 Apr. 2017.