Suda 1 Anthony J. Suda Prof. Maria Theodosiou ENC 1102.050 19 March 2017 Visual Rhetoric Against Gun Violence From the Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting in 2012, to the Santa Monica College shooting in 2013, gun violence has been an issue that has plagued the American republic for decades. It has caused countless tragedies and grievances among friends and family members alike. 1965 more than one million people have been shot and killed, more than the number of Americans killed in all foreign wars combined during the twentieth (Cook & Ludwig 15). Despite some setbacks, organizations such as Moms Demand Action have been vocal critics of the gun laws in the U.S., and have been one of the most prominent groups of activists in the battle against gun violence. As part of their mission, Moms Demand Action engage themselves in the conversation against gun violence by releasing advertisements that employ persuasive visual rhetoric that is used to help convey a message to their audience that Suda 2 gun violence is a huge issue and that it is a problem that everyone should work together to help prevent. In the two images displayed above, Moms Demand Action uses various rhetorical appeals to convince their audience that the current gun laws in this nation are illogical, and that the battle against gun violence is a moral battle that all good citizens of the and in particular, must undertake. Founded by Shannon Watts just days after the Sandy Hook Elementary shooting, Moms Demand Action began as a local, grassroots movement fervor quickly spread across all 50 states of the U.S. in response to these reoccurring tragedies. December 2013, Moms Demand Action partnered with Mayors Against Illegal Guns to unite a nationwide movement of millions of Americans working together to change the game and end the epidemic of gun violence that affects every (About Moms Demand Action For Gun Sense In America). Moms Demand main goal is to promote gun safety and the creation of strict gun laws at the local, state, and federal levels that will help protect their lives. By releasing campaign advertisements, Moms Demand Action hopes that their rhetoric can persuade Americans to engage in the fight against gun violence by presenting the current gun laws in this nation as illogical and regressive, and by engaging mothers specifically on a personal level. The two advertisements depicted above are just two examples of just how Moms Demand Action seeks to the game and end the epidemic of gun violence that affects every (About Moms Demand Action For Gun Sense In America). Through these advertisements, Moms Demand Action make many rhetorical appeals to their audience to help foster their message, In the first image presented, the most obvious rhetorical appeal made is the appeal to logos. The image broadly displays two elementary school aged boys, one with a dodgeball, and the other with an automatic assault rifle. In a black text box located just right over the two Suda 3 heads, it states that one of the objects the boys are holding has been banned in many schools in an effort to promote safety, telling the audience to which This affirmative statement appeals to logos as it provokes its audience, which in this case would be any American adult, and more specifically, to reach the same logical conclusion that the assault rifle is the object that has been banned in order to promote safety, when rather it is the dodgeball that the other boy is holding that is actually banned from many school campuses. On many occasions, guns and assault rifles are not banned under local, state, or federal laws on certain school campuses. The image even goes a step further in its appeal to logos by asking its audience that if the game of dodgeball must be banned because it is too dangerous for children, then to the same logic, should not something so incredibly dangerous such as assault weapons also be banned? It is through these appeals to logos that Moms Demand Action paints the picture that the current gun laws in this nation are illogical and lack common sense. In addition to an appeal to logos, the image of the boys also sparks a rather blunt appeal to pathos, as the image of a boy carrying a weapon that is immensely dangerous should be plenty enough to draw a sense of concern, worry, and fear among its audience, implicitly stating the fact that little boys should not have access to something that is so lethal and way beyond what any elementary school boy should be playing with. Even the color scheme of the image creates a stark appeal to pathos, as the dark, dull hues of the image creates a somber, daunting tone that inspires fear all in itself. Lastly, the image makes an appeal to ethos, as the logo is displayed in the bottom right corner of the image. In addition to the logo, the website title is present, which helps to persuade the audience that the advertisement comes from a reputable and credible source. Suda 4 Like in the first image displayed, the most obvious rhetorical appeal presented in the second advertisement is also the appeal to logos. The appeal to logos is primarily established in two different ways. The first way that this is done is with the large printed text that heads the advertisement. The header of this image tells its audience to to fight the fight and change gun This is an appeal to logos because the image explicitly tells its audience that by joining in on the fight against gun violence one would be fighting for a cause, equating their mission to be one that is morally just, and implying that by not resolving to join the fight and/or opposing this said fight would make one seemingly from a moral perspective. By subconsciously telling their audience that the battle they are fighting is they can begin to feel better about themselves by engaging in something that is much greater than them. The second way the image appeals to logos is by what the image portrays graphically, which in this case, is a woman who is most likely old enough to be a mother or may have children, throwing a punch wearing a pair of boxing gloves. This is an appeal to logos because it sends a subliminal message to and more specifically, that this is their fight. By showing a woman throwing a punch, Moms Demand Action makes a subconscious call to women and mothers alike that the battle to end gun violence is an issue that women and mothers must make their own. By doing this, they appeal to the notion that since mothers are the primary protectors and guardians of their children, they should do everything in their power to keep them safe. This would include joining Moms Demand Action to promote gun control legislation that enforces safety for children and college students alike across all American campuses. In addition to the heavy appeal to logos, Moms Demand Action also makes a hefty appeal to kairos in the second advertisement as well. This is primarily seen in the text of the image, starting with the word written boldly at the end of the header, followed by the words Suda 5 in a text box below the header written in the same bold font and color, and by the text box at the bottom of the image that reads in all caps, ACTION TO END GUN All three of these words and phrases are an appeal to kairos because the tone and language in which they are written are prompt, pointed, and commanding, serving as the call to action by vigorously demanding its audience to act on this issue. This call to action implies to the audience that much is at stake, creating a sense of dire urgency for an issue that is sensitive to time (most likely, to prevent any future deaths). Lastly, the image also appeals to ethos by trying to the audience by demonstrating their own credibility or (McKee & McIntyre 27). This appeal to ethos in evident in the choice to include their logo and a link that will lead the audience to their website. As gun violence continues to be a highly controversial and consequential issue in the United States, groups like Moms Demand Action will continue to lead the fight against gun violence in their mission to persuade the parents of children across the nation to get involved in a battle that directly effects the safety and well-being of their children. By using images and advertisements like the ones described above that play to both the heartstrings and logic of their audiences, Moms Demand Action continues to be effective in in their efforts to point out the logical flaws of the gun laws and be the chief advocates of legislation that will help protect American children from any future tragedies due to gun violence. WC: 1513 Suda 6 Works Cited About Moms Demand Action For Gun Sense In  Moms Demand Action for Gun Sense in America. N.p., n.d. Web. 26 Feb. 2017. Cook, Philip J., and Jens Ludwig. Gun violence: The real costs. Oxford: Oxford University Press on Demand, 2005. Print. McIntyre, Megan, and McKee, Jessica. Eds. Allyson Hoffman and Kimber Wiggs. Rhetoric Really Matters: Explorations in Rhetoric and Argumentation. Acton, MA: XanEdu, 2016. 27-36. E-text.