Al-Ghaithi 1 Ghaith Al-Ghaithi ENC1101.004S17 April 07, 2017 Self-Driving Car Technology is Yet to Prove the Full Reliability The advancing technology made it possible to create previously unimaginable products bringing more comfort and joy to the human life. It has the ability to transform the way people live and change the way humans complete their day-to-day activities. The manually operated tasks previously done by humans are gradually taken over by machines. The technology of self-driving cars has become one of the latest revolutionary concepts which would totally transform the way people commute since humans can hand over the complete control of the operations of the computers. However, there are concerns on the reliability on the safety and moral and ethical responsibilities on who and what will be held accountable in a crash due to technology failure. These issues associated with self-driving technology are still raises concerns of what degree of reliability it should achieve to make it a perfect reality. Although self-driving car technology has achieved significant level of successes as a revolutionary advanced technology, much more improvements need to be done before computers can take the complete control to reach the expected level of reliability. Self- driving car technology has shown tremendous potential to reduce risks of manual operations and bring driving efficiency. Use of improved technology in self-driving cars has the potential to reduce safety risk related to manual vehicle operations (Urmson, 2008). The author states that the successful integration of surface mapping technologies improves the ability to scan the variations on the road and identify the obstacles more efficiently and quickly than human operations. Properly identifying the road conditions and adjusting the operations accordingly improve the driving experience to enhance levels. This is important for preventing the crashes and avoid the risk of injuries, property damages and Al-Ghaithi 2 the loss of life. Also, self- driving technology can address the issues related to traffic congestions because of increased efficiency in operating a car without frustration and lack of attention (Coeckelbergh, 2016). This increases the safety because patience in driving is not affected when the operation is done by the machines. Therefore, it can contribute immensely to address the issue of traffic accidents due to human aggression in driving. In addition to these benefits associated with self-driving car technology, it has improved to the level that car manufacturers show interest in investing this technology. Auto manufacturers are competing to develop and market self-driving vehicles to make profits in the future indicating the potential of this technology (Hassler, 2017). Therefore, it is evident that self-driving car technology has attracted powerful investors to make it to market products available for customers. Despite consistent advancement of this technology and the associated benefits, there are concerns because of the shortcomings in certain areas. Despite rapid advancement, further improvements of the technology are needed to reach expected level of reliable automated operations and to address the issues associated with eventual responsibility of car crashes. The self-driving car technology needs significant enhancement to react to sudden risks and decisions on stopping a car (Evans, 2001). Unlike the abilities of human brain to coordinate the functions extremely quick manner in order to react sudden changes in operations, automated machines may still have issues when reacting to external changes through scanning. Several technologies are integrated together to achieve this and the coordination with passing the information to various automated systems in self car driving require further testing in rare situations. Although testing of automated cars has proven to deliver the expectations of researchers and engineers, the challenge of fully autonomous urban driving has not yet been met (Urmson, 2008). Although driving in rural areas may not encounter large and rapid variations, urban driving poses the challenges of continuous variations on the ground. Therefore, quick decisions and reactions are needed to Al-Ghaithi 3 maintain smooth movements in urban driving. Misjudgements or delay in processing the input data may cause unnecessary consequences and damages. Although issues related to many areas have been solved, the complex nature of automated operations complicates the designs and software algorithms based on testing. Therefore, it leaves the question on at what point that all the stakeholders can agree the automated operations are fully reliable. Although certain areas associated with automated driving show higher superiority than manual driving, it cannot leave the room for any shortcomings in other areas to use the technology with confidence. The main reason is that there should be a zero-tolerance for any type of error or mistakes when it comes to controlling a vehicle. Since human supervision is completely abandoned in such technology, the total reliability is the utmost priority whether it is operated in urban or rural areas. Also, there is another important issue with self-driving technology in ethical point of view. Many areas related to this technology have been consistently on the focus over the years as to who is responsible for traffic accidents; driver, manufacturer or the car itself (Coeckelbergh, 2016). This raises the questions on both ethical and legal areas because ultimate responsibility has to be defined in order to identify the relevant responsible parties. However, it can make the circumstances more complex because there is no human involvement on operations at the time of the accident even though humans use the technology. Self-driving car technology has achieved a significant success owing to advanced technology. It has proven to be a promising technology to make driving safer and more efficient. However, there are many more issues related to the total reliability of this technology that need to be addressed. It has shown some limitations in urban driving and making sudden decisions to avoid possible crashes. Therefore, further improvement necessary and the responsibility of the operations. At the same time, many areas of the self driving technology are shown to be successful at the lab testing levels. Therefore, major Al-Ghaithi 4 improvements are needed to build confidence through zero-tolerance for any mistakes. Also, ultimate responsibility in the event of a crash is also an issue related to self driving car technology. Al-Ghaithi 5 Works Cited Coeckelbergh, Mark. Responsibility and the Moral Phenomenology of Using Self-Driving  Applied Artificial Intelligence 30.8 (2016): 748-57. Web. Evans, Leonard. influence of car mass and size on driver fatality Am J Public Health 91.5 Hassler, Susan. Self-Driving Cars And Trucks Are On The Move [Spectral  IEEE Spectrum 54.1 (2017): 6. Business Source Premier. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Urmson, Chris, and William Whittaker. Self-Driving Cars And The Urban  IEEE Intelligent Systems 2 (2008): 66. Academic OneFile. Web. 5 Feb. 2017.