Perez 1 Chris Perez 30 April 2017 ENC 1102 Instructor Aranda Help Feed the Hungry About 1 in 9 of the seven billion people on Earth are struggling to live on little to no food out on the streets (UN). The continents experiencing the most trouble are Asia and Africa; in fact, according to the UN, about 536 million of these people are from Asia alone. Although it is almost impossible to completely terminate world hunger, every little action will help prevent it from spreading. Feeding Tampa Bay will collaborate with all Hillsborough County high schools and encourage them to create organizations dedicated to feeding the hungry. High school students will recognize the challenges some people face, but also gain great and impactful community service. This will also encourage other schools outside of the county to participate and hopefully spread around the globe. High school students should get involved in the crisis of world hunger, no matter how small of an impact they can make. World hunger causes a lot of major problems around the world. For example, an article written by Robert E. Black, Lindsay H. Allen, Zulfiqar Bhutta, and several other authors explains the effects of malnutrition in children. The article is called and Child Undernutrition: Global and Regional Exposures and Health and it has been widely read by experts. According to the article, about 1 in 15 of children die each year from undernutrition. In addition, about 315,000 women die each from giving birth due to the lack of nutrients. High school students should get involved because they are young enough to learn about global issues and old enough to act. Hunger is one of the few major issues in Hillsborough County, and being Perez 2 the eighth largest school district in the US, surely something can be done to combat hunger in the county. According to the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United States, about one third of food produced around the globe gets wasted or thrown out. about 1.4 billion tons of food each year. Imagine living in poverty unable to find food while simultaneously knowing this fact; it is devastating. And since high school students do not have much power, there will be potential in these student-lead organizations that Feeding Tampa Bay will encourage high schools to create. In fact, Ottawa Township High School in Ottawa, Illinois has been contributing to world hunger for four years at the time of the publication (Brockman). Why Hillsborough County high schools follow their footsteps also? High school students will finally act in this issue and help create a dominant community in fighting hunger. World hunger is an arising issue in world. Even though it is a major concern, and even though it be defeated easily, every little action can make a difference, and that is why high school students should get involved. Currently there are no high school organizations dedicated solely to fighting hunger but after Feeding Tampa Bay helps create these organizations, high school students will get involved with their school and gain valuable experience and make an impact to society. Perez 3 Works Cited Black, Robert E, Lindsay H Allen, Zulfiqar A Bhutta, Laura E Caulfield, Mercedes de Onis, Majid Ezzati, Colin Mathers, Juan Rivera. Maternal and child undernutrition: global and regional exposures and health  The Lancet, 2008. Web. 11 Apr. 2017. Brockman, Katie. High School Students Fight World  The Borgen Project. N.p., 20 Apr. 2013. Web. 15 Apr. 2017. Key facts on food loss and waste you should  Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations. Food and Agriculture Organization of the United States, n.d. Web. 13 Apr. 2017.