Running Head: Genetically Modified Organisms in Food 1 Are Genetically Modified Foods Safe? Han Ye Lin University of South Florida Genetically Modified Organisms in Food 2 Are Genetically Modified Foods Safe? Genetically Modified Foods are commonly man-made crops which has modified genes in them, created for the purpose of consumption for both human and animal. These man-made crops are studied in the field called Genetic Engineering. The sole purpose of creating these genetically modified foods is to solve one of the challenge humanity will be facing: shortage of food. Due to an increasing population, the supply of food is a major challenge for the living things as both human and animals have to fill their stomach. Therefore, genetically modified crops are invented and is known to be solving hunger at the moment as the yield of genetically modified crops has been increasing dramatically over the years. Furthermore, GM crops spread like wild-fire since its invention to both developing and developed countries. Nonetheless, the solution to one problem brings about more complications: the safety of consuming GM foods. The problem is that if GM foods are going to solve hunger in the future, what will be the point if it poses a threat to the health of those eating it. The debate concerning the topics genetically modified foods and genetically modified food companies labelling their still continues to bother citizens whereas GM food companies stated that their products are entirely as safe as organic crops. Scientists are also composing studies, experiments and reports regarding the safety of genetically modified foods. However, even with current modern technology, scientists claim that there are many unknown possibilities that can happen through the consumption of genetically modified foods. Considering the fact that there is an overgrowing dispute among scientists and the people regarding the safety of genetically modified food, it will be best to ban the products in the market unless it is proven safe which will be necessary as genetically modified foods is one of the best solution to a major problem. Genetically Modified Organisms in Food 3 On the good side, genetically modified crops have shown great potential in solving the challenges of food supply. In the past, the welfare of organic crops had to be taken care by using insecticides, pesticides or herbicides to control pests and weeds that destroy crops. However, a majority of people started demanding crops that only include organic fertilizer. Therefore, scientists came up with a solution, which is modifying the genes to withstand pests and weeds, which came to be known as genetically modified crops. As genetically modified crops had the ability to withstand natural disaster, pests and weeds, it became popular worldwide. The yield of crops started to increase in almost every country. Moreover, scientists took the next step in developing genetically modified foods, which is increasing the amount of nutritional values in it. This means that consuming genetically modified foods will give people more nutrition to fulfil their daily recommended amount of nutrition intake. Ever since World Health Organization announced the safety assessment of genetically modified crops in 1991, the community was stirred and brought up a question: genetically modified crops safe to Then scientists used animal studies to prove that genetically modified foods are as safe as non-GM crops. Delaney wrote a report which referred to 90-day GM feeding studies on laboratory rats, cattle and laying hens and there were no changes in the bodies. Even though there were changes in concentration levels of a substance, it would pose no threat to the animal. Delaney (2015) concluded that has been used to improve the quality and yield of field crops in many parts of the world for more than 20 years, countries in which GM crops have been developed have benefited from agricultural biotechnology and countries with developing economies will also benefit from application of this (p.139). Genetically Modified Organisms in Food 4 Despite these many benefits, is it possible that there is not a single tiny risk at all? Then why is it that Genetically Modified Foods Companies refuse to label their product? Why is it that this topic is still a debate? Why is it that there are scientists still claiming that these man- made foods are not safe at all? Many questions have been asked and worse, there are even campaigns against the production and marketing of genetically modified foods. A famous international movement is the March Against Monsanto. Monsanto is a multinational agricultural biotechnology company and the largest supplier of a herbicide known as Roundup and genetically modified seeds. The herbicide was popular as it kills everything except the modified plants and a large amount of substance in it is glyphosate which in small amount of consumption pose no threats but if taken in large quantity, it can cause serious health problems as studied in some feeding experiments. This has been back up with facts and proofs from various experiments and reports. Dona and Arvanitoyannis (2009) are experts in medical and agricultural science fields made a report about health risks of Genetically Modified Foods. One of the effects examined in a lab rat studies reported that there were stomach erosion and necrosis. Stomach erosion may cause life threatening effects such as internal hemorrhage and necrosis, which means the cells inside the body will degrade or become swollen. Moreover, changes in size of livers has been noted in the report together with a decrease in red blood cells or developments into immature red blood cells. In addition, there were also allergenic responses, a decline in glucose levels while cholesterol levels increased. Furthermore, Dona has written that there was increased mortality rate in rats fed with GM crops in which their deaths could not be explained. Evidently, there were also reports about GM crops causing high mortality rates in piglets in Iowa country. Likewise, these effects can also be seen in an article written by Jamal et. al, who are experts in Genetically Modified Organisms in Food 5 the fields of biochemistry and botany. A high mortality rate in monarch butterflies have been observed due to the consumption of genetically modified corn known as Bt. corn. In addition to this, scientists are concerned with the fact that pests and weeds will start to adapt to these genetically modified crops, meaning that they will be immune to GM crops and destroyed them. As mentioned, Jamal et. al also wrote that GM foods may cause allergenic responses, harm to intestines and unknown effects onto human body. Jamal et. al (2010) concluded that cannot ignore a technology that has such enormous potential benefits. However, we must proceed with caution to avoid causing unintended harm to human health and the environment as a result of our enthusiasm for this powerful (p.22). Like Jamal et. al stated, genetically modified foods is a technology, a strong ally we cannot avoid as the supply for food is considered as a major problem for the coming future. However, what will be the point if the food that people eat ends up killing them. The above- mentioned studies prove that genetically modified crops are not safe for consuming, but not all of them are as there are also studies indicating some GM crops are as safe as naturally grown foods. Even with advanced technology, scientists claim that they still have a hard time interpreting the results and long-term effects of consuming GM foods is still undiscovered. On the other hand, like most scientists stated, there are still unknown effects that could take place inside a human body due to modified genes present in the food. Therefore, it will be best to ban the production and marketing of genetically modified foods until they are proved to be safe for consuming. Discarding this technology would be wasteful as it can bring many benefits and solution to both hunger and malnutrition problems. Genetically Modified Organisms in Food 6 References Delaney, B. (2015). Safety assessment of foods from genetically modified crops in countries with developing economies. Food and Chemical Toxicology, 132. Doi: 10.1016/j.fct.2015.10.001 Dona, A., & Arvanitoyannis, I.S. (2009), Health risks of genetically modified foods. Critical Reviews in Food Science & Nutrition, 49(2), 164-175 Jamal, F., Haque, Q., Qidwai, T., & Paliwal, A. K. (2010). Genetically modified (GM) foods: a brief perspective. International Journal of Biotechnology & Biochemistry, (1), 13. Khan, S. J., Muafia, S., Nasreen, Z., & Salariya, A. M. (2012). Genetically modified organisms (GMOs): Food security or threat to food safety. Pakistan Journal of Science, 64(2), 6-12. Kocher, J., & Rashid, M. (2015). Engineering our food: possible risks verses reward. Procedia Social and Behavioral Sciences, 176 (International Education Technology Conference, IETC 2014, 3-5 September 2014, Chicago, IL, USA), 927-932. Doi: 10.1016/j.sbspro.2015.01.560 Miller, C. (2009). synthetic foods: shrinking our brains, testicles, and livers?. Tikkun, 24(5), 27-83 Stark, H. (2016). GMOs and the march against Monsanto. The Huffington Post.