Running Head: THE ENERGY SOURCE OF THE FUTURE 1 The Energy Source Of The Future: Argumentative Reasons In The Power Generation Sector Gedeon A. Zema University Of South Florida Instructor Carr THE ENERGY SOURCE OF THE FUTURE 2 Abstract We can no longer tolerate having our clouds filled with carbon smoke. This process has to end. It is time for the world to switch to a cleaner energy. The paper argues in favor of renewable energy sources in the academic conversation on the energy debate between fossil fuels and renewable energy sources limited only to power generations. It uses supporting arguments and counter arguments from major contributors such as Thomas Covert, Michael Greenstone, Christopher R. Knittel, Peter Droege, Jan E. Hall and Jenny Holmes on the discourse. The author take a side and his views and his various arguments are reflected throughout the paper. The paper discusses in length environmental and economic reasons in opting for RES. It begins with an environmental contrast between fossil fuels and RES and the detrimental effect of fuels. Then, it explores economic counter arguments in favor of fossil fuels and how irrelevant they are becoming with growing RES. Furthermore, the sustainability discourse is taken into context to show the suitability of RES for future generation. Finally it ends with a view of the safety and regulations associated with each energy sources. Keywords: fuels, Renewable energy sources, Sustainability, oil depletion, oil safety, Energy regulations, green jobs. THE ENERGY SOURCE OF THE FUTURE 3 The Energy Source Of The Future: Argumentative Reasons In The Power Generation Sector Every process has a beginning and a end - this is called the cycle of life. I believe fossil fuels have reached a their end. The world can no longer continue to enjoy the limited benefits of fossil fuels and completely ignore the detrimental effects connotated with this source of energy. Moreover, cleaner substitutes have become more efficient that they could easily supply our world without sounding energy demands alarms. I think, the energy debate should be viewed using jenny perspective where the choice between fossil fuels and renewable sources is a binary one. The choice the world makes is not a light one. Therefore, inputs from scholars like Thomas Covert, Michael Greenstone, Christopher R. Knittel, Peter Droege and Jan E. Hall must be seriously taken into accounts. The purpose of this paper is to thoroughly demonstrate that fossil fuels are a thing of the past and the world shall look forward to our future - which is renewable energy sources. For this paper, I will share my views supported by credible experienced authors on the energy debate. Furthermore, i will offer counterarguments supporting fossil fuels usage and show how limited are those benefits. The scope of the paper is limited to the discourse in the power generation sector. With this in mind, I will focus on the economic and environmental arguments/counter arguments and the importance of technology in the discourse. Environmentally renewable energy sources are more suited to power our energy systems. As much as coal lovers can contest this, it is undeniably true that fossil fuels is a major contributor to global warming and the climate change. In her article energy: the road less Holmes (2004) report the greatest scientists findings that, than 80% of human-made CO2 emissions are due to the burning of fossil (p. 40). And, it is THE ENERGY SOURCE OF THE FUTURE 4 common knowledge that carbon emission is directly connected to global warming, deforestation and other forms of pollution. In addition to this, fossil fuels mining practices deteriorate acres of lands to a sterile state. As a matter of fact, it is safe to say that fossil fuels are responsible for global degradation of the planet. On the other hand, RES such as wind and solar energy use natural, clean resources that do not cause any environmental impact to the planet. Coal lovers would argue that carbon sequestration can make coal plants still a valid source of power generation. While carbon sequestration reduces the carbon emission of plants, it is an extremely expensive and complicated practice that coal-generated power companies are not ready to pursue. Actually, it cost less to switch from a coal plant to a renewable plant than to add the sequestration technology to a coal plant. Fossil fuels are viewed as the viable option in the market. Their immediate availability, accessibility, efficiency and low cost makes them extremely competitive in the market. While this statement could be true a few years ago, and partly acceptable today, in a near future this theory would be cast aside. Resources like petroleum are not as available as it used to be in the 90s and projection shows that in 2050 they will completely be depleted on a commercial scale. Consequently, the accessibility of fossil fuels is affected. One could argue as covert at all. (2016) did that, technology advances have allowed us to explore fossil reserves that we access in the past (p. 119). However, the rate of growth in extraction techniques still does not match the rate of oil depletion. This means eventually we will run out of fuel and the technology at our disposal be able to change the outcome. Another issue raised by fossil fuels provider is that of energy efficiency. Coal offers a 98% energy efficiency when it is burned (Droege, 2002, 87).. While most of the RES have significantly lower energy efficiency, a combination of THE ENERGY SOURCE OF THE FUTURE 5 multiple RES in the energy supplying mix complement each individual efficiency. Furthermore, technological advances have improved the energy conversion efficiency of RES such as wind and solar energy. In regards of market cost, The cost of electricity from fossil fuels systems still remain lower than that of RES. previous regulations on government incentives are probably responsible for this public belief - which is discussed later in the paper. Nevertheless, the assessment that generating electricity from coal is way inexpensive compared to electricity generation from wind or solar energy is further from the truth. Because, those costs only involve set-up costs to build a coal plant or a wind farm and ignore all other costs. Let alone, operational future costs which are considerably low in a solar or wind plant. The energy debate is just another form of a sustainability discourse. Population growth is probably the last indication that the world can not rely on a fossil fuel. A world population growing as a power function means energy demands skyrocketing. Those demands will not be fulfilled by a depleting resource. Using new oil extraction techniques only cause an increase in energy prices. Moreover, an increase in energy usage results in higher environmental impacts. To preserve the ability to provide energy for future generation we need to switch to RES. they never-ending and recyclable ability makes them more suitable to fulfill this task. Another aspect of renewable energy that makes them appealing is that they can be installed in the home. Subsequently, it reduces the cost of energy transport involved. Companies do not have to spend billions of dollars for transmission lines from power plants to the home. Households can install small scale photovoltaic panels that can serve as clean sources of energy in their communities (Holmes, 2004, p. 44). This practice could be beneficial in densely populated developing countries where power companies do not produce enough energy to meet THE ENERGY SOURCE OF THE FUTURE 6 energy demands of the population. Regulations in the past favored oil companies in different ways because they were responsible for numerous job creation in the world - especially in the US. presently, most of the organisations in the world have opted to go green. Besides, businesses implement ecological and energy saving methods of operating. This means that green companies now create more jobs than oil companies do. It naturally makes sense to opt for a greener energy source that goes in line with business organizations. According to Hall (2016), the paris accord temperature increase standards set for the nations of the world suggest that a cleaner energy generation to be employed to meet those standards. That being the case, cutting down on fossil fuels for RES seems logical to in compliance with the agreement. Lastly, fossil fuels plants are not safe. We often hear on the news headlines like pipeline exploded causing multiple or spill in mexico Fossil fuels intrinsically are highly flammable chemicals and poisonous. They destroy our marine life and drinking water. Oil plants are run in remote areas while you can have a solar plant on top of your parking garage without any safety issues. Fossil fuels are a thing of the past, when energy demands so high. The sentiment shared by many including scholars like Holmes is that they are intrinsically bad for our planet. They are environmentally deficient and economically unsustainable. They oppose the green world we envisioned for ourselves and do not favor job creation. RES are our future sources of energy. They are recyclable, green, clean and good for the earth. They are environmentally friendly and economically growing. They are safer and creates green jobs. I believe It is time to abandon fossil fuel and to embrace renewable energy sources. In light of the US THE ENERGY SOURCE OF THE FUTURE 7 recent executive order to roll back all of the EPA regulations on coal companies set by his predecessor, displays a non-futuristic administration that his ready to jeopardize the well-being of future generation just for small profits. I hope he changes his stance on the energy discourse or we might not have a future president, country and planet. We must save the earth. THE ENERGY SOURCE OF THE FUTURE 8 References Covert, T., Greenstone, M., & Knittel, C. R. (2016). Will We Ever Stop Using Fossil Journal Of Economic Perspectives, 30(1), 117-138. doi:10.1257/jep.30.1.117 Droege, P. (2002). Renewable Energy and the City: Urban Life in an Age of Fossil Fuel Depletion and Climate Change. Bulletin Of Science, Technology & Society, 22(2), 87-99. Hall, J. E. (2016). Paris agreement on climate change: A diplomatic triumph--how can it succeed?. New Global Studies, (2), 175. doi:10.1515/ngs-2016-0012 Holmes, J. (2004). Renewable energy: the road less traveled. Church & Society, 94(4), 39-47. Marsh, G. (2010). Feature article: Renewables can the USA lead the pack now?. Energy 1148-52. doi:10.1016/S1755-0084(10)70032-6 WEATHERHEAD, E. C., & CLACK, C. M. (2017). SOLAR RENEWABLE ENERGY. Of The American Meteorological 98(1), 19-22.