Running head: EARTHSHIPS AND THE ENVIRONMENT 1 Earthships and the Environment Possible Impacts and Global Uses Matthew E. Belleci University of South Florida EARTHSHIPS AND THE ENVIRONMENT 2 Abstract In this paper, I intend to expand the argument of sustainable energy and its need today. I will begin with a brief outline of my thoughts and intentions on the matter. A solution to the mass consumption of energy and limited resources is the earthship. A simple alternate home design could potentially allow humans in any climate and place to live comfortably off the grid. Furthermore, I will use many different articles from an array of sources to bring to light the history of the earthship. Where it was first developed and by who. Reaching back to the and forward to where the design is in production today. I will also discuss the altering opinions and issues that the earthship design has encountered in the development process. Countering these opinions, I will utilize them to reinforce my position on the utilization of the earthship. Concluding with a summary of all the information presented and final arguments for the earthship. EARTHSHIPS AND THE ENVIRONMENT 3 Earthships and the Environment Possible Impacts and Global Uses When was the last time that you had to pay a utility bill? Have you ever thought about how great it would be to not have to pay ability bill ever again? Or maybe you are the type of person that thinks, when they look at their utility bill, and wonders what it took to bring that electricity or water or gas to your home. These are all great questions, all of which surround my chosen topic. I am discussing the idea of leaving no impact on limited energy as well as creating your own energy from your custom house. That answer that you are contemplating is the earthship. I think that this design can bring our human consumption and average required energy to a holt. The earthship design is a simple design developed by an architect from New Mexico named Michael Reynolds. He has found the key to our contribution to the overall destruction to the environment. There are many supporting documents where human consumption has or will EARTHSHIPS AND THE ENVIRONMENT 4 bring a negative effect on our planet. We have all heard it since we were young, please recycle. It is on garbage cans and even bumper stickers all over. There is a message that is conveyed that our environment is in danger from us and that we are the ones that can bring an end to it. Many of us here at the University of South Florida have been near enough to the Tampa Electric Power Station in Apollo beach to realize that it is a massive operation. This is not the only power plant in the world, but it still should skyline some sort of environmental impact in your mind. I intend to bring light to these types of obvious issues that, at one point or another, every human being should be concerned with. There is only one environment that we all share and we will be sharing it with our children one day. Utilizing groundbreaking concepts like the earthship, we can preserve the limited resources that earth has provided by using less and gaining more. In 1970 the awareness, due to advances in technology, of the condition of our environment was rising as a major concern. Thomas Jefferson was quoted by Nersesian in 2010 saying if the first could charge it with debt, then the earth would belong to the dead and not to the living Nersesian also quotes Theodore Roosevelt in the same article saying duty to the whole, including the unborn generations, bids us to restrain an unprincipled resent-day minority from wasting the heritage of these unborn Each one of these quotes were from well-known presidents from centuries ago. Each one of them witnessed the need for an alternate to the rate at which humans were consuming. Since their time evidence supporting the drastic decline in available resources and human population growth is astonishing. Per a collaborative article from nature.com by many different reputable scholars, household size contributed approximately to the growth in the number of households over the periods of 10 and 40 This is basically saying that we are continuing to grow as a EARTHSHIPS AND THE ENVIRONMENT 5 society at an alarming rate. There must be some sort of solution to lessen the impact of human inhabitance on our planet. Clearly there is some sort of need to disable daily human consumption. Humanity uses most the resources by simply living in an inefficient building. We also poor money into bills that come from us using everyday convinces like electricity. Per the U.S. Department of Energy (2016) 2015, the average annual electricity consumption for a U.S. residential utility customer was 10,812 kilowatt hours (kWh), an average of 901 kWh per This means that humans are promoting the growth of power plants indirectly. Supply and demand are the simple factors here. If we consume more energy than there will be a requirement to provide more by any means necessary. If even 5% of our current population in the world would accept the earthship design, then there would be less of a need to create more energy from whatever means necessary. An earthship can supply complete off the grid living, drawing nothing from main power and water grids at all. In an article by Laura Sevier (2009) she outlines the basic requirements and benefits from an earthship. Laura Sevier interviewed the creator of the earthship design, Michael Reynolds, who was detailed and compassionate in the fact that the world needs a self-sustainable option to human consumption. Considering these simple and contradicting facts I think that there is an obvious need for a different lifestyle of consumption by the citizens of the world. If we continue to consume at the same rate that we have been all these years, then there one day will be nothing left for our children. Some issues have come to the surface regarding the earthship design and its potential impact on the environment. These issues are micro in comparison the macro solution that the earthship can produce. I found only two relevant issues that people have had with this design. Primarily, the problems that Michael Reynolds had when initially trying to develop an earthship EARTHSHIPS AND THE ENVIRONMENT 6 subdivision in the New Mexican desert. There were issues with roads and addresses and standards that were not possible for his design to adhere to. Kristen Pope (2015) highlights the issues about building codes in the county of Pima. Explaining that there was an issue with the compacted dirt around tires and the plaster not being suitable for building codes. This is a simple example but also attacks the roots of an earthships design. Over half of the walls are constructed from this method. I think that this is a solid argument due to the method in which the tires are filled with and compacted with dirt. It provides amazing support from earthquakes, more so that the standard wall in your house, and it provides unmatched insulation. What is a wall supposed to do in your house? A wall divides rooms and provides support to the structure while insulating each room individually. Not only does it do these things but it cost less and can provide more support than the average wall could. Finally, the last argument that I could see arising from this design is the alternate way of living required. There is no water to the building, nor is there electricity. Basically, you go back a few thousand years when living in an earthship. Not true at all. Chris Turner (2008) stayed in an earthship built by Michael Reynolds that, at the time, was five years old. Chris turner stayed there with his wife and his young daughter. He explains in his article that there were no living standards that he was not able to enjoy. From running water to a fridge for his bottles. So, the fact that it may look like you are reversing through time is not at all the case. These only being a few concerns with the earthship, they cover the overall outlook of the design. I think that the earthship can solve many of the environmental consumption issues today for tomorrow. Looking at the amount of energy that individual families consume demonstrates the need for self-sustaining energy options. I think that the problem is not in the way that energy is harvested but in the amount, being requested by the citizens. A simple solution is by lowering EARTHSHIPS AND THE ENVIRONMENT 7 our individual consumption to in turn lower the demand. A clever way to do this is by utilizing the earthship design universally. Even though there have been some developmental issues along the way and the living conditions are slightly altered from what we have been used to, earthships are an excellent option. The question remains, what now? How do we move forward? The issue at this point is how to spread the knowledge of this design. There is not many people who know that earthships exist or know what they can provide to our environment. EARTHSHIPS AND THE ENVIRONMENT 8 References Craig E. (2005). Life in an earthship. Mother Earth News, (209), 84-88. Nersesian, Roy L.. (2010). Energy for the 21st Century. Taylor & Francis (prev. M. E. Sharpe). Retrieved 26 March 2017, from <http://www.myilibrary.com?ID=289118> Pope, Kristen (2015). Recycling to the max. American Planning Association 81(3). Server, L. (2009). Garbage warrior. Ecologist, 39(6), 46-49 Turner, C. (2008). The earthship has landed. Walrus, 5(4), pg. 88-93. Sustainable Earthship Biotecture. 2017. Web. 30 Mar. 2017. http://earthship.com/. U.S. Department of Energy, (2016). How much electricity does an American home use? U.S. Energy Information Administration EIA Independent Statistics and Analysis, Web. 06 Apr. 2017. <https://www.eia.gov/tools/faqs/faq.php?id=97&t=3> Janguo, Liu. Effects of household dynamics on resource consumption and biodiversity, Nature.com Macmillian Publishers Limited, 2017. Web. 7 Apr. 2017. <http://www.nature.com/nature/journal/v421/n6922/full/nature01359.html#a1>