Sarah Piddington Instructor Carr ENC 1101-005 April 3, 2017 Arguments over Chemotherapy Cancer Treatment For years, chemotherapy has been the widely chosen method for treating and curing harmful cancers. This may be because it is effective, for the most part, or because it is simply the most known treatment plan. Regardless of the reasons for its popularity, I believe that families need to be more well-read on the harmful and potentially life-threatening side effects of chemotherapy. These side effects include personality changes, morale changes, and a compromised immune system. Although many families view chemotherapy as a helpful cancer- fighting tool, the harmful side effects that come with the treatment are a cause for discussion in the oncology community on whether it is the best course of treatment. One of the more detrimental side effects to chemotherapy is the change in personality that notice. Before cancer, a person is known among friends and family for their personality. Whether that be friendly, happy, or overall content with life. Chemotherapy changes patients. I can personally attest to this fact. My aunt passed away in July of 2013 from stage 3 lung cancer, but she go down without a fight. She chose to undergo chemotherapy, which caused her to go from the happiest, most energetic woman in the whole world, to a depressed, tired, and lonely patient. She lost her spark and it was all because of the chemotherapy. The noted personality changes also include which means that patients dreaded the chemotherapy before it took place just by knowing the side effects to come (Palekar, 1995). Some oncologists believe that the personality changes are minor and inconsiderable to the overall effect of chemotherapy, however, as minor as this side effect may seem to some, it can make all the difference within a cancer patient and their friends and family. For cancer patients, one of the most helpful tools for fighting the disease is the mental strength to do so. When chemotherapy is the chosen plan-of-action, a patient often loses all of this strength. After a while of fighting and taking multiple hits to certain parts of themselves, patients often revert to a this really worth mentality. While this can seem like a small issue when dealing with something as ginormous as cancer, it is actually a huge deciding factor in whether a patient is successful in fighting off the disease. Without a can-do attitude, patients often find themselves giving up. Some oncologists believe that, as long as chemotherapy patients have a strong friends and family backbone, they will always keep their mental strength. This, however, necessarily true. While having a strong support system is important during the process, a personal mentality is so important. health issues like anxiety and depression and other adverse events often accompany and can result in reduced quality of life for (Qing-Ha, et al., 2013). This reduced quality of life causes a patient to soon believe that all the fight and pain worth it in the end. No matter how insignificant some oncologists believe it is, the mental and morale state of chemotherapy patients is critical to their survival success. Without a doubt, the most noticeable effect of chemotherapy is the physical changes a patient undergoes. When administering chemotherapy radiation treatment, white blood cells are often taken down. These white blood cells help fuel our immune systems and keep us from getting sick again. Patients can notice hair loss, weight loss, nausea, and a compromised immune system, causing them to become sick easier and more frequently. performance and are also known side effects of chemotherapy treatment (Shallwani, et al., 2016). These hits to the immune system can cause patients to struggle more in the long run. They become less likely to fight off diseases in the future, thus landing them more time in the hospital later. Some oncologists believe that after the chemotherapy treatments are finalized, patients return to their previous immune states, however this is not the case. The hits to the immune system have a long term effect on patients that can be a major issue when dealing with their lives after cancer. Chemotherapy has been the more widely used treatment plan for cancers of all kinds, however, I believe that this method is very dangerous for patients and new methods should be more greatly considered. From natural cancer fighting to different ways to administer radiation treatments, such as insulin Potentiation Therapy (IPT), there are many more ways to fight off the disease with much less harmful side effects to be discovered and utilized. Reference Page Palekar, I. S. (1995, July). Effect of autogenic relaxation with imagery on chemotherapy side effects, as predicted by personality characteristics. Dissertation Abstracts International Section A, 56, 0096. Qing-Hua S, Rong-Mei X, Quan-Hai Z, Ming M, Xin-Ping Z. Relaxation training during chemotherapy for breast cancer improves mental health and lessens adverse events. International Journal Of Clinical & Experimental Medicine [serial December 2013;6(10):979-984. Shallwani, S. M., Simmonds, M. J., Kasymjanova, G., & Spahija, J. (2016). Quality of life, symptom status and physical performance in patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer undergoing chemotherapy: an exploratory analysis of secondary data. Lung Cancer, 9969- 75. doi:10.1016/j.lungcan.2016.06.018