Running head: ENHANCING THE SECURITY OF CLOUD COMPUTING 1 Enhancing The Security Of Cloud Computing: Data Issues and Solutions Jorge Villarreal University of South Florida Instructor Carr ENHANCING THE SECURITY OF CLOUD COMPUTING 2 Abstract Cloud computing changed the world around us. Now people are using cloud environment to store their information since data is getting bigger and traditional computing is becoming fragile and harder to manage. However, most of the cloud services are provided in public environments, which makes the cloud a target of possible security violations. Therefore, many organizations are starting to question about the reliability of cloud computing because of the different data issues and concerns. In this paper, I present those issues that are preventing the people from adopting the cloud and give relevant solutions to these problems that have been proposed by different scholars to enhance cloud computing security. Attribute encryption techniques, 3-tier security architecture and facial recognition algorithms are some of the solutions mentioned in this paper. Extensive analysis shows that the mentioned solutions are efficient and improve cloud computing security. Keywords: cloud computing, data confidentiality, cloud security, face recognition, cloud environment ENHANCING THE SECURITY OF CLOUD COMPUTING 3 Enhancing The Security Of Cloud Computing: Data Issues and Solutions At the end of the last century, traditional computing infrastructure consumed large amounts of electricity, had expensive electronic parts and did not have many functionalities. Over the years, technology has grown exponentially and it has made possible the vast production of smaller computers and multiple devices, which eventually replaced old room-size computers. Nowadays, multiple electronic devices are released to the market reaching a large number of customers and each day huge amounts of data are produced by these devices. The storing of applications, pictures and games have increased the demand of data from users causing traditional computing infrastructure become more fragile and harder to manage. In addition, it does not allow users to access data anywhere at any time. Cloud computing arises as a solution that offers on demand computing power, storage and application as a service. Cloud computing supports fast access to applications and reduces the cost of infrastructure. Therefore, the importance of cloud computing is increasing, becoming a huge market and receiving much attention from the academic and industrial communities. However, most of these services are provided in public clouds and as a consequence, it is a target of possible security violations. Security in cloud computing is a crucial concern in these days because valuable information of people and companies are at risk, and the rapid development of technologies has made possible the existence of new security issues and threats. Therefore, new techniques and mechanisms have been proposed by authors, who are able to check what has been said and what has been done in order to create new solutions. Close analysis of data encryption methods alongside security techniques reveals that data security solutions enhance the cloud environment security and increase the acceptance and trust from cloud users. ENHANCING THE SECURITY OF CLOUD COMPUTING 4 It is essential for authors to understand major concerns and what has been said about a certain topic in order to come up with new ideas and solutions. Regarding cloud computing, one of the major security concerns since its emergence has been data security. In traditional computing this was not an issue because data was stored locally and there were not online repositories. In the article, security, privacy, availability and integrity in cloud computing: issues, and current Sultan Aldossary and William Allen (2016) stated that in cloud computing there are many security challenges regarding data which includes data loss, data breaches, malicious insiders and insecure interfaces (p.487). Data loss includes possibilities of losing data due to malicious attack, server crashes or unintentional deletion by the provider without having backups, and data breaches, which are related with the exposure of the information of users. Multi-tenancy customers using different applications could share the database and if any corruption event happens, then it is going to affect others sharing the same database (Aldossary & Allen, 2016, p.487). On the other hand, malicious insiders and insecure interfaces consist of corruption of data caused by people who are authorized to manage the data and the incapacity of the security mechanism to provide a stable connection between the cloud service provider and the client (Aldossary & Allen, 2016, p.488). This threats described along with the rapid proliferation of data from companies and users, makes data storage one of the most important components of cloud computing. In the article, Survey on cloud computing security: issues, threats and Saurabh Singh, Young-Sik Jeong and Jong Hyuk (2016) claim that, integrity is the most critical element in information system to protect data from unauthorized modification, deletion or altering (p. 207). The security issues arise when the parameters are not well defined or the virtual machines, in which the servers are hosted, are incorrectly configured. ENHANCING THE SECURITY OF CLOUD COMPUTING 5 Based upon this background information about data issues, encryption techniques have been proposed and are proven to guarantee safe access to the cloud. In simple terms, encryption consists of the use of mathematical models to encode information to restrict who can access the data because cloud users must not be able to access the information of other users, unless they both agree to share data with the acknowledgement of the cloud provider. Aldossary & Allen (2016) support the attribute based encryption (ABE), in which an identity of a user is identified by a set of attributes and these attributes generate a secret key which ensures data confidentiality among users (p.493). Fuzzy identity based encryption (IBE) is based on the previous method and in this scheme, data owner encrypts his data and only the one who has attributes that overlap with the original attributes can access to it (Aldossary & Allen, 2016, p.493). In addition, in the article, data access control systems with user accountability in cloud Jin Li, Gansen Zhao, Xiaofeng Cheng, Dongqing Xie, Chunming Rong, Wenjun Li, Lianzhang Tang and Yong Tang (2016) propose a solution based on ABE encryption method that, the owner of the information to efficiently revoke any malicious insider with the help of cloud (p.92). These solutions guarantee the confidentiality of the data stored in clouds and address the existing concerns regarding data privacy. Also, nowadays there is a vast variety of encryption techniques with different functionalities that are being used in different fields, not only in cloud environments, and that is a relevant feature because it reveals its flexibility to adapt to any kind of problem that involves confidentiality. On the other hand, the rapid development of technology has made possible the creation of new innovative methods to address security concerns. In the article, of cloud computing security based on private face Chenguang Wang and Huaizhi Yan (2010) propose, credible, efficient, low-complex method based on face recognition to guarantee cloud ENHANCING THE SECURITY OF CLOUD COMPUTING 6 (p.1). This solution proves the advantage of the rapid technology development because ten years ago is was almost impossible to even consider using face recognition to secure online services, which did not even exist yet. Also, solutions are applied in different fields. In the article, and privacy architectures for biomedical cloud Vasiliki Danilatou and Sotiris Ioannidis (2010) propose architecture based on cryptographic credentials which enables biomedical data owners to easily hand out access to physicians, researchers and (p.1). Biomedical research relies on having access to vast amounts of sensitive information. Therefore, strong security policies and mechanism are required to preserve biomedical information stored in cloud servers. It is easy to think the presented solutions are mutually exclusive. Yet it is quite the opposite. Facial recognition is based on encryption methods because the information obtained in the images must be extract and then compared with the information in the database. The only form to determine the access of a user with facial recognition technique is comparing the patterns and data extracted from the user with the information stored in the databases of the cloud provider. Also, some might say the complexity of the cloud infrastructure increases when applying encryption solutions. Still, the more complex the infrastructure is, the more difficult to attack it is. If cloud environment is complex to understand, then hackers will have to spend more time studying the infrastructure and it will be more challenging for them to infiltrate. Also, cloud users look for privacy and confidentiality no matter how the infrastructure is built. The main goal of cloud computing security is to increase the acceptance and trust from cloud users, secure their information and protect it from malicious tasks. Finally, it is evident to notice that data issues are a relevant concern for authors and specially cloud providers. New techniques and mechanisms have been proposed and many of ENHANCING THE SECURITY OF CLOUD COMPUTING 7 them are based on previous solutions. This proves the importance of cloud computing security conversation because authors are able to check what has been said and what has been done in order to create new solutions with the recent technologies. New encryption methods have been proposed to guarantee users to access their information in safe mode. Cloud environments must provide data confidentiality and therefore, different variants of the attribute based encryption are used to achieve this goal. In addition, technology has grown rapidly and some solutions that were not feasible many years ago, today are implemented. For instance, the face recognition algorithm suggested by Wang & Yang (2010) was not feasible 7 years ago when it was proposed because technology at that moment was not adequate. But now, technology has grown rapidly and authors could use face recognition along other techniques to address different security issues. These solutions will lead to more secure cloud storage, which will also lead to more acceptance from the people and the trust of the cloud will increase. Therefore, the scholarly conversation is heading towards an enhancement of the security because by having relevant information about the different security issues and respective solutions, it is possible for users to take action and contribute to enhance the cloud environment. ENHANCING THE SECURITY OF CLOUD COMPUTING 8 References Abazari, F., Analoui, M., & Takabi, H. (2016). Effect of anti-malware software on infectious nodes in cloud environment. Computers & Security, 58, 139-148. Aldossary, S., & Allen, W. (2016). Data security, privacy, availability and integrity in Cloud computing: Issues and current solutions. International Journal of Advanced Computer Science and Applications, 7(4), 485-498. Danilatou, V., & Ioannidis, S. (2010). Security and privacy architectures for biomedical cloud computing. Proceedings of the 10 th IEEE International Conference on Information Technology and Applications in Biomedicine, 1-4. Li, J., Zhao, G., Chen, X., Xie, D., Rong, C., Li, W., Tang, L., & Tang, Y. (2010). Fine-grained data access control systems with user accountability in cloud computing. 2010 IEEE Second International Conference on Cloud Computing Technology and Science, 89-96. Singh, S., Jeong, Y., & Park, J. (2016). A survey on cloud computing security: Issues, threats, and solutions. Journal of Network & Computer Applications, 75, 200-222. Wang, C., & Yan, H. (2010). Study of cloud computing security based on private face recognition. 2010 International Conference on Computational Intelligence and Software Engineering, 1-5.