Educational software impact on students Introduction: Nowadays social media has been generally applied to education. It brings a lot of benefits to life. In the field of teaching, social media give students high-quality, convenient way of education. The teacher through the social media pushes teaching information to facilitate students to exchange interesting topics or use the online library to find the subject of the content. With the development of the electronics industry, electronic products become cheaper, more and more powerful. For example, now the phone does not just call, and also take pictures and the Internet. More and more schools are starting to use social media to manage students. The teacher publishes assignments and announcements through social media. The first paragraph: According to the article Social Media Can and Should Impact Higher (2006), The author discusses how modern science and technology can change learning environment and even school teaching. In the traditional education industry, often teachers unilaterally in the classroom to educate students, students just take notes. For large classes, students who communicate with teachers tend to be fixed a few, other students only record notes, they usually feel very boring. For some courses, such as chemistry, students are not easy to understand chemical changes. Now, the teacher through the educational software allows students to quickly find learning content, the use of video to the intuitive understanding of textbook content. At the same time through software, we can set up groups, exchange ideas, share ideas. The teacher can record the video on the above for students to review the use. Students will have the opportunity to get better information that for learning. I think that education software will change the way students learn. Traditional students based on paper and pen learning, the status quo students through the computer and mobile phone, will get more information. People can get more information through social media, At the same time education software can save a lot of time, because students often go to the library to spend a lot of time to borrow, but now only need to download this book by education software. The 2 paragraph: Bridges, and Hybrid Spaces (2016) Social Media Challenges and Affordances for International Students Research and research on research, access to information, access to information on the impact and changes Writing ideas : The impact on the learning environment of international students (mainly from a favorable perspective . For example, you can use the educational software platform for the first time to master the relevant domestic information and scientific research, at the same time, we can make an effective comparison of the research status of the home country and the guest country on the same academic subject. The 3 paragraph: Boundaries, (2006), student in English speaking Educational software to change impact on research and research, access to information, access to information The impact and changes in the communication process (including the exchange of students, the exchange between teachers and students) Around the subject GOOD 1. Increase the speed of information exchange 2. Save paper and protect the environment 3. To facilitate student group discussion 4. Convenient to watch video 5. Easy to find information in the online library BAD 1. Students are addicted to the game 2. Easy to read useless information such as advertising 3. Long-term viewing of the screen is not good for vision 4. false information likely to be misleading. summary I think social media will continue to change learning habits. In social media, students can easy to find a book from online library, student can easy make a group on social media. They can easy to watch an open class at home. More and more fresh technology is invented, students will get better educational resources References Blankenship, M. (2011). How social media can and should impact higher education. Education Digest, (7), 39. Bridges, Boundaries, and Hybrid Spaces (2016) Social Media Challenges and Affordances for International Students Boundaries, (2006), student in English speaking