Project 2 Intermediate: By: Lowell A. Fahs Battleships are some of the most fascinating and awe inspiring vessels to have ever sailed the seas. From the time they first appeared in 1906 to the inevitable end in 1992, these vessels served in every major conflict in the 20th century and helped shape the early geo-political atmosphere of the world. The Battleship was so important to naval doctrine and theory that they spawned their own naval religion which sprang up around the which essentially maintained that these heavy hitting behemoths would dominate the organization and deployment procedures of the navies. According to theorists like Alfred T. Mahan who is credited as being one of the most influential writers of all time describes in his books on Naval power the naval engagement as being fought with large steel vessels in lines firing massive guns at each other from beyond the horizon. While the battleship was at the forefront of technology for its day, it was however in my opinion a technological idea that was stretched to its limit and many later historians argue that the battleship by its very nature was unadaptable to new technologies because of how specialized they were. As the decades went on many historians and military strategists concluded that the battleship was obsolete after WW2, while others follow the notions that Mahan supported, that they still had their uses beyond the world wars. The latter notion is supported in many ways primarily by the length of service that the Iowa class battleships endured, the last of which the Missouri being decommissioned in 1992. While these warships remained in service many of their famous attributes (heavy armor, Big guns) were in may respects obsolete and it was only the retrofitting of cruise missiles and the use of AEGIS cruisers in conjunction with the battleship that allowed it to survive. Despite these modernization efforts the cost/effectiveness ratio had been tipped out of the Battleships favor after the Aircraft carrier had really proved its mettle during the second World War. Additionally the invention of guided missiles and smart munitions allowed the carrier to strike effectively from far greater distances than the battleship (even with tomahawks) could achieve. Overall while they may have remained marginally effective post WW2 the general consensus is that the lessons learned between the world wars and especially during WW2 proved airpower had severely diminished the importance of the battleship which was a blow that it could never fully recover from. The history of Naval warfare has seen many phases mostly associated with the type of weapons that were primarily utilized by the ships involved. The history of Naval gunnery is long and storied, it spans roughly 600 years and is directly attributed to the rise and prominence of the English language through heavy use of sea power. It is this observation that leads Alfred Thayer Mahan to his conclusions in his book influence of seapower on The doctrines and theories in this book gave rise and wind to the of the early 20th century. His points were made with the technology of his day as the only basis for analysis, however, his conclusions support the formation of the modern U.S. navy and its importance in the construction of colonial Empires (Mahan, 1890). Since at the turn of the century and all the way to WW2 was the name of the game, and all of the major powers of the day wanted on the colonial experience sea power is therefore an essential factor. The importance of Mahans work is unquestionable in many ways he wrote the of naval warfare which heavily influenced not only the U.S. navy but also was required reading for all German naval officers and was the basis of most Naval doctrines adopted by the Japanese. To facilitate the evolution of warship design there existed an arms race between guns and armor which eventually gave birth to the modern battleships in the early 1900s. These vessels were instantly recognized as a turning point in the way Navies would be organized and deployed. Since the guns on these vessels allowed them to shoot targets beyond the horizon which is much further than any previous vessels could achieve. The doctrines of navies began to organize themselves around the battleship where most other vessels were now allocated to support these ships. During the first World War the battle of Jutland was a great showcase of battleship power, however it is arguable when one analyzes the history of naval technology that this was the pinnacle of the battleships combat importance. This assertion is supported by events that occurred directly after the war. In 1922 the U.S. navy commissioned a new experimental type of vessel that features a flat wide open deck and no guns, instead this vessel utilized a new type of fighting vehicle that had proved its importance only in the first world war this vessel was later called the Aircraft Carrier. Many officers and theorists in the U.S. realized the importance of this type of vessel, however were initially reluctant to discard the This changed after Army Air Corps General Billy Mitchell led a daring and controversial raid on a derelict german warship that was allocated by the U.S. navy for gunnery practice. Mitchell, using bombers very easily sent the ship to the bottom, demonstrating to all that airpower was to be the new religion. While Mitchell was eventually court martialed the balance had shifted in favor of aviation. The U.S. began an extensive program to generate more modern and effective carriers since the navy had decided that the concept was more than just an experiment and instead represented the future of power projection at sea.(Admiral Halsey, 1940) It was not just the U.S. navy that saw the future in these new warships, the British and Japanese also saw the changing tides of naval power (Yamamoto, 1941). The only major powers that did not adopt this new doctrine and maintained the Battleship were the Germans and Italians, both were confident that the battleship was unquestionably the ultimate expression of seapower. However this way of thinking was painfully demonstrated to be faulty by the consecutive use of carriers by the British to help disable and destroy and to destroy the Italian Battleship Fleet in Taranto harbor (Horan, 2013). Inspired by the British success, the Japanese also utilized six carriers to devastate the U.S. Pacific fleet in Pearl Harbor. While this demonstrates the effectiveness of airpower in destroying and totally negating the effectiveness of battleships I will go further still because the only thing that can challenge the assertion that the battleship was obsolete right before or at latest after the World Wars are the Iowa class battleships built during WW2. these vessels were built to challenge the strength of Japanese Battleships and However the guns of the Iowa were inferior no matter how one slices it to the which clearly represented the ultimate battleship class (Yoshida, 1985). There were originally supposed to be four ships in the line however one hull was inevitably allocated to be turned into a carrier because of how important they had become (Yoshida, 1985). Additionally, both the and were destroyed by carrier aircraft which clearly demonstrates the futility of supporting the after the best of the breed could not stand against the might of carriers. If one is a subscriber to the line of thinking that justifies the existence of battleships based on the longevity of the Iowa class would have to acknowledge the facts of weapons development. The guns which are what makes a battleship an battleship had a maximum range of only 30 miles at maximum elevation while the effective range was around 25 miles. This in comparison to the strike distance of carrier borne aircraft which is several hundred miles shows the disparity in strike capability. Furthermore the improvements in submarines and the advent of nuclear powered subs essentially eliminated the conventional weaknesses of subs and propelled them to a position in doctrines that outstripped the battleship. The battleship while the ultimate expression of naval gunnery and even at one time of naval power as a whole has been relegated to support duty for aircraft carriers. However another new creation further shows that the battleship is not even suited for that role. The creation of AEGIS and its implementation on destroyers and cruisers in conjunction with cruise missiles made these warships more effective and arguably more powerful than battleships. While the battleship did get cruise missiles added to its arsenal this was only a band aid fix and did not necessitate the continued use of the battleship platform when the same weapon systems were used by submarines and smaller vessels. In a sense the battleship was only kept commissioned for nostalgia because they represented the where gunnery carried the day in battle, however, such vessels were not needed and were out of touch with the modern naval doctrines of the world. While it is sad to analyze the ineffectiveness of such a great breed as I do love battleships it is necessary in this case to dictate how they were brought about, and when exactly they fell from prominence. While it may be controversial due to the longevity of the career my analysis has concluded that the weight of technological advancement left even those warships that were behind. Sources: Yoshida, M., & Minear, R. H. (1985). for Battleship Seattle: University of Washington Press. Agawa, H. (2000). reluctant admiral: Yamamoto and the Imperial Tokyo: Kodansha International. Mahan, A. T. (2013). influence of sea power upon history, Lexington, KY: Emereo Publishing. Mahan, A. T. (2015). on naval strategy: selections from the writings of Rear Admiral Alfred Thayer Annapolis: Naval Institute Press.