The conversations about Fidel Castro as a person, a President and a revolutionary have for a long time been and continue to be voiced. There seems to a certain level of uniformity in the understanding of Castro and what done over the years. Sometimes misunderstood but always respected was the general idea throughout many of the articles reviewed. a general trend that is recognizable throughout the conversation. The hostility of the information being presented and the manner in which it is presented simmers down as the topic of the conversation leaves that of the happenings of the late and as well as an expected characteristic that the tone of writing directly reflects the geographical location or heritage of the authors responsible for leading this conversation. the neighboring nations one fearing for their national security. The fears of soviet expansion stood prevalent in this time and thus was the only motive needed for America to take whatever action they deemed necessary. The level of hostility however has been lowered since the exclusion of the Soviet Union. At this time , their attention turned to the middle east. The conversation persists with Eriksen offering insight into the current state of affairs and Cuba-Us relations as well as the difficulties that will be somewhat cemented between the Castro regime and the US Democracy. Drawing from interviews from a variety of sources Eriksen tells the story of the people who lived their everyday lives through this time giving the conversation an opinion from the perspectives of both Cuban people and American delegates, causing real thought provoking analysis through his own perspective. Eriksen includes a detailed explanation of the events leading to Fidel Castro stepping down from power and thus providing a reminder that one of the issues between both parties being the trade embargo was purposefully established for the Castro administration to suffer. EriksenNew York: Bloomsbury Press, 2008. Though many like myself regard Fidel Castro as a great leader and a hero for his country ,many others would deem him a ruthless dictator thus causing a level of disparity for those who are interested in becoming educated about what the man really did for his country. Leading to the Question Castro, Dictator or National In shadows of Cold War over Latin America: the US reaction to Fidel nationalism, War History Pettina details the issues the republican North America had with the idea of a third word country such as Cuba undergoing a Latin American nationalist movement a thing of concern. The biggest issue fro America was the similarities between nationalism and soviet foreign policy with obviously they would be against due to the unstable relationship with Russia at the time. Meaning the United States saw call for nationalism in Cuba instead as a soviet strategy and as a result strengthen their rivals though they might not have been entirely wrong. The article also details the benefits of both Cuba and the soviet union and how the development of this relationship would be detrimental to their national security. The article also details the means by which Castro came to power as well as the reasoning behind his ideologies.In the Journal Of Third World Fenyo details influence in South Africa and more specifically the presence he established in Angola in aid of their liberation. the excerpt also details the humanitarian acts led by cubans in Angola during this time such as medical support that were of great need in the country due to both lack of personnel as well as the navigational challenges Angola presented. It also refers to a number of speeches made by Castro himself in which he clarifies that the aid he provided to Angola were not ones that required payment but were in aid of the defense of freedom and sovereign rights. It is instances like these that help cement Fidel castro as a National her not only to cuba but to the many other nations that surround Cuba many other nations.