Page !1 Johnathan Clarke Fidel Castro: Dictator or National Hero? ENC 1101 Professor Nancy Carr Page !2 Johnathan Clarke The conversations about Fidel Castro as a person, a President and a revolutionary have for a long time been and continue to be voiced. There seems to a certain level of uniformity in the understanding of Castro and what done over the years. His messages and methods often times misunderstood, however his voice was always respected could be seen as the general idea throughout many of the articles reviewed. a general trend that is recognizable throughout the conversation. The hostility of the information being presented and the manner in which it is presented simmers down as the topic of the conversation leaves that of the happenings of the late and as well as an expected characteristic that the tone of writing directly reflects the geographical location or heritage of the authors responsible for leading this conversation. The neighboring nations one fearing for their national security. The fears of soviet expansion stood prevalent in this time and thus was the only motive needed for America to take whatever action they deemed necessary. Though many believed that his Anti Capitalistic Movement in this day and age was very difficult to accept , they were grateful for the necessities that were provided to everyone. Though many like myself regard Fidel Castro as a great leader and a hero for his country ,many others would deem him a ruthless dictator thus causing a level of disparity for those who are interested in becoming educated about what the man really did for his country. Leading to the Question Castro, Dictator or National This however in my opinion Page !3 Johnathan Clarke is due to what many perceive a dictator to be and automatically relate the thought of Castro being a so called dictator and compartmentalizing him along with those who have created that negative connotation. Fidel Castro was no Hitler or Kim Jong-un, though they do share a belief in communism they are far from similar people. Thus I implore those who like me find interest in learning about this man And what accomplished to eradicate all pre conceived notions of a dictator and to avoid visiting the topic with that though. In shadows of Cold War over Latin America: the US reaction to Fidel nationalism, War History Pettina details the issues the republican North America had with the idea of a third word country such as Cuba undergoing a Latin American nationalist movement a thing of concern. The biggest issue fro America was the similarities between nationalism and soviet foreign policy with obviously they would be against due to the unstable relationship with Russia at the time. Meaning the United States saw call for nationalism in Cuba instead as a soviet strategy and as a result strengthen their rivals though they might not have been entirely wrong. At the time of this engagement between Cuba and the soviet union, on Cuba and part the arrangement made was very beneficial as well as their partners, it provided Cuba with well needed capitol and provided the Soviet Union with their long sought after ally in the west. The article also details the benefits of both Cuba and the soviet union and how the development of this relationship would be detrimental to their national security. However despite the ongoing pressure from the United States Castro carried out the plan he thought best for his country, from the perspective of many in the United States who have Page !4 Johnathan Clarke a bad taste in their mouth with the soviet union this might have seemed as an act conflicting with U.S safety when in fact it was mostly an agreement put in place to aid development. The article also details the means by which Castro came to power as well as the reasoning behind his ideologies. In the Journal Of Third World Fenyo details influence in South Africa and more specifically the presence he established in Angola in aid of their liberation. the excerpt also details the humanitarian acts led by cubans in Angola during this time such as medical support that were of great need in the country due to both lack of personnel as well as the navigational challenges Angola presented. It also refers to a number of speeches made by Castro himself in which he clarifies that the aid he provided to Angola were not ones that required payment but were in aid of the defense of freedom and sovereign rights. It is instances like these that help cement Fidel Castro as a National her not only to Cuba but to the many other nations that surround Cuba many other nations. Fidel Castro fought for not only his rights but for the rights of many other countries with similar beliefs, he provided a system where not only the wealthy have access to the necessities but for the most part all people have access to what they need. Fidel Castro was also instrumental in the financial and political stability being experienced in Cuba today. In my opinion those achievements sound like those of a horrifying Dictator but of a person with a genuine care for his home and his country. Page !5 Johnathan Clarke Pettina, Vanni. The Shadows Of Cold War Over Latin America: The US Reaction To Fidel Nationalism,  Cold War History 11.3 (2011): 317-339. Academic Search Premier. Web. 5 Feb. 2017. Foss, C. (2010). African adventures: in 1959 Fidel Castro came to power in Cuba after a masterly campaign of guerrilla warfare. Drawing on this success, Castro and his followers, including Che Guevara, sought to spread their revolution, as Clive Foss explains. History Today, (3), 10. Johnathan Clarke U15228936 Raul Castro: Confronting Legacy in Cuba. (2007). The Washington Quarterly, (3), 53. Gonzalez, Edward, and Kevin F. McCarthy. Uncertain Future After  Brown Journal Of World Affairs 14.1 (2007): 27-39. Business Source Alumni Edition. Page !6 Johnathan Clarke Mujal-Leon, Eusebio. Survival, Adaptation And Uncertainty: The Case Of  Journal Of International Affairs 65.1 (2011): 149-168. Business Source Premier. Web. Fenyo, Mario. Castro, Fidel, Raul Castro, Nelson Mandela. Cuba & Angola: Fighting For Freedom And Our  Journal Of Third World Studies 1 (2015): 352. Academic OneFile. Web.