Running head: Re-envisioning of Solitary Confinement Joining the Conversation: Re-envisioning the Practice of Solitary Confinement Sahelle Rolles University of South Florida Instructor Carr Re-envisioning The Practice of Solitary Confinement 2 Abstract This paper is going to give insight on why Solitary Confinement be completely banned. Solitary confinement is used to keep someone away from others. Whether because they can hurt others or because others can hurt them solitary confinement gives them a safe space. Throughout this paper there will also be points of view from those who believe that solitary confinement should stop being used completely. This predominantly is true foe these people when it comes down to the use of isolation with juveniles. But regardless of this this paper will show that there are moments where the use of isolation on juveniles is more than needed. Re-envisioning The Practice of Solitary Confinement 3 On January 25, 2016, President Barack Obama announced a ban of the use of solitary confinement at the federal level because it was being overused and having negative effects on the mental health of not only the adults but also the children who are placed in them. According to Juliet Eilperin, a writer at the Washington Post, president outlines a series of executive actions that also prohibits federal corrections officials from punishing prisoners who commit with solitary This means that the inmates who are not a big threat to anyone will not be forced into solitary confinement for any reason that the officer sees fit unless the inmate has done something that is in violation of the rules in the prison, like hurting or attempting to hurt other inmates or officers. Because of the ban on solitary confinement at the federal prison level only, this left the state prisons and local jails free to continue doing what they thought was best for their institutions and what they deemed was necessary use of solitary confinement in their hands. Based on my research, I believe that state prisons and local jails should redefine their use of solitary confinement instead of getting rid of it altogether. By laying out policies that all states prisons and local jails have to follow the correct use of solitary confinement will be achieved instead of getting rid of such a useful tool in the United States prison system. People are more in favor of banning solitary confinement because they believe that the health issues that have been discovered are a result of being placed in isolation. They believe that the health issues have had a sever impact on the inmates as a results of no form of stimulation for their mind and no form of human contact. There are scholars who have the same mindset as President Obama. These scholars believe that states and local jails should end solitary confinement because of how harmful they believe it has Re-envisioning The Practice of Solitary Confinement 4 become when it comes to the mental, physical and emotional health of the children. Lisa C. Castillo, a scholarly author, wrote Iowa Should Ban Juvenile Solitary In this article Castillo states that Iowa should follow in the footsteps of California and completely get rid of solitary confinement when it comes to juveniles because it violates the Eighth Amendment, which calls for no cruel and unusual punishments. She also goes on to say the isolating juveniles met this Amendment because the children yet have fully developed brains and the isolation can cause a lack of growth in the brain. Admittedly, though I can see why Castillo would be on the side of banning solitary confinement, I still believe that it is always easy to see the worst parts of something. With a tool like solitary confinement there are those who will use it or a for of it to the point the it becomes extreme but like most of other things in the world the answer to automatically get rid of it. There are others, like me, who believe that the best course of action to take when it comes solitary confinement is to limit the way that it can be used. Though this a simple process it is better than getting rid of solitary confinement altogether. By keeping a form of solitary confinement it the state prisons and local jail systems it gives the officers and faculties a feeling that if things do get out of hand they can settle things down by placing people in solitary confinement. By also outlining rules for solitary confinement it insures that the inmates or juveniles are not kept in solitary confinement for longer than is really needed. This gives the juveniles and inmates the feeling that though the place they are at is not ideal, where they are going to be because of their actions or other situations (such as being a juvenile in an adult prison or jail) and not because of how any of the people in charge feel about them. Re-envisioning The Practice of Solitary Confinement 5 However, though I understand the point that Castillo is making the problem is that the effects the isolation can have on brain development of children can only become a thing of concern if the extreme cases continue to happen. Solitary confinement should be treated like a form of time out when it comes to children. It is easy to forget that children who are already under the care of the state or local jails are there because they are troubled. In a way they have already became isolated from those who matter the most. Because it is these kinds of children who are in these facilities there is bound to be trouble among them. Solitary confinement provides a place for these children to cool off away from others. This normally means that they are just left in there rooms and not outside with others. Using this practice, as intended instead of banning it would be a more of a benefit to everyone involved. Scholars Anne Teigen and Sarah Brown, who together wrote an article about solitary confinement called the door on solitary give insight on what some states are already doing regarding the matter of solitary confinement and juveniles. Teigen and Brown state that, New Jersey law prohibits for more than two consecutive days for 15-year-olds, three days for those up to age 17 and five days for those older than This form of isolation is good for these who are involved because it is not overused and it just a fair structure for placing the juveniles in isolation depending on age. By give the juveniles a time frame they know that they be in isolation forever and also decreases the likelihood of these children becoming mentally ill or ill in any other food do to lack of human interaction. By making this action more standers for all state prisons and local jails that want to continue to use solitary confinement it removes the claims of over use and brain stunting.