1 Sadhman Farhan Nancy Carr ENC 1101.016 04/09/2017 Origins of global warming and myths related to it. For a very long time, global warming has not only created a concern for the people but is also the concern of the government and political figures. However, myth still exist about the origin of global warming and people often tend to have different views towards the issue which creates an overall enigma of where the global warming has originated from and whether it is natural or just another product of humankind. In this essay, I will put forward the major statements that are made about global warming and how the people are influenced by these. I will also consider the counterarguments related to the rise of global warming and how they affect the general thoughts towards it. Shao, W., Garand, J. C., Keim, B. D., & Hamilton, L. C. (2016). Science, scientists, and local weather: Understanding mass perceptions of global warming. Social Science Quarterly, 97(5), 1023-1057. doi:10.1111/ssqu.12317 In this article the authors Shao, Garan, Keim and Hamilton discussed about whether global warming is a man-made pollution or a part of the natural cycle. Shao et. al. said that find that long-term trends in summer temperature influence perception of global warming. Individuals who reside in communities with long-term warming of summer temperatures that are coupled with long-term cooling of spring temperatures are significantly more likely to perceive that global warming exists and is due to human (Shao et. al. 2008, pg-1). This introduces the 2 statement that they believe people who stay in climate where there is an excess amount of heating and cooling perceives that global warming is caused by man-made pollution. The matter of the lack of synchronization between the society and scientists have been questioned. It is thought that the media is not giving enough valid information about global warming which as a result is causing the doubt. The previous research states a few opinion shared by the mass public about global warming. Some of these include geographical and environmental context; attitude towards scientists and science; attitudinal variable; information environment; religious beliefs and social and demographic characteristics as stated by the authors. This is a very big context of research and provides plenty of information about the attitude towards global warming. It has been counter argued that scientists are providing information that are valid and acceptable but due to the presence of environmental skeptics, scientists are often questioned of their response to this issue. LI, A. F. (2016). Hopes of Limiting Global Warming? China and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change. China Perspectives, (1), 49-54. In this article, the author refers to the agreement between China and Paris to work to reduce the effects of global warming. To do so, they had to be aware of the causes if global warming that is the thesis of this essay. The author describes the role of China to bring about the agreement. LI stated that global warming was a man-made pollution since he talked about carbon dioxide reduction. China is said to have become the highest emitter of carbon dioxide which even surpasses that of The United States. U.S.A counter argued that power to tackle the situation is not as strong as their economy which has caused the agreement to become a superfluous. However China proposed to have a plan to eliminate the global warming problem before the end of the Kyoto protocol in the year 2020. The reason why China are in the back foot is because they may 3 not agree to sacrifice business over the environment. The China-Paris agreement contained a total of 195 countries that discussed on how to limit the temperature rise by 2 degree Celsius. Lal, V. (2015). Climate Change: Insights from Hinduism. Journal Of The American Academy Of Religion, 83(2), 388-406. doi:10.1093/jaarel/lfv020 This article is written about the relation that is thought to exist between global warming and religion. The author Lal described that religion has a huge impact concerning global warming and it can be the solution to overcome the disaster it awaits. Lal urges that the humankind is not separate from the nature and they are interconnected spiritually, psychologically and physically. It points that this calls upon the notion of people to use alternative energy source, sustainable food production as well as evolving technologies. Demirbas, A. (2006). Hazardous emissions, global climate change and environmental precautions. Energy sources. Part B, Economics, planning and policy, 1(1), 75-84. In this article, Demirbas discusses about the precautions that should be taken to control global warming. Various gases along with tables are shown representing the composition of the greenhouse gases that play the role of global warming. Although it may be considered that all the gases do not have the same influence in global warming, they still are said to contribute to the effect. Demirbas mentioned that Kyoto protocol is not a successful implementation but it has ye to contribute to changes to the environment. Wallack, J. S., & Ramanathan, V. (2009). The other climate changers: why black carbon and ozone also matter. Foreign Affairs, 88(5), 105-113. 4 The authors of this article describes the new source of carbon emissions such as black carbon and soot that are known to have a negative impact to the environment with greenhouse gases. Wallack and Ramanthan showed several evidence that they are becoming a new threat to the environment along with the greenhouse gases and need to be improvised. However, several claimed that black carbon are not a major concern to the issue that already exist and people cannot change the global pattern with such a small effort. A., Artola, A., Font, X., Gea, T., Barrena, R., Gabriel, D., & ... Mondini, C. (2015). Greenhouse gas emissions from organic waste composting. Environmental Chemistry Letters, 13(3), 223. doi:10.1007/s10311-015-0507-5 In this article, Sanchez, Artola, Gea, Barrena, Gabriel and Mondini stated the treatment of carbon can be made by the composting of organic waste as they produce carbon dioxide which is a major greenhouse gas. Different composting techniques are mentioned and discussed that can better serve the betterment of the environment. However, such small discovery may be questioned as the globe is busy trying to tackle the present situation that exists. However, the authors included enough important evidence to prove that composting does play a major role to reduce greenhouse gases. All the sources provide many possible evidence of the way global warming is judged among the society and researchers that deal with it. It is very difficult to accept one side and go against the 5 other since both the sides hold information that are true. It is therefore necessary to choose the bigger side that has a better answer to the future of environment and therefore it is tackling the global warming that prevail. I believe the scientists are more accurate than a normal public figure that may judge the validity of what a scientist believes and it is the duty of the media to bring up the actual statements properly and feed it to the society.