Running head: WHY WE NEED PLANNED PARENTHOOD 1 Why We Need Planned Parenthood Mary Warwick University of South Florida WHY WE NEED PLANNED PARENTHOOD 2 Abstract Planned Parenthood and clinics like it offer a multitude of services that benefit not only cisgender women but men and transgender people.While abortion is their most talked about and controversial issue their services actually go far beyond it. A large percentage of their patients are low income people so their services of providing affordable contraceptives has a positive effect on the female poverty rate. Studies have shown that women with access to contraceptives were less likely to end up impoverished than those without access. WHY WE NEED PLANNED PARENTHOOD 3 Planned Parenthood Federation of America (PPFA) is a nonprofit organization that provides reproductive health services and sexual education. The organization contributes to research in reproductive technology and performs advocacy work aimed at protecting and expanding reproductive rights. Over the years since its conception this organization and clinics like it have faced harsh criticism for providing certain forms of contraception, specifically abortions. It is critical that Planned Parenthood, and clinics similar to, exist and that funding does not get cut from them. Many people, especially women with a low income, rely on the services provided by these clinics. These clinics are contributing plenty of other services aside from abortions such as pregnancy tests, Pap smear tests, cervical cancer screenings and prevention, sexual education, STI/STD testing and treatment, etc. Taking away easy access to these services can have detrimental effects on communities particularly the women within them. Once women reach the age of 21 they should all begin getting cervical cancer screening. From ages 30 to 65 they should take Pap tests about every 3 years. The routine screenings offer a chance for any possible problems to be found early on. The earlier the treatment the better your chances of survival are. The screenings can prevent most cervical cancers by finding pre-cancers so they can be treated before they have the opportunity to turn into a cervical cancer. Taking away this easy access to services like this would be detrimental to people needing these tests. Planned Parenthood makes it easier for people of a lower income to receive these types of health services. In Effects of Contraception on Female Stephanie P. Browne and Sara LaLumia, (2014) are examine the correlation between the female poverty rate and the takeaway WHY WE NEED PLANNED PARENTHOOD 4 of contraceptives. They provide you with statistics showing that a lack of access to contraceptives has negative effects on the female poverty rate. They concluded that with access to birth control the probability that a woman would be in poverty reduced by 0.5 percentage points which, considering the high poverty rates experienced by single-female headed households, is actually a fair amount (p.620). Browne et. al, finished by saying forward, when policymakers are weighing the costs and benefits of increasing or decreasing the accessibility of birth control, they should take into account its effects on the female poverty (p.620). As of 2016 Planned percentage of health care patients with incomes at or below 150 percent of the federal poverty level was 75. While 80 percent of the health care patients received services to prevent unintended pregnancies. So a big enough portion of their clientele would be affected if anything should happen to their access to contraceptives. Those most against Planned Parenthood and clinics alike are against abortions or Pro-Life people. They argue that it is inhumane and that if you really do not want to have a child you can put them up for adoption. While I understand how one could be against abortion, I believe it should be up to the individual whether they want to have an abortion or not. It should not affect them if someone, for whatever reason they might have, gets an abortion. That being said Pro-lifers should not actively protest Planned Parenthood because they do offer abortions because it is just one among numerous other services they provide that individuals heavily rely on. Of the 2016 Planned Parenthood health care patients 3 percent were for abortions. While Planned Parenthood and clinics like it do provide abortions they make it a point to discuss with their patients other options first. WHY WE NEED PLANNED PARENTHOOD 5 In of and preferences for federally funded family planning Willie H. Oglesby, (2014) he lists the many helpful services provided by family planning clinics. He states planning is comprised of a wide array of sexual and reproductive health services including contraceptive education and counseling; pregnancy testing and counseling; breast and cervical cancer screening; HIV testing; screening and treatment for STDs; and other patient education and (p.1). Planned Parenthood provides all of those same services and more, they provide all forms of birth control (IUD, pill, patch, ring, shot), abortions, vasectomy counseling, hormone therapy for transgender patients, etc. These clinics are important to everyone regardless of sex. Planned Parenthood is not just for cisgender people. They are 1 working to expand and offer more services to transgender patients. Oglesby states that in the United States people rely on public providers of sexual and reproductive health services and that access to family planning services is regarded as one of the ten greatest public health achievements in the 20th (Oglesby, 2014, p.1). Planned Parenthood provides services necessary to individuals survival. Their existence plays an important role in lowering the poverty rate among low income women. Planned Parenthood is an organization that helps more than just cisgender women. 1 or relating to a person whose sense of personal identity and gender corresponds with their birth sex. WHY WE NEED PLANNED PARENTHOOD 6 References Browne, S. P., & Lalumia, S. (2014). The Effects of Contraception on Female Poverty. of Policy Analysis and Management, 602-622. doi:10.1002/pam.21761 Oglesby, W. H. (2014). Perceptions of and preferences for federally-funded family planning clinics. Health, 1-16. doi:10.1186/1742-4755-11-50 Claeys, V. (2010). Brave and angry The creation and development of the International Planned Parenthood Federation (IPPF). European Journal of Contraception & Reproductive Health Care, S67-S76. doi:10.3109/13625187.2010.526726