Running Head: STEROIDS IN PROFESSIONAL SPORTS 1 The Legalization of the Use of Steroids in Professional Sports Shahir Kamil University of South Florida Instructor Carr STEROIDS IN PROFESSIONAL SPORTS 2 Abstract The argument of whether to legalize the use of steroids in professional sports is a topic which brings up many questions from both sides. Many counter arguments for banning the use of steroids include: that steroids raise the level of competition, lead to more exciting plays by players, helps athletes meet the expectations set by their team, etc. Conversely, people and many leagues argue that: steroids are dangerous to the health of athletes, doping provides players with an unfair physical advantage over other players, doping disrupts several players reputation and discredits them from their achievements, etc. The sports world is heading towards the right track in establishing a stricter stance on the use of steroids by implementing bans, regulations, and regular checkups on athletes. This is an important issue with growing consequences which needs to be addressed for the modern sports landscape. Keywords: Legalization, competition, exciting, unfair, dangerous, health, reputation, achievements STEROIDS IN PROFESSIONAL SPORTS 3 The Legalization of the Use of Steroids in Professional Sports The topic of whether to legalize the use of steroids in professional sports is an important and controversial issue which brings up many questions. Millman et. al makes the case that performance enhancing drugs and steroids date back to the time that sports were introduced to the world (2003). Since then the effect of steroids on professional sports and its athletes has become more prevalent as the number of doping athletes has gone up. Over the years, there has been an evolution in the way that this topic or issue has played a role in the lives of athletes. There have been many examples of athletes who have flourished off the use of performance enhancing drugs. However, there have also been many examples of athletes who have ruined their lives and reputations. This is why there are many arguments and counterarguments to the topic, and really hard to completely settle the issue. Recently, this has raised the much needed awareness of global committees and national leagues who have recognized the negative aspects and side effects of the use of steroids. Although in and standardised tests: meritocracy and the myth of fair play in the United States, by Gayles (2009) the use of steroids by athletes in professional sports is mentioned to be generally negative and that there are more people opposed to it rather than supportive about it; there are a good number of people who continue to argue for the legalization of the use of performance enhancing drugs and steroids. The use of performance enhancing drugs, for better or worse has changed the modern sports STEROIDS IN PROFESSIONAL SPORTS 4 horizon. Numerous experts and players agree that steroids have a negative impact on everyone involved. Counterclaims towards the banning or regulation against the use of steroids consists mostly of athletes who are using these drugs. These athletes implement the use of these performance enhancing drugs to enhance their level of play by increasing their physical capabilities. According to Millman et. al, steroids the physical capabilities and increase muscle mass by increasing the amount of testosterone in the (2003). Once a player has taken such drugs and experienced the advantages of taking them, hard to turn away from those drugs. In final frontier of anti-doping: A study of athletes who have committed doping Engelberg (2015) mentions how 18 players who were interviewed justify their use of steroids by downplaying their side effects and saying that their are minimum consequences for the action. According to the players interviewed, the use of performance enhancing drugs, had become in those various sports, especially in (Engelberg et. al, 2015). Even though some players realize the several health risks associated which can be seen physically or psychologically with the intake of performance enhancing drugs, the players justify that benefits of taking these drugs exceed the (Millman et. al, 2003). Another study in steroid use and psychopathology in athletes. A systematic Piacentino, D., Kotzalidis, G. D., del Casale, A., Aromatario, M. R., Pomara, C., Girardi, P., & Sani, G. (2015) shows that there are some psychiatric disorders believed to be caused by steroids that are apparent in non-doping athletes. (n.p.) According to STEROIDS IN PROFESSIONAL SPORTS 5 Piacentino et. al, this begs the question, do the abuse of anabolic-androgenic steroids even cause these side (2015) The use of steroids by athletes in professional sports is generally negative and that there are more people opposed to it rather than supportive about it (Gayles, 2009). In and standardised tests: meritocracy and the myth of fair play in the United Gayles (2009) explains how steroids provide some athletes with an unfair physical advantage over the others, which disrupts the fair play of the sport (n.p.). This is a major point when it comes to arguing against the legalization of the performance enhancing drugs in addition to the many found health risks. Joe Biden mentions how this is an arising issue and that the youth realize how this stuff really According to Piacento et. al, the various symptoms that these athletes suffer include eating, mood, and even schizophrenic disorders (2015). Another reason to ban the use of steroids is that it affects the credibility of athletes and their achievements. Gayles (2009) provides the position of Senator Jim Bunning, who addresses this growing issue and believes that doping the integrity of the game and distort statistics and demean (n.p.) Interviews with several MLB players reveals that almost half of the athletes implement the use of steroids. A lot of the record breaking seasons have been broken by athletes who have used these drugs which starts to question the credibility of their achievement. In conclusion, the risks of using steroids in professional sports outweigh the benefits as shown through the many resources referenced above in the paper. The authors of the articles/studies effectively get their point across to the audience by using rhetorical strategies STEROIDS IN PROFESSIONAL SPORTS 6 such as logos and ethos to provide their stance. Statistics and interviews of former/current athletes along with authority figures help support the arguments against the legalization of the use of steroids in professional sports. Health risks associated with the use of steroids is reason enough to ban or regulate the amount of steroids used today. An important method to spread the awareness of steroids and the negative aspects is educating the people about the effects of steroids and teaching its history. This is an important issue with growing consequences which needs to be addressed for the modern sports landscape. As stated before, the attitude towards taking performance enhancing drugs such as steroids is generally negative as evident by all the increasing regulations in place and rightfully so. STEROIDS IN PROFESSIONAL SPORTS 7 References Gayles, J. (2009). Steroids and standardised tests: meritocracy and the myth of fair play in the United States. Educational Studies (03055698), 35(1), 1. Heisler, S. R. (2009). Steroid Regulation in Professional Sports: SARBANES-OXLEY AS A GUIDE. Cardozo Arts & Entertainment Law Journal, 27(1), 199-241. Engelberg, T., Moston, S., & Skinner, J. (2015). The final frontier of anti-doping: A study of athletes who have committed doping violations. Sport Management Review, 18268-279. McGrew, R. J. (2015). Raising the Bar: Why The Anabolics Steroid Control Acts Should Be Repealed and Replaced.. Houston Journal Of Health Law & Policy, 15233. Historical Timeline - Drug Use in Sports - ProCon.org. (n.d.). Retrieved April 08, 2017, from http://sportsanddrugs.procon.org/view.timeline.php?timelineID=000017 Piacentino, D., Kotzalidis, G. D., del Casale, A., Aromatario, M. R., Pomara, C., Girardi, P., & Sani, G. (2015). Anabolic-androgenic steroid use and psychopathology in athletes. A systematic review. Current Neuropharmacology, 13(1), 101-121.