Chakar Thompson ENC 1101- Mrs N. Carr April 02,2017 Argumentative Essay According to Benbrook, Charles, (Impacts of Genetically Engineered Crops, 2009) , scientific study of genes began in the 1860s when Austrian monk Gregor Mendel systematically crossed varieties of garden peas. He introduced the concept of a  as a unit of heredity. In 1868, German chemist Friedrich Meischer discovered the substance we now call DNA, Deoxyribose Nucleic Acid. But scientists thought it was too simple chemically to carry the vast amount of genetic information required to produce the enormous diversity of nature. Proteins, they thought, were the basis of (p.1126). He continues writing, later to state that products formed from the crossing of genes are called first came to the forefront in 1972 where were produced commercially through artificial gene splicing; genetic engineers Stanley Cohen and Herbert Boyer developed techniques that made it possible to chemically cut and splice strands of DNA at specific places in the DNA sequence. Boyer used an enzyme to cut the code for a specific protein and attach it to other DNA. Cohen added a way to introduce these DNA sequences into bacteria and yeast cells. They turned these tiny microbes into hormone factories. In 1976, they founded their company Genentech and introduced human genes that produce insulin into strains of bacteria. Those bacteria started manufacturing insulin. Next, they manufactured human growth hormone (HGH). It was used to enable dwarf children to grow to normal size. Before genetic modification techniques, the only source for the drug had been human cadavers. The Insulin produced was marketed in 1982 and used to moderate the blood sugar level, in the treatment of Diabetic patients. Soon scientist saw that other than for health purposes, gmo production could be used in the food and agriculture industry. It first made way into the food industry in 1990, through the production of rennet (protease enzyme). Rennet is an enzyme found in milk that causes it curdle and form whey. Scientist from the pharmaceutical giants Pfizer isolated the gene for making rennet, from the stomach of a calf then inserted the gene coding into bacteria. This bacteria then made more rennet in a controlled environment. It was then marketed to dairy companies that made cheese and other dairy products. Later on in 1994, scientists created a GM bacteria that manufactured Bovine Growth Hormone (BGH). This growth hormone was collected from the bacteria and injected into cows to make them produce more milk. GM bacteria produced special hormones that when injected into some farm animals, makes them produce more/ less meat, body fat, fur or even offspring. Chakar Thompson ENC 1101- Mrs N. Carr April 02,2017 This practice was also used on plants but the process for creating a gm plant is different from creating gm bacteria/ yeasts. The genetic engineering of bacteria involves artificial gene splicing while the creation of gm plant involved natural gene splicing. Natural gene splicing first came along with the discovery of the plasmids where in 1983, the seed company Monsanto and university scientist found out that plasmids acts as easy gene carriers, so they inserted the desired gene into a plasmid and injected the plasmid into the plant cell where it would introduce the gene into the nucleus of the plant itself. In the same year of 1983 the first gmo crop was created. These were virus-resistant tobacco plants, which were not approved for marketing,but was still grown in 1993 by China. However, in 1994 the organisation Calgene created the first gmo crop that was approved for sale in the US. This plant was the Flavr Savr Tomato ,which was engineered to have a longer shelf life (delayed ripening). By 1995 more These gm crops were called Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) crops and were approved for commercial use. These Bt crops included pesticide resistant Bt potato, virus resistant Bt squash, herbicide resistant Bt cotton, pest resistant Bt maize , weedicide resistant Bt Soybeans and Bt Canola which produces more canola oil in its seed than the average canola plant. According to the USDA, by 2008, 92 percent of the soybeans planted in the U.S. were GMO varieties. Nebraska and South Dakota each planted 97 percent of their soybean crops with Bt soybean. Later on a company called Novartis Seeds first introduced Bt corn hybrids in 1996. The nucleus of the new Bt corn was injected with Bt toxins that act as systemic drugs to insects and pest. Farmers found out that the corn borers died after eating only a few bites of the Bt corn plant. Monsanto was not far behind with its own Bt corn, and other companies like Pioneer have either developed their own strains or licensed the technology from other companies. According to Brookes ,(Study: Global economic benefits of GM crops reach $150 billion, Graham Brookes-Agricultural Economists, 2016). use of gmos in farming have resulted in higher yielding crops worldwide for example ,the insect resistant (IR) technology used in cotton and corn has consistently delivered yield gains from reduced pest damage. The average yield gains over the 1996-2014 period across all users of this technology has been +13.1% for insect resistant corn and +17.3% for insect resistant cotton relative to conventional production systems. 2014 was also the second year IR soybeans were grown commercially in South America, where farmers have seen an average of +9.4% yield improvements. The herbicide tolerant (HT) technology used has also contributed to increased production; improving weed control and Chakar Thompson ENC 1101- Mrs N. Carr April 02,2017 providing higher yields in some countries and helping farmers in Argentina grow soybeans after wheat in the same growing season. GM crops have also molded better returns for farmers especially in developing countries, where crop biotechnology helps farmers earn more secure incomes due mainly to improved control of pests and weeds. The net farm level economic benefit in 2014 was $17.7 billion, equal to an average increase in income of $101/hectare. For the 19 years (1996-2014), the global farm income gain has been $150.3 billion. The total farm income benefit of $150.3 billion was divided almost equally between farmers in developing (51%) and developed countries (49%); The highest yield gains continue to be for farmers in developing countries, many of which are resource-poor and farm small plots of land. GM crop farming has also broken the back of poverty by reducing the pressure on scarce land resources and contributing to global food security. This is evident because between 1996 and 2014, crop biotechnology was responsible for additional global production of 158.4 million tonnes of soybeans and 321.8 million tonnes of corn. The technology has also contributed an extra 24.7 million tonnes of cotton lint and 9.2 million tonnes of canola. GM crops are allowing farmers to grow more without using additional land. If crop biotechnology had not been available to the (18 million) farmers using the technology in 2014, maintaining global production levels at the 2014 levels would have required additional plantings of 7.5 million ha of soybeans, 8.9 million ha of corn, 3.7 million ha of cotton and 0.6 million ha of canola. This total area requirement is equivalent to 12% of the arable land in the US, or 33% of the arable land in Brazil or 14% of the cropping area in China. Last but not least, it was found that gmo crops were responsible for environmental improvements. Crop biotechnology has reduced pesticide spraying (1996-2014) by 581 million kg (-8.2%). This is equal to the total amount of pesticide active ingredient applied to crops in China for more than a year. As a result, this has decreased the environmental impact associated with herbicide and insecticide use on the area planted to biotech crops by Since 1996, there has been a number of new genetic modifications to a wide variety of crops such as sweet potatoes that have been enhanced with more protein and other nutrients. Golden rice has been modified by the International Rice Research Institute to provide a low level of Vitamin A. They spliced in genes from the daffodil plant that produce the vitamin, also known as beta carotene. Even carrots have been modified to provide a little calcium in them.From all of the information one can then assess that were created to be nutritious ,resistant to insects, tolerance to herbicides, tolerant to heat, cold, or drought, and have longer shelf lives. As a result Chakar Thompson ENC 1101- Mrs N. Carr April 02,2017 farmers have a higher crop yields with reduced chemical inputs and therefore there is less labor required. Hence farmers earn more profit from gmo crop yields. In addition to the surplus of crops produced, the potential for exporting also increases, thus increasing a GDP. Export of agricultural goods is readily made possible through the increased shelf life and the climate retention of foods. Products are therefore easily stored and transported. However, some people believe that gmos are harmful to the environment and our health. Before I begin the discussion on the problems associated with I must state that all scientific studies done currently prove that gmos are harmless. This is mainly because gmos are simply just organisms just like us that are made up of millions of proteins and produce thousands more everyday, the only difference is that produce one or two proteins specifically chosen by humans. Any comment stating that are harmful are therefore open to objectivity. But, the scientific studies done that prove that are harmless are also biassed because the study was done by the same companies manufacturing the In Sax & (2016) journal they insist that, is unclear what could be considered natural. Thousands of years of conventional breeding mean that the food supply is genetically modified. Put differently, consumers are eating domesticated crops that are no longer genetically identical to the wild-type variety either through conventional breeding or GMO/GE technology. Conventional selective breeding uses a variety of techniques, including mutation breeding, to obtain a desired trait, such as pest resistance. GMO/GE technology, in contrast to conventional breeding, can be used to introduce a gene to provide resistance against a particular pest. Agriculture scientists and farmers may prefer one methodology over another to obtain the desired (p.31). The authors provide a good argument here in essentially stating that GMOs might pollute the biodiversity of some plant and animal species through cross breeding. This is true in some cases but scientists have created GMOs that produce sterile seeds, there reproduction cannot occur across the gene pools of these TOs. According to Smith ( Reasons to Avoid Jeffrey Smith, August 25,2011) These problems include that, are unhealthy- The American Academy of Environmental Medicine (AAEM) urges doctors to prescribe non-GMO diets for all patients. They cite animal studies showing organ damage, gastrointestinal and immune system disorders, accelerated aging, and infertility. Human studies show how genetically modified (GM) food can leave material behind inside us, possibly causing long-term problems. Genes inserted into GM soy, for Chakar Thompson ENC 1101- Mrs N. Carr April 02,2017 example, can transfer into the DNA of bacteria living inside us, and that the toxic insecticide produced by GM corn was found in the blood of pregnant women and their unborn fetuses. Numerous health problems increased after GMOs were introduced in 1996. The percentage of Americans with three or more chronic illnesses jumped from 7% to 13% in just 9 years; food allergies skyrocketed, and disorders such as autism, reproductive disorders, digestive problems, and others are on the rise. Although there is not sufficient research to confirm that GMOs are a contributing factor, doctors groups such as the AAEM tell us not to wait before we start protecting ourselves, and especially our children who are most at risk. The American Public Health Association and American Nurses Association are among many medical groups that condemn the use of GM bovine growth hormone, because the milk from treated cows has more of the hormone IGF-1 (insulin-like growth factor is linked to cancer. Another argument suggests that GMOs contaminate the gene pools of plants. GMOs cross pollinate and their seeds can travel. It is impossible to fully clean up our contaminated gene pool. Self-propagating GMO pollution will outlast the effects of global warming and nuclear waste. The potential impact is huge, threatening the health of future generations. GMO contamination has also caused economic losses for organic and non-GMO farmers who often struggle to keep their crops pure. Smith also suggests that GMOs increase herbicide use ;most GM crops are engineered to be the deadly weed killer. Monsanto, for example, sells Roundup Ready crops, designed to survive applications of their Roundup herbicide. Between 1996 and 2008, US farmers sprayed an extra 383 million pounds of herbicide on GMOs. Overuse of Roundup results in resistant to the herbicide. This is causing farmers to use even more toxic herbicides every year. Not only does this create environmental harm, GM foods contain higher residues of toxic herbicides. Roundup, for example, is linked with sterility, hormone disruption, birth defects, and cancer. He also says that genetic engineering creates dangerous side effects by mixing genes from totally unrelated species, genetic engineering unleashes a host of unpredictable side effects. Moreover, irrespective of the type of genes that are inserted, the very process of creating a GM plant can result in massive collateral damage that produces new toxins, allergens, carcinogens, and nutritional deficiencies. Similarly, Smith states that GMOs harm the environment. He goes on to explain that GM crops and their associated herbicides can harm birds, insects, amphibians, marine ecosystems, and soil organisms. They reduce bio-diversity, pollute water resources, and Chakar Thompson ENC 1101- Mrs N. Carr April 02,2017 are unsustainable. For example, GM crops are eliminating habitat for monarch butterflies, whose populations are down 50% in the US. Roundup herbicide has been shown to cause birth defects in amphibians, embryonic deaths and endocrine disruptions, and organ damage in animals even at very low doses. GM canola has been found growing wild in North Dakota and California, threatening to pass on its herbicide tolerant genes on to weeds. GMOs do not increase yields, and work against feeding a hungry world. Whereas sustainable non-GMO agricultural methods used in developing countries have conclusively resulted in yield increases of 79% and higher, GMOs do not, on average, increase yields at all. This was evident in the Union of Concerned 2009 report Failure to definitive study to date on GM crops and yield. The International Assessment of Agricultural Knowledge, Science and Technology for Development (IAASTD) report, authored by more than 400 scientists and backed by 58 governments, stated that GM crop yields were and in some cases, The report noted, of the technology lags behind its development, information is anecdotal and contradictory, and uncertainty about possible benefits and damage is They determined that the current GMOs have nothing to offer the goals of reducing hunger and poverty, improving nutrition, health and rural livelihoods, and facilitating social and environmental Since the introduction of commercial gmo crops in 1976 there has been broad speculation against the use of in farming. These speculations are largely opinionative and there are currently no scientific studies that prove the claims suggested by Smith and other non-gmo organisations. Groups like these are usually pro-organic farming. Battles are fought against TOs everyday outlining the negative effects of gene technology on humans. But Ronald.P(2013) takes a look into the triumphs of GMOs, GE papaya, engineered to withstand a devastating viral infection, has been similarly successful. First developed in 1998, it is now grown by 99 percent of Chinese and about 70 percent of Hawaiian papaya farmers. The GE papaya carries a snippet of the viral genome that immunizes it against infection. Conventional and organic papayas, which lack resistance, are infected with thousands-fold higher levels of the virus. There is currently no other or can adequately control the disease. Genetic engineering can be used not only to combat pests and diseases, but also to enable farmers to use less harmful chemicals to control crop-choking weeds. That is why 80-90 percent of the cotton, corn, soybeans, and sugar beets grown by U.S. farmers Chakar Thompson ENC 1101- Mrs N. Carr April 02,2017 is genetically engineered for resistance to an herbicide called glyphosate. Farmers and home gardeners prefer glyphosate because it is much less toxic than earlier herbicides; indeed, the Environmental Protection worst case risk assessment of many registered food uses concludes that human dietary exposure and risk are  Glyphosate kills the weeds but not the herbicide-tolerant crop. This approach greatly reduces the need for ploughing or digging, the conventional and organic method for controlling weeds. In Argentina and the United States, the use of herbicide-tolerant soybeans is associated with a 25-58 percent decrease in the number of tillage operations. Such reduced tillage practices correlate with reduced soil erosion and a significant drop in greenhouse gas emissions. In 2005 the decreased tillage that accompanied planting of herbicide-tolerant soybeans was equivalent to removing 4 million cars from the roads. There are dozens of other useful traits in the GE pipeline: nitrogen-efficient crops that reduce fertilizer run off; golden rice, a provitamin A-enriched rice; cassava that is resistant to viral infection; and drought-tolerant corn. At the laboratory at the University of California, Davis has genetically engineered rice for tolerance to flooding and resistance to disease. Some of these crops, such as cassava and golden rice, are important to poor farmers and their families in developing countries who lack nutrients and cannot pay the price of improved seed. Consumption of golden rice, within the normal diet of rice-dependent poor populations, could provide sufficient vitamin A to reduce substantially the estimated 2,2000-6,850 deaths caused every day by vitamin A deficiency and save the sight of several hundred thousand people per year. This  approach complements conventional supplementation, such as the World Health distribution of Vitamin A pills, which costs many times more and often does not reach the rural poor who have little access to roads. These well-documented benefits of GE crops, which have been repeated around the world, appear to be precisely the kind of triumph of biology over chemicals envisioned by Rachel Carson, food security experts, and organic farmers who have long dreamed of reducing the use of synthetic chemicals and enhancing biological diversity on farms. Considering our long history of plant genetic manipulation and the success of modern GE seeds in enhancing the sustainability of our farms and food supplies, why do some consumers still express grave unease over the planting of GE crops? Much of the concern relates to a general distrust of large corporations, in particular, Monsanto, which produces a large proportion Chakar Thompson ENC 1101- Mrs N. Carr April 02,2017 of the seeds. GE opponents fear that such corporations are taking advantage of farmers. Yet one need only observe the overwhelming farmer adoption of GE crops in the United States and elsewhere to conclude that the GE crop varieties on the market are useful to farmers. It is unlikely that experienced and skilled farmers would buy GE seeds if their farm operations did not benefit economically. Many U.S. farmers prefer Bt seed because it reduces reliance on sprayed insecticides that can harm farm workers and the environment. A recent Supreme Court case. Bowman v. Monsanto, highlighted the lengths farmers will go to obtain the seed, even when non-GE conventional alternatives are available. The practice of buying seeds from seed companies has been criticized by opponents of GE seed. But seed purchasing is the norm in any non-subsistence farming system, whether or not the seed is genetically engineered, a fact that points to the abundant misinformation that plagues the debate over genetic engineering of crops. Farmers often prefer to buy hybrid seed, a type of seed that inherits its useful traits, such as high yield, from two genetically distinct parents. These beneficial traits are lost in the second generation, so it makes no sense to save the seed from a crop and replant. The production of hybrid seed benefits the farmers, who are able to reap the advantages of the high-yielding seed, and the seed companies, which are able to reap a tidy profit each year the farmer buys the seed. Seed companies do produce seeds that can be replanted, but they are often lower yielding or susceptible to disease, which is why many crops grown by conventional and organic farmers are hybrids. Hybrid seed is not generated through genetic engineering and has been available since the 1920s. Genetic engineering does not, in and of itself, affect the ability of farmers to save their seed. The priority for Monsanto and other for-profit seed companies is to produce high-quality seed for farmers in the developed world who can pay for them. But most farmers live in less developed countries and grow crops such as cassava or rice, which are not a priority for crop improvement in the developed world. For this reason, we need strong investment in public-sector research to develop improved seed for farmers who otherwise cannot afford it. We also need regulation of the seed industry to ensure fair dealing and to avoid the rise of a single company monopolizing the seed supply. Today, more and more countries are exploring the use of genetic engineering for a greater variety of crops. Currently there are 30 commercialized GE crops cultivated worldwide. By 2015 there will be more than 120. Therefore the heavy criticisms faced by GM crops and other will continue, as it presents itself as the most sustainable option for any country in regards to Chakar Thompson ENC 1101- Mrs N. Carr April 02,2017 sustainable health care, food and agriculture. The risk assessments done by governmental organisations on the introduction of gmos proved itself viable in regulating GMO commerce. However as we look forward in discovering more uses for gene technology, new rules and safety standards should be developed for GMO markets and our environment. It can now clearly be established that currently, gmos are just as safe as regular organisms and do not pose any risks whether it is environmental or health related. References Chakar Thompson ENC 1101- Mrs N. Carr April 02,2017 (i) Kuiper, H. A., & Davies, H. V. (2010). The safe foods risk analysis framework suitable for gmos? A Case Study. Food Control, 1662-1676. doi:10.1016/j.foodcont.2010.02.011. (ii) Sax, J. K., & Doran, N. (2016). Food labeling and consumer associations with health, safety, and environment. Journal of Law, Medicine & Ethics, 44(4), 630-638. doi:10.1177/107311051668480 (iii)Paes de Andrade, P., Lima F. J., Colli, W., Dellagostin,O. A., Finardi-Filho, F., Hiroyuki Hirata, M., & ... Bodanese Zanettini, M. H. (2016). Use of transgenic aedes aegypti in Brazil: Risk perception and assessment. Bulletin Of The World Health Organization, 94(10), 766-771. doi:10.2471/BLT.16.173377 (iv)Deng, P., Zhou, X., Zhou, P., Du, Z., Hou, H., Yang, D., & ... Yang, Y. (2008). Edible safety requirements and assessment standards for agricultural genetically modified organisms. Food And Chemical Toxicology, (v)Lee, M. (2008). EU Regulation of GMOs : Law and Decision Making for a New Technology. Cheltenham, UK: Edward Elgar Publishing. (vi) Russell, A. W. (2008). GMOs and their contexts: A comparison of potential and actual performance of GM crops in a local agricultural setting. (vii) Ronald, P. (2013). The truth about (cover story). Boston Review, 38(5), 16-32. Chakar Thompson ENC 1101- Mrs N. Carr April 02,2017 (viii) Kolb, R. W. (2007). The ethics of genetic commerce. Malden, MA ; Oxford : Blackwell Pub., 2007. (ix) Brookes.G & BarfootP GM crops: global socio-economic and environmental impacts 1996- 2014, PG Economics Ltd, UK ,2016 (x)Benbrook, Charles, Impacts of Genetically Engineered Crops on Pesticide Use in the United States: The First Thirteen  The Organic Center, 2009, p.1126 (xi) Fleming, James Rodger, Historical Perspectives on Climate Change, Oxford University Press, New York, 1998, page 117.