Emily Coniglio ENC1101 Instructor Carr April 5, 2017 Misconceptions of the Falsely Revered President: Andrew Jackson Former President Andrew Jackson is often listed in the top ten or twenty of presidential ranking lists illustrated by popular institutions such as Siena Research Institute and the Cable-Satellite Public Affairs Network. Seeing Jackson ranked so high on the polls leave researchers baffled. Presidents like Abraham Lincoln and Franklin D. Roosevelt have good reasons to be listed so high because they were Presidents during the biggest wars in the country, advocated change for the nation, and was overall liked by citizens. Concerning his presidency from 1829 to 1837, Jackson did not accomplish anything phenomenal regarding to legislations. He was commonly known for his stubborn attitude, violent outbursts to his staff, and he was responsible for the deaths of thousands of Native Americans and placing the country into jeopardy after rejecting a Second Back of the United States. Despite all of this, Jackson is still praised as one of the greatest Presidents for expanding the land of the United States, participating in the war efforts for years, and being very relatable to the common man. The early was a century of exploration for the United States with the purchase of Louisiana during Thomas presidency. Andrew Jackson, who was inspired by the Founding Father, continued to expand the country under the impression of Manifest Destiny. Manifest Destiny is the nineteenth century belief that the expansion of the United States was both justified and inevitable under the words of God. Naturally, Christianity was the biggest religion in the country at the time, and Andrew Jackson was no exception. given right to expanding the country was not the only reason Jackson made the country grow physically. Jackson believed that Native Americans used their land carelessly and it fair that white men had less land. Jackson initiated the Indian Removal Act in 1832 to relocate Native Americans to South-West locations in Oklahoma and some parts of Mississippi. According to John Kirn (2016), an American historian who wrote about attempts at buying Native land in President Andrew Jackson, Cherokee Chief John Ross, and a Great American Land Grab, Jackson believed removal was necessary to save Native Americans from (p. 673). However, was the cost of innocent Native American lives during the Trail of Tears necessary to achieve land expansion? I do not believe so. Andrew Jackson has a history of hate with Native Americans since he has fought the in the War of 1812. Despite adopting an Indian orphan named Lyncoya, he did so after he and his troops killed his family. Therefore, Andrew Jackson has too many contradictions with his history of Native Americans to be considered a worthy President. Out of all of the U.S. Presidents, twenty-six of them were in the military and participated in wars. People of this country have always took pride in their military; and typically, voters would rather have a President with military background because they show immense amount of patriotism and are experienced in military strategy since they will be Commander in Chief. Andrew Jackson volunteered during Revolutionary War as a courier, then was captured along with his brother and mistreated by the British. Most notably though was his involvement in the War of 1812 as General of the U.S. Army. He defeated the British in the Battle of New Orleans during this war and was proclaimed as a national hero. However, the Battle of New Orleans was not an ordered battle. In fact, this battle started after a treaty ended the War of 1812, revealing that the Battle of New Orleans was entirely strategized by Jackson. Yes, he may have won the short battle; but, this shows how he acted spontaneously to his feelings. This occurs again during his presidency when he rejected the Second Bank of the United States out of fear of capitalism. Obviously, this is a pattern that Jackson portrays where he acts out if something may not go his way. To voters, Andrew Jackson was a real person and not just a politician who are typically stereotyped as not caring for the people. Jackson was the first President to not be a Founding Father, as well as the first completely Democratic President. Democrats are usually labelled to be for the people. Citizens possibly being involved with the presidency is one of the reasons why Jackson was chosen as President. To show his gratitude, Jackson allowed commoners to celebrate his inauguration as President by inviting them to the White House. The citizens portrayed themselves rudely and unorderly to the point where Jackson had to escape his own home. One of the sophisticated party guests, Supreme Justice Joseph Story, explained the event as mansion (being) overrun by immense crowds of all sorts of people, from the highest and most polished down to the most vulgar and gross in the (Smith, 2005, p. 53). attempts to be a man of the people were also tested when removing Native Americans from their homes. If he really was a man of the people, then that include all types of people living in the country, including Native Americans and slaves? Many Presidents after Andrew Jackson have stated their inspiration from him. James K. Polk, the eleventh President of the United States, stated that he has admired Jackson since he was a child and continued to spread Manifest Destiny to expand the country even more as President, adding states such as California and Texas. Other Presidents may have not directly been motivated by Andrew Jackson; however, they have passed similarly horrendous legislations. For examples, Franklin D. Roosevelt ordered all Japanese-Americans into internment camps out of fear of them being Japanese spies after the Pearl Harbor attack, and Donald Trump banned Muslims and Middle Eastern refugees from travelling to the United States out of fear of them being terrorists associated with ISIS. These events and reasons sound awfully similar to spontaneous acts out of fear, which is not a good trait for a leader at all. Also, throughout the centuries, people have tolerated racism and bigotry less, resulting in citizens realizing that Andrew Jackson is a horrible example of a great President. References Bateman A., Elness C., Tran D., & Macdonald N., & B. (2012, February 23). Andrew Shifting Legacy. Retrieved April 05, 2017, from https://www.gilderlehrman.org/history-by-era/age-jackson/essays/andrew-jackson%E2% 80%99s-shifting-legacy Bertman, S. (2004). Andrew Jackson: savage sophisticate; Andy choice of trappings for the Hermitage, his home near Nashville, Tennessee, reveals a literary, scientific, compassionate side of the warrior, Indian hater and ruthless politician. American (2), 40. Smith, J. (2005). Lords (and ladies) of misrule: Carnival, scandal, and satire in the age of Andrew Jackson. In American (12), 53. Remini, R. V. (2001). Andrew Jackson Versus the Cherokee Nation. (3), Kirn, J. F. (2016). Jacksonland: President Andrew Jackson, Cherokee Chief John Ross, and a Great American Land Grab. Of Southern (3), 672. Whaples, R. (2014). Were Andrew policies for the (4), 545. Anderson, G. C. (2016).The Native Peoples of the American West: Genocide or Ethnic Cleansing?. Historical 47(4), 407-433.