Saad Alghamdi ENC 1101 April 9, 2017 Global Car Production Seals and Effect On Our Environment Through the years, people have invented so many ways to improve their ways of living and live in some higher standards due to the inventions that helped them live and easy life style. We live in a modern world that requires us to move on as it moves on. The technology that we have helped us to travel to the moon. Many of us do not know what are the advantage and disadvantages of this invention that we have in our hands. One of those inventions are cars. Those cars are used by almost every human on a daily basis. Cars have helped us in many different ways in the past until our present day. The main benefit is that they have helped people to move and travel thousands of miles around the glob in short time and have helped in bringing people closer to each other every day. Over the history, car production had changed and developed more then what we think. This paper present some of the changes and the developments of global car companies as well as historical insights on the reasons of car production success and failure. In this paper, I will be arguing for the reasons that some factories used and developed themselves and therefore, resulted in the modern cars we have today. Many of the sources I read have talked about the achievements the factories, while few discussed the failures and the reasons behind them. For the purpose if this paper, I will discuss and argue for solutions that will help few car manufacturers enhance their performance and production. Cutcher-Gershenfeld, J. Brooks, D. Mulloy, M. (2015) The Decline and Resurgence of the U.S. Auto  Economic Policy Institute. Retrieved from: http://www.epi.org/publication/the-decline-and-resurgence-of-the-u-s-auto-industry/ The authors Cutcher-Gershenfeld, Brooks, and Mulloy, (2015) in their article The Decline and Resurgence of the U.S. Auto had discussed how did the United State of America auto industry had developed. They also had talked to us about how did the industry changed through the time. They mainly discussed how big the numbers of the industry and what did the factories achieve in the past years. They shared examples of many factories to compare in between and give us the chance to see how big the numbers are. In the other hand, they did not discuss in details the steps those factories followed to achieve such successes. In my opinion, I believe that success is achieved through a combination between how many seals the factories can make and how papule they are to the people. Witch many of those companies are not doing. I also believe that those companies need to be helping people to have better serves if the people pay cars form them. Automobiles & the  Automobiles & the Environment Greener Cars. N.p., n.d. Web. 09 Apr. 2017 : http://www.greenercars.org/why-buy-green/automobiles-environment Second point is, the article in this website talks about what cars are doing to our plant witch is one of the things people do not think about most of the time. It also tells us what are the cities and countries who are effected the most by cars production. As it is missioned the article impacts start with mineral extraction and the production of the raw materials that go into the parts of a car. For example, iron ore gets turned into steel, which now accounts for most of the mass in (greenercars nd). The author and I agree that most of these factories if not all, are effecting the environment in many ways. People need to start considering those problems and act to them and find a solation. Sackman, J. (2016, March 29th). Automotive Companies That Retrieved from: http://www.goliath.com/auto/10-automotive-companies-that-failed/ Third article is talking about why did many factories failed in the past. In the 1900s a lot of cars production factories have failed to progress, succeed and be one of the best. The author tells what happened in the past with those factories, but still many other reasons happened in my opinion. Those factories had failed in the past according to the article because they did not have a good business administration. For an example, Stutz company failed in 1930s because they could not compete with other companies. In my opinion, Stutz company did fail because there were to many companies in the past and there was not a lot of people paying cars at the time. Also people did not know the worth of cars at that time and helpful they can be.