John Vargas 4/9/17 Carr Project 3 Intermediate Draft Have you seen the news recently? School shootings, kidnappings, threats of nuclear war, this has to be one of the most dangerous time periods in human history, right? Actually quite the opposite. Murder rates are at an all-time low, infant mortality is drastically reduced in many countries, and we are living longer than ever before. But you would never know this if you read the newspaper or watched your local news. Crimes now are sensationalized for the purpose of gaining more viewers and having flashy headlines. In this paper I will be explaining how this is the safest time period in human history while also providing counterarguments and examining their point of view. begin with infant mortality rates. Infant mortality rates have been a useful indicator of the health of a countries population for decades. The infant mortality rate is the number of children that die before they reach the age of one, per one thousand. In the United States the infant mortality rate was 5.80 per 1000. For reference, the lowest rate was Monaco with 1.8 per 1000 and the highest was Afghanistan at 112.8 per 1000. This data is from the CIA in the year 2016. The reason this number is significant is because a majority of these deaths occur from poor medical conditions, which means that this is a good indicator for a countries medical care. In modern news many publishers aim for the wow factor and a sort of shock and awe journalism. The goal of this modern journalist to deliver the full story and present the reader with facts; to generate clicks on their websites. For the more views they get the more they make. You will constantly see links to articles online that are along the lines of super drug cures or in small however if you read those articles you will find a flower with no medical test conducted and a student hitting his teacher with a paper airplane. And no matter how outlandish these articles are the companies printing them receive little to no backlash while profiting from this misinformation. You will never turn on CNN or Fox news and see the local Girl Scout raising money for veterans, you will see to groups trying to add their own twist to what the president ate for lunch and how its either leading to a nuclear winter or a conspiracy from the opposing party to gain power. This infant mortality statistic is great news as we have been getting healthier and healthier for decades, but you hear about that. You do hear about the new plague that will end life as we know it however. News organization are using these scare tactics in order to keep viewers and readers caught in a vicious cycle of fear mongering.