Salem1 Dave Salem Carr Composition 1 April 2, 2017 Gun Laws and their effects Every year gun laws become more and more strict and the split between owning guns or not becomes more and more defined. Now days either a crazy redneck if for owning firearms or a tree hugging liberal if you want them. But at the bottom of the day it should boil down to statistics. I personally have always been one of those people to rather have something and not need it then to need something and not have it. And with watching the media, it seems like there are (terrorist) attacks every other week! More people are pushing for gun laws every day because they believe that guns are bad and they are to blame for people murdering other people. And not the case, a gun is not going to grow a conscious and decide to shoot someone. Only a person can do that. People need to realize that bad people do bad things and whether gun laws or not. The fact is that people will find a way to hurt other people, gun or not, if driven enough. Now that is where I believe in owning firearms for hunting and safety and also believe in laws like conceal carry that allows you to take a Salem1 course and get a background check to be allowed to conceal a handgun in the case of an attack. And of course since these are deadly weapons were talking about there are many people that agree with this law, which is completely understandable. Well this essay is to inform the reader and back up with statistics just how ironically helpful guns can really be. Major Points(not in order) gun ownership in heavy crime areas vs light crime Gun statistics in heavy crime areas vs small amount of crime areas Times guns have saved lives Review of gun laws/popular vocab How restricting guns make any sense because a restriction mean to someone that listen to them Concealed weapons summary Safe zones http://americangunfacts.com counterclaims: we have more safe safe zones are dangerous and then ill prove with statistics Salem1 do more harm then Every year, guns are used over 80x more often to protect a life than to take Americangunfacts.com Bibliography: (might change one or two) 1. Tim. (2008, June 17). When Did Gun Control Start In America? 2. Fennell, R. (2009). Concealed Carry Weapon Permits: A Second Amendment Right or a Recipe for Disaster on Our Campuses?. Journal Of American College Health, 58(2), 99-100. doi:10.1080/07448480903340338 3. Barone, E. (2016). One Nation, Up In Arms. Time, (16). 4. Emerson, E. (2016). Scientific evidence should inform politicized debates. Science News, 189(10), 2.