Edward Rivera Carr ENC1101 4/9/17 Project 3: The Necessity for Quantum Computing to Evolve Technology has done nothing but increase at an astounding rate for the past century. You go more than a year without some major improvement in everyday items, going from rotary telephones to tiny computers in our pockets in a matter of 30 years, or vehicles that run completely on electricity. It seems in the last few years though that we seemed to have reached a point of stagnation. While things like phones do get incremental changes on an annual basis, there been any big change such as going from flip phones to going completely touch screen. Technology is currently in a state where companies and business ventures are stuck adding small tweaks to already great inventions. What could possibly get us out of this slump? How about a new technology that is able to process information on global, even galactic, levels? Or something that could learn without human interaction or updates? Ever heard of a quantum computer? computing is a new field of science aiming to use quantum phenomena in order to perform operations on (Barila 1) Quantum computing is a necessity for humankind to get out of the stagnant status of technology we are currently experiencing. With the use of quantum computing, we can overcome obstacles that were physically and digitally impossible for us.There are three main reasons why the capabilities of quantum systems: 1) big data processing, 2) large scale problem solving, and 3) the ability for quantum computers to learn from previous data. The amount of raw processing power available in quantum computers goes beyond what current supercomputers (very powerful, non-quantum computers) are capable of due to the of two state quantum systems called qubits. Unlike the bits in computers which can be either 0 or 1, qubits can be placed in arbitrary superpositions + and entangled with each (Fowler 1). In simpler terms, a qubit can be a 1 and a o at the exact same time. Data from millions of different sources could be processed in mere seconds just because of the availability of that third bit variable. This is where large scale problem solving comes in. As I mentioned before, we are constantly looking for ways to improve current technology. Using information from many different companies, we can feed it into a quantum computer and allow it to look at the data to find more efficient ways to make things. This is important since one of the biggest factors stopping technological advancement is the high cost of more powerful technology. This is where the final, and arguably the most important, point comes in: the ability for the quantum computer to teach itself how to better deal with this data. Quantum systems are able to find trends in the data, and figure our where to improve, allowing for technology to be found on the fly, things we could never dream of. to classical computing, quantum algorithms are developed long before any large-scale practical quantum computer is physically (Lee 1) This is where the counterargument can be made. There are no viable quantum computer available to prove this theorem. We have not needed quantum computing thus far to make any of our current advancements, but it usually takes the finding of a new technology to allow for the flourishing of society. Just look at what the industrial revolution did for the entire world. Bibliography: A. a. (2015). Quantum Computing - A New Implementation of Simon Algorithm for 3-Dimensional Registers. Journal Of Applied Computer Science & Mathematics, (19), 23-30 Fisher, A. J. (2003). Quantum Computing in the Solid State: The Challenge Decoherence. Philosophical Transactions: Mathematical, Physical and Engineering Sciences, (1808). 1441. Lee, Y. H., Khalil-Hani, M., & Marsono, M. N. (2016). An FPGA-Based Quantum Computing Emulation Framework Based on Serial-Parallel Architecture. International Journal Of Reconfigurable Computing, 1-18. Fowler, A. G., Thompson, W. F., & Yan, Z. (2008). Long-range Coupling and Scalable Architecture for Superconducting Flux Qubits. Canadian Journal Of Physics, 86(4), 533- 540