Running head: [CHILD 1 [Ttitle for Project Elijah A.Langlois Nancy Carr University of South Florida CHILD MARRIAGE 2 Abstract [ Key Words: Child Marriage, consent, bad, CHILD MARRIAGE 3 Introduction [I cannot think of a good Child Marriage should not be allowed because it hinders the development of the body, maturity education, social skills, and denies children their basic human rights of being able to consent. Some of the counterarguments you might hear will be along the lines of the parents decision to decided whether their children get married and that people want to keep marriage traditional. Talks about the importance of marriage age: Social skill In the article, How Useful are the Demographic Surveys in Explaining the Determinants of Early Marriage of Girls in the Terai of , Nepali (2008) claims that, at marriage has a significant effect on fertility, maternal mortality, infant and child mortality, and other social and economic characteristics, such as level of education and labour force participation (Shryock et al 1971). Hence, age at marriage is one of the most fundamental issues that affect the lives of women and children. Early marriage can deprive girls of their overall social and economic development; it is therefore important to examine this issue not only from a demographic perspective, but also from the perspective of social (p.208) Affects the education (2008) claims that, from the Nepal Adolescent and Young Adult (NAYA) Survey, 1999 shows that out of 304 and 316 married females from the Hills and Terai regions CHILD MARRIAGE 4 who dropped out of school, 42.8 per cent and 43.4 per cent respectively did so because they got married. Among them, 2.6 per cent and 1.6 per cent of women in the Hills and Terai regions stopped going to school because they became pregnant either within or outside marriage. This situation ultimately reduces the chance of girls becoming more educated and it is therefore more likely that they marry at an earlier age. This further reduces their opportunity for finding employment in the public sector or gaining economic independence, which also has a positive relationship with age at (p.211) Counterargument(s) plays a central role in perpetuating child marriage. Parents want to ensure their financial security; however, daughters are considered an economic burden. Feeding, clothing, and educating girls is costly, and girls will eventually leave the household. A only way to recover its investment in a daughter may be to have her married in exchange for a worry about ensuring their virginity and chastity. Child marriage is also seen as a protective mechanism against premarital sexual activity, unintended pregnancies, and sexually transmitted diseases CHILD MARRIAGE 5 [Conclusion goes References: Gangoli, G., McCarry, M., & Razak, A. (2009). Child marriage or forced marriage? south asian communities in north east england. Children & Society, 23(6), 418-429 Mikhail, S. B. (2002). Child marriage and child prostitution: two forms of sexual exploitation. Gender & Development, 10(1), 43. Nour, N. M. (2006). Health consequences of child marriage in Africa. Emerging Infectious Diseases, (11), 1644. Sah, N. (2008). How useful are the demographic surveys in explaining the determinants of early marriage of girls in the terai of nepal?. Of Population 25(2), 207. Erulkar, A., & Muthengi, E. (2009). Evaluation of berhane hewan: a program to delay child marriage in rural ethiopia. international perspectives on sexual and reproductive health, 35(1), 6-14.