Running head: TITLE OF YOUR PAPER 1 Argumentative Essay Bernardo Alves Osellame University of South Florida TITLE OF YOUR PAPER 2 Abstract The widespread usage of tobacco in first world nations strains the national healthcare systems to a startling degree. If 80% of a population consumes it on a daily basis, a national healthcare system would need to provide cancer treatments to a 80% of a population within 50 years of a inception. Unfortunately, the tax leverage required to maintain such a system would severely hamper a economic output. Either the governing body abandons national healthcare as a staple policy, or enacts the curtailing of several other branches to accommodate funds for healthcare should tax levies prove insufficient. Tobacco usage compromises national healthcare systems, reduces the lifespans of entire population groups, and disrupts the economic output of a population by preventing individuals from reaching ages in which their usage in a service based economy would present the greatest impact. TITLE OF YOUR PAPER 3 Argumentative Essay Regarding the Various Determinants of Smoking Tobacco usage compromises national healthcare systems, reduces the lifespans of entire population groups, and disrupts the economic output of a population by preventing individuals from reaching ages in which their usage in a service based economy would present the greatest impact. Tobacco poses a fantastic threat to chronological development of populations. Instead of a steadily aging population developing with an eventual plateau of equal birth and death rates, high tobacco usage warps the population into a high peak of individuals within their biological peak, followed by a steady, but sharp decline in the prevalence of a certain populations age group. RR value for all-cause mortality associated with current cigarette smoking has increased over the last 50 years as of smokers who began smoking as adolescents and continued to smoke into middle and older ages have incurred the consequences of persistent lifetime (The Health Consequences of Smoking-50 Years of Progress, pg.636, 2014) Many nations which currently suffer from high tobacco consumption rates focus on industrial economies, where peak efficiency is the most important tool for economic output and progression. However, without a progressing middle age population base the likelihood of quickly transitioning into a service economy drops exponentially, if not being wiped out in its entirety. Unfortunately, global tobacco industries seek to push back against the flood of medical and economic data in a rather immoral attempt to maintain revenue. Philip-Morris commissioned a report in the year 2000 after the Czech health ministry issued a statement claiming the health costs of smoking outweighed the fiscal benefits to the Czech economy. The report claims finance saved between 943 mil. CZK and 1,193 mil. TITLE OF YOUR PAPER 4 CZK (realistic estimate:1,193 mil. CZK) from reduced health-care costs, savings on pensions and housing costs for the elderly -- all related to the early mortality of (Arthur D. Little, 2000) This callous disregard for human life underscores the need for further awareness of the machinations of the greedy. Indeed, if economic benefits were all rated by this standard it is quite likely i would not exist to write this paper. Worldwide tobacco consumption retrogrades populations in ways only wars or mass tragedies could accomplish, and the world should treat it as such. Overwhelming information from studies ranging from the 1940s to present should end the consumption of such a product, yet this is not the case. Addicted and uninformed individuals supported by horrifyingly indifferent reports (regarding the value of human life) continue to garner incentives for the production of the most massed consumed toxin. Without widespread public awareness, this issue will never see an end. TITLE OF YOUR PAPER 5 References United States. US Department of Health and Public Services. Surgeon General. The Health Consequences of Smoking-50 Years of Progress. N.p.: n.p., n.d. Surgeongeneral.gov. U.S. DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES, 2014. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Little, A. D., International, Inc. (2000). Public Finance Balance of Smoking in the Czech Republic. Public Finance Balance of Smoking in the Czech Republic, 1-29. Retrieved April 30, pmczechstudy.pdf