MacMillan 1 Kelcie MacMillan ENC 1102 H. Campbell 4/17/2017 Vaccination Advocacy: How You Can Change the World One of the most debated issues regarding child healthcare in present day is child vaccination. As the world continues to advance technologically and medically, the public becomes more uncertain as to whether vaccines are safe, effective, and necessary. Vaccines were first introduced in 1796 by Edward Jenner who administered a vaccination used for smallpox. This specific vaccination was used 200 years thereafter, with slight modification over time in order to achieve the best results Hospital of Philadelphia). Edward discoveries in science helped pave a way for scientists after him and revolutionized disease prevention and treatment. As science and medicine advances, more vaccinations are being developed and improved in order to maximize effectiveness. Programs have been put in place so that Americans can have easy access to vaccines at little to no cost. Due to the added health benefits and preventative healthcare that vaccines bring, people should continually advocate for the distribution of vaccines in the United States as well as across the globe in order to lower child mortality rates, specifically in areas of poverty. A very involved organization in the science, distribution, and education of the public about vaccines is the Center for Disease Control (CDC). The CDC, founded in 1946, has been a supporter of vaccinations since its creation. This government-run and funded organization as the national focus for developing and applying disease prevention and control, environmental health, MacMillan 2 and health promotion and health education activities designed to improve the health of the people of the United (Center for Disease Control). The CDC recommends 9 different kinds of vaccinations (with multiple doses of each) for children by age 6, and it is estimated that 10 million vaccines are administered yearly to children 1 year old and younger in the United States. (VAERS Database) The CDC spends years creating different combinations and testing them on numerous vaccines. It is estimated that before a vaccine can even reach the shelves, it spends ten or more years undergoing rigorous tests for any and every possible future reaction. Because of the extensive wealth of research that the CDC provides, and the success of this organization as a whole, it can be trusted by parents and doctors alike. Vaccinations are important to a life because of the protection that they bring. It is estimated that, averts an estimated 2 to 3 million deaths every year from diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis (whooping cough), and (WHO) Although some vaccinations may seem such as in the case of more common illnesses like chickenpox, it is still important to remember that access to vaccination is a privilege and it should be taken advantage of in order to save a child from discomfort and a parent from excess medical expenses down the road. While there are many things still unknown about what can cause an adverse reaction to different vaccinations, it is far better to make sure your children are vaccinated than not. The extra protection could not only help your child, but every other child that comes in contact with them as well. A common, and understandable, concern that many parents have regarding vaccines is the fact that some vaccines contain harmful chemicals. The chemicals in vaccinations, while fatal in some cases, are harmless because of the very small presence they have in the composition. MacMillan 3 Increasing public support and use of vaccinations can not only change the United States, but has the opportunity to change the world. It is estimated that if worldwide vaccination coverage is continually pursued, at least an additional 1.5 million deaths could be avoided. (WHO) Vaccinating your children for their safety and protection from preventable diseases is one of the greatest things you can do for them. Not only does vaccinating your child protect them, but it also protects the people around them. If there is no way for a disease to be spread, then it will not pass from child to child. Informing other parents about the benefits of vaccination is also a good way to advocate for vaccines. Some parents are unaware of the resources available to them and do not realize just how important vaccinations are. Donating to organizations like UNICEF USA can help fund vaccinations for children living in poverty. Helping other countries in need of vaccines will not only strengthen ties between the United States and other nations, but will end up saving millions of lives all over the world. Vaccinations are a necessary part of a early life and it is a responsibility to be timely with vaccinations and make sure that the child is as protected as possible. The safety of not only a child, but the other children that could be effected by communicable diseases is as good of a reason as any to be driven to get your child vaccinated. Continued development and distribution of vaccines will be able to help not only the United States, but the world. The benefits of vaccination far outweigh the risks, and with time, support, and research there is hope for continued progress for vaccinations. MacMillan 4 Sources: Hospital of Philadelphia, All Timelines  www.chop.edu. Accessed April 15, 2017.  UNICEF Inspired Gifts. Nov. 2016. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. ProConorg Headlines. Vaccines  Dec. 2016. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. VAERS Data. VAERS - Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting  Jan. 2017. Web. 17 Apr. 2017. World Health Organization. World Health Organization, June 2016. Web. 17 Apr. 2017.