Running head: Re-envisioning of Solitary Confinement 1 Joining the Conversation: Re-envisioning the Practice of Solitary Confinement Sahelle Rolles University of South Florida Instructor Carr Re-envisioning The Practice of Solitary Confinement 2 Abstract This paper is going to give insight on why Solitary Confinement should not be completely banned. Solitary confinement is used to keep someone away from others. Whether it is because they can hurt others or because others can hurt them solitary confinement gives them a safe space. Throughout this paper there will also be points of view from those who believe that solitary confinement should stop being used completely. This predominantly is true for these people when it comes down to the use of isolation with juveniles. But regardless of this this paper will show that there are moments where the use of isolation on juveniles is more than needed. Re-envisioning The Practice of Solitary Confinement 3 On January 25, 2016, President Barack Obama announced a ban on the use of solitary confinement at the federal level. Obama made this ban because solitary confinement became wildly overused and had very negative side effects on the mental health of not only the adults but also the children who are placed in them. According to Juliet Eilperin, a writer at the Washington Post, president outlines a series of executive actions that also prohibits federal corrections officials from punishing prisoners who commit with solitary 2016). This means that the inmates who are not a big threat to anyone will not be forced into solitary confinement for any reason that the officer sees fit unless the inmate has done something that is in violation of the rules in the prison, like hurting or attempting to hurt other inmates or officers. Because of the ban on solitary confinement was at the federal prison level only, this left state prisons and local jails free to continue placing inmates in isolation without having to follow any rules. This allowed them to do what they left was best for their institutions and what they deemed was the necessary use of solitary confinement in their hands. Based on my research, I believe that state prisons and local jails should redefine their use of solitary confinement instead of getting rid of it altogether. After the clear offered by administration on what they believe should be done with solitary confinement those who support this choose have become more vocal. I believe that by redefining solitary confinement, instead of banning its use, will allow those who advocate for the ban and lawmakers to see that it is not an act of malice meant to make people sick. They will also see that it is a useful tool that can both provide consequences and rehabilitation for the juveniles and others who are placed in isolation. Re-envisioning The Practice of Solitary Confinement 4 Advocates are more in favor of banning solitary confinement because they believe that the health issues that have been discovered are a result of being placed in isolation. These reformers believe that the health issues have had a severe impact on the inmates as a result of not having any form of stimulation for their mind and no form of human contact. There are scholars who have the same mindset as President Obama. These scholars believe that states and local jails should end solitary confinement because of how harmful they believe it has become when it comes to the mental, physical, and emotional health of the children and those who are mentally ill, pregnant, or have any other form of medical issues. Lisa C. Castillo, a scholarly author, who wrote, Iowa Should Ban Juvenile Solitary In this article, Castillo states that Iowa should follow in the footsteps of California and completely get rid of solitary confinement when it comes to juveniles because it violates the Eighth Amendment, which calls for no cruel and unusual punishments. She also goes on to say that by isolating juveniles, there was a violation of the Eighth Amendment because the children do not yet have fully developed brains and the isolation could cause a lack of growth in the brain. I believe that Castillo makes a valid point because through research that I have done I have found that children need to be able to interact with others in order to develop the correct emotions to have towards others and also allows the children to correctly develop brain function at a pace that is normal Admittedly, though I can see why Castillo would be on the side of banning solitary confinement, I still believe that it is always easy to see the worst parts of something. With a tool like solitary confinement, there are those who will use it as a form of punishment to the point that it becomes extreme. Though this happens the answer is Re-envisioning The Practice of Solitary Confinement 5 not to automatically get rid of it like most people believe it to be. I believe that the best course of action to take when it comes solitary confinement is to limit the way that it can be used. Though this is not a simple process it is better than Guiding Principals of getting rid of solitary confinement altogether. By keeping a form of solitary confinement in the state prisons and local jail systems, it gives the officers and faculties a feeling that if things do get out of hand they can settle things down by placing people in solitary confinement. By also outlining rules for solitary confinement, it ensures that the inmates or juveniles are not kept in solitary confinement for longer than is really needed. This gives the juveniles and inmates the feeling that though the place they are at is not ideal, it is where they are going to be because of their actions or other situations (such as being a juvenile in an adult prison or jail) and not because of how any of the people in charge feel about them. However, though I understand the point that Castillo is making, the problem is that the effects the isolation can have on brain development of children can only become a thing of concern if the extreme cases continue to happen. Solitary confinement should be treated as a form of when it comes to children. Author, Laura A. Gallagher, believes differently stating that timeouts at home are for children to stay in one place and think about what they did. Gallagher then goes by saying, use of isolation can have a much more insidious meaning and devastating effect on a mental and physical (Gallagher, 2014, p. 246). I find this statement, though well meaning, to be completely off base. The only distinction between timeouts and isolation Gallagher gives is the time period in which they are left alone. If the children were left alone for the same amount of time there would be no difference between the two. It is easy to forget that Re-envisioning The Practice of Solitary Confinement 6 children who are already under the care of the state or local jails are there because they are troubled. In a way, they have already become isolated from those who matter the most. Because it is these kinds of children who are in these facilities there is bound to be trouble among them. Solitary confinement provides a place for these children to cool off away from others. This normally means that they are just left in their rooms and not outside with others. Using this practice, as intended instead of banning it would be more of a benefit for everyone involved. Scholars Anne Teigen and Sarah Brown, who together wrote an article about solitary confinement called the door on solitary give insight on what some states are already doing regarding the matter of solitary confinement and juveniles. Teigen and Brown state that, New Jersey law prohibits for more than two consecutive days for 15-year-olds, three days for those up to age 17 and five days for those older than (Teigen and Brown, 2016, p.1). This form of isolation is good for these who are involved because it is not overused and it just a fair structure for placing the juveniles in isolation depending on age. By give the juveniles a time frame they know that they would not be in isolation forever and also decreases the likelihood of these children becoming mentally ill or ill in any other food do to lack of human interaction. By making this action more standard for all state prisons and local jails that want to continue to use solitary confinement it removes the claims of overuse and brain stunting. There are also those that believe that instead of using solitary confinement as a sort of punishment for the juveniles, it should be banned and be replaced by a form of rehabilitation. They believe that the best way to deal with the troubled youth is to rehabilitate them in a manner they believe is not harmful. There are scholars who think Re-envisioning The Practice of Solitary Confinement 7 the best way to deal with the youth is not by punishing them or making them feel as though they are being reprimanded for their actions. Elizabeth M. Rademacher, a scholar who wrote beginning of the end: using plan to eliminate juvenile solitary confinement as a model for statutory elimination of juvenile solitary claims in her article that every state should follow the steps that the state of Ohio has taken on solitary confinement. In this article Rademacher states that the difference between the adult justice system and the juvenile justice system is that the system for the adults is to punish for and deter crime while the system for the juveniles is for rehabilitating and treatment. She also goes on to say that this is also a violation of the juveniles Eighth and Fourteenth Amendment. Rademacher then went on to states that some lower level courts have realized this and had declared solitary confinement unconstitutional when it comes to juveniles. Of Course, I do not have the power to overrule decisions made by the courts but this does not mean that I have to agree with they rulings. I believe that the states in which the courts have not come to this conclusion yet should take some more time to deliberate. I believe that the concept of punishment and rehabilitation in the eyes of Rademacher and those courts should be flipped. I believe that it would make more sense to at a young age not punish but reprimanded the children for the actions that brought them to be placed in the juvenile detention centers. There are those who can agree on the fact that children do need to have some form of punishment for their actions. Some would say that solitary confinement is just another form of for the children. Because they are in the care of the detention center it is reasonable to believe that a parent taking care of a child the detention center has the should have the power to place children in a timeout for a Re-envisioning The Practice of Solitary Confinement 8 reasonable length of time. And like a parent, the detention center has someone to speak to the child about their actions and their feelings. Whether this happens before or after the is not very important as long as the child speaks to someone in who is ready to help him or her after they had been reprimanded for their actions. Nevertheless, I believe the problem with mindset of not punishing juveniles is that children will always feel like they can get away with something just because they are kids. Children need to face the consequences of their actions. This is why I feel that solitary confinement should be used as a form of I also believe that it is backward to focus on punishing the adults and rehabilitated the juveniles. There have been times where children have been and gone back to doing whatever placed them in the detention center to being with. Ismael Nazario gives a first- hand account on seeing this happen when he was a youth in the detention centers. During TEDX talk titled I Learned As A Kid In he gives his audience insight on what it was like for him in the centers. He claimed, are actually supposed to rehabilitate a person, not cause him or her to become more angry, frustrated, and feel more (Nazario, 2015). Though he is right in that aspect he also shows that solitary confinement did its job of providing consequences for the actions that he had while in the detention center. In an article by The Global Issues Blog, they quote Dr. Sharon Shalev. She stated, was believed that once left alone with their conscience and the Bible, prisoners would engage in inner reflection, see the error of their ways and be reformed into law abiding Most Valid Pros and Cons of Solitary Confinement, 2015). This means that solitary confinement in its true form is a tool for reforming and rehabilitation when it is used in the correct manner. Thus banning solitary Re-envisioning The Practice of Solitary Confinement 9 confinement is banning a rehabilitation tool that is known to work when executed under the correct policies set in place of it. No one likes to see a child suffer. It is understandable to see why people are on the side of banning the practice of solitary confinement altogether. Though the easiest thing to do would be to sit down and tell the children to stop doing bad things the world, but, realistically, children do not work that way. If they want to go out and do things that are illegal and wrong a simple talking to would not help. Placing them in detention centers shows them that their actions have consequences. For those who choose to continue doing the wrong thing even inside the detention centers, isolation provides them a way to reflect on the behavior that they have and what they are doing wrong. By keeping solitary confinement and adding new policies, such as giving the juvenile someone to talk to before or after their isolation or is a form a rehabilitation that proves that the things that they do matter. Prison reformers should be pushing for safer forms of solitary confinement, so the juvenile does not become mentally, emotionally, or physically ill. Prison reformers should support legislation that provides guidelines, rules and holds state prisons and local jails accountable for a more effective impact on the topic of solitary confinement. So instead of getting rid of solitary confinement because of the misuse, we should all began to make it know that there is a better way to use this tool. I believe as the conversation around solitary confinement continues it there will be those in charge of making the laws that see solitary confinement as a necessary key in the prison and jail systems. I believe that they will reform the rules and guidelines of solitary confinement instead of completely getting rid of it. Re-envisioning The Practice of Solitary Confinement 10 Furthermore, I do believe that solitary confinement still has a place in the prison system only if the prisons follow procedures that are set in place on a case-by-case basis. Re-envisioning The Practice of Solitary Confinement 11 Reference Page C. (2015, September 02). 13 Most Valid Pros and Cons of Solitary Confinement. Retrieved April 14, 2017, from http://connectusfund.org/13-most-valid-pros-and- cons-of-solitary-confinement Castillo, L. C. (2015). No Child Left Alone: Why Iowa Should Ban Juvenile Solitary Confinement. Iowa Law Review, 1001259 Eilperin, J. (2016, January 26). Obama bans solitary confinement for juveniles in federal prisons. Retrieved April 13, 2017, from https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/obama-bans-solitary-confinement-for- juveniles-in-federal-prisons/2016/01/25/056e14b2-c3a2-11e5-9693- Gallagher, L. A. (2014, June 5). More Than a Time Out: Juvenile Solitary Confinement. Retrieved April 18, 2017, from https://jjlp.law.ucdavis.edu/archives/vol-18-no- 2/Gallagher.pdf Nazario, I. (2015). Transcript of What I learned as a kid in . Retrieved April 14, 2017, from cript?language=en#t-135635 Rademacher, E. M. (2016). The beginning of the end: using plan to eliminate juvenile solitary confinement as a model for statutory elimination of juvenile solitary confinement. William And Mary Law Review, (3), 1019. Teigen, A., & Brown, S. (2016). Closing the door on solitary confinement. Legislatures, (4), 6.