Ravindra Kapila Carr ENC1101 Composition 1 06 April 2017 College Worth College worth, a topic that has been discussed since the first institution of higher education was founded in 1636, Harvard University, considers whether college is worth the time, effort, stress, and usually ludicrous amount of money required depending on the profession being pursued. Today college is seen as a major requirement to be successful in the future, due to the fact that 9/10 higher paying jobs require some level of higher education above a high-school diploma. More often than not, the required qualifications for high paying jobs is usually a degree in that pertinent field. But, per many successful entrepreneurs such as Steve Jobs, Mark Zuckerberg, and Bill Gates, three of the biggest names in the market, higher education was not needed. They all dropped out of college and have risen to be the most successful entrepreneurs in the world. Gates, Zuckerberg, and Jobs have the views on college as the only surefire way to be financially stable and successful in the future. Although these highly ranked men have risen above the common path of college into a normal nine to five job not everyone can be a Gates, Jobs or Zuckerberg. Therefore, I believe college is worth the costs involved just because it is the safest way to secure a reliable job for the future considering many of those jobs require higher education certification. activity and performance among Danish college dropouts and the article on the relationship behind college and formal education and prominent and successful entrepreneurs today as well as its relationship between college dropouts and the startups of new businesses speaks volumes on college dropouts that transformed their innovative ideas into startups of billion dollar companies. Guido Buenstorf, Kristian Nielsen, and Bram Timmermans start an article with tons of information on whether dropouts and entrepreneurial success are directly related. Apple, Microsoft, Facebook, just a few examples of these types of companies started by college dropouts, all starting a new era of technology year by year. So, this argument on whether college is worth is also stems to the types of people that attend it, some people relate strongly to structural formal education and some that have different types of learning strengths and weaknesses, some of which learn from the usual standard education provided by colleges. So, Buenstorf et.al goes on about the pros and cons toward dropping out of college and its effect on the entrepreneurial lifestyle but it does conclude with data showing a slight increase in dropout proficiency in successful entrepreneurs but in turn it shows that there is no evidence supporting dropouts are more relevant or outperform graduates in terms of success as entrepreneurs. So it finalizes its research on a standstill between dropouts and graduates being equally successful as entrepreneurs. As of the research behind it, Buenstorf et.al writes multiple sections on just the raw statistics of dropouts versus graduates and their proficiency in successful entrepreneurship. Their third section labeled data gives all the data required to create a conclusion on whether or not a relationship between college dropouts and entrepreneurs, if there is a connection, that would give the side saying college is not worth it a leg up in the overall argument on whether or not college is worth it because if many students can drop out and pursue business interests it shows that college required to be successful and it may even be detrimental to students that society forces to enroll and perform in it. But it seems that in the research it shows that on average there is a decent relation between entrepreneurship and graduating college dropouts relative to graduates, where dropouts are found to earn 17 % less than graduates. The coefficient obtained for dropout entrepreneurs (the interaction effect) is negative but not significant. This suggests that the for dropping out does not differ systematically between entrepreneurs and paid showing that although little to no difference between dropouts and graduates in entrepreneurship, there is a major difference in pay levels in favor of graduates that are at a 17% higher average income rate than dropouts. myth that college and major choice decides An article based on research conducted in 2010 on college and the majors chosen in college affecting a future. Diaz shows that there is importance in college but chooses to research its effect on a future success. He considers the monetary worth of college and its rising costs compared to the average income of a family and their efforts to find affordable college education that will in fact be worth their hard-earned money. Differing from the previous article I spoke of on entrepreneurial activities, this is more related to the college choices and college overall on real paying jobs and high paying positions in already developed companies. Per a research on Fortune 100 top corporate executives as of Hoovers, 2007, there were more than double CEOs from public colleges rather than ivy leagues showing that in this way, it is preferable to save money and go to a public college rather than spending a lot of money on top rated ivy league schools. As you can see, more than double the top corporate executives have gone to public schools rather than ivy leagues. It also talks about the choice of major and its effect on a future. Diaz states that overall if in a similar major to the job you aspire its largely irrelevant on your major. Although, studies find links between the type of CEO needed and the point in history for that company. For instance, successful prospector firms tend to be headed by CEOs from research/engineering and general management  (Wheelen & Hunger, 2008). This means that companies looking for opportunities to expand (prospect) do well to choose CEOs with those Although through the essay they strongly support college and speak of it highly, they do state that there are some issues with the level of colleges and major choices effecting job landings. But it constantly speaks on the behalf of college being highly worth it. with more evidence and References: Angeli, E., Wagner, J., Lawrick, E., Moore, K., Anderson, M., Soderlund, L., & Brizee, A. (2010, May 5). General format. Retrieved from http://owl.english.purdue.edu/owl/resource/560/01/ Kelly, B. (2010). Is College Still Worth It?. U.S. News & World Report, 147(8), 6. Buenstorf, G., Nielsen, K., & Timmermans, B. (2017). Steve Jobs or No Jobs? Entrepreneurial activity and performance among Danish college dropouts and graduates. Small Business Economics, (1), 179. doi:10.1007/s11187-016-9774-1 Webber, D. A. (2016). Are college costs worth it? How ability, major, and debt affect the returns to schooling. Economics Of Education Review, 53296-310. doi:10.1016/j.econedurev.2016.04.007 Dietz, J. (2010). THE MYTH THAT COLLEGE AND MAJOR CHOICE DECIDES FUTURE. College Student Journal, 44(2), 234-249 Adam, M. (2012). College Worth Education Digest, (6), 58. 1. College is worth it(arguable claim in thesis) 2. Include some background and the articles and explain the counterpoint of certain or college dropouts 3. Include evidence from articles 1, 2, 4, and 6 4. More counterarguments with articles 1, 3, and 5 5. Conclusion to tie it all together and explain my thesis once again and show how it ties into a larger argument so life after college