MORE GUNS=LESS DEATH? 1 MORE GUNS=LESS DEATH? Dave Salem Carr Comp 1 April 30,2017 MORE GUNS=LESS DEATH? 2 Abstract Gun laws are one of the most crucial laws to have around and have been so for the past few hundred years. And within the last 50 years the rise of technology has also brought to the rise of media. Better filming, more TVs/ radios for more people to hear about and of course the increase in biasedness in media seems to brainwash many of the viewers. The media has made it seem that the world and the US is getting more and more hectic and whether the actual case or not many media companies blame guns on any attack and that they should be banned or restriced more. Well I certainly believe gun laws should be enforced, common sense. The problem is making laws that make sense and could do more harm than good. Laws are supposed to protect us civilians, not the opposite. People will always have their opinions and will always be stubborn but one thing more important than opinions are facts. Scientific studies have made us to where we are today. So like everything else I believe we should turn to science. My questions regarding this topic are whether or not more guns mean more homicides and what has helped in the past and questions of that sort. I will argue and prove to you that not all gun laws are good and a great way to keep average person safe is ironically having someone near also armed, like a free secret service that is unknown to everyone except the concealed carry holder. The objective of this paper is to determine the role of current and proposed future gun laws and refer to scientific studies to show just how much they hurt us. MORE GUNS=LESS DEATH? 3 Every year gun laws become more and more strict and the opinions between owning guns or not is becoming more and more separated. Now days either a crazy redneck if for firearms or a tree hugging liberal if not. But at the end of the day it should boil down to statistics and facts. While watching the media, it seems like some sort of an attack every other week! More people are pushing for stricter gun laws every day because they believe that guns are bad and they are to blame for people murdering other people. And not the case, a gun is not going to hop up and shoot someone because they clean it right. Only a person can do that. People need to realize that bad people do bad things whether guns involved or not. And that is why I believe in owning firearms, for hunting, and the safety for my family and I. I also believe in laws like conceal carry that allows you to take a course and get a background check to be allowed to conceal a handgun in the case of an attack in a public matter. Id like to point out that biggest reason this is such an ongoing problem is that people who create the graphs and statistics usually cherry pick the data they want to further help their case. I believe this is wrong on so many levels. By only taking in certain facts or variables you cheat yourself and everyone else depending on how credible you are because people will go to these numbers/graphs/story for arguments and just the need for Every year someone false data persuades hundreds of people to believe in something and in reality just the scientist conducting the research gets to make his evidence as correct as his theory. For example, the crime prevention research center wrote an article on March, 31. 2014(no author found) explains how a graph conducted by the Small Arms Survey falsely shows that more guns equal more deaths. Now the Small Arms Survey has been referenced in many popular articles including the MORE GUNS=LESS DEATH? 4 New York Times. This graph shows 109 countries and their relationship with gun ownership and homicide rates. In the graph you can see that more guns equal more death. The problems with this survey is that multiple countries from the graph have gun ownership laws different than ours. For example, Israel and government allows for people to have weapons under the jurisdiction so that technically the government owns them and not the civilians. So the Small Arms survey excluded this data making multiple countries have a lot less gun ownership then in reality. Technically the government does own them but when looking at correlations between gun ownership and homicide rates you would want to include this info and not leave it out for personal bias. This is just an example of how data can be skewed. There are hundreds of other ways people have made it seem like guns are to blame. It till after reading this did I realize why it was so hard to find data to back up my claim. And although now looking back its common sense, I realize that all the graphs looked at referring to homicide rates also includes which would be self-defenses, most police shootings and similar deaths where the bad guy ended up dying. While looking at statistics on gun laws we can either look internationally, at many different countries and compare them or nationally, and just compare states. Well look at both. A Harvard study conducted by Don B. Gates and Gary Mauser from 2007 is a study that compares multiple countries from around the world and compares their gun laws and murder rates to ours. These tests only included gun related homicide rates to increase the correlation between the two. They begin with the proposition that if more guns equal more death and less guns equals less death then all else equal, then (1) geographic areas with higher gun ownership should equal less murders, (2) demographic groups with higher gun ownership should be more MORE GUNS=LESS DEATH? 5 prone to murder and vise versa and (3) historical eras in which gun ownership was high mean higher murder rates. Well they found that none of that is true, in fact they found the total opposite. From Gates & Mauser Looking at Tables it is easy to find nations in which very high gun ship rates correlate with very low murder rates, while other nations with very low gun ownership rates have much higher murder Pg. 671. On average places with higher gun ownership meant less murders. Now we know if this is the causation but we do know a correlation. So we should act towards this correlation instead of digressing away. Now look at the United States gun laws facts, if you look at the most dangerous states see some have strict gun laws and some have almost none. The thing is that very little evidence to be found to correlate gun ownership to gun violence (in the US). A big reason for that is like stated earlier, a lot of data is skewed and killings that were in self-defense are also in the data as death which makes states with little gun laws have seemingly high violence when really not the case. One-gun law we do see much evidence from is the Concealed Carry law. Concealed Carry is a law passed by the government and applied by state to be able to take a course, get a background check and to be able to carry a handgun(concealed) to protect you and others around. Now many people that are already for stricter gun laws hate the idea of this, that almost anyone can carry a firearm. Now to be honest it is scary when someone with no background of doing anything bad snaps and uses this law to kill people. But statistically speaking more likely to be saved by someone with a concealed carry permit then to be shot by one. According to American Gun Facts (also no author) 200,000 women a year save themselves from sexual abuse by using or threatening to use a firearm. Out of all the people in the US to own a concealed weapons permit only 0.2% has been arrested. And according to a list MORE GUNS=LESS DEATH? 6 of statistics in gunfacts.info more likely to be shot by a policeman then by a concealed carry holder, 5 times more likely to be exact. The fact is that having a random civilian around secretly armed is good not just for him or her but everyone in the general facility. And as a matter of fact it actually goes further than general facility but to whether or not that state allows for concealed carry makes it slightly more safe to everyone because murders/ thieves and rapist realize that the possibility of their victim being armed is decently high. The national Institute of justice ran a survey on prison inmates and found felons most frightened about confronting an armed victim were those from states with the greatest relative number of privately owned firearms. Conversely, robbery is highest in the states that most restrict gun This is another reason I believe concealed carry permits are so important in world. I personally have always been one of those people to rather have something and not need it then to need something and not have it. As far as opinions go for most gun laws they are slowly starting to digress on their opinions to tighten up gun laws. realizing that places like free are only going to be abided by people that follow the law, not the attacker that knows he be killed and will have plenty of time to shoot off rounds till the cops get there. And for people that appreciate concealed carry or any of that God forbid they catch themselves in such a situation. Waiting for the police takes minimum 5 minutes, the average automatic gun can shoot 600-900 rounds a minute. So multiply that by 5 and you can see just how long that would feel, and how many people would physically feel it. Laws like gun free zones need to be expunged and really need to be thought out more, for yours and Americas well- being. It is crucial that we realize law breakers follow the law so to make more laws is just putting us into more danger. Unless someone can think of another way to end this ongoing situation then to arm more civilians will be the only way to make America safer. MORE GUNS=LESS DEATH? 7 Reference Page: 1) Kates, D. B & Mauser, G (2007) WOULD BANNING FIREARMS REDUCE MURDER AND SUICIDE? Retrieved from: ine.pdf 2) Comparing murder rates and gun ownership across countries. (2017, April 22). Retrieved April 30, 2017, from http://crimeresearch.org/2014/03/comparing-murder-rates-across-countries/ 3) Gun Control, Guns and Crime Prevention. (2015, September 11). Retrieved April 30, 2017, from http://www.gunfacts.info/gun-control-myths/guns-and- crime-prevention/ 4) GUNS. (n.d.). Retrieved April 30, 2017, from http://americangunfacts.com/ 5) N. (n.d.). State Gun Laws. Retrieved May 02, 2017, from https://www.nraila.org/gun-laws/state-gun-laws/ 6) Gun Laws. (n.d.). Retrieved May 02, 2017, from http://injury.findlaw.com/product-liability/gun-laws.html