ASSISTED EUTHANASIA 1 Assisted Euthanasia: An Argumentative Paper Cullen J. Mitvalsky University of South Florida ASSISTED EUTHANASIA 2 Abstract The purpose of this paper is to present an argument based on the legalization of assisted euthanasia. Research from multiple authors are presented, as well as first person accounts from patients themselves that are either near death with an illness, or just an average person with an opinion. The intended result of this paper is to persuade and argue to an audience that anyone old or young, if they are suffering from a terminal illness, should have the option and the human right to end their own suffering, through the use of physician assisted euthanasia. ASSISTED EUTHANASIA 3 Assisted Euthanasia: An Argumentative Paper Assisted euthanasia has been a topic of great controversy and debate since 500 B.C. When most people think of assisted euthanasia, they immediately think of the long battle involving Dr. Jack Kevorkian, or otherwise known as Doctor  He was one of the first doctors in the United States to assist people in death. He just  any ordinary person though. He assisted those who were terminally ill and in great pain, physically and emotionally. During his time as a doctor, he helped over one-hundred and thirty patients in what is now called the Right to  movement. Dr. Kevorkian and I both strongly believe that the government have control over how you spend your final days when the one in pain. If you are terminally ill, and going to succumb to your illness anyhow, why drag out the pain and suffering when you could at least have the option to pass peacefully with grace, and keep your dignity. Throughout the paper, I will present studies and first hand interviews, done by multiple authors to further support these claims that assisted euthanasia should be legalized in the United States. Lately, there seems to be a strong showing of support for the legalization of euthanasia across the United States, as well as the globe. These countries include the Netherlands, Belgium, Luxembourg, Columbia, and even our neighbors to the north. In Western-Europe, there has been a sharp increase in public support as well as physician support for legalization of the practice. In Belgium and the Netherlands, half or more physicians have received requests for euthanasia and 60% have approved requests, compared to the United States where physicians only approve 5% of requests. The public in the US also wants a change. Public support for euthanasia and ASSISTED EUTHANASIA 4 physician-assisted suicide in the United States has plateaued since the (range,  (J. Emanuel et. al, 2016, p.79). Although support has plateaued, it only plateaued after a dramatic increase of support was recorded. Under half of the country supporting assisted euthanasia, jumping to well over half is a major improvement. On the other side of this argument, J. Emanuel et. al claims that no medical procedure has ever gone flawlessly. Most can have complications. Data shows that the median time between ingestion of barbiturate and death was 25  (J. Emanuel et. al, 2016, p.86), which is a good thing. But, the range of time of death also extended, in some cases, up to four days, which is an issue. The flaw with these claims is that, the study by J. Emanuel et. al shows the rate and number of complications is flawed because with assisted suicide, there are a lack of witnesses. Between 1998 and 2015, Oregon reported absence of data on complications for 43.9% of  (J. Emanuel et. al, 2016, p.86), therefore proving that it is harder to believe that there are significant issues and flaws with providing assisted euthanasia. Only five states in the US currently legalize the practice of physician assisted suicide. California, a more recent state to legalize the practice, in 2015, had citizens at a 64% approval rating to approve giving a terminally ill person, who is competent, the right to request and receive a prescription for life-ending medication from a  (Jackson, 2015, pg.1). Patients, a lot of the time, if they want to receive treatment they must move to one of the five states where euthanasia is a legal practice. This fair to patients that are already going through the most difficult and stressful part of their lives. Unnecessary pain is being caused by having to go through with such a big decision as moving from home, just so you can receive treatment. In one situation in the article by Jackson, a woman named Brittany Maynard who had ASSISTED EUTHANASIA 5 terminal brain cancer, had to pack up the rest of her life, and move all the way to Oregon so she could have the option to receive physician assisted euthanasia. According to B. R. research in To Legalize Physician-Assisted Suicide or Not? A  she found that one argument to keep euthanasia illegal, is that to engage in killing patients destroys the essence of what it means to be a physician. Physicians shall always bear in mind the obligation of preserving human  (B. R. Sharma, 2003, p.187) and that it is not right for a physician to help a patient commit suicide. I believe though, that the main concern be whether the physician has a hard time doing the procedure for the patient because of the way they feel about euthanasia. The physicians should be putting the best interests first. No matter what their personal stance on the matter is. Patients have the autonomous right to make decisions concerning the ends of their lives. Physicians have an obligation to act in the best interest as determined by the  (B. R. Sharma, 2003, p.187). Another argument made is that the legalization of euthanasia will create patient mistrust of physicians borne of fear that external forces (family) will cause physicians to have divided loyalties and prematurely coerce the patients to ask for  (B. R. Sharma, 2003, p.187). This is simply stating that family members may try to convince physicians to deliver treatment instead of the decision being directly from the patient, in which this mistrust will lead to further deterioration of the physician-patient  (B. R. Sharma, 2003, p.187). On the other side of this argument, physicians could strengthen and form stronger trust between patients by being there for them in their desperate time of need. What these terminally ill patients are going through is the most difficult and stressful times in their lives, so having a strong support system will keep them from feeling alone and abandoned. ASSISTED EUTHANASIA 6 A personal story of Ruth Duffin, by Shanon Proudfoot, is a prime example of being abandoned by the system. Ruth was diagnosed with severe disease and had been undergoing increased doses of her medication to help with her tremors, which had been getting increasingly worse and more painful. The increase in medication doing much at all though. This just goes to show that even with palliative care and treatment from physicians, it always fix the problem. Her husband Richard (2016) says, Because she was shaking so much, it was just like a workout. Pain radiated through back and shoulders, and she would become overheated from  (p.14). Ruth needed euthanasia so badly and since she was denied of it, she talked about taking desperate measures to end her life. Richard, husband called his daughter to tell her in panic that Ruth was suddenly talking about desperate measures like walking out of the house to step in front of  (Proudfoot, 2016, p.15). This would be a horrible way for the Duffin family to have to watch their loved one die. But because of the strict laws on euthanasia, many patients feel the need to turn to methods like the one Ruth described. It is unfair to people in pain that they feel the need to grasp for such desperate measures. Patients should be in control of how the end of their lives play out, especially since the ones suffering in pain. Results from the study done by Chapple et. al, showed that control over the time and manner of death was a central theme in requests for  One woman with a chronic lung disease said that without a change in the law she may commit suicide  (p.707) Far too many people have had to watch family members die and undignified death. One woman whose mother had metastatic kidney cancer described how she knew she was clearly dying and if it was her in her place, she would like to think that if there was no more treatment that could be done, she could choose the route of peacefully ending ASSISTED EUTHANASIA 7 her life. Instead of having to go through more unnecessary pain. She talks about how her mother was on so many drugs that she was making up stories about how she murdered people. (p.708) This was a very undignified way to watch her mother die. Though, the counter argument to this is that, with good care by a physician, they should be able to control symptoms, including pain and depression, and therefore, people who consider ending their lives may change their minds when symptoms are properly  (Chapple et. al, 2006, p.708) The problem with that is, how can a physician measure someone pain when they the one going through what patients are experiencing. Also, in countries such as Canada, only about 20% of residents actually have access to good, palliative care. Many times during treatment, it can actually make patients feel worse by causing nausea and confusion. Some respondents mentioned uncontrolled  (Chapple et. al, 2006, p.708) One patient talks about those suffering with severe illnesses such as MS and says, they should be able, in conjunction with their partner, to decide that enough is enough and that they should be able to take their own  (p.708) When it comes to the physicians making the final decision, sometimes there is discrimination by disease when choosing who can and who receive assistance. Studies done by W. Pasman et. al, showed that cancer patients were denied requests for euthanasia compared to patients with nervous system diseases who had a much higher chance of approval. to say that a cancer patient, such as someone with leukemia, suffering as much as someone with a nervous system disease? The system seems to be very subjective, rather than objective when allowing patients to make life or death decisions for themselves. In almost 4 out of 10 requests the physician considered one or more of the criteria for due care were not  (p.601) In the cases that were denied the assistance of euthanasia, they were denied because the physician believe the patient was suffering enough to approve their request for euthanasia. ASSISTED EUTHANASIA 8 It is understandable that the physicians need to be careful when picking and choosing who is truly in need of assistance, but the consensus among citizens and sick patients is that, why should someone be able to be in control of my life and when I choose to end it if I am the one who is suffering. Reasons for allowing assisted euthanasia was due to physicians seeing no prospect of improvement, the autonomy of the patient, severe symptoms other than pain, and loss of  (W. Pasman et. al, 2010, p.601) If patients are showing no sign of improvement and are most likely going to succumb to their illnesses, they should be able to choose to end their lives peacefully before they are withered away any further and loose complete sense and control of themselves as well as to preserve their dignity. The word euthanasia, is defined as a peaceful death. I think that is something that almost all humans wish for one another towards the end of life. To deprive someone of a peaceful death and prolong their suffering is a human rights issue. Currently, we have a house full of predominantly Republican representatives, and the conservative view leans more toward pro-life opinions. Whether this be for personal reason, or religious values, those two things should never go together when legislature is passed. It creates bias and look out for the best interest of the people. If a person is terminally ill and in pain, with not much to live for, the government should have no right to intervene and make that decision for someone. The Right to  movement will always be a touchy and taboo subject, but it is imperative that we as citizens discuss it so that we can move forward towards a better future and make the quiet majority heard. ASSISTED EUTHANASIA 9 References Chapple, A., Ziebland, S., McPherson, A., & Herxheimer, A. (2006). What People Close to Death Say about Euthanasia and Assisted Suicide: A Qualitative Study. Journal of Medical Ethics, (12). 706. Emanuel, E. J., Onwuteaka-Philipsen, B. D., Urwin, J. W., & Cohen, J. (2016). Attitudes and Practices of Euthanasia and Physician-Assisted Suicide in the United States, Canada, and Europe. JAMA: Journal Of The American Medical Association, 316(1), 79-90. doi:10.1001/jama.2016.8499 Jackson, Molly. Why California May Now Be Ready to Legalize Assisted  ProQuest, 10 Sept. 2015. Web. Onwuteaka-Philipsen, B., Rurup, M., Pasman, H., & van der Heide, A. (2010). The last phase of life: who requests and who receives euthanasia or physician-assisted suicide?. Medical Care, 48(7), 596-603. doi:10.1097/MLR.0b013e3181dbea7 Proudfoot, S. (2016). is no way to desperate families are still travelling to Switzerland, even in the wake of new legislation on assisted death yjsy has left some families in a desperate catch-22. (47) Sharma, B. (2003). REVIEW: To legalize physician-assisted suicide or not? a dilemma. Journal Of Clinical Forensic Medicine, 10185-190. doi:10.1016/S1353- 1131(03)00080-4