Running Head: Born Killers, Not Made 1 Born Killers, Not Made Shannon Trehy University of South Florida Abstract Born Killers, Not Made 2 The question of whether or not serial killers are born or made was tackled by comparing the genetic makeup and predispositions of known serial killers and your average citizen to see what makes them different. Then research was conducted on the developmental stages of serial killers to examine the intensity of the trauma a serial killer experienced. The first method boasted the theory that serial killers are born while the latter supported that serial killers are made. More evidence points to serial killers being born as being the likely answer. Keywords: Serial killers, born, made, genetic, trauma. Serial Killers: Born or Made The topic of Serial Killers interests many people sheerly for the fact alone that people want to know what it takes to make someone get to such a depraved point in their life that Born Killers, Not Made 3 repeatedly and without remorse kill people. Can anyone get to that point? Is it just something deep within one that makes them get to that point? Many, including myself, argue that yes, it is something unique to serial killers that makes them what they are. In 1977, Thomas Bouchard conducted an observational experiment to examine children and their actions based purely on genetic factors. Bouchard found in his research that children who have higher sensation-seeking traits and impulsivity have a higher tendency of becoming drug-abusers and serial killers. Gosavi Gajbe conducted a study to examine the relationship between chromosomes and crime and concluded that there a definite association between the both (Ayukovic pg. 2). Serial killers have also been shown to have found in the frontal cortex, the amygdala, and regions in (Pemmett MA pg. 1) and such deficits have been known to garner one a higher score on Psychopathy Checklist. A higher score on said checklist makes one likelier to exhibit violent tendencies, have limited or frustrating emotional experiences, and have no (Pemmett MA pg. 2) making one all the more likely to commit serial murders. One may argue that serial killers are only socially abnormal and have neural developmental issues because of traumatic events when they were younger, such as in the case of H. H. Holmes who when he was a child was locked in a closet with a human skeleton by his peers. Holmes claimed that this gave him an abnormal interest in the human body and how it functioned in relation to its form. Children who experience trauma at a young age can exhibit poor skill development, social or not, exhibit aggressive and regressive behavior, have excessive temper, and lack self- confidence, all traits commonly found in serial killers. Another thing found in children who Born Killers, Not Made 4 experience trauma is memory problems. It is hard to document a traumatic event that happened so long ago in the past, especially if the victim was the only witness besides the perpetrator. It is difficult to examine the situation and pinpoint if it had a lasting affect on the psyche or not. Another thought process to serial reasons for killing repeatedly is that when placed in a situation that is triggering for them, they either feel their killing of the individual is validated or that they feel they had no other choice. The insecurity of serial killers can make them feel out of place in certain situations. Bobby Joe Long, a serial rapist and killer, had an extra X chromosome, making him produce more oestrogen, causing him to have more developed breasts than typically see on a male. This caused him a lot of embarrassment and he focused that anger into punishing women for something they had no control over, yet Long felt justified (Ayukovic pg. 4). While some say the above argument is a valid response for serial killers, a sort of pseudo- self-defense, then what is the excuse for the other millions of people who experience embarrassment just as much, if not more, as them? Because of their different genetic makeup vis-a-vis the development of their brains or the chromosomal differences, these negative experience take a higher toll and elicit a more extreme and violent response in serial killers. It is not just trauma or certain situations that make serial killers kill, but the fact that they have a normal and strong founding to handle those situations with. Born Killers, Not Made 5 References Hodgkinson, Sarah. Monsters, madmen 26 and myths: A critical review of the serial killing  Aggression and violent behavior (2016). Web. Klein, Julia M. The Meanings and Measures of Our Killer  Chronicle of Higher Education, vol. 52, no. 9, 21 Oct. 2005, pp. B12-B13. Kennedy, Joseph E. Michigan Law Review, vol. 104, no. 6, 2006, pp. Adjorlolo, Samuel. The controversy of defining serial murder:  Aggression and violent behavior 19.5 (2014):486-491. Web. Blake, Adam. The Mind of a  On Psychology and Neuroscience. Psychneuro, 14 Mar. 2014. Web. 19 Apr. 2017. Born Killers, Not Made 6 Lindsay, Jeff. Sympathy for the  The New York Times. Jeff Lindsay, 24 June 2011. Web. 19 Apr. 2017. Do serial killers have an extra  Scientific Scribbles. N.p., 30 Sept. 2014. Web. 24 Apr. 2017. Web.