Marruf Musfik Ahmed Mihal Intermediate draft project 3 ENC 1101 Instructor- Nancy Carr Topic: Ginga Being located at the heart of South America, Brazil has a rather unprecedented history. Being on the the last countries to abolish slavery Brazil still has a population of 40% Afro-Brazilians, mostly descendants of west and central west African people. During the time of the colonisation the slaves had to face a lot of brutality from the colonists, at a point death seemed a better option than point death seemed a better option than living. During this tribulation the slaves united to end it once and for all. Their only weapon was their Ginga, an ancient Brazilian Martial art which involves movement of body from one side to the other. Although Ginga was an unique method of fighting but the rebels were outmatched against the heavily armed colonists. Things continued as it was but not satisfying for the slaves. 1888, slavery was finally abolished in Brazil, leaving this huge Afro-Brazilian population without any work or hope. The only thing at this time they had was their Ginga, hence a lot of them got involved in criminal acts because no one would appoint them for any sort of work. At this time Brazil became rather a threatening place for residence. It was likely for Ginga to take such a method as at that time for these Afro populisation, hunger was more important than anything. At a point the government was forced to abolish Ginga from Brazil. Although Ginga was abolished, it did not stop the people to practice it. Due to the heavy measures against Ginga by the government the locals found an unique way to disguise it and practice it. It was through dance,Ginga is physically dynamic because it utilizes acrobatics, cleverness, and cunning making it the perfect material for dance. Ginga now took the form of dance. In the current world, Brazil shows pride with ginga, it has evolved to other platforms too like in dance, sports or just for the luxury. Ginga is now known all over the world but in the name of capoeira, there are even schools to teach ginga. Famously remarked, not be fooled by ginga, it is a thousand times more deadly as it Being the second most practiced sport in Brazil after soccer, Ginga has a special spot in the hearts of the Brazilians. Today Ginga is practiced all over the world by people of different race, religion, age and gender. In the recent times Ginga has grew very popular among the newly made millionaires of California in the IT world. It has been observed that with the practice of Ginga it relieves stress and tension, perfect for a mind to operate, it sort of takes away all the stress out of a person and fills him with joy and endurance. The biggest platform in the current world to see Ginga would be no other than the Carnival, the biggest celebration in the world after new eve by any country. With the influence of samba a lot of dancers dance in the street in the style of ginga. In competitions like UFC a lot of brazilian fighters with ginga background implify ginga to the sport. Another unique use of ginga is in soccer, a sport that is like a religion in Brazil. First caught the attention in 2002 Fifa World Cup, where Brazil won the world cup against Germany.The spectators claimed that it was nothing like anything they had seen before, the players seemed to be flying with the soccer ball. Now it might not be for survival but a lot of people still practice ginga as a martial art, known in the name of capoeira. The name might have been changed but the spirit is still alive and now all over the world. Ginga is now widely known all over the world and not just a martial art, it acts as an export of culture all over the World. Once said to be a disgrace to Brazilian culture, now symbolizes culture.