Derrick Johnson Jr. U57201388 Professor Carr Project 3 Intermediate Draft Every year as August rolls around I approach my favorite part of the year; football season, which brings a weekend full of watching high school, college, and professional games with my family. Until recently, I have played and the most fun part of the game for me was the whole process of tackling. I loved the way it felt, and sounded and believe that it is the way the game is supposed to be played. New research by Dr. Bennet Omalu has shown that football is linked to a brain injury named Chronic traumatic encephalopathy, which is caused by repetitive mild injuries to the brain such as concussions. Some would argue that CTE is an inevitable risk in a sport as physical as football and should not be played any more, or involve little to no contact to avoid CTE altogether. This is not the case however, and I intend to explain what Chronic traumatic encephalopathy is, how the NFL is trying to prevent concussions, and show where the discussion is heading. Chronic traumatic encephalopathy (CTE) is an old injury, that is relatively new due to advancements in technology. Originally it was recognized in boxers who had taken multiple hits to the head and developed symptoms such as depression, short-term memory loss, and emotional instability. The biggest issue that held doctors back from better recognizing CTE in the past, was that the symptoms shown in athletes were too similar to those of patients with and Dementia to have its own neuropsychiatric profile. As contact sports have grown in popularity and technology has advanced, Dr. Bennet Omalu has come to find more information about concussions that lead to CTE. Another issue is the fact that it cannot be identified until examining brain after they have died, so there is no way to tell for sure yet if someone has it before they are already dead. High profile athletes in professional sports that have died have been found to have CTE by Dr. Omalu, causing him to link football and CTE together. The basis of the link between football and CTE is the nature of how it is played, and the extremely high amount of concussions that occur each year at all levels playing the sport. Junior Seau was a great professional football player that participated in the NFL for over 15 years, and over that time he attained multiple concussions and played through or ignored a large portion of them. When he was on the field he could do anything, and was not afraid to hit anything or anyone and that was what made him so great. The list of players who played like this is a mile long, but the number of kids that are impacted by this is even longer. Kids grow up watching players play a certain way and try to mold how they play after that, and it opens the door for even more kids to get a concussion or another injury because they are trying to play and do what they see on t.v but they using the proper form, do not know how to do something at all, or are simply too small to try and imitate some of the things they see. Because of this, the NFL as well as many other football leagues of various levels all the way down have begun to implement new rules and fines for the protection of players. Concussion prevention became a very important task to manage for football leagues everywhere as Dr. research really began to take off which lead to some of the rule changes we see today. The most recent addition has been the helmet to helmet rule which will assess a penalty to the team who initiates a head to head hit on another player, and a fine depending on the severity of the hit to the player. This has been added to reduce cases of targeting, where a player may get hit while attempting to catch the ball high in the air, or just while they are not looking. A common technique that teams use is called gang tackling, where everyone keeps tackling until the player is down, and this rule has helped reduce a lot of stray hits to the head of the ball carrier as they fight to stay up with people around them. Next would be the rule which puts an imaginary circle around the returner on punts and kickoffs until he catches the ball. Before this was implemented players were getting blindsided as soon as they touched the ball by players who were aimed to avoid everything but the ball carrier, to try and force a turnover. Special teams plays see a lot of this kind of thing, and players always have the luxury of being able to see where they were going but now, players have the ability to catch and secure the ball and look to see coming to protect themselves accordingly. The NFL has also shortened kickoff lengths to reduce the number of returns so that players would be put into this situation less, and some conversations have brought up the idea of completely removing the kickoff. In regards to lower levels of football, everyone else recognizes these same rules and have also implemented a few more to protect the children and provide them a fair environment to play in as well. Pound clubs and weight limits allow for kids to be able to play against other kids that are their own size and age without putting them at risk of getting seriously injured. Pound clubs are intended to keep everyone around the same weight, while leagues with weight limits only care about the weight of the ball carrier to prevent him from running over much smaller kids. Proper tackling form is preached everywhere, every day for kids, college athletes, and pros to help reduce injury as well. I believe that both league types work well this way, but 1st-5th grade may be a little early for kids to start tackling. Things to do: - Writing Center - Quotes - Reorganize - Reconsider intro?