Kyle McGorty ENC 1101 Instructor Carr 4/10/17 Projects 3 Intermediate Adderall abuse is a growing problem in the US. Adderall at is a base is an amphetamine salt. This means that it is a mix of different amphetamines, specifically levoamphetamine and dextroamphetamine. Since first becoming a Schedule II controlled substance in 1971, abuse rates have risen dramatically. This is the same case for many drugs, and the same demographic is the main abuser: the college student. The difference with Adderall, however, comes with the reason for abuse. Although Adderall can be abused recreationally to feel euphoric effects, studies have shown that the main reason why college students will abuse is to help them academically. Adderall is a stimulant. This means that the drug, once ingested and processed by the body, releases chemicals that affect the user by their Central Nervous System. The Central Nervous System is made up of the Brain and the Spinal Cord, and it coordinates all the movements and processes of the human body. Stimulants affect this system by increasing alertness, energy levels, attention, heart rate, and respiratory rate. Increased alertness and energy is vital to students who are bogged down and burnt out from the great deal of schoolwork they have had, and they still have to do in the future. The tedious and energy draining are much easier when you can take a pill that keeps you awake. This seems all-great until the many problems with this behavior are recognized. These drugs are an academic performance enhancer. They are controlled substances taken illegally to gain an unfair advantage over the student who does the right thing and stays away from drugs. It is for this reason that these drugs be more heavily regulated. Along with being a performance enhancer, these drugs can also cause health problems when taken for an extended period of time or in large doses. Two main drugs are prescribed for ADHD. These drugs are under the name brands of Adderall and Ritalin. Adderall is made up of two amphetamine salts. Ritalin is made up of a stimulant known as methylphenidate. Methylphenidate, like amphetamines, is classified by the US DEA as a Schedule II drug. These drugs are strong prescription stimulants. When taken over long period of time these can cause serious health problems, especially with the heart. These heart problems include hypertension and tachycardia. Hypertension is high blood pressure. Tachycardia is the name of a condition known as an irregular heartbeat. As is now clear, Adderall is not a good answer for a struggling student and should be more heavily regulated. References: 1. Arria, A. M., Caldeira, K. M., Vincent, K. B., K. E., Cimini, M. D., Geisner, I. M., & ... Larimer, M. E. (2017). Do college students improve their grades by using prescription stimulants nonmedically?. Addictive Behaviors, 65245- 249. doi:10.1016/j.addbeh.2016.07.016 2. Mills, L. S. (2006). Prescription Stimulants Are Big on Campus. Science News, 169(21), 334-334. Retrieved from http://www.jstor.org/stable/4019161 3. Day, M. Misuse of ADHD drugs by young people is rising, US poisons data  Bmj 339.Aug25 3 (2009): n. pag. Web. 4. Kmietowicz, Z. (2012). Children say ADHD drugs turn them into robots. BMJ: British Medical Journal, 345(7879), 2-2. Retrieved from http://www.jstor.org/stable/41723998