SELF DRIVEN CARS NEEDS MORE RELIABILITY 1 Self-Driving Car Technology is Yet to Prove the Full Reliability Ghaith Al-Ghaithi ENC1101.004S17 April 30, 2017 SELF DRIVEN CARS NEEDS MORE RELIABILITY 2 Self-Driving Car Technology is Yet to Prove the Full Reliability Advancing technology made it possible to create previously unimaginable products bringing more comfort and joy to the human life. It has the ability to transform the way people live and change the way humans complete their day-to-day activities. The manually operated tasks previously done by humans are gradually taken over by machines. The technology of self-driving cars has become one of the latest revolutionary concepts which would transform the way people commute since humans can hand over the complete control of the operations of the computers. However, there are concerns on the reliability on the safety and moral and ethical responsibilities on who and what will be held accountable in a crash due to technology failure. These issues associated with self-driving technology still raise concerns of what degree of reliability it should achieve to make it a perfect reality. I have found that self-driving car technology has achieved significant successes as a revolutionary advanced technology but much more improvements are need before computers can take full control to reach the expected level of reliability. Self- driving car technology has shown tremendous potential to reduce risks of manual operations and bring driving efficiency. Chris Urmson shows that use of improved technology in self-driving cars has the potential to reduce safety risk related to manual vehicle operations (Urmson, 2008). The author describes how the successful integration of surface mapping technologies improves the ability to scan the variations on the road and identify the obstacles more efficiently and quickly than human operations. Properly identifying the road conditions and adjusting the operations accordingly improve the driving experience with reduced risks. This is important for preventing the crashes and avoid the risk of injuries, property damages and the loss of life. According to Mark Coeckelbergh, self- driving car technology can address the problems related to traffic congestions because of increased efficiency in operating a car without frustration and lack of attention SELF DRIVEN CARS NEEDS MORE RELIABILITY 3 (Coeckelbergh, 2016). This increases the safety because patience in driving is not affected when the operation is done by the machines. Therefore, it can contribute immensely to address the issue of traffic accidents due to human aggression associated with driving. In addition to these benefits associated with self-driving car technology, it has improved to the levels that car manufacturers show continuous interest in investing in this technology. Susan Hassler stresses that auto manufacturers are competing to develop and market self-driving vehicles to make profits in the future because of the promising returns and the potential of this technology (Hassler, 2017). Therefore, it is evident that self-driving car technology has attracted powerful investors to develop popular market products available for customers. Despite consistent advancement of this technology and the associated benefits, there are concerns because of the shortcomings in certain areas. Despite rapid advancement, further improvements of the technology are needed to reach expected levels of reliability in automated operations and to address the issues related to eventual responsibility of car crashes. Also, according to Leonard Evans, the self-driving car technology needs significant enhancement to react to sudden risks and decisions on stopping a car (Evans, 2001). Human brain has abilities to react and coordinate the functions extremely quick manner in order to react sudden changes while operating a car. However, automated machines may still have issues when reacting to external changes with continuous scanning. Several technologies are integrated together to achieve this to reliable levels. However, the coordination with passing the information to various automated systems in a self-driving car requires further testing to improve it to meet the capabilities needed for extreme situations. Chris states that testing of automated cars has proven to deliver the expectations of researchers and engineers but the challenge of fully autonomous urban driving has not yet been met (Urmson, 2008). Although driving in rural areas may not encounter large and rapid variations, urban driving poses the challenges of continuous SELF DRIVEN CARS NEEDS MORE RELIABILITY 4 variations on the ground. Therefore, quick decisions and reactions are needed to maintain smooth movements in urban driving with eliminated risks due to malfunctions. Misjudgements or delay in processing the input data may cause unnecessary consequences and damages. Although issues related to many such problematic areas have been solved, the complex nature of automated operations complicates the designs and software algorithms based on testing. Therefore, it leaves the question on at what point that all the stakeholders can agree with the fully reliability of automated car operations. Although certain areas associated with automated driving show higher superiority over manual driving, it cannot leave the room for any shortcomings in other areas to make the users completely confident. The main reason is that there should be a zero-tolerance for any type of error or mistakes when it comes to controlling a vehicle. Since human supervision is completely abandoned in such technology, the total reliability is the utmost priority whether it is operated in urban or rural areas. Also, there is another important issue with self-driving technology associated with ethical point of view. Mark highlights many areas of technology that have been consistently on the focus over the years as to who is responsible for traffic accidents; driver, manufacturer or the car itself (Coeckelbergh, 2016). This raises the questions on both ethical and legal areas because ultimate responsibility has to be defined in order to identify the appropriate responsible parties. However, it can make the circumstances more complex because there is no human involvement in operations at the time of the accident even though humans use the technology. Self-driving car technology has achieved a significant success owing to advanced technology. It has proven to be a promising technology to make driving safer and more efficient. However, there are many more issues related to the total reliability of this technology that need to be addressed. It has shown some limitations in urban driving and making sudden decisions in order to avoid possible crashes. Therefore, further improvements SELF DRIVEN CARS NEEDS MORE RELIABILITY 5 are necessary and the responsibility of the operations. Many areas of the self-driving technology are shown to be successful at the lab testing levels but areas beyond that need more focus. Therefore, major improvements are needed to build confidence through zero- tolerance for any mistakes. Also, ultimate responsibility in the event of a crash is also an issue related to self-driving car technology which needs extensive attention before making the technology available for common use. SELF DRIVEN CARS NEEDS MORE RELIABILITY 6 References Coeckelbergh, M. (2016). Responsibility and the Moral Phenomenology of Using Self- Driving Cars. Applied Artificial Intelligence, 30(8), 748. doi:10.1080/08839514.2016.1229759 Evans, L. (2001). Causal Influence of Car Mass and Size on Driver Fatality Risk. The American Journal Of Public Health, 24 (7), 256 Hassler, S. (2017). Self-driving cars and trucks are on the move [Spectral IEEE Spectrum, 54(1), 6. doi:10.1109/MSPEC.2017.7802341 Urmson, C., and William, W., (2008). Self-Driving Cars and the Urban Challenge. IEEE Intelligent Systems, Intelligent Systems, IEEE, IEEE Intell. Syst, (2), doi:10.1109/MIS.2008.34