Kyle McGorty ENC 1101 Instructor Carr 4/10/17 Should Adderall be more regulated? Adderall abuse is a growing problem in the US. Adderall at is a base is an amphetamine salt. This means that it is a mix of different amphetamines, specifically levoamphetamine and dextroamphetamine (Heal et al. 2016). Adderall is categorized under the drug category of prescription stimulant or, PNS. Other drugs in this category include Ritalin, or methylphenidate. Since first becoming a Schedule II controlled substance in 1971, abuse rates for Adderall have risen dramatically. This is the same case for many drugs, and just like other drugs, the demographic of abusers is most commonly college students. The difference with Adderall, however, comes with the reason for abuse. Although Adderall can be abused recreationally to feel euphoric effects, studies have shown that the main reason of why college students will abuse is to help them academically. Adderall is a stimulant, hence the term prescription stimulant. This means that the drug, once ingested and processed by the body, releases chemicals that affect the user by their Central Nervous System. The Central Nervous System is made up of the Brain and the Spinal Cord, and it coordinates all the movements and processes of the human body. Stimulants affect this system by increasing alertness, energy levels, attention, heart rate, and respiratory rate (NIDA, 2016). Increased alertness and energy is vital to students, especially those who are bogged down and burnt out from the great deal of schoolwork they have done and continue to have. The tedious, energy-draining is much easier when one can take a pill that keeps them awake. This seems all-great until the many problems with this behavior are recognized. These drugs are an academic performance enhancer. They are controlled substances taken illegally to gain an unfair advantage over the student who does the right thing and stays away from drugs. I believe that Adderall, much like steroids to a baseball player, is a performance enhancing drug, and it is for this reason that something should be done to rectify the current problem. Along with being a performance enhancer, these drugs can also cause health problems when taken for an extended period of time or in large doses. Two main drugs are prescribed for ADHD. These drugs are sold under the name brands of Adderall and Ritalin. Adderall is made up of two amphetamine salts. Ritalin is made up of a stimulant known as methylphenidate. Methylphenidate, like amphetamines, is classified by the US DEA as a Schedule II drug. This means that this drug has a proven use as medical treatment, but also has a high potential for abuse. To give context to this, the narcotic OxyContin is also a Schedule II drug. Although possession of these drugs usually results in just fine for a first offense, multiple offenses or distribution charges could be longer (NIDA, 2016). These drugs are strong prescription stimulants. When taken over long period of time these can cause serious health problems, especially with the heart. These heart problems include hypertension and tachycardia. Hypertension is high blood pressure. Tachycardia is the name of a condition known as an irregular heartbeat (Heal et al. 2016). Although people should be able to do what they want with their body, letting Adderall abuse go sets a dangerous precedent. A student who want to take drugs will have to take drugs to keep up with their classmates, putting them at risk of the drugs side effects and putting them at risk of being arrested and prosecuted for possession of these illegal drugs. The real victim of Adderall abuse is usually the other students because of this. It is clear for one to see that these drugs, when taken without prescription, could be a problem, but not many realize that the problem is already here and has been for year. The strongest evidence for this comes from a journal article written by L. S. Mills. In his article, Mills writes about a study done by polling students at an unspecified New England college. The results of the study were shocking. Only 1 in 10 students admitted to taking the drugs Adderall, Concerta, and Ritalin, but 50 percent of the students questioned admitted to knowing a dealer of these drugs (Mills, 2006, p.334). I believe that the abuse rates are actually much higher than the 10 percent found by the study. It does not make sense that half a student body would know a dealer for a drug only 10 percent use. Mills also writes that these drugs, as I previously mentioned, are not used to get like most drugs, but rather they are used to stay awake and focused while doing schoolwork. Mills also brings up the point that the reason so many students turn to prescription stimulants is underlying ADHD that went undiagnosed. Although this counterclaim may seem promising on the surface, this can be dismissed by the fact that a person with ADHD would likely see a doctor first, getting own prescription is not only legal but cheaper (Mills, 2006, p.334). Mills does a great job of showing the problem that abuse rates are already high, but this is just the start. Since the start of the millennium, abuse rates have gone up dramatically. You can clearly see this in an article written in 2009 by Michael Day. Day focuses mainly on the abuse rates of students ages 13-19, the most common age range a person will start to abuse these drugs. The study received was done from 1998 to 2005. As expected, Adderall and Ritalin were the drugs the study focused on. The study went through the number of calls concerning these drugs to poison control centers over a period of eight years. The study showed a rise of abuse of more than 75 percent over eight years. Even the number of legal prescriptions went up 80 percent during this period (Day, 2009, p.479). Day also describes the results of this study as of the numbers. A small number of calls to poison control center could reveal a large number of people abusing, as use of these drugs rarely results in calls to poison control centers (Day, 2009, p.479). To ensure my point is clear, I want to bring up the misconception that these drugs are intrinsically bad. My argument is that when these substances are taken illegally, they are a performance enhancing drug that needs heavier regulation. This does not mean that prescription stimulants are intrinsically bad, but actually quite the opposite. When these drugs are taken as prescribed to treat ADHD, they are very effective and lead to a better quality of life. This is very clear in an article written by Z. Kmietowicz. It is a common misconception that prescription stimulants rob children of their individuality and turn them into In the article, Kmietowicz argues that these drugs turn children into like many believe. The study discussed in the article included the interviewing of 151 children and was done in the UK. The children were asked how the drugs affected them and whether or not the children liked the drugs. The general consensus of the children was that they believed the drugs helped them manage their ADHD symptoms and a general benefit was provided by the drugs (Kmietowicz, 2012, p.2). This not only disproves the belief, but outlines the good the drugs can cause when taken as prescribed to treat ADHD. Another take away from this article is that these drugs are not only controversial in the US, but also in the UK, making it a more global issue. The best counterpoint to my argument comes from the question of whether or not the drugs actually help raise GPA, when taken illegally without prescription. A study published this year was done to test this question. 7 authors were credited for this study, and the source I used was the direct results of this study. The study was done by testing 898 college students, none of which were diagnosed with ADHD. The students were classified as one of 3 types of users, or abstainers who do not or have ever used the drugs. The results were not as one, especially the user, would expect. The results showed that abstainers showed the best academic performance (Arria et al. 2017). This would be in direct contradiction with my hypothesis, but I would counter by saying a person who abstains is likely more responsible of a person. They most likely prepared for the exam ample time, in contrast to an Adderall abuser who likely crams for exams, therefore needs drugs. As is now clear, unprescribed prescription stimulants are academic performance enhancing drugs, and it is for this reason why I believe they should be regulated more. As the 2017 study showed, a high GPA is possible if not more likely without these drugs. Like anything practice makes perfect, so the best way to do well in school is by practicing good study habits without drugs. Planning and organization is the best recipe to success. References Arria, A. M., Caldeira, K. M., Vincent, K. B., K. E., Cimini, M. D., Geisner, I. M., & ... Larimer, M. E. (2017). Do college students improve their grades by using prescription stimulants nonmedically?. Addictive Behaviors, 65245249. doi:10.1016/j.addbeh.2016.07.016 Day, M. Misuse of ADHD drugs by young people is rising, US poisons data  Bmj 339.Aug25 3 (2009): n. pag. Web. Heal, D. J., Smith, S. L., Gosden, J., & Nutt, D. J. (2013). Amphetamine, past and present a pharmacological and clinical perspective. Journal of Psychopharmacology (Oxford, England), 27(6), http://doi.org/10.1177/0269881113482532 Kmietowicz, Z. (2012). Children say ADHD drugs turn them into robots. BMJ: British Medical Journal, 345(7879), 2-2. Retrieved from http://www.jstor.org/stable/41723998 Mills, L. S. (2006). Prescription Stimulants Are Big on Campus. Science News, 169(21), 334- 334. Retrieved from http://www.jstor.org/stable/4019161 NIDA (2016). Misuse of Prescription Drugs. Retrieved May 2, 2017, from https://www.drugabuse.gov/publications/research-reports/misuse-prescription-drugs