Sharipbayev 1 Sharipbayev Yernar Instructor Nancy Carr Composition I April 8, 2017 Emotions and feelings are often the cause of certain actions taken by people. This is a fact, which I find to be true because it is frequently implemented in the spheres of advertising and retail management. To exemplify, the feeling of one might feel after laughing at some hilarious joke or situation shown in advertisement is aimed towards creating a connection of this feeling with certain type of product or service to make you buy it. In the store atmosphere, instances of positive or negative emotions experienced with the representatives of a particular brand or sellers of its products may be a motivator for either consuming certain products and services, being promoted, or not. To illustrate, if you have about someone who buys coffee in Starbucks every day, it might provoke a desire in you to do the same. Thus, psychology, emotions and feelings play big role as a target of manipulation by business firms, which constantly implement diverse strategies of influencing these elements of subconscious. However, there are some, who would disagree with my position, supporting it with following facts. Firstly, not all commercials display the content, which is of the interest for all consumers, or, on the contrary, the content is so intense to the point of becoming disloyal to message. Also, consumers have a lot of experience of being a target of numerous advertisements, and, thus, they are smart in decoding the strategies of persuasion. Lastly, some advertising and retail strategies intended to provoke certain feelings inside consumers might be not very efficient. I am going to dispute all these counter-arguments in the following paragraphs in order to prove that they are not prevailing. June Cotte and Robin Ritchie, based on the interview of 15 members of advertising creative personnel, as a method of study in their article, Theories of Consumers: Why Use Negative Emotions to (2005), reveal findings concerning the use of negative Sharipbayev 2 emotions in commercials and share points of view of the professionals working in this field. Despite the fact that advertisements containing content can be pretty effective, as supported by many informants, it is risky in terms of making people disloyal to the commercial itself by satiating it with too much or less than enough intense images targeted towards evoking negative emotions (Cotte & Ritchie, 2005, p. 5). Also, as interviewees participated in the study of Cotte & Ritchie claimed, consumers back then (2005), already, were less gullible and more sophisticated in decoding implications and tactics, partially, because they had had enough time to get used to the most common advertising strategies. But, first of all, it is important to mention that already in the beginning of twenty first century consumers were exposed to an average of 3,000 to 5,000 advertisements per which implies that it was somewhat difficult task to affect particular consumer among abundant number if various advertisements (as cited in Cotte & Ritchie, 2005, p. 3). And, although the above statements about drawbacks of commercials made by the professionals hard to deny, the fact, as informants reported, that advertisements, which contained images conveying negative emotions, were the most effective way to stop and grab attention of the viewer in the atmosphere plentiful of persuasive messages means that commercials have their benefits. Notwithstanding the successful ability of advertisements satiated with negative content to get attention, it might be compared to naked on the as one of interviewees exemplified, but it does not mean that want to be your (as cited in Cotte & Ritchie, 2005, p. 4). Following this, next step of persuasion is to establish a relationship between the message of particular commercial and the viewer by showing some sort of solution and action step to the created problem, which can be associated with light at the end of the This in turn, is supposed to bring the feeling of to the viewer, which still makes commercials an effective way of influencing emotion and behavior (as cited in Cotte & Ritchie, 2005, p. 4). Sharipbayev 3 Sometimes, looking at the things that other people have makes us want to get or buy the same. This strategy is often used in the retail stores selling apparel, in which shop assistants are asked to wear the clothing that represents their brand. Jae-Eun Kim, Hae Ju and Kim Johnson, who, in their article, Appearance: Links to Emotions, Store Image, and (2009), displayed the results of survey, which asked participants to describe their feelings, image and purchasing behavior based on the influence of sales appearance. In despite of results showing that only 29% of participants correlated sales appearance with their purchase intention, what means that the majority of consumers are not affected by this strategy much, still the survey reveals that our feelings either good or bad about the representatives of certain brands have effect on the significant number of people, whose intentions of buying products depend on individuals, representing or themselves with certain brands. Raluca Comiati and Nicoleta Negrea, authors of the article Consumers Attitudes towards Different Types of Emotions Used in (2009), observed the impact of several emotional strategies used in advertisements on psychology. They found that some advertising strategies that are aimed to generate certain emotions in their viewers might be not effective for considerable part of the audience. In particular, a strategy, which is intended for evoking the feeling of arousal by displaying the sexual content, is bound to fail in grabbing the attention of viewers, representing one of the two sexual orientations. While this is true that this strategy is not efficient for influencing all categories of the audience, there are still other persuasive strategies, which are strong in targeting emotional factor. One example of it is a type of commercials conveying the feeling of that one is inclined to feel when seeing images depicting love, friendship, tenderness and empathy and, because this feeling makes one thinking positively, it decreases the probability of finding counter-arguments towards the content. This is success for a company that created commercial using this strategy, because Sharipbayev 4 the task of creating connection between positive feeling and the product inside the mind of the viewer is accomplished. Jeremy Wolter, Simon Brach, Joseph Cronin Jr., and Mark Bonn examined human tendencies in self-identification with brands and their products, in their article, Drivers of Identification and (2016). Nowadays, many advertisers use a strategy of products or, in other words, they satiate these products with human qualities to make them represent beliefs or cultural values that match or might be desired to be possessed by real individuals. Outcomes of a conducted survey, which are composed of 1253 beer resopnds, revealed that only about 28% of participants confirmed that they experienced self-definition with the brand of beer they preferred, which implies that major portion of consumers are not affected by the of brands. Although this advertising strategy is not influential so hugely, it does impact notable number of consumers. An example that shows personifying impactfulness is illustrated by authors with a popular series of Dos commercials, in which qualities of most interesting man in the were prescribed to the beer brand. Results of the campaign showed that Dos more than and brand has outpaced the growth rate of the top ten import (Wolter et al., 2016, p. 1). This implies that, in attempts of finding self- fulfillment, people might be prone to buying certain products, which represent qualities given by their business firms. With the refuting of strength of main counter-arguments being done, I would like to bring attention of the reader to other evidence, which proves that our emotions are correlated with our purchasing behavior. In her study described in the article the Impact of Negative Self-Conscious Emotions on Consumer Memory, Processing, and (2005), Heather Honea researched the influence of negative emotions on consumer behavior. It was found that guilt is connected to the feeling of reciprocity towards someone, with whom the emotional connection was established benevolent seller or sales assistant, particularly, and it is, usually, Sharipbayev 5 intentionally imposed in attempt to increase the probability of making the purchase by a customer. Another instance of feelings affecting our attitudes and following choices is exemplified by Torben Hansen, who observed the effect of both psychological and emotional elements of human subconscious in the experiment depicted in his article, Effects of Physical Surroundings in Usage Situations on Consumer Perception of Food Quality and on Consumer (2002). Study was aimed at answering hypotheses, points of some of which was to demonstrate if physical surroundings will positively affect consumer perception of food and (Hansen, 2002, p. 9). Participants of the experiment were 320 graduate students from Copenhagen, who were welcomed either to the room constructed to represent elegant physical surroundings or to the room representing less elegant physical surroundings, whereupon they were asked to eat some food and, then, evaluate its quality and emotions they felt afterward. Indeed, results had indicated that more elegant physical surroundings affect perceived food quality, accompanied by pleasure-feeling, in a stronger positive manner than the less elegant surroundings do. outcomes point out that physical atmosphere, due to memories and social values present in almost every subconscious, can influence not only perceived quality of a particular product psychologically, but, also, creates positive emotional response, which is likely to lead to its purchase. To conclude, I think that above arguments support the fact that our psychology, emotions and feelings impact our behavior and make us buying products and services. Hopefully, I managed to accomplish the purpose of this paper, which, from the beginning, was to make the reader aware of, at least, some aspects of his or her subconscious in order not to make decisions in life and not to be easily manipulated by retail atmosphere and advertisers, as it seems to me that rational choices are the basis of prosperous life. Sharipbayev 6 References Comiati, R., & Negrea, N. O. (2009). Romanian consumers attitudes towards different types of emotions used in advertising. The Proceedings of the International Conference, Marketing - from Information to Decision, (2), 127. Cotte, J., & Ritchie, R. (2005). theories of consumers: why use negative emotions to sell? Advances in Consumer Research, 32(1), 24-31. Hansen, T. (2002). The effects of physical surroundings in usage situations on consumer perception of food quality and on consumer emotions. Journal of International Consumer Marketing, 15(1), 31. Honea, H. (2005). Investigating the impact of negative self-conscious emotions on consumer memory, processing, and purchase. Advances in Consumer Research, 32(1), 189-192. Kim, J., Ju, H. W., & Johnson, K. K. (2009). Sales appearance: links to emotions, store image, and purchases. Journal of Retailing and Consumer Services, (5), 407. Wolter, J. S., Brach, S., Cronin, J. J., Jr., & Bonn, M. (2016). Symbolic drivers of brand identification and disidentification. Journal of Business Research, 69(2), 785-793.