Running head: PRISONERS OF WORLD WAR II Prisoners of World War II have to deal with negative side effects in the present. Mark Sanchez University of South Florida Contact: mark52@mail.usf.edu PRISONERS OF WORLD WAR II Abstract The content within this argumentative essay PRISONERS OF WORLD WAR II There were many soldiers that took part in World War II. Approximately sixteen million, both men and women served in the United States military during World War II. Nearly 94,000 of these Americans were imprisoned in Europe, and nearly 30,000 were interned by the Japanese. Many of them were captured in Europe after fighting in the Battle of the Bulge, or had been shot down during flying missions over Germany. The conditions for these POWs, or prisoners of war, got increasingly worse as the war went on. Overcrowding and malnutrition was common. Being tortured during interrogations, and for no reason, also occurred for these prisoners of war. As the Germans tried to avoid Allied Forces, many Americans were taken from camps and forced to march for weeks. For the Americans imprisoned by the Japanese, they suffered some of the highest death rates in American history at almost forty percent. Most of them were captured after the fall of the Philippines. Many were crowded onto ships that were sent to Japan. Some of those ships got torpedoed by submarines. Once the POWs made it to Japan, they were forced to work in mines seven days a week with minimal food and water. For all the surviving prisoners of war, I believe that all POWs have to deal with negative side effects in the present. To start, the main side effect that POWs have to deal with is PTSD, or post-traumatic stress disorder. PTSD is a mental health disorder that can develop after experiencing a traumatic event such as physical assault, sexual assault, and warfare. The unexpected death of a loved one can also cause someone to develop PTSD, and many prisoners of war have seen some of their brothers in arms fall before them at the hands of the enemy. People who have developed PTSD may feel nervous or frightened when not even in danger. Other symptoms include flashbacks, nightmares, and frightening daydreams. Re-experiencing some of these symptoms can definitely cause problems in an everyday routine. Former POWs may not want to go to places such as a museum that would remind them of their past. They may also stay away from events or objects that can bring up memories from the war. Having trouble sleeping is also a symptom and it can lead to the person having stress or anger. In of Traumatic Memories in World War II Prisoners of by Elbaum et. al., the conclusion of the article states memories and clinical levels of PTSD persist for World War II POWs for as long as sixty five years after their This means that all surviving prisoners of war have had to deal with PTSD for more than half their life. Furthermore, Cognition and mood symptoms are also a part of post-traumatic stress disorder. Former POWs may experience negative thoughts about themselves or the world. They may experience distorted feelings such as guilt and blame themselves. They may also lose interest in activities that they once thought were enjoyable in the past, but no longer want to participate. These moody symptoms can cause the prisoner of war to feel detached from friends and family members, and may even start ruining relationships for them. In and physical aggression in World War II former prisoners of war: Role of posttraumatic stress disorder and by Cook et. al., the author states on the first page or violent behavior in individuals with PTSD is one of the common sources of marital difficulties, as well as frequent reason for seeking psychiatric The PTSD that prisoners of war have developed makes it difficult to have normal functioning relationships with anyone in their lives pretty much. Getting into a romantic relationship can definitely be hard for POWs because romantic relationships are already stressful enough by itself, but now the former prisoners of war would have to deal with the stress of post-traumatic stress disorder, and the relationship. PRISONERS OF WORLD WAR II References C., Cook, J. M., K., Neria, R., Riley,Thompson, Y. (2006). Verbal and physical aggression in World War II former prisoners of war: Role of posttraumatic stress disorder and depression. Journal Of Traumatic Stress, 19(6), 859-866. doi:10.1002/jts.20157 Cook, Coyne, D. S., J. C., J. I., J. M., Riggs, Sheikh, & Thompson (2004). Posttraumatic Stress Disorder and Current Relationship Functioning Among World War II Ex-Prisoners of War. Journal Of Family Psychology, 18(1), 36-45. doi:10.1037/0893-3200.18.1.36 Elbaum, E. N., F. M., Klama, L. S., P. L., Rintamaki., S. A., Weaver & Miskevics, (2009). Persistence of Traumatic Memories in World War II Prisoners of War. Journal Of The American Geriatrics Society, 57(12), 2257-2262. The Railway Men: Prisoner Journeys through the Traumascapes of World War II. (2014). Journal of War & Culture Studies, 7(3), 206-222. https://www.nimh.nih.gov/health/topics/post-traumatic-stress-disorder-ptsd/index.shtml