Augmentative Essay: Growing Threat of Cybercrime Danish Siddiqui University of South Florida Introduction The introduction of the internet came along with tremendous benefits to users. It is evident, communication and transactions became more efficient with progressive development of internet resources. Individuals using the internet can communicate and exchange information in a short timespan anywhere in the world. Business transactions are more efficient with the internet as compared to the era before the internet. All this benefits are not without challenges. The internet created a space, which is the cyberspace, where new forms of crimes emerged. Cybercrimes, that is, offenses committed within the cyberspace have continuously been a nuisance to most internet users. Individuals, organizations and also security agents have all at one point been victims of cybercrimes. In this respect, the security of internet users is a concern whenever one chooses to use the internet. Cyber Security There are institutions tasked with the maintenance of law and order in the society. Such institutions include the police and the lawmaking authorities in different countries. The police department came into play in the eighteenth century to combat the security challenges posed by the then increasing technology and increasing population in the urban areas. Over time, the police was an all-purpose emergency responder. The society begun to place a lot of confidence in the police ability to protect them from all sorts of crimes. The police took the center stage of ensuring public safety in all walks of life. Empowered by the law, the police were able to pursue and clean the society of criminals that threatened the safety of the public. When it comes to cyber security, the public expect to feel a police presence in the cyberspace ensuring their safety. However, the speed at which the internet technology has grown has rendered the police incapable of maintaining order in the space. The police lack both the law and technological empowerment necessary to actively combat cybercrime. When computers came into our homes, it was merely a device meant to make work easier and provide entertainment (Skibell, 2003). Later came advancements where the computer was connected to the world. In a very short time span a lot of advancement in networking and software took place. Initially, nerds who thought it was okay to snoop into peoples computers and view their files were the only trespassers in the cyberspace (Skibell, 2003). Over time, security, business and numerous financial transactions took shape in the cyberspace. It was no longer okay to snoop around in other computer network. Laws had to be put in place to protect internet users. The Computer Fraud and Abuse Act (CFAA) was enacted to deal with the increasing problem of cybercrime (Mayer, 2016). Over time, every state in America has put laws in place to curb with the vice. However, as stated earlier, the police are not able to catch up with the advancement of technology and the laws helping them to do so are obsolete (Skibell, 2003; Mayer, 2016; Tuluc, 2012). The original version of the CFAA was hastily enacted due to increased demand for a law against cybercrimes. The act was misused due to vague and broad nature by which it categorized cybercrimes (Skibell, 2003). The mindset behind the act was to introduce highly punitive measures to curb with the cybercrimes. It was later evident that the law was ambiguous and needed some changes