Running head: COMPARING THE EFFECTS OF USING GMOs 1 A Comparative Study on the Effects of using Genetically Modified Organisms (GMOs) Chakar O. Thompson University of South Florida Abstract COMPARING THE EFFECTS OF USING GMOs 2 Whether our favorite type of tomato or the type of material our clothes are made from. At some point in our life we have stumbled upon something that has been genetically engineered to suit our needs. Genetic engineering (GE) or Recombinant DNA cloning refers to the altering of genetic material in a way that does not occur naturally by mating and/or natural recombination to produce a specific trait within an organism. Although GE sounds very technical, this was a practice that began around 10000 years ago with the arrival of our early farmers and herdsmen. This was seen when farmers crossbred animals such as different breeds of cattle or sheep, to produce offspring that were stronger, healthier, or had better meat. As centuries past, this technique has been perfected on a molecular level. In 1953 the double helix structure of DNA was purposed and in the late restriction enzymes were discovered by Stewart Linn & Werner Arber. These enzymes DNA at specific sites and leave in the DNA to allow fragments of DNA with a specific trait to be into the DNA This was the precursor to the first recombinant DNA cloning experiment using restriction enzymes done by Herbert Boyer & Stanley Cohen in 1973. Shortly after this GE became very popular in the scientific community and by 1975 it came under great scrutiny from politicians and religious individuals. Debates arose proposing that GE was unethical and this could also create diseases. As a result I hope to investigate the following, Are harmful or more beneficial to future agriculture and food security? Keywords and Concepts: cloning, enzymes,gene, gene splicing, recombinant DNA, restriction enzyme traits, transgenic organisms (TO), EU Regulatory Framework, world trade organisation (WTO), Food and Drug Administration (FDA) A Comparative Study on the Effects of using Genetically Modified Organisms (GMOs) COMPARING THE EFFECTS OF USING GMOs 3 Thesis Adapt or be killed; according to the Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy, theory of evolution states that those individuals with heritable traits better suited to the environment will survive. Over the years, plants that had large seeds have evolved to produce thousands of small seeds in their fruits so they can repopulate on a large scale.They did this so that when animals eat their fruits, there is a higher chance of the seeds finding fertile ground through animal droppings/ faeces. Some plants even modify their leaves and flowers to adapt to certain conditions. Human beings have studied this behavior and come up with a way to manipulate and monitor these evolutionary characteristics called traits in all organisms even animals. called genetic engineering (GE). In this paper I will identify and compare the effects of using genetically modified organisms (gmos) created through GE. In this study I will list, compare and analyze the benefits/ problems associated with the use of GMOs in agriculture, food production and the health sector. I will also look into the marketing of genetically modified food and the risk assessment framework used to evaluate gmos before marketing. Perhaps the most economically significant area of genetic commerce today is in the arena of genetically modified foods (GMFs). On the positive side, modified foods promise greater harvests, higher agricultural productivity, and perhaps cheaper food with the potential to alleviate hunger. By contrast, many object to the non-natural character of GMFs, some on grounds that might be characterized as esthetic, and some due to a fear that GMOs will lead to seriously adverse consequences, such as loss of genetic diversity, extinction of plants that humans have relied on for millennia for food, unanticipated health problems, and even a genetic catastrophe in which GMFs infect natural plant species with hugely disastrous consequences. Kolb,( The Ethics of Genetic Commerce, 2007) argues that altering of plant genes, the market for modified seeds, and the growth and distribution of harvested modified foodstuffs comprise a market that is worth many billions of He then continues to state that GMFs also affect the individual in more visible ways than other aspects of genetic commerce today. book seeks to contribute and give direction to an emerging understanding of the crucial questions raised by tackling the topic of genetically modified foods. This may include arguments from the labeling of to the regulatory framework and safety assessment of such. This will be further supported by Deng. P etal, (Food And Chemical Toxicology, 2008). In this study the authors will evaluate and describe methods of framing the the edible safety requirements and assessment of COMPARING THE EFFECTS OF USING GMOs 4 agricultural genetically modified organisms (agri-GMOs) for Shenzhen Special Economic Zone in the Republic of China. Deng focuses on the degree of risk and impact of different agri-GMOs. This idea of GMF safety has rippled into the ears of consumers who are now sceptical about the food they eat. By 2010 most consumers wanted the the mandatory labeling of GMFs to impact the way all consumers make informed decisions about public health, food safety, environmental impacts, and decrease consumer confusion and deception. These ideas are argued by Sax & Doran ( Food Labeling and Consumer Associations with Health, Safety, and Environment, 2016), labeling requirements exist in order to provide information to consumers, but this is not always as easy as it seems. While some labeling requirements are mandated, such as those required under the Nutrition Labeling and Education However this will be argued against in the 2016 paper by Ronald.P, (The truth about GMOs, 2013). She debates the pros and cons of genetically modified organisms (GMOs) as food, and discuss issues such as genetic engineering (GE) for disease and pest resistance in crops, food security, and fights GMO food labeling proposals in the U.S. Literature Review In (2007) book, he enters the debate by stating that, considers a further objection to GMFs the view that their development by large chemical concerns such as Monsanto will place third-world farmers in thrall to first-world corporate interests. He believes that proper supervision of these firms can prevent exploitation of small farmers, and he concludes that the advantages of GMFs ultimately outweigh their potential risks. Chris MacDonald and Melissa Whellams address the question of mandatory labeling of GMF products in Decisions About GM Food MacDonald and Whellams acknowledge that consumers have expressed a preference for such labeling, but that firms have largely not responded to this clear desire. They ultimately conclude that: the lack of solid evidence for any risk to human health, and the serious market disadvantage almost surely associated with costly unilateral action, no individual company has an ethical obligation to label its GM In other words, because of lack of scientific evidence supporting arguments against GMFs, biotech. companies have to label their products as being GMOs. Kolb also considers the role of trade agreements in regulating the production and labeling of GMFs and transgenic organisms. In view, public opinion and scientific evidence conflict in the guidance they COMPARING THE EFFECTS OF USING GMOs 5 give regarding the production and labeling of GMFs. One way to resolve this impasse is to look at a third source of guidance agreements and commitments that nations have already made. He then argues that, in many cases, nations have already committed to trade agreements and these trade agreements specify much of the proper practice regarding food labeling.(p.86). This is a specific problem for the EU which, according to Kolb, imposes strict regulations on GMFs that conflict with WTO agreements of voluntary labeling. The authors tone in this piece is largely subjective because he utilises the authoritative view of the trade organisations. His claims are blatantly unbiased due to the use of evidence from governmental organisations such as the USDA when discussing the official regulatory framework for He also sought to exploit the views of people that want mandatory labeling of GMOs. According to Deng.P etal genetically modified organisms (agriGMOs) means animals, plants, microorganisms and their products whose genomic structures have been modified by genetic engineering technologies for the use in agricultural production or processing, which include: genetically modified animals, plants (including plant seeds, breeding livestock and poultry, aquatic fry and seeds) and microorganisms; products of genetically modified animals, plants and microorganisms; directly processed from genetically modified agricultural breeding livestock and poultry, aquatic fry and seeds, pesticides, veterinary drugs, fertilizers, additives and other products containing the ingredients derived from genetically modified animals, plants and microorganisms or their ( 2008,p.1416). They go on to state that , are a wide category and with a wide applicability range and the connotation of the safety is very broad, including both ecological safety and edible safety. Ecological safety mainly refers to the impact of agri-GMOs on the environment, especially the impact on biological diversity. Edible safety mainly involves the influence of agri-GMOs on organismic health, especially the influence on the health of Deng.P etal provides a set of systematic criteria for edible safety requirements and the assessment process for agri-GMOs. It first, focuses on the degree of risk and impact of different agri-GMOs, where hazard grades for toxicity, allergenicity, anti-nutrition effects, and unintended effects were created. Then it assesses the edible safety of the agri-GMO. This study proves itself very credible as it provides a framework that scientifically assesses GMF through four composite characteristics. This is heavily authoritative as it utilises the food risk assessment principles of the FAO/ WHO. However this study becomes barriered as it entails one distinctive parameter; COMPARING THE EFFECTS OF USING GMOs 6 results are from the Chinese Industrial area and trade agreements differ from continent to continent i.e. not all geographical areas carry the mandatory labeling of gmos. Similarly, Sax and Doran (2016) discuss food labeling requirements and laws in America in relation to preferences and associations with health, safety, and environment, and it mentions the use of the word natural on food labels and calls for food labeling measures dealing with genetically modified organisms/genetically engineered (GMO/GE) products. GE food labeling law is also addressed, along with the U.S. National Bioengineered Food Disclosure Standard. Sax and Doran dispute corporate decisions about GM food labeling by claiming that, of the public and consumer advocacy groups are increasingly calling for a variety of food labeling measures, one particularly regarding food derived from genetically modified organisms/genetically engineered (GMO/GE) and the use of the label The potential for new labeling regulations raises questions about the information that consumers either receive or believe they receive from such From this they ask that a proper definition be given to the word natural. Because all food that comes directly from the earth is natural however, it poses a question if when processed to make another product , should it still be labelled as natural even if gmos were used? The authors in this piece carry a flamboyantly objective tone as it mainly argues the ethical value behind the risk assessment and labeling of GMFs ,example ....decrease consumer confusion and deception by not allowing GE food to be labeled as and protect religious practices line5). Although it is highly biased it also contains elements of contradiction where they clearly see GMF as as Organic food (p.630,line 11-13). Overall study is still necessary as it takes into consideration the public opinion of consumers on GMFs and labeling. However,according to the Boston Truth about Ronald P., (2013), she argues that, of Bt cotton also reduced pesticide poisonings of farmers and their families. In Arizona farmers who planted Bt cotton sprayed half as much insecticide as did neighbors growing conventional She uses this evidence to cleverly state her point that genetically engineered crops currently on the market are as safe to eat and safe for the environment as organic or conventional foods. She then goes on to later argue that the labeling of GMFs should remain a voluntary decision by the food producer. I see her point as understandable as a food company might end up with a loss in their customer base. Ronald argues her point well with the use of subjective evidence from the scientific research done on COMPARING THE EFFECTS OF USING GMOs 7 GMOs. This makes her a credible source of information, although her tone is completely biassed and one can see that she is clearly for the continued use of GMF. However Ronald goes on to moderate her bias by stating that, the GE crops currently on the market are safe, every new variety must be assessed on a case-by-case basis. Each new plant variety, whether it is developed through genetic engineering or conventional approaches of genetic modification, carries a risk of unintended For 30 years, battles fought in the arena of gene technology have largely been approached with arguments of public opinion against the issue. But thanks to modern day technology and scientific study, we can protect GMOs from the darts of harsh criticism faced by the so called and provide evidence to either prove or disprove these issues. I believe it is imperative that we study the effects in society by bracketing ourselves from our own views of the subject and allow the subjectiveness from empirical data, to truly describe the garden of GM technology available today. This unbiased approach is well noted by the scholar Robert Kolb where he suggest that, opinion and scientific evidence conflict in the guidance they give regarding the production and labeling of This scientific evidence comes in the form of regulatory framework built through the cooperation of the trusted trade institutions and food/drug administrations such as the EU, WTO, USDA and FAO. Kolbs book guides us through the regulatory framework and is then supported by Deng etal who shows us the actual approach by grading GMOs using the safety requirements and assessment standards for agricultural genetically modified organisms. The risk assessments done by governmental organisations on the introduction of gmos proved itself viable. This has laid the path for Sax & Doran and Ronald.P which use these frameworks in their arguments. The future goal for using gmos will be to end poverty and world hunger, and I believe that we became one step closer to achieving that goal when genetically modified organisms were discovered. It is important that we continue using designated safety/ risk assessment procedures from the appropriate authorities to fairly grade and characterise GMOs especially on the effect they have on our health, environment and economy. Research COMPARING THE EFFECTS OF USING GMOs 8 According to Bill Ganzel , scientific study of genes began in the 1860s when Austrian monk Gregor Mendel systematically crossed varieties of garden peas. He introduced the concept of a  as a unit of heredity. In 1868, German chemist Friedrich Meischer discovered the substance we now call DNA, Deoxyribose Nucleic Acid. But scientists thought it was too simple chemically to carry the vast amount of genetic information required to produce the enormous diversity of nature. Proteins, they thought, were the basis of (Farming Today, 2009). He continues writing, later to state that products formed from the crossing of genes are called first came to the forefront in 1972 where were produced commercially through artificial gene splicing; genetic engineers Stanley Cohen and Herbert Boyer developed techniques that made it possible to chemically cut and splice strands of DNA at specific places in the DNA sequence. Boyer used an enzyme to cut the code for a specific protein and attach it to other DNA. Cohen added a way to introduce these DNA sequences into bacteria and yeast cells. They turned these tiny microbes into hormone factories. In 1976, they founded their company Genentech and introduced human genes that produce insulin into strains of bacteria. Those bacteria started manufacturing insulin. Next, they manufactured human growth hormone (HGH). It was used to enable dwarf children to grow to normal size. Before genetic modification techniques, the only source for the drug had been human cadavers. The Insulin produced was marketed in 1982 and used to moderate the blood sugar level, in the treatment of Diabetic patients. Soon scientist saw that other than for health purposes, gmo production could be used in the food and agriculture industry. It first made way into the food industry in 1990, through the production of rennet (protease enzyme). Rennet is an enzyme found in milk that causes it curdle and form whey. Scientist from the pharmaceutical giants Pfizer isolated the gene for making rennet, from the stomach of a calf then inserted the gene coding into bacteria. This bacteria then made more rennet in a controlled environment. It was then marketed to dairy companies that made cheese and other dairy products. Later on in 1994, scientists created a GM bacteria that manufactured Bovine Growth Hormone (BGH). This growth hormone was collected from the bacteria and injected into cows to make them produce more milk. GM bacteria produced special hormones that when injected into some farm animals, makes them produce more/ less meat, body fat, fur or even offspring. COMPARING THE EFFECTS OF USING GMOs 9 This practice was also used on plants but the process for creating a gm plant is different from creating gm bacteria/ yeasts. The genetic engineering of bacteria involves artificial gene splicing while the creation of gm plant involved natural gene splicing. Natural gene splicing first came along with the discovery of the plasmids where in 1983, the seed company Monsanto and university scientist found out that plasmids acts as easy gene carriers, so they inserted the desired gene into a plasmid and injected the plasmid into the plant cell where it would introduce the gene into the nucleus of the plant itself. In the same year of 1983 the first gmo crop was created. These were virus-resistant tobacco plants, which were not approved for marketing,but was still grown in 1993 by China. However, in 1994 the organisation Calgene created the first gmo crop that was approved for sale in the US. This plant was the Flavr Savr Tomato ,which was engineered to have a longer shelf life (delayed ripening). By 1995 more These gm crops were called Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) crops and were approved for commercial use. These Bt crops included pesticide resistant Bt potato, virus resistant Bt squash, herbicide resistant Bt cotton, pest resistant Bt maize , weedicide resistant Bt Soybeans and Bt Canola which produces more canola oil in its seed than the average canola plant. According to the USDA, by 2008, 92 percent of the soybeans planted in the U.S. were GMO varieties. Nebraska and South Dakota each planted 97 percent of their soybean crops with Bt soybean. Later on a company called Novartis Seeds first introduced Bt corn hybrids in 1996. The nucleus of the new Bt corn was injected with Bt toxins that act as systemic drugs to insects and pest. Farmers found out that the corn borers died after eating only a few bites of the Bt corn plant. Monsanto was not far behind with its own Bt corn, and other companies like Pioneer have either developed their own strains or licensed the technology from other companies. According to Brookes ,(Study: Global economic benefits of GM crops reach $150 billion, Graham Brookes-Agricultural Economists, 2016). use of in farming have resulted in higher yielding crops worlwide for example ,the insect resistant (IR) technology used in cotton and corn has consistently delivered yield gains from reduced pest damage. The average yield gains over the 1996-2014 period across all users of this technology has been +13.1% for insect resistant corn and +17.3% for insect resistant cotton relative to conventional production systems. 2014 was also the second year IR soybeans were grown commercially in South America, where farmers have seen an average of +9.4% yield improvements. The herbicide tolerant (HT) technology used has also contributed to increased production; improving weed control and COMPARING THE EFFECTS OF USING GMOs 10 providing higher yields in some countries and helping farmers in Argentina grow soybeans after wheat in the same growing season. GM crops have also molded better returns for farmers especially in developing countries, where crop biotechnology helps farmers earn more secure incomes due mainly to improved control of pests and weeds. The net farm level economic benefit in 2014 was $17.7 billion, equal to an average increase in income of $101/hectare. For the 19 years (1996-2014), the global farm income gain has been $150.3 billion. The total farm income benefit of $150.3 billion was divided almost equally between farmers in developing (51%) and developed countries (49%); The highest yield gains continue to be for farmers in developing countries, many of which are resource-poor and farm small plots of land. GM crop farming has also broken the back of poverty by reducing the pressure on scarce land resources and contributing to global food security. This is evident because between 1996 and 2014, crop biotechnology was responsible for additional global production of 158.4 million tonnes of soybeans and 321.8 million tonnes of corn. The technology has also contributed an extra 24.7 million tonnes of cotton lint and 9.2 million tonnes of canola. GM crops are allowing farmers to grow more without using additional land. If crop biotechnology had not been available to the (18 million) farmers using the technology in 2014, maintaining global production levels at the 2014 levels would have required additional plantings of 7.5 million ha of soybeans, 8.9 million ha of corn, 3.7 million ha of cotton and 0.6 million ha of canola. This total area requirement is equivalent to 12% of the arable land in the US, or 33% of the arable land in Brazil or 14% of the cropping area in China. Last but not least, it was found that gmo crops were responsible for environmental improvements. Crop biotechnology has reduced pesticide spraying (1996-2014) by 581 million kg (-8.2%). This is equal to the total amount of pesticide active ingredient applied to crops in China for more than a year. As a result, this has decreased the environmental impact associated with herbicide and insecticide use on the area planted to biotech crops by Since 1996, there has been a number of new genetic modifications to a wide variety of crops such as sweet potatoes that have been enhanced with more protein and other nutrients. Golden rice has been modified by the International Rice Research Institute to provide a low level of Vitamin A. They spliced in genes from the daffodil plant that produce the vitamin, also known as beta carotene. Even carrots have been modified to provide a little calcium in them.From all of the information one can then assess that were created to be nutritious ,resistant to insects, tolerance to herbicides, tolerant to heat, cold, or drought, and have longer shelf lives. As a result COMPARING THE EFFECTS OF USING GMOs 11 farmers have a higher crop yields with reduced chemical inputs and therefore there is less labor required. Hence farmers earn more profit from gmo crop yields. In addition to the surplus of crops produced, the potential for exporting also increases, thus increasing a GDP. Export of agricultural goods is readily made possible through the increased shelf life and the climate retention of foods. Products are therefore easily stored and transported. However, some people believe that are harmful to the environment and our health. Before I begin the discussion on the problems associated with I must state that all scientific studies done currently prove that are harmless. This is mainly because are simply just organisms just like us that are made up of millions of proteins and produce thousands more everyday, the only difference is that produce one or two proteins specifically chosen by humans. Any comment stating that are harmful are therefore open to objectivity. Comparatively, the scientific studies done that prove that are harmless are also biassed because the study was done by the same companies manufacturing the According to Smith ( Reasons to Avoid Jeffrey Smith, August 25,2011) These problems include that, are unhealthy- The American Academy of Environmental Medicine (AAEM) urges doctors to prescribe non-GMO diets for all patients. They cite animal studies showing organ damage, gastrointestinal and immune system disorders, accelerated aging, and infertility. Human studies show how genetically modified (GM) food can leave material behind inside us, possibly causing long-term problems. Genes inserted into GM soy, for example, can transfer into the DNA of bacteria living inside us, and that the toxic insecticide produced by GM corn was found in the blood of pregnant women and their unborn fetuses. Numerous health problems increased after GMOs were introduced in 1996. The percentage of Americans with three or more chronic illnesses jumped from 7% to 13% in just 9 years; food allergies skyrocketed, and disorders such as autism, reproductive disorders, digestive problems, and others are on the rise. Although there is not sufficient research to confirm that GMOs are a contributing factor, doctors groups such as the AAEM tell us not to wait before we start protecting ourselves, and especially our children who are most at risk. The American Public Health Association and American Nurses Association are among many medical groups that condemn the use of GM bovine growth hormone, because the milk from treated cows has more of the hormone IGF-1 (insulin-like growth factor is linked to cancer. COMPARING THE EFFECTS OF USING GMOs 12 Another argument suggests that GMOs contaminate the gene pools of plants. GMOs cross pollinate and their seeds can travel. It is impossible to fully clean up our contaminated gene pool. Self-propagating GMO pollution will outlast the effects of global warming and nuclear waste. The potential impact is huge, threatening the health of future generations. GMO contamination has also caused economic losses for organic and non-GMO farmers who often struggle to keep their crops pure. Smith also suggests that GMOs increase herbicide use ;most GM crops are engineered to be the deadly weed killer. Monsanto, for example, sells Roundup Ready crops, designed to survive applications of their Roundup herbicide. Between 1996 and 2008, US farmers sprayed an extra 383 million pounds of herbicide on GMOs. Overuse of Roundup results in resistant to the herbicide. This is causing farmers to use even more toxic herbicides every year. Not only does this create environmental harm, GM foods contain higher residues of toxic herbicides. Roundup, for example, is linked with sterility, hormone disruption, birth defects, and cancer. He also says that genetic engineering creates dangerous side effects by mixing genes from totally unrelated species, genetic engineering unleashes a host of unpredictable side effects. Moreover, irrespective of the type of genes that are inserted, the very process of creating a GM plant can result in massive collateral damage that produces new toxins, allergens, carcinogens, and nutritional deficiencies. Similarly, Smith states that GMOs harm the environment. He goes on to explain that GM crops and their associated herbicides can harm birds, insects, amphibians, marine ecosystems, and soil organisms. They reduce bio-diversity, pollute water resources, and are unsustainable. For example, GM crops are eliminating habitat for monarch butterflies, whose populations are down 50% in the US. Roundup herbicide has been shown to cause birth defects in amphibians, embryonic deaths and endocrine disruptions, and organ damage in animals even at very low doses. GM canola has been found growing wild in North Dakota and California, threatening to pass on its herbicide tolerant genes on to weeds. GMOs do not increase yields, and work against feeding a hungry world. Whereas sustainable non-GMO agricultural methods used in developing countries have conclusively resulted in yield increases of 79% and higher, GMOs do not, on average, increase yields at all. This was evident in the Union of Concerned 2009 report Failure to definitive study to date on GM crops and yield. The International Assessment of Agricultural Knowledge, Science and Technology for Development (IAASTD) report, authored by more than 400 scientists and backed by 58 COMPARING THE EFFECTS OF USING GMOs 13 governments, stated that GM crop yields were and in some cases, The report noted, of the technology lags behind its development, information is anecdotal and contradictory, and uncertainty about possible benefits and damage is They determined that the current GMOs have nothing to offer the goals of reducing hunger and poverty, improving nutrition, health and rural livelihoods, and facilitating social and environmental Since the introduction of commercial gmo crops in 1976 there has been broad speculation against the use of in farming. These speculations are largely opinionative and there are currently no scientific studies that prove the claims suggested by Smith and other non-gmo organisations. Groups like these are usually pro-organic farming. Data Analysis COMPARING THE EFFECTS OF USING GMOs 14 Table 1.0 Compares the resources used in Dollars per acre by Organic Farming versus that of Conventional (GMO farming) COMPARING THE EFFECTS OF USING GMOs 15 COMPARING THE EFFECTS OF USING GMOs 16 COMPARING THE EFFECTS OF USING GMOs 17 Conclusion and Future Study COMPARING THE EFFECTS OF USING GMOs 18 I have successfully compared and analyzed the data concerning the use of gmos in society. I have found that prove far more beneficial to a developing society than once thought. Despite the heavy criticisms GM crops and other GM products face today, it presents itself as the most sustainable option for any country in regards to health care, food and agriculture. The risk assessments done by governmental organisations on the introduction of gmos proved itself viable. It can now be established that currently, gmos are just as safe as regular organisms do not pose any risks whether it is environmental or health. However, it is imperative that we continue research into gene technology as their may be more uses for than first found. It is also important to further study the effects of incorporating gmos in our ecosystem because gene codings in every living organisms always evolves over time to meet a specific need. What this means is that pest and insects will overtime develop a resistance to gmos. introduction in our ecosystem may also cause non target organisms to be affected. COMPARING THE EFFECTS OF USING GMOs 19 References (i)Deng, P., Zhou, X., Zhou etal. (2008). Edible safety ...assessment standards for agricultural gmos. Food And Chemical Toxicology, (ii )Kolb, R. W. (2007). The ethics of genetic commerce. Malden, MA ; Oxford : Blackwell Pub., 2007. (iii) Ronald, P. (2013). The truth about (cover story). Boston Review, 38(5), 16-32. (iv) Sax, J. K., & Doran, N. (2016). Food labeling and consumer ....health, safety, and environment. Journal of Law, Medicine & Ethics, 44(4), 630-638. doi:10.1177/107311051668480