Running Head: PROMOTION OF POSITIVE BODY IMAGE 1 Promotion of Positive Body Image Through Media Liliana Alvarez Black University of South Florida Instructor Carr PROMOTION OF POSITIVE BODY IMAGE 2 Promotion of Positive Body Image Through Media People are often unaware of the power media has on society. The exposure to media images with ultra-thin women is associated with poor body image (Diedrichs & Lee, p.218). Poor body image can often lead to body dissatisfaction, which is key to low self-esteem, depression, perfectionism, internalization of thinness ideals and centrality of appearance to self-worth (Perloff, 2014, p.367). Taking into consideration those effects, I argue the importance of promoting positive body image through media. Even though enterprises believe that using methods to promote positive body images like using different shape sizes, adding disclaimer labels and subvertising, and popularizing positive body image campaigns will decrease an effectiveness; it has been demonstrated that they are equally appealing. People who own the means of communication are often unaware of the power they have on society. In the article, Multidimensional Media Influence Scale: Confirmatory factor structure and relationship with body dissatisfaction among African American and Anglo American Kristen Harrison (2009) claim that, It is sometimes assumed that consciousness of the effect on own cognitions and emotions should make one impervious to those effects, but the acknowledgment that media effects on body image are occurring in own life does not decrease body dissatisfaction. Indeed, media influence appears to increase body dissatisfaction (p.207). In the article, Joe or Average Joe? The impact of average-size and muscular male fashion models on and body image and advertisement Phillippa Diedrichs and Christina Lee (2010) stated that, many industries have concerns in regards that average-size models will not be as appealing to costumers as ultra-thin models. However, after PROMOTION OF POSITIVE BODY IMAGE 3 doing the investigation, the authors emphasized that average-size female models were rated as equally effective in advertisements as ultra-thin (p.218). In the article, Media Effects on Young Body Image Concerns: Theoretical Perspectives and an Agenda for Richard Perloff states that poor body image can lead to body dissatisfaction, which can also result into low self-esteem, depression, perfectionism, internalization of thinness ideals and centrality of appearance to self-worth (p.367). Taking these effects into consideration, I believe it is extremely important to refer to different ways to approach society in a way that positive body images can be promoted. Besides using a variety of shape sizes in advertisements, as was stated before, it is effective to popularize campaigns to promote positive body image and promote media counter-discourses. In the article, for beauty? A critical analysis of Operation Meghan Lynch (2011) explained that media purpose is to educate girls and women about negative messages promoted by media and to increase self-esteem. The author studied a blog called Operation Beautiful, launched in 2009, which differs from any other media counter- discourse because the author, Caitlin Boyle, updates it daily with stories and photos on how it has changed lives. Furthermore, she emphasized on the importance of promoting different kind of campaigns and used the example of the Dove for Real launched in 2004, aimed to promote the acceptance of a variety of feminine physical beauty possibilities (Lynch, 2011, p.582). Perloff (2014) argues that key feature that distinguishes contemporary social media technologies from conventional mass media is (p.366). Furthermore, regular mass media differs from social media in its bond with people, since social networking sites are available from any place at any time. So, people can reach easily the promoted images of thin ideals. There PROMOTION OF POSITIVE BODY IMAGE 4 are websites promoting anorexic and bulimic lifestyles, and teenage girls and women who visit them are more likely to have higher levels of eating disorders and body image concerns (p.367). In the article, the negative effects of media exposure on body image: Testing the effectiveness of subvertising and disclaimer David A. Frederick, Gaganjyot Sandhu, Terri Scott and Yasmin Akbari (2016) state that, governments, media literacy programs, and industries have embraced the idea of adding disclaimers to media images. Disclaimers are intended to prevent confusion. Women do attend to these disclaimers when they are added to (p.171). Some examples of disclaimer labels are: image has been and is Aishwarya Rai, and she is Indian. been (Lynch, 2011, p.172). Media can influence perception of body image. Which can lead to body dissatisfaction, which is key to low self-esteem, depression, perfectionism, internalization of the thinness ideal, and centrality of appearance to self-worth. Taking into consideration all the effects media can have on society, I believe it is extremely important to promote positive body image. There are many ways in which it could be promoted, including using a diverse shape of sizes, adding disclaimer labels and subvertising, and popularizing positive body image campaigns. PROMOTION OF POSITIVE BODY IMAGE 5 References David Frederick, G. S. (2016, April 14). Reducing the negative effects of media exposure on body image: Testing the effectiveness of subvertising and disclaimer labels. Body Image. Diedrichs, P., & Lee, C. (2010, March 31). GI Joe or Average Joe? The impact of average-size and muscular male fashion models on and body image and advertisement effectiveness. Body Image. Harrison, K. (2009, April 7). The Multidimensional Media Influence Scale: Confirmatory factor structure and relationship with body dissatisfaction among African American and Anglo American children. Body Image. Retrieved January 27, 2017, from http://ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login?url=http://search.ebscohost.com.ezproxy.lib.usf.edu/login. aspx?direct=true&db=edselp&AN=S1740144509000345&site=eds-live Lynch, M. (2011, September 18). Blogging for beauty? A critical analysis of Operation Beautiful. (E. B.V., Ed.) Studies International Forum, 34(6). Perloff, R. (2014, May 29). Social Media Effects on Young Body Image Concerns: Theoretical Perspectives and an Agenda for Research. Sex Roles: A Journal of Research, 71(11-12).