ASSISTED EUTHANASIA 1 Assisted Euthanasia: An Argumentative Paper Cullen J. Mitvalsky University of South Florida ASSISTED EUTHANASIA 2 Abstract The purpose of this paper is to present an argument based on the legalization of assisted euthanasia. Research from multiple authors are presented, as well as first person accounts from patients themselves that are either near death with an illness, or just an average person with an opinion. The intended result of this paper is to persuade and argue to an audience that anyone old or young, if they are suffering from a terminal illness, should have the option and the human right to end their own suffering, through the use of physician assisted euthanasia. ASSISTED EUTHANASIA 3 Assisted Euthanasia: An Argumentative Paper Assisted euthanasia has been a topic of great controversy and debate since 500 B.C. In the United States, however, when most people think of assisted euthanasia, they immediately think of the long battle involving Dr. Jack Kevorkian, or otherwise known as Doctor  He was one of the first doctors in the United States to assist people in death. He just  any ordinary person though. He assisted those who were terminally ill and in great pain, physically and emotionally. During his time as a doctor, he helped over twenty-one patients in what is now called the Right to  movement. Myself and Dr. Kevorkian both strongly believe that the government have control over how you spend your final days when the one in pain. If you are terminally ill, and going to succumb to your illness anyhow, why drag out the pain and suffering when you could at least have the option to pass peacefully with grace, and keep your dignity. Throughout the paper, I will present studies and first hand interviews, done by multiple authors to further support these claims that assisted euthanasia should be legalized in the United States. Lately, there seems to be a strong showing of support for the legalization of euthanasia across the United States, as well as the globe. These countries include the Netherlands, Belgium, Luxembourg, Columbia, and even our neighbors to the north. In Western-Europe, there has been also been a sharp increase in public support as well as physician support for legalization of the practice. In Belgium and the Netherlands, half or more physicians have received requests for euthanasia and 60% have approved requests, compared to the United States where physicians only approve 5% of requests. The public in the US also wants a change. Public support for ASSISTED EUTHANASIA 4 euthanasia and physician-assisted suicide in the United States has plateaued since the (range,  (J. Emanuel et. al, 2016, p.79). Although support has plateaued, it only plateaued after a dramatic increase of support was recorded. Under half of the country supporting assisted euthanasia, jumping to well over half is a major improvement. On the other side of this argument, J. Emanuel et. al claims that no medical procedure has ever gone flawlessly. Most can have complications. Data shows that the median time between ingestion of barbiturate and death was 25  (J. Emanuel et. al, 2016, p.86), which is a good thing. But, the range of time of death also extended, in some cases, up to four days, which is an issue. The flaw with these claims is that, the study by J. Emanuel et. al shows that the rate and number of complications is flawed because with assisted suicide, there are a lack of witnesses. Between 1998 and 2015, Oregon reported absence of data on complications for 43.9% of  (J. Emanuel et. al, 2016, p.86), therefore proving that it is harder to believe that there are significant issues and flaws with providing assisted euthanasia. Only five states in the US currently legalize the practice of physician assisted suicide. California, a more recent state to legalize the practice, in 2015, had citizens at a 64% approval rating to approve giving a terminally ill person, who is competent, the right to request and receive a prescription for life-ending medication from a  (Jackson, 2015, pg.1). Patients, a lot of the time, if they want to receive treatment they must move to one of the five states where euthanasia is a legal practice. This fair to patients that are already going through the most difficult and stressful part of their lives. Unnecessary pain is being caused by having to go through with such a big decision as moving from home, just so you can receive treatment. In one situation in the article by Jackson, a woman named Brittany Maynard who had ASSISTED EUTHANASIA 5 terminal brain cancer, had to pack up the rest of her life, and move all the way to Oregon so she could have the option to receive physician assisted euthanasia. According to B. R. research in To Legalize Physician-Assisted Suicide or Not? A  she found that one argument to keep euthanasia illegal, is that to engage in killing patients destroys the essence of what it means to be a physician. Physicians shall always bear in mind the obligation of preserving human  (B. R. Sharma, 2003, p.187) and that it is not right for a physician to help a patient commit suicide. I believe though, that the main concern be whether the physician has a hard time doing the procedure for the patient because of the way they feel about euthanasia. The physicians should be putting the best interests first. No matter what their personal stance on the matter is. Patients have the autonomous right to make decisions concerning the ends of their lives. Physicians have an obligation to act in the best interest as determined by the  (B. R. Sharma, 2003, p.187). Another argument made is that the legalization of euthanasia will create patient mistrust of physicians borne of fear that external forces (family) will cause physicians to have divided loyalties and prematurely coerce the patients to ask for  (B. R. Sharma, 2003, p.187). This is simply stating that family members may try to convince physicians to deliver treatment instead of the decision being directly from the patient, in which this mistrust will lead to further deterioration of the physician-patient  (B. R. Sharma, 2003, p.187). On the other side of this argument, physicians could strengthen and form stronger trust between patients by being there for them in their desperate time of need. What these terminally ill patients are going through is the most difficult and stressful times in their lives, so having a strong support system will keep them from feeling alone and abandoned. ASSISTED EUTHANASIA 6