Running Head: THE FLIPPED CLASSROOM, A NEW APPROACH TO EDUCATION 1 The Flipped Classroom, a New Approach to Education and its Effects on Student Learning Roger Vassell University of South Florida Author Note Roger Vassell, Engineering Student, University of South Florida THE FLIPPED CLASSROOM, A NEW APPROACH TO EDUCATION 2 Abstract My paper talks about how the integration of technology has impacted education and brought about the idea of a The is where the teachers prepare a video lecture for the students to watch at home, then when the students come to class they engage in interactive activates about the lecture the night before and gather a deeper understanding, finally after class they have the knowledge to venture deeper into the subject and really understand what it is. Neil P Morris (2014) wrote an article explaining why the Flipped classroom can boost students cognitive and critical thinking. Although, some argue that the student will be less inclined to watch the videos if they are online and the Flipped Classroom hinges on the student watching the videos so if they the whole system fails. That may be so but this system then forces students to be more proactive about their work and learning in general, this is a good skill for students to have and it will translate well in the workplace. Keywords: Flipped Classroom, Technology, Students THE FLIPPED CLASSROOM, A NEW APPROACH TO EDUCATION 3 The Flipped Classroom, a New Approach to Education and its Effects on Student Learning With technology finding itself in every part of our lives, the integration of technology in the education system has become a controversial topic. Technology has grown exponentially over time, we can have access an unlimited amount of information conveniently and instantly. Technological devices are becoming smaller, more portable and incredibly fast. Students use these advances to their advantage in school. In the article Direct vs. Anonymous Feedback: Teacher Behavior in Higher Education, with Focus on Technology  Angel Corelli (2016) states that positive effects of technology is two-fold and impact on both learning in specific content areas, as well as on the learning how to use technology (p.54). Students actually benefit from using technology for school and everyday life. They have seemingly unlimited resources, almost every student has a technological device whether it be a cellphone phone or table, and every device has access to the internet which allows them access to limitless information. However, for those who do not have access to these devices, the universities accommodate them with rentable laptops and massive computer labs. Students are not limited to one class text book and their notes, have access to multiple textbooks and notes from multiple scholars at their fingertips. One product of integrating technology into education is the idea of a A is where the professor put the lectures online for the students to watch and in-class time is a discussion of what the lectures were about. I believe that the is beneficial to students and will promote skills necessary to be successful in the working world. Universities have implemented a approach to the way the classroom is set up. In the article Digital Technologies, Blended Learning and MOOCS Will Impact THE FLIPPED CLASSROOM, A NEW APPROACH TO EDUCATION 4 the Future of Higher Neil P. Morris (2014) describes it as essence, the flipped classroom overturns the traditional sequence of events and requires students to engage in conceptual understanding of key facts and information using online resources and tools prior to interacting with educators and learning (p.402). The idea gets rid of the stigma that class not engaging and often times is unproductive for students. The flipped classroom allows them to be in any environment which is easiest for them to engage in the material due to the online classes and lectures. Students can come to class with an understanding of what the material is and resolve any misunderstanding with the professor. This is a more efficient way of learning; the classroom is viewed as a place of progress and learning and not as a wasted effort. The also promotes their time management skills. Students are on their own time to understand the material and in order to be effective they need to have good time management skills. Proficient time management skills can translate well when they come out of school and enter the working world. Some argue against the idea of a critic Mike Acedo (2013) states that since the flipped classroom hinges on students participate in watching the online lectures and there is no way to guarantee that they will (Acedo 2013). Still, overall a student who going to watch the lecture is also likely to not do the homework assigned in a traditional classroom setting. The flipped classroom forces students to be proactive about their work and be engaged on their own time. This promotes cognitive thinking and will translate well when the students enter the work world. Another critic, Paula Warnken (2004) author of Impact of Technology on information Literacy Education in believes that at both the undergraduate and graduate level generally feel comfortable with technology but do not necessarily have the skills to function effectively and manage the ever-increasing quantities of THE FLIPPED CLASSROOM, A NEW APPROACH TO EDUCATION 5 information resources available in the electronic (p.152). In reality, technology has brought about a plethora of easily accessible information. With more information out there, it is challenging for students to discern from what is credible information and what credible. Warnken is concerned that students will become overwhelmed and get lost in the sea of false information. This is a problem for the because students are learning the course material outside of class and are likely to search the internet for information. However, since students have an in-class portion where they go interact and discuss the material, the false information can easily be identified by the professor and/or their peers. The integration of technology in education has brought about many new ideas and ultimately transformed the way school material is being taught and received. The is one of the more drastic changes that technology has brought about. It shifts the way students view the classroom and learning new information. In order for students to succeed in a flipped classroom they have to be proactive in watching the lectures and being engaged in the material, and the vast amount of available information may make it difficult for students to discern between those that are credible and those that Some view this fact as a detriment to ability to learn and could mislead students with false information. I believe, however; that the will cause students to be more engage and constantly seek for a deeper meaning in and out of the classroom and students can come into the classroom and discuss with the professor and can quickly identify what the false information is. To ease the tension about this topic, I believe a solution to this controversial topic is for facility to regulate the sites students use for research. This can translate to new websites that are dedicated to identifying the credible sites and giving them to students so they misled. If all universities implemented the it can create a new method of schooling which can lead to THE FLIPPED CLASSROOM, A NEW APPROACH TO EDUCATION 6 students with high cognitive skills and who are more engaged. This gives students skills that will stay with them after they leave. THE FLIPPED CLASSROOM, A NEW APPROACH TO EDUCATION 7 Reference: Corelli, Angelo (2015). Direct vs. Anonymous Feedback: Teacher Behavior in Higher Education, with Focus on Technology  Procedia - Social and Behavioral Sciences. 52-61 Neil P. Morris (2014). How Digital Technologies Blended Learning and MOOCS will Impact the Future of Higher Education. International Conference e-Learning. Paula Warnken (2004). The Impact of Technology on Information Literacy Education in Libraries. Managing technology. 151-156. Acedo, M. (2016, March 03). 10 Pros and Cons of a Flipped Classroom. Retrieved April 26, 2017, from http://www.teachthought.com/learning/blended-flipped-learning/10-pros-cons-flipped- classroom/