THE RISE AND FALL OF STEEL GIANTS 1 The Rise and Fall of Steel Giants Lowell A. Fahs University of South Florida THE RISE AND FALL OF STEEL GIANTS 2 Abstract: Battleships are some of the most fascinating and awe inspiring vessels to have ever sailed the seas. From the time they first appeared in 1906 to the inevitable end in 1992, these vessels served in every major conflict in the 20th century and helped shape the early geo-political atmosphere of the world. The Battleship was so important to naval doctrine and theory that they spawned their own naval religion which sprang up around the which essentially maintained that these heavy hitting behemoths would dominate the organization and deployment procedures of the navies. According to theorists like Alfred T. Mahan who is credited as being one of the most influential writers of all time describes in his books on Naval power the naval engagement as being fought with large steel vessels in lines firing massive guns at each other from beyond the horizon. While the battleship was at the forefront of technology for its day, it was however decided by naval architects that battleships represented a technological idea that was stretched to its limit. Many later historians argue in support of that claim and have asserted that the battleship by its very nature was unadaptable to new technologies because of how specialized they were. Although there exist others that still follow the notions that Mahan supported in 1890, that battleships still had their uses beyond the World Wars. In the following paper we will examine both perspectives and shed light on which one is supported by the facts while we investigate how and why the battleship lost its reign of the seas. THE RISE AND FALL OF STEEL GIANTS 3 The history of Naval warfare has seen many phases mostly associated with the type of weapons that were primarily utilized by the ships involved. The battleship as we know it today has its roots in 1906 with the creation of Thereafter the Navies of the world sought to outdo one another by generating larger and more powerful warships. These vessels are by some accounts the pinnacle of naval warfare, however, they had numerous drawbacks and weaknesses that became readily apparent as the 20th century progressed. New weapons technology changed the doctrines of warfare and swept the battleship from the seas by the end of WW2. While some historians may argue that the battleship left us too early and that the class is proof of this. I ,however, firmly stand behind the notion that their expiration date was no later than Dec 7th 1941. The history of Naval gunnery is long and storied, it spans roughly 600 years starting with King Henry Rose. Naval gunnery itself is directly attributed to the rise in prominence of the English language through heavy use of sea power to expand its colonial empire. It is this observation that leads Alfred Thayer Mahan to his conclusions in his book influence of seapower on The doctrines and theories in this book gave rise and wind to the Mahan describes the naval battles of the future as made up of massive steel warship firing at targets from beyond the horizon (Mahan, 1890). This idea coupled with his analysis of the importance of sea power and its importance in colonialism supported and promoted the formation of the modern U.S. navy to support the imperial ambitions of the U.S. Since at the turn of the century and all the way to WW2 was the name of the game, and all of the major powers of the day wanted on the colonial experience. The proper utilization of sea power therefore became an essential factor THE RISE AND FALL OF STEEL GIANTS 4 in the equation. The importance of work is therefore unquestionable, in many ways he wrote the of naval warfare which heavily influenced not only the U.S. navy but also was required reading for all German naval officers and was the basis of most Naval doctrines adopted by the Japanese. In the latter half of the 19th century especially after Mahan published his works on seapower a pseudo arose between gunnery and armor on warships. To combat bigger guns, ships would get more armor and so This eventually led in 1906 to the HMS Dreadnought is considered the first modern battleship (Brown, 2010). These vessels were instantly recognized as a turning point in the way navies would be organized and deployed. Since the guns on these vessels allowed them to shoot targets beyond the horizon, it seemed that the as Mahan had described it was finally here. The doctrines of navies around the world began to organize themselves around the creation of battleship fleets, and most other existing vessels were now allocated to support these ships (Brown, 2010). During the first World War, the battle of Jutland was a great showcase of battleship power, however, it is arguable when one analyzes the history of naval technology that this was the pinnacle of the battleships combat importance (Brown, 2010). This assertion is supported by events that occurred directly after the first World War. In 1922, the U.S. navy commissioned a new experimental type of vessel that features a flat wide open deck and strangely no guns, instead this vessel utilized the airplane which had proved its combat importance only in the first World War. This vessel, the USS considered the first Aircraft Carrier. Many officers and theorists in the U.S. realized the importance of this type of vessel, however, were initially reluctant to discard the This changed after Army Air Corps General Billy THE RISE AND FALL OF STEEL GIANTS 5 Mitchell led a daring and controversial raid on a derelict German warship that was allocated by the U.S. navy for gunnery practice. Mitchell, using bombers very easily sent the ship to the bottom, demonstrating to all that airpower was to be the new religion. While Mitchell was eventually court martialed for his antics, the balance had shifted in favor of aviation. The U.S. began an extensive program to generate more modern and effective carriers since the navy had decided that the concept was more than just an experiment and instead represented the future of power projection at sea according to Admiral Halsey. It was not just the U.S. navy that saw the future in these new warships, the British and Japanese also saw the changing tides of naval power (Yoshida, 1985). The only major powers that did not adopt this new doctrine and maintained the Battleship were the Germans and Italians, both were confident that the battleship was unquestionably the ultimate expression of seapower. However this way of thinking was painfully demonstrated to be faulty by the consecutive use of carriers by the British to help disable and destroy and to destroy the Italian Battleship Fleet in Taranto harbor (Horan, 2013). Inspired by the British success, the Japanese also utilized six carriers to devastate the U.S. Pacific fleet in Pearl Harbor (Horan, 2013). The two attacks on Taranto and Pearl coupled with the destruction of the Prince of in 1942, demonstrates the effectiveness of airpower in destroying and totally, negating the effectiveness of battleships. The only effective way to challenge the assertion that the battleship was obsolete right before or at latest after the World Wars is the service length of class battleships built during WW2 and being decommissioned in 1992. Since these vessels along with the Carolina lasted well after WW2, this leads some to claim that the demise of the battleships THE RISE AND FALL OF STEEL GIANTS 6 in navies around the world after the war was premature. The vessels were built to challenge the strength of Japanese Battleships and However, the guns and armor of the were inferior no matter how one slices it to the which clearly represented the ultimate battleship class (Yoshida, 1985). There were originally supposed to be four ships in the line however one hull was inevitably allocated to be turned into a carrier because of how important they had become (Yoshida, 1985). Additionally, both the and were destroyed by carrier aircraft which clearly demonstrates the futility of supporting the in post World War 2 navies since the best of the breed could not stand against the might of carriers. If one is a subscriber to the line of thinking that justifies the existence of battleships based on the longevity of the then one would have to acknowledge the facts of weapons development and capabilities. The big guns, which are what makes a battleship a battleship had a maximum range of only 30 miles at their highest elevation, while the effective range was around 25 miles. This in comparison to the strike distance of carrier borne aircraft which is several hundred miles. The facts of weapon strike range alone shows the disparity in strike capability of carriers and battleships.. Furthermore, the improvements in submarine torpedoes and the advent of nuclear powered subs essentially eliminated the conventional weaknesses of subs and propelled them to a position in naval doctrines that outstripped the battleship. The battleship while the ultimate expression of naval gunnery and even at one time of naval power as a whole has been relegated to support duty for aircraft carriers. Another new creation further shows that the battleship is not even suited for the role of escort. The AEGIS fleet defense system which is an anti- missile and aircraft defense system that THE RISE AND FALL OF STEEL GIANTS 7 can target over 100 independent targets approaching a fleet on the move, drastically increasing the armed vessels response capability when it faces threats from the air. The subsequent implementation of this technology on destroyers and cruisers in conjunction with cruise missiles made these warships more effective and arguably more powerful than battleships. While the battleship did get cruise missiles added to its arsenal this was only a fix and did not necessitate the continued use of the battleship platform when the same weapon systems could be more effectively used by submarines and smaller vessels. In a sense the battleship was only kept commissioned for nostalgia because they represented the where gunnery carried the day in battle, however, such vessels were not needed and were out of touch with the modern naval doctrines of the world (Brown, 2010). The idea of an invincible steel big gun warship has been around since the mid 19th century. And the notion that they can still today is supported only by the length of service that Iowa battleships endured, the last of which the Missouri being decommissioned in 1992. While these warships remained in service many of their famous attributes (heavy armor, Big guns) were in may respects obsolete and it was only the retrofitting of cruise missiles and the use of AEGIS cruisers in conjunction with the battleship that allowed it to survive. Despite these modernization efforts the cost/effectiveness ratio had been tipped out of the Battleships favor after the Aircraft carrier had really proved its mettle during the second World War. Additionally the invention of guided missiles and smart munitions allowed the carrier to strike effectively from far greater distances than the battleship (with tomahawks) could achieve. Overall while they may have remained marginally effective post WW2 the general consensus is that the lessons learned between the world wars and especially during WW2 proved THE RISE AND FALL OF STEEL GIANTS 8 airpower had severely diminished the importance of the battleship which was a blow that it could never fully recover from. THE RISE AND FALL OF STEEL GIANTS 9 References: Agawa, H. (2000). reluctant admiral: Yamamoto and the Imperial Tokyo: Kodansha International. Brown, D. K. (2010). grand fleet: warship design and development, Barnsley: Seaforth Pub. Horan, M. E. (2013). Gallantry and Retrieved May 02, 2017, from Mahan, A. T. (2013). influence of sea power upon history, Lexington, KY: Emereo Publishing. Mahan, A. T. (2015). on naval strategy: selections from the writings of Rear Admiral Alfred Thayer Annapolis: Naval Institute Press. Yoshida, M., & Minear, R. H. (1985). for Battleship Seattle: University of Washington Press.