Renewable Energy will replace Fossil fuels Thant Zaw Oo University of South Florida Instructor Nancy Carr ENC 1101.016 Running head:Renewable Energy will replace Fossil Fuels 1 Abstract This argumentative paper insists that the world will eventually replace fossil fuels with sustainable energy sources. This paper will reasoned my views about the danger of fossil fuels and the development of renewable energy based on six scholarly issued article on answers conducted on themes that include the statistics of how solar and wind energy has contributed, the progress of renewable energy penetrating the energy market and the difficulties scientists and investors faced throughout the past years. The time span in the scholarly articles range from early 2000s to the current year 2017. They all relate to the research question, renewable energy replace fossil which is a trendy topic that is being investigated in universities and scientists ever since global warming worsen by the greenhouse gases emitted from the combustion of fossil fuels. As demand for electricity increases, the world will have to develop ways to produce electricity in an efficient and clean procedure in order to maintain a healthy ecosystem. Many factors like the economy and land condition etc. affects the advancement of renewable energy production in certain areas mentioned in this paper. It contains thoughts and claims made by the stakeholders and they are further discussed and evaluated with my own personal perspectives flushed throughout the paper. Running head:Renewable Energy will replace Fossil Fuels 2 Thant Zaw Oo Instructor Nancy Carr ENC 1101 016 May 2 2017 Renewable Energy Replacing Fossil Fuels As the world is predicted to face an energy crisis in the upcoming decades, numerous topics concerning to the electricity problems are being addressed in forums, environmental departments and debates. For this paper, I argue that sustainable energy sources can supersede venomous fossil fuels as solutions were proposed and there are also many factors present left to be considered as more alternatives emerged with the betterment of technology. not just the extinction of fossil fuels that affects the electricity production, but also the impacts fossil fuels has caused to planet Earth. To tackle this, the world have to come up with ways that not only conserve and produce clean energy without negative externalities, but also ensure that the energy source is safe and sustainable. Over the past decades, scientists and researchers came up with renewable energy sources that signalled to be the only solution for mankind. However, many people were against to this stance since they brought up issues that prevent further development and investment towards the expansion of renewable energy. My objective will reason why renewable energy is achievable and is growing steadily. Firstly, the opposing party believes that investment for renewable energy should rather be funded on fossil fuels and nuclear energy resources, assuming the progress and spread of renewable energy to be futile. They are often caught up in the misthought of renewable energy plants requiring huge funding, lands and last but not least, the complex procedures. In contrast, Running head:Renewable Energy will replace Fossil Fuels 3 the world now have a powerful and efficient energy plan since the department of electrical and computer engineering from Kasetsart University came up with Smart Grid system which was proposed by N. Phuangpornpitak and S. Tia. Besides from delivering electricity efficiently to respective housings, the Smart Grid plan also cuts down costs required to utilize renewable energy. Renewable energy is emerging and has been penetrating the energy market as N. Phuangpornpitak (2012) et.al declared that, the total shares of all renewables for electricity production make up for about 19%, a vast majority (83%) of it being from hydroelectric (p.283). Smart Grid energy plan is one of the many alternatives on generating efficient energy with a large capacity and accessible coverage. . I strongly believe that applying renewable energy as a sustainable goal can be reached with the evidences below. In the present-day circumstances, prices of fuels and energy consumption is constantly rising. The demand for electricity is booming in the developed urban zones as well as the developing rural places. What people fail to account for is that, rural areas like islands and mountainous regions are districts where fuel power plants are unsubstantiated. Therefore, renewable energy plants are obliged to be constructed in certain areas to fulfil the occupants who need electricity to carry out daily activities. More solar panels and wind turbines were assembled as population and the need for electricity rises, enhancing economic growth. In most countries, government have been placing carbon taxes and caps on coal plant owners to restrict them from reaching a hazardous level of carbon emission. This way, those who are struggling to utilize renewable energy are in relief of carbon cap and taxes. R. Clay proclaimed that the renewable energy market in China had tripled in the 1990s. She also added that there were places where wind turbines are the only options because fossil fuel be applied, recently, the 87 Running head:Renewable Energy will replace Fossil Fuels 4 homes on the tiny Chilean island of Tac had no electricity. For the first time, the residents had refrigeration, television, and telephones, and the schools had electric (R. Clay, 2002, p.32) On the other hand, the biggest stereotype concern is the degree of investment for renewable energy. Just because the amount invested were not publicly declared back then, that indicate that there are no investors venturing the renewable energy market. Infact, there were evidences that shown huge fundings made, are 2,000,000 new jobs at stake, 42,000 firms already active in the relevant industrial sectors, and over $160 billion in new investment to be (G. Sterzinger, 2007, p.82). Moreover, private investments must also be taken in account for this field, C. Mollendorff declared that private investment in wind and solar energy grew from 66(2001) to over 700 by the year 2012 (C. Mollendorff et. al, 2017, p. 93). I believe that the quota of renewable energy finance will proceed to rise as technology moves forward. Another example would be what C Mollendorff publicized, the end of 2012 Germany had 13,611 biomass plants, 21,500 wind turbines, and about 1.3 million solar installations falling under the regulations of the Renewable Energy Act, whereas the corresponding numbers for 1994 were 54 biomass plants, 1,118 wind turbines, and 1,850 solar (C. Mollendorff et. al, 2017, p. 110). As the percentage of renewable energy in the total energy pool kept on rising, it is quite certain that the utilization of renewable energy sources will continue to expand no matter how hard the challenges are, there will be more firms, subsides and tax breaks. I believe now is the best time to act when strategic and state support are present, we have to make the world greener avoiding pollution as well as pushing renewable energy forward as J. Ball publicized that Running head:Renewable Energy will replace Fossil Fuels 5 up Renewable energy would be a mistake in spite of whatever it is (J Ball, 2012, p.126). Mankind will never halt pursuing it, we shall refine it and now is the time to thrive harder and smarter. The world will be a much greener place for human beings as long as the environmental goals are met, minimizing fossil fuel usage that emits greenhouse gases. This diversion of renewable energy will have significant effects on the global warming, climate change and as well as the sustainability of mankind and their needs. References Ball, J. (2012). Tough Love for Renewable Energy: Making Wind and Solar Power Affordable Foreign Affairs, (3), 122. Clay, R. (2002). Renewable Energy: Empowering the Developing World. Health A30-A33. Retrieved Phuangpornpitak, N., & Tia, S. (2013). Opportunities and Challenges of Integrating Renewable Energy in Smart Grid System. Energy Procedia, 34(10th Eco-Energy and Materials Science and Engineering Symposium), 282-290.doi:10.1016/j.egypro.2013.06.756 Destouni, G., & Frank, H. (2010). Renewable Energy. 18-21. Retrieved from http://www.jstor.org/stable/40801586 Running head:Renewable Energy will replace Fossil Fuels 6 Sterzinger, G. (2007). The Economic Promise of Renewable Energy. Labor 80-91. Retrieved from http://www.jstor.org/stable/40342716 von C., & Welsch, H. (2017). Measuring Renewable Energy Externalities: Evidence from Subjective Well-being Data. Land Economics, 93(1), 109-126