Reina Dubose Professor Carr ENC 1101 January 28, 2017 Annotated Bibliography Social media has a huge effect on generation and continues to transition throughout time and technology advances. As technology continues to progress, more people use social media which eventually effects people socially and behaviorally. Many tests were made to evaluate whether there were learning and network effects in the use of social media. Social media increased dramatically as certain companies, such as Apple and Samsung, continue to improve on their devices. People now have more access to various apps and social networking sites such as Twitter, Instagram, Facebook and YouTube which give them the chance to access everywhere and anywhere. Different studies have shown the results on how social media effects those who go on in different times and how it effects their behavior and other mind sets. The question to ask is, does social media effect those who go on during a long duration which later changes them socially and behaviorally? Many articles take the time to figure this out by testing their theories and comparing the results. Qiu, Liangfei, Qian Tang, and Andrew B. Whinston. Two Formulas For Success In Social Media: Learning And Network  Journal Of Management Information Systems 32.4 (2015): 78-108. Business Source Premier. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Liangfei Qiu, Qian Tang and Andrew B. Whinston are students from different universities that helped set out the effects of social media on people. They have witnessed in recent years an outburst in information technology that enables different forms of user-generated content in social media. Although they focused more on online videos, the idea was similar on what needed to be known. They specifically examined how learning and network effects drive the diffusion of online videos (Two Formulas). Testing their experiment with YouTube, they identified learning and network effects separately and found that mechanisms have a deep effect on video views and also the mechanism depends on the video type. This connects to the questions on asking if social media effects those socially and behaviorally when on it for a long period of time. In this article, the researchers concluded that social media is affected by both learning and network effects. Although for this case, it specifically focuses on YouTube, it can be seen with any other video media related sources. The longer one goes on the computer, tablet, or phone to watch videos, the more hooked and attached they get from staying on the site. It leaves an effect on the person watching once they get off such as projecting the same behavior from whatever they were watching or getting lazy to do anything else. Alan, Alev and Ebru The Effect Of Personal Factors On Social Media Usage Of Young  Procedia - Social And Behavioral Sciences 235.12th International Strategic Management Conference, ISMC 2016, 28-30 October 2016, Antalya, Turkey (2016): 595-602. ScienceDirect. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Alev Alan and Ebru helps support the question on how social media effects people socially and behaviorally. In their article, they explain how the growing and popularity of social media platforms, which leads them to the purpose of their article (Alan, Ebru). They investigate social media personality and see if it fits with the Big Five personality traits and their media usage intentions. To fully test this, a conceptual model is offered and they conducted a survey to one hundred and eight people. Data analysis was performed and gathered which then provided the social media usage and the effects on these members. The results showed that those with a high level of extraversion and an openness characteristics tend to be more inclined for using social media platforms. This changes the behavior of the members by they tend to feel the need to go on more social media to experience the feel of the community and to be socialized more easily. For those who have a high level of neuroticism, agreeableness and conscientiousness are more to reject all kinds of social networking. Choi, Mina, and Catalina L. Toma. Social Sharing Through Interpersonal Media: Patterns And Effects On Emotional  Computers In Human Behavior 36.(2014): 530-541. ScienceDirect. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. Researchers, Mina Choi and Catalina Toma investigated the patterns of media use for social sharing and also the effects of mediated social sharing on emotions and behavior. In the article, social sharing is defined as act of discussing significant emotional events with (Social Sharing). After doing their experiments with various individuals, they found that easily accessible media such as texting and Twitter, are the ones that are more likely to be used for sharing positive events and news. As for more intrusive and rich media such as phone calling, those are the ones that are more likely to receive negative events and news. They also found that highly positive news was more likely to be shared on Twitter than low intensity positive news. Lastly, highly intense negative news was more likely to be shred face to face than low intense negative news (Social Sharing). The results gathered from this research connects with the question on whether social media affects those socially and behaviorally. It does because they found that social sharing effects the emotional events of people based on where they decide to tell their peers. Whether if through texting or through Twitter, if effects behaviors in various ways. Hudson, Simon, et al. The Effects Of Social Media On Emotions, Brand Relationship Quality, And Word Of Mouth: An Empirical Study Of Music Festival  Tourism Management 47.(2015): 68-76. ScienceDirect. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. In this article on the effects of social media, it focuses on two researched areas of tourism management. It touches on the management of music festivals and the influence of the customer relationships based on the social media. The point out that generations have changed as technology increases over time. Researchers question how social media interactions with tourism brands affect how consumers feel and think about those certain brands. They tested their hypothesis by developing a conceptual model that was tested using a structural equation modeling. Through this, results presented that social media does actually have a strong impact and influence in emotions and attachments to music festival brands. Results also showed that social media-based relationships led to wanted outcomes such as positive word mouth (Hudson). The Effects Of Social Media On Emotions, Brand Relationship Quality, And Word Of Mouth: An Empirical Study Of Music Festival Attendees relates to questions on how social media effects people socially and behaviorally by how they examination through music festivals. The researchers examined the social media of those that attend music festivals and found that the social media usage was heavily influenced on engaging in these festivals. Through the conceptual method to prove their theories, they found that because of the social media, there was behavioral outcomes such as finding pleasure and arousal on the word of mouth, which is the passing of information from person to person. Barnett, Barbara, and Katherine Cothern. Social Media Use: An Exploratory Test Of Effects On The Daily Lives Of College  Journal Of International Students 1.1 (2011): 9-16. ERIC. Web. 29 Jan. 2017. At Arkansas University, two researchers named Barbara Barnett and Katherine Cothern analyze the effects of social media use on the daily lives of college students. They focused specifically on the academic success, their study habits, social and family interactions. How they determined the certain effects, they used the survey method because it enables them to accurately cover a variety of people and their lifestyles (Daily Lives of College Students). Before the internet and computers, people went to libraries to find information or went to speak to people physically to communicate. Because this has transitioned, it changed how people behaved or interacted. Barnett and Cothern defined social media as source of online tools that allow people from across the world to communicate with (Daily Lives of College Students). It has been a growing trend throughout the years and has been used on a daily basis, especially to students. Students use it to connect with other people which helps them grow academically. so popular that even various business uses it now as one of their resources to advertise their products. This definition supports the idea that with the communication of others, it could affect people behaviorally and socially. Negative and positive things come out of using social media for college students. For instance, students reduced the time of studying because of the excessive use of social media. Puijenbroek, T., et al. The Effect Of Social Media Use On Work-Related  Journal Of Computer Assisted Learning 2 (2014): 159. Academic OneFile. Web. 29 Jan 2017. In this article, they studied and researched the relationship between social media use and learning activities undertaken by employees. They believed that an increasing use of social media during work brought new opportunities for employees in the basis of learning on the job. What they expected out of this research is that the use of social media brings higher levels of learning and that the relationship is stronger when employees produce levels of organization culture that stimulates dialogue and (Journal of Computer Assisted Learning). How they tested their theories was by creating a survey that was answered by 590 respondents from three multinationals in the Netherlands. Results showed that those who used social media more in their job were more involved in learning activities. Because of this, many organizations took this finding and stimulated it into their own work based on social media use to increase work related learning activities. This article about the relationship between social media use and learning activities from employees relates to the idea on what social media effects through many forms. It proves that social media affects employees socially and behaviorally by it positively enacting a relationship with learning activities with them. Employees showed that they learn more often compared to those who when there was a high use of social media. There was many explanations for these but one specific one was the idea that information sharing was a key aspiration of social media and learning by theory happens mostly when the employees are active in training sessions and workshops which is where they gain new information (Journal of Computer Assisted Learning). In conclusion, social media are continuous providers of new information and knowledge which affects people behaviorally and socially.