Dague 1 Sarah Dague Instructor Campbell ENC 1102 16 April 2017 The Vaccination Issue: Say Yes Since the creation of the small pox vaccine in 1796 by Edward Jenner, science has astoundingly advanced to create various vaccines to protect against the deadliest of diseases Brief Because vaccinations are unnatural, many people today have questioned the ability of a vaccination to be effective without the outcome of further problems. Parents are often encouraged to get their children vaccinated at a young age but more and more people are joining the anti-vaccination movement in fear of the negative effects immunizations may have. After much research by the government and many credible scientists, it is evident that vaccines help children much more than they are proven to hurt them. Not getting themselves or their children vaccinated is one of the worst things someone can do because the diseases that the vaccines are used against spread quickly and vastly, causing serious problems or even death. Because of this, it is important the correct decision is made when being faced with the decision if they want to receive vaccinations. The Center for Disease Control and Prevention, the CDC, deals with vaccines and provides a lot of information regarding immunizations for people faced with this decision. One way parents and other people having problems with the choice of vaccinations can have an influence on the anti-vaccination epidemic is to research the science behind them on credible sources and ultimately say yes when asked if they want themselves or their child to receive the vaccine. Having yourself and the people around you protected from disease is the purpose of vaccinations, and why something needs to be done about the anti-vaccine movement. Dague 2 First, to understand the real issue at hand involving vaccinations it is crucial to know what a vaccination truly is. According to the U.S. Department of Health & Human Services, a vaccination is injection of a killed or weakened organism that produces immunity in the body against that When the pathogen, a foreign microorganism that causes infection, is introduced to the immune cells, the cells build up defense against the disease in which the harmful agent causes. Therefore, if the microorganism encounters these cells again they are ready to protect your body from the dangerous effects. Currently, the CDC has 16 identifiable diseases that vaccinations protect against. This organization releases vaccination schedules for children and adults every year that ensure the best health for the recipients of the vaccines. Contrary to popular belief, vaccinations do not contain a harmful number of organisms which allows them to be safe for the children. Most children come into contact with more organisms daily than what the vaccine contains, allowing the body to not be effected by the injection the Vaccine To prevent the defense from weakening, some vaccinations require a second dose later in life, boosting the immune system to become stronger against the disease. Many anti-vaccination advocates link vaccines to many harmful side effects, one of the most popular believed effects being Autism. The CDC claims that out of all the studies completed on this they are confident that autism is not linked to vaccinations because there has been no correlation between the two shown in studies Do Not Cause Although rare occurrences do happen, scientists have worked to improve vaccines over time ensuring that vaccines benefit humans more than harm them. Vaccination education is a huge part when deciding whether or not to receive vaccines, and when on any credible website or source it is seen that they are safe in helping humans remain healthy. Dague 3 Additionally, the vaccination issue goes further than just personal reasons. Not receiving vaccines can put a whole community in danger which is a huge reason why something needs to be done. Many people who choose to not get vaccinated typically believe that the diseases are almost impossible to contract, which is absolutely false. Parents and other people who believe the threat of the diseases have not seen most deadly diseases because vaccinations have been there to help prevent the spread and eventually eradicate the diseases fully. Even though most deadly diseases have died down, many cases still occur across the world today and generally spread between non-vaccinated communities. The CDC claims that 2013, for example, several measles outbreaks occurred around the country, including large outbreaks in New York City and Texas mainly among groups with low vaccination Would When one person is not vaccinated and they get infected, anybody that does not have an immune defense against that pathogen will immediately contract the disease as well. This can turn a whole community ill very fast as for people with a weak immune system are very vulnerable to getting the disease. Many children for example fall victim to this epidemic and parents must realize that it simply can happen to anybody that does not get these vaccines. This claim is supported by the New York Department of Health which states: diseases have begun to reemerge among children around the world. let your child become a statistic -- make sure they get all the recommended The NYHD is trying to encourage parents in getting their children vaccinated because if they their child can easily be one effected by disease that ultimately leads to death. Humans need to start reaching out and take action by choosing to get vaccines because of the consequences seen that can be associated with not receiving immunizations. Dague 4 Although the idea of what can happen if someone get vaccinated is terrifying, there is one simple way to avoid it. Get the vaccine. The best possible time to get vaccinations is to start as soon as birth, but if not possible there are many vaccines available throughout a lifetime. The first thing someone can do to get involved in stopping the anti-vaccination issue is to educate themselves by conducting research about vaccinations, more specifically what they are most concerned about regarding them. Using this knowledge, educate others also concerned about vaccinating themselves or their children, remember that this epidemic can escalate by just one person in the community. After seeing the extreme benefits and actions of vaccinations, start seeking out to receive them. Usually, the family doctor or pediatrician will administer them on a vaccination schedule that is recommended by the Center for Disease Control and Prevention. It is best to stay on this main schedule as for The Journal of Pediatrics says [another intent is heightened protection of their children/patients from harm, the result is the opposite. Alternative schedules are completely untested for immunogenicity or (Nadeau, 151). Following the vaccination schedule right from birth will ensure all the right vaccinations are given in a good amount of time. Some diseases may not even require receiving them at birth, so it is never too late to go and receive the injection. Supporting immunizations and choosing to get vaccinated will help protect yours and your loved safety from the many cruel diseases that you could possibly encounter. Seen as a highly popular debate across the world, people every day make the decision on whether they themselves or their children should get vaccinated. Not getting a vaccination can create a devastating effect due to the vulnerability people have to receiving a destructive disease. To stop the anti-vaccination movement and make sure your health is the best possible, it is Dague 5 crucial to conduct research on vaccines and reach out to a doctor to get them. Nobody should have to suffer over something that could have easily been prevented. Dague 6 Works Cited Brief History of A brief history of vaccination Immunization Advisory Centre, 2016, www.immune.org.nz/brief-history-vaccination. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, 11 Oct. 2006, www.vaccines.gov/basics/. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. the Vaccine Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 3 Aug. 2016, www.cdc.gov/vaccines/parents/vaccine decision/index.html. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. Nadeau, Jessica A. My of Alternative Vaccination Schedules in New York The Journal of Pediatrics, vol. 166, no. 1, 2015, pp. Accessed 13 Sept. 2014. Harm of Skipping Vaccinations or Department of Health, Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. Do Not Cause Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 23 Nov. 2015, www.cdc.gov/vaccinesafety/concerns/autism.html. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017. Would Happen If We Stopped Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 10 Mar. 2017 www.cdc.gov/vaccines/vac-gen/whatifstop.htm. Accessed 16 Apr. 2017.