Marruf Musfik Ahmed Mihal ENC 1101 Final Draft Project 3 Instructor: Nancy Carr Ginga Ancient Brazilian Martial Art Expanding with a coverage of 8.5 million square kilometers, Brazil lies in the heart of South America. Having the 9th largest economy in the world, Brazil rather has a inconsolable history for its Afro-Brazilian population. With a population 200 million people, 50% are Afro-Brazilians, of which most are descendants of slaves brought to Brazil by the colonists ,mainly from west and central Africa during the early 14th century. Unlike the others, the Afro-Brazilians did not have a colorful or luxurious history, rather harsh and filled with brutality. Slaves were treated like animals by the colonists, at a point to them death seemed more pleasing rather than facing this inhumanity. This is where Ginga was born as a hope of rebellion among the slaves who were going through this hardship. Ginga, movement of body from one side to the other with sudden attacks. Usually the opponent gets fooled by the beauty and uniqueness of Ginga thus making it a easier target. Under the atrocity of the colonists, the slaves united and fought against the colonists. Although Ginga was deadly and ruthless but it was no match for the heavily armed colonists. The Afro-Brazilians had to go through a lot of misery till 1888 when Brazil being the last country in America, abolishes slavery. Getting freed did not mean total freedom for the slaves as now they had to face their biggest fear, hunger. Most slaves now freed had no job or shelter, they were left alone to suffer. At this point many started using Ginga for criminal acts, bank robberies, basic robberies and many more. (Lunow- 2015) 1890, the government of Brazil abolishes the practice and use of Ginga in Brazil. Anyone caught practicing or doing Ginga were arrested and heavy measures were taken against them. (Campo- 1973) In 1932 for one man Ginga was free to use once again among the people of Brazil. Mestre Bimba placed great efforts in convincing the Brazilian authorities that Ginga has a great culture and should become an official fighting style. He succeeded in his endeavor and created the Ginga Regional style, he even went on opening the first official school to teach Ginga. Mestre Bimba made what was once considered illegal and official martial art. (Mulliken- 1958) 1958, Fifa World Cup was being held in Sweden. In the recent days Brazil is mostly known for their export of coffee beans and the famous sport, soccer, but what made soccer a enthusiastic sport in Brazil takes us back to the 1958 world cup final. Back in mid 20th century South Americans were humiliated and criticised because of their culture and style of play in soccer. The Europeans were considered perfect in the game of soccer. A rare and unusual talent was spotted in the national team of Brazil, a 16 year old kid was playing a world cup. team was mainly made up of all the best players from all over Europe, famously known as the 11. In this platform a 16 year old with his unique method of play, defeated the famous team of Sweden and won the first World Cup for his country. A legend was born in the world of soccer, Pele, his method of play famously known as Ginga football. Perhaps the biggest soccer legend the world have seen till now. In the recent times the connecting of Ginga and soccer was also noticed in the world cup of 2002, where Brazil lifted their 5th Fifa World Cup. The audience claimed that the players seem to be flying around the field with the soccer ball on their feet, they were successful in revolutionizing the game of soccer to a art of beauty. Players like Ronaldo, Ronaldhino, Neymar and many more brought the use of Ginga in soccer in the notice. Nowadays, Ginga is a well known and very popular martial art all over the world and can be often seen in school and university programs or even in movies. (Esteban-1993) In the famous movie of Mark Dacascos, Only the Strong, was the first time when Ginga was officially featured in any Hollywood movie. In the movie Mark an ex-military official goes back to his high school and finds out it is being runned by drug lords who used children to run their business. He teaches then Ginga to find against them and successfully frees them. Ginga has changed a lot throughout the years, one famous use of ginga is in dance, mostly hip-hop. The movement and jumps of Ginga makes it a perfect material to be used in hip-hop. There are schools all over the world who mainly teach ginga in the form of dance. The combination of ginga and dance can famously noticed the famous event of carnival of Brazil were numbers of street performers make a parade in celebration of the beginning of Lent. Street performers can be seen doing ginga as they lead the parade. In the recent times the use of Ginga has been noticed to be a famous practice among the new millionaires of the tech capital of the world, California.The users of Ginga have claimed that it gives their body physical strength, power and flexibility and in the same time, mind self-confidence, concentration, courage and creativity. The use of ginga has improved their lives and also ability to work. Ginga has even worked in healing bad addiction for people, many has found a new hope in life with the practice of Ginga. Both theoretically and scientifically it has been proven that Ginga is actually good for the human body and mind. It is also a common practice among women too, acts as a self-defense and in the same time a stress reliever. Today Ginga all over the world is known as capoeira and Brazilians take pride with their ancient martial art. Although soccer is the most played sport in Brazil, ginga takes up the second place. It is not only a martial art, rather combines elements of fight, acrobatics, music, dance and rituals in a very elegant and magnetic way. The Ginga is performed with a smile on the face symbolizing the one who is performing it is not afraid of the danger that is coming. Today Brazilians consider Ginga as a export of their culture throughout the world and take pride considering that such a martial art comes from their culture. It is not just only a martial art rather consists of the entire history of the Afro-Brazilian population. No one can understand the true meaning of Ginga unless they have tried it themselves. I do believe Ginga should be taught in all schools all over the world as a method of self defence or some other format, it will not only help the students to protect themselves but also clear their mind from tension, boost their thinking and reacting capability. References 1) Clara Lunow (2015). criminalization to national 2) Campo de Mandinga (1973). changed all the tough Mestre Bimba 3) John Mulliken (1958). Futebol and the 1958 World