Running header: ARE CHILDREN GETTING SMARTER OR GETTING ADDICTED TO THE INTERNET? 1 Are Children are getting smarter or getting addicted to the internet? Sadaf Tarannum University of South Florida Instructor: Carr ARE CHILDREN GETTING SMARTER OR GETTING ADDICTED TO THE INTERNET? 2 Abstract This paper analyzes four peer-reviewed scholarly journals, which report on results from research conducted on children are getting more intelligent because of using the internet or not. The articles, however vary in the impacts of uses of the internet among children. Subrahmanyam et.al (2000) claim that use of internet leads to depression and loneliness among (p.134). On the other hand, Niyati et.al (2016) reviewed a study where researchers claim that, of the computers and internet use, children showed improvement in self-esteem, social- skills and mental (p.110). Other articles show the impact of internet use among children differently. This paper examines Niyati and 2016) research in relation to three other scholarly research articles in- order to fully understand that the positive effect of the using internet really overshadows the negative effect or the use of internet has more negative impact on children rather than positive impact. Keywords: self-esteem, mental progress, overshadow. ARE CHILDREN GETTING SMARTER OR GETTING ADDICTED TO THE INTERNET? 3 Are Children Getting Smarter because of using the computers and internet or they are getting addicted to the internet? Many studies have been conducted to find the answer of the question that how the internet can make children more intelligent when it has so many bad impacts. The question has raised due to the increasing amount of time children are spending on the internet. In the article, Impact of Home Computer Use on Activities and Kaveri Subrahmanyam, Robert E. Kraut, Patricia Greenfield, Elisheva F. Gross (2000) state that, benefits of computer-based activities have also been questioned because the time children spend on the computers may replace other important activities that have more developmental (p.124). The reason behind is, children spend more time on the internet rather than on outdoor activities so they are getting isolated and it leaves a very bad impact on development. Specific contexts as well as the specific uses of the internet are associated with the development outcome during childhood. On the other hand, in the article, Generation Children: Smarter or Bhatt Niyati and Jignesh N. Vidani (2016) claim that have the opportunity to communicate with diverse individuals due to the online (p.110). Children who use internet are proactive of seeking help from themselves instead of waiting for a tutor to help them. Computers are playing a significant role in all aspects of our lives. Concerns regarding the internet use has increased. Children use computers and internet for completing their schoolwork to obtain information but it remains an open question that the internet is making them intelligent or addicted. Subrahmanyam et.al (2000) research has shown that, applications especially computer games can enhance visual intelligence (p.128). The most powerful ARE CHILDREN GETTING SMARTER OR GETTING ADDICTED TO THE INTERNET? 4 social force of our world is the technology. Technologies surround children with devices such as computers, video games and mobile phones. Children are becoming creative because of using the internet. Problem-solving and cognitive skills are required for development. For example, the game of can improve their visual intelligence which leads them to better performance in the fields of science and technology. Children must keep track a set of moving objects while playing action games. Video games also improve their ability to find a target from within a large field of view. Criminal games such as Theft can help them to process information faster. Video games are the powerful tools which can improve cognitive skills. Action video games improve driving and attention skills as it improves their ability to locate something quickly. Moreover, in action video games, children must perform different task differently so it improves their multitasking skills. Car racing games can improve their ability to decide under pressure. So, it improves their decision-making skills. Nowadays, children can get to know about opinion through internet. It increases their community participation and interpersonal intelligence skills. Similarly, in 2000, Subrahmanyam et.al stated that games improves iconic skills which enable them to read images such as diagrams and (p.129). Their suggest that playing video games have positive impacts on children as it includes unpredictability, high perceptual, motor load and it also has emphasis on peripheral processing. In further support of this finding, Niyati et.al state that, of the internet use the standardized test scores have improved and it also encourages children to become more self- (p.111). Children can find everything in the internet and it also improves their writing skills. Internet improves critical thinking skills. Online reading can enhance skills such as search skills and critical evaluation skills which traditional book cannot. While reading a book ARE CHILDREN GETTING SMARTER OR GETTING ADDICTED TO THE INTERNET? 5 online they can take notes on MS word. Moreover, it improves their search skills because they can look for some meaning which they do not know. Search skills are important in all aspect of our lives. The use of computers and internet can shape development and social interaction. According to Niyati et.al, assumed that they would see less socialization among children but some surveys show that children would have more opportunities to interact with people because of online (p.110). felt that technology helped them to talk and share their thoughts with influential people (Valaitis,2005, p.5). According to their research, internet is not making children isolated but because of using the children are getting smarter as they are also getting peer reviews. Moreover, Internet improves problem-solving skills because when they search something on internet, they discover new options for solving problems and explore new ways to make changes. In the article, and the Internet: Tools for Youth Ruta K Valaitis (2005) states that, children develop web pages and conduct online surveys to get to know about (p.3). Moreover, children who use internet are proactive of seeking help from themselves instead of waiting for a tutor to help them. If they face any problem for their homework they can easily search on internet and get solution. Moreover, they can also make a group on internet and solve the problem together. Computer literacy can make them more productive and intelligent which is helpful in the fields of science and technology. The use of the internet also has some disadvantages. Some video games can leave a very bad impact in development. Action games include violence and negativity which can make children aggressive. Moreover, video games can also effect health negatively. It includes physical risks such as hand injuries and heart rates. Video games also teach children wrong values such as women are portrayed as weaker characters. Children who spend too much ARE CHILDREN GETTING SMARTER OR GETTING ADDICTED TO THE INTERNET? 6 time on video games, skip their classes so it effects their exam results negatively. Children are becoming socially isolated which is leaving a bad impact on their development. Subrahmanyam et.al claim that use of internet leads to depression and loneliness among (p.134). Children are facing many problems for chatting with unknown people online through internet. All the contents on the internet are not appropriate for children. Internet addiction, cyberbullying, child-inappropriate content are the concerns regarding the internet. Although the use of the internet has some disadvantages, the positive impacts overshadows the negative impacts. (2015) research and in the three other research articles, the authors discussed about the favorable sides of using the internet. Niyati et.al (2016) believe that, internet would give children the opportunity to communicate with like-minded people and diverse (p.110). Parents also think that internet can make their children more knowledgeable as it has huge amount of resources which enables their children to find information quickly and easily (Shin, 2015, p.9). Because of using the internet, children can communicate with different type of people across the world. It can also help them to improve their intercultural communication skills. Moreover, by playing video game online, children can improve their visual intelligence and problem-solving skills. The use of internet has immense amount of positive sides and why children are getting smarter. As all the contents on the internet are not appropriate for children so parents have the responsibility to monitor their children. Parents should strictly control their children so that they do not go to the wrong path. They should teach their children what is acceptable in the society and what is not. They should also encourage their children to spend some time in the outdoor activities. ARE CHILDREN GETTING SMARTER OR GETTING ADDICTED TO THE INTERNET? 7 References Niyati.B., Vidani.J., (2016). Next Generation Children: Smarter or Faster. International Journal of Innovative Research in Multidisciplinary Field. 2(7). 110-114. Subrahmanyam, K., Kraut, R., Greenfield, P., & Gross, E. (2000). The Impact of Home Computer Use on Activities and Development. The Future of Children, 10(2), 123144. Shin, W. (2015). Parental Socialization of Internet Use: A Qualitative Approach New Media & Society, 17(5), 649-665. Valaitis, Ruta K. and the Internet: Tools for Youth Journal of Medical Internet Research 7.5 (2005): n. pag. Web.