The history of Naval warfare is long and storied with many famous battle, commanders and ships. Long have the Navies vied to have the most powerful vessels of war in an attempt to control and harness the power of the sea for country. This led to the development of bigger and bigger ships eventually culminating in the design of the HMS Dreadnought the Battleship was born! Battleships were the most powerful warships to ever be produced in an era when Big guns and armor were what carried the day in stark contrast to lightly armored heavy hitting missile warships of today. Battleships fought in both of the world wars on either side, and in some cases even were modernized for action in the Cold War. To be considered a a vessel must have possessed a combination three traits; (speed, massive guns, and near impenetrable armor). In this paper we we will find out what made these vessels so powerful covered will also be the development and growth of battleships from the HMS the first of her kind to the monsters of WW2 as well as what the political and symbolic power the vessels of this type had. However, you may ask if these vessels were as powerful as they were, why do we not see them prowling the seas today? Well, the development of new weapon systems and the proliferation of Naval Aviation led to these big gunned bruisers to be considered more of an expensive fleet liability than an invaluable asset. Sources: Meyers, G. J. (1923). Battle of Jutland: 31 May, 1916 . Washington: Army War College. The book by G.J. Meyers is a report on the Battle of Jutland that chronicles the heroism, sacrifice, as well as an in depth look on the lead up to the battle as well as the important developments during the fight that caused one side to gain an edge over the other. Also analyzed in fascinating detail is the idea that the while England did prevail in so far as they prevented the Germans from accomplishing their objectives the english still did suffer more losses. Brooks, John (2005). Gunnery at the Battle of Jutland: The Question of Fire Control . London: Routledge, Frank Cass The This source primarily deals with the concepts of gun control in the dreadnought era (1910-1918). The focus is to provide an accurate and detailed report on the hits and misses, as well as provide in depth analysis of the strategies used and how they affected the accuracy of the guns on either side of the battle. This also talks about the doctrines used in magazine handling and powder transfer methods, and how they affected the outcome. To understand the dreadnought era it is essential to understand how they fought and as one of the best examples of capital ship combat Jutland is a valuable glimpse of what these vessels could do as well as a case study in what developments had been effective up until that point. Brown, D. K. Warrior to Dreadnought: Warship Development Book Sales. ISBN 978-1-84067-529-0 . David K. Brown was a well respected British Naval Architect who was a member of the Royal Corps of naval Constructors. The book in question details the developmental trends that brought warship design on the path to the Dreadnought era. This focuses on the development and rise of larger and larger warships as well as the adaptation of new materials and methods to make such vessels possible. The book goes through the detailed history involved in changing warship designs. He hypothesizes that the dreadnought era is a direct result of the arms race between the defensive capabilities of a ship ( the armor) and the offensive capabilities ( the guns) this led to increasingly more powerful guns causing larger more armored ships to be developed and so on until Naval aviation made the whole thing an exercise in futility. He talks about the brief use of iron before steel became the choice material for battleplate construction. This contributes a wealth of information on the fundamentals of how the Battleship came to be. Kennedy, Paul M. The Rise and Fall of British Naval Mastery. London. ISBN 0-333-35094-4 . Paul Kennedy is a British historian at Yale University who focuses on the military aspects for the decline in british prominence around the world. This text is concerned with the balance of power in terms of which nations controlled the seas. This book specifically profiles the British Royal Navy and how it went from being the most dominant force on the oceans to being out gunned by lesser upstart empires like the U.S. with her fleet, Germany with its seas Flee t., and Marina . This book takes into account the changes in treaties and the shifts in balance towards the U.S. being the predominant naval power. This book has bearing on the research that I did for my topic in that the fall of Britain as the masters of the sea did have a lasting impact on world affairs. The battleship era can be seen as a sort of last gasp for British Hegemony over the seas. Greger, (1993). der Welt (in German). Stuttgart, Stuttgart: Motorbuch Verlag. p. The book chronicles the battleships of the world both those that were planned and those that actually put to sea. This book is a wealth of information of all the ship types and their specific individual information. While it is cursory information on each ship that is limited primarily vital statistics and a brief summary of what was special about each one. This lack of in depth history is to accommodate the large number of ships in the registry, this text still provides information suitable for my purposes in this paper. It is very similar to an encyclopedia of warship designs. Burr, Lawrence (2006). Battlecruisers . New Vanguard No. 126. Oxford: Osprey Lawrence Burr was one of the preeminent authorities on the battle of Jutland as well as the study of the Royal navy in the WW1 era. He has written several books on the different types of ships in the royal Navy focuses on the British solution to the problem of speed for a big gunned ship. The idea was to create a ship that was fast and capable of throwing huge punches The battlecruisers were the solution and they were great ships of the Royal Navy at the time and prior to the battle of Jutland in 1916 the reputation would have remained strong had it not been for the humiliation of the british battle cruiser fleet at the hands of well trained German opponents. The book also talks about how the lack of substantial armor caused the battlecruisers to be vulnerable to heavy fire. That being said the deficiencies of early Battlecruisers did not prevent countries from further investment of the type. Eventually Battlecruisers were held on par in some cases with full on Battleships. The Battlecruiser became a popular type especially with the German fleet between the wars because under treaty limitations they were still able to produce formidable vessels while somewhat adhering to treaty guidelines. The information about these vessels provide interesting insights into what eventually became clear that the battleship concept was flawed when placed against naval aviation. Even Lighter faster variants like Battlecruisers were made ineffective by its rise to heights