Yuly Basulto Professor Carr English Comp I Feb 5 The Dangers of the Anti-Vaccine Movement: An Annotated Bibliography Vaccines are among the most important advances of medicine in human history, it has allowed us to kill off some diseases that have been considered incurable in the past. Widespread public vaccination started out in the early 1800s, following Edward invention of the first vaccine in 1796. ideas were received with public criticism, people opposed it due to religious or political reasons, some believed the vaccines to be because they came from animals. This lead to appearance of the first anti-vaccine movements. This has sparked controversy that is still present today between vaccine supporting groups and anti-vaccines movements. Still a portion of the public today believe in an Anti-vaccine movement, they believe that many diseases late in life or conditions like autism are caused as a result of these vaccines. These views have been shaped by the massive amount of miss information being spread by media and the internet regarding vaccines and their when the truth is that no scientific information supporting these claims and no one has been able to prove the occurrence of autism as a result of vaccination. For my argumentative paper, I plan to investigate the real effects of vaccines on the public health and what political, religious or social factors have led to the vast spread of the anti-vaccination movement. Bisset, Cameron. The Scientific Facts about Autism and Vaccines. Digital image. Vaccine Nation. Vaccine Nation, 23 Sept. 2014. In his article the author provides information from various credible sources including government websites and non-profit organization websites about the myths surrounding the vaccination and autism link. The author also explains what gave birth to the rumor but states that no scientist has been able replicate this, it also links the measles outbreak of 2010 to the refusal of vaccination. This is article is relevant for this project because it provides with information that is available to the public through credible sources such as government websites, it informs the reader about one of the initial causes of the anti-vaccine movement and it explains with scientific proof why the main arguments are not valid. I also find this article to be very informative in the effect that misinformation can have on the public. Choi, Chong D., and Ron Berger. of Celebrities and Their Increasing Influence in 21st Century Journal of Business Ethics (2010) In this article the authors talk about one of the factors that have strengthened anti-vaccine movements, celebrities. They talk about the amount of power celebrities hold, recently the anti-vaccine movement has been gaining strength because of many celebrities like Jenny McCarthy, Jim Carrey and Charlie Sheen among others have been promoting this type of movements. Even though it has been scientifically proven that no correlation between autism and vaccines, these celebrities and many others publically speak against vaccines miss informing the public. This article helps provide insight in how these movements have become so popular, it shows the social aspect that has influenced the spread of these rumors and myths. This is a relevant article for my argument because it gives insight in why this movement has gained such popularity in the recent years. It also provides new information on the power that misinformation has on the public Gangarosa, E., Galazka, A., et al. (1998). Impact of anti-vaccine movements on pertussis control: the untold story. Lancet, 351(9099). This article evaluates the impact of Anti-vaccine movements against a pertussis vaccine, data is taken from countries with high coverage of this vaccine (Hungary, East Germany, Poland, and the U.S) and from countries where anti vaccine movements disrupted the immunization (Australia, Ireland, Italy, Russia, Japan, and Sweden) according to the study, the data showed a pertussis occurrence was 10 to 100 times higher in countries who had Anti-vaccine movements than in those with active immunization. This study shows that vaccines do play an essential part of the general well-being. The Gangarosa International Health Foundation is a non-profitable foundation. Since 1994 been working to better the living condition of people in developing countries. This research supports that goals, it gives clear evidence of how we can prevent certain diseases if the necessary precautions are taken. This is a reliable source because giving clear and unbiased information. Kata, Anna. Activists, Web 2.0, and the Postmodern Paradigm An Overview of Tactics and Tropes Used Online by the Anti-Vaccination Vaccine 30.25 (2012): 3778-789. In this article the author talks about how the massive growth of the internet in the past decade has spread miss information. She explains that before, when the internet was starting out all the information was filtered by the internet providers but now since almost everyone in the world has access to the internet this task has become impossible. Miss information is easier than ever to spread; this has led to the famous Anti-vaccine movement gaining even more fame. This article is a good addition to the project because it provides further proof on how miss information has been spread using online resources to shape and influence the ideas of the population regarding vaccines and their effects. This strengthens the argument that media has had a major role in the growth of these movements Poland, G., Jacobson, R., & Ovsyannikova, I. (2009, May 26). Trends affecting the future of vaccine development and delivery: The role of demographics, regulatory science, the anti-vaccine movement, and vaccinomics. Vaccine, 27(25-26). In this article discusses the development and delivery of vaccines and the effect that Anti-vaccine movements have on this process. In the article the authors address this issue from a new point of view. It states that the less people that want vaccines the less companies are willing to experiment and try new vaccines. Which could lead to many scientific breakthroughs not happening. Many of the important breakthroughs in history have been made because people are willing to take risks, but where there are no incentives less and less companies will want to invest money in these kinds of research. This is a peer reviewed article which presents information to the reader from a new perspective. It is useful showing the effect that these anti-vaccine movements can have on society Whelan, A. M. (2016). Lowering the Age of Consent: Pushing Back against the Anti-Vaccine Movement. Journal of Law, Medicine & Ethics, 44(3), 462-473. I would suggest this article as the main source of my paper because not only does Whelan discusses the history of the anti-vaccine movement in the U.S. with respect to the medical implication but also the social and political factors that affect the situation. It also discusses the potential medical consequences to refusal of vaccines in general. Furthermore, the author points out some of the imperfections that exists in many U.S. legislatures regarding public immunization, how some laws make vaccination mandatory but have religious or philosophical exemptions which are so broad that basically makes the law useless. Although she has a vast analysis of the historical and political influences she did not provide much information on some of the social reasoning behind the main points like people refusing vaccines because of wanting personal freedom or the fear of being controlled by organizations. This article is a reliable source because the author it not only is giving an opinion on a subject, but it provides the reader some insight regarding the history and how different U.S. legislatures have responded to these movements. Allison M. Whelan is currently a law clerk for a federal Circuit Court Judge.