SADAF TARANUM U98393737 Are Children becoming smarter or getting addicted to the Internet? Introductory paragraph How the internet can make children smarter when it has so many bad impacts? Computers are playing a significant role in all aspects of our lives. Studies indicate by playing computer games children can improve their visual intelligence skills. Computer literacy can make them more productive and intellectual which is really helpful in the fields of technology and science. Children can develop their academic and cognitive skills by using computers. The use of computers can also shape development and social interaction. Moreover, children who use internet are proactive in seeking help from themselves instead of waiting for a tutor to help them. Parents also think that internet can make their children smarter as it is full of resources. Daphne Bavelier and C. Shawn research has shown that action video games include unpredictability, high perceptual and motor load and it also has an emphasis on peripheral processing even though it contains violent content. On the other hand, all the contents on the internet are not useful for children. Research indicates that playing games in computers or using computers and internet everyday can leave an impact in relationships and socials skills with their friends and family. Among teenage boys and girls, the use of internet is very popular. The daily use of computer is increasing day by day among children. Children are facing many problems for using the internet. For example, internet addiction, cyberbullying, child- inappropriate content are the concerns regarding internet. Moreover, the greater use of internet decreases the social involvements and it also causes depression. Children use computers and internet for completing their schoolwork to obtain information but it remains an open question that the internet is making children intelligent or addicted. Annotated bibliographies: Niyati.B., Vidani.J., (2016). Next Generation Children: Smarter or Faster. International Journal of Innovative Research in Multidisciplinary Field. 2(7). 110-114. Since computers came into existence they have played a very important role. Now people interact and live the way computers have shaped and modeled. Researchers thought that because of computers they will see less socialization among children. Some surveys show that children would have more opportunities to interact with people because of online technologies. A research was conducted to scrutinize the effects of computers on young children. According to the research, 87% of children who are between 12-17 years old use internet and there was a 24% rise over the previous four years. Niyati and study showed that because of the internet use the test scores of standardized tests improved and it also encourages children to become more self-directed. Children also face many problems because of using the internet. Parents, teachers, guardians and influencers can play a significant role in teaching children the risks they can face through internet and make them alert. Moreover, they can also educate children to communicate privately with only known and trusted friends. I think it is a very useful source. This article showed many researches regarding children becoming socialized or smarter. Researches demonstrate that children are actually becoming smarter and their test scores are improving. On the other hand, they are facing many problems because of using internet. I can use this source as I will take the side that children are becoming smarter but for the other side I can also tell about the bad sides or children getting socialized and addicted more. I think the source is reliable as it is a peer-reviewed journal. I think this article is biased because it talked about the both good and bad sides of using internet. The goal of this source was to evaluate whether children are becoming socialized or smarter. Though internet has many negative sides but of internet children can respond and react to the environment and how they develop. I think it is a useful source because there is so many information. For example, this article focused on using technologies and their bad sides and my topic is about children are getting smarter or socialized because of technologies. This article briefly told about the good and bad sides of using internet. The children are getting socialized and at the same time they are becoming faster. In my research paper, I want to take one side that is children becoming smarter because of technologies and this article gave me many information regarding this. So, I think this is a helpful source and I can use this source for my research paper as I can talk about the both sides in my research paper. Packard, Erica. and the Internet: Fun, but Does It Make You PsycEXTRA Dataset (n.d.): n. pag. Web. Internet has joined talking on the phone and watching television for most teenagers and children. Packard claims that the positive effects of internet appear especially among poor children. The things which may put them at disadvantage is they are less like to have home computers. Some researchers conducted a research where researchers provided each family home computers with free internet access. They found that children got higher scored on standardized reading tests those who used internet. The researchers said that the online reading can enhance skills but the traditional book cannot do it. Online reading relies heavily on how to use search skills and critical evaluation skills. One researcher added that when academic achievement traditionally drops, internet use empowers students in learning at an age. The children who use internet are very proactive in seeking help from themselves instead of waiting for a tutor to help. Moreover, children become more curious and confident by using internet. I think it is a very helpful source for my research paper. The article talked about all the positive effects of using internet. The author told about all the advantages of using internet such as children are getting good grades as well as their reading skills and other skills are also increasing. I can use this information in my research paper. The goal of this source was to evaluate that children are actually becoming smarter or not. According to researchers, children are actually getting smarter. It is a credible source and the are reliable as it is a peer-reviewed article. Subrahmanyam, K., Kraut, R., Greenfield, P., & Gross, E. (2000). The Impact of Home Computer Use on Activities and Development. The Future of Children, 10(2), 123144. How can the use of computer technology make a difference in our lives? The question has raised because of the wide range of computer usage among children at home and school. Regarding the effects of development, the research findings are mixed. Recent survey data indicates that the increasing use of technology leads to depression and loneliness. Some evidence shows that children who use computers more watch less television than others. Subrahmanyam, Gross kraut and study indicate that playing game in computers can lead to physical risks such as heart rates and hand injuries among children. Another analysis shows that playing games can develop visual intelligence skills. These skills are really useful in the fields of technology and science. Some researches were conducted regarding the computer-based-after-school-program and the researches indicate that children who took part in the program had better understanding in mathematics, reading and computer technology. social and educational development will hamper if they spend 30 hours per week or more in the computers. Watching violent television programs and playing violent games increase hostility and aggression. One research shows that the use of computer improves school performance. I think it is a useful source because the article talked about the impact of computer use on development and activities. I think the information are reliable as it is a peer reviewed journal. The authors have a good background as well. The author Subrahmanyam is a professor of the department psychology. Another author Kraut is an American school psychologist. I think the article is biased. The article talked about many analyses regarding development. The use of computers is increasing day by day among children. The article showed many effects regarding development such as physical effects, academic and cognitive performance, the effects of social relationships and developments and so on. This article gave me many information. I think this article is very useful for my research. This article focused on development and the effects of computers usage among children. This article demonstrated many studies. The source is really helpful for my research paper as my research paper is about children getting smarter or socialized because of technologies and this article has so many information regarding this. This article will help me shape my argument because in my research paper I will talk about the both sides. Though I will take one side that children are actually getting smarter but my both sides should have strong arguments and this article will help me to write about many factors. After reading this article, I think that though technologies have so many bad sides but actually children are getting benefits because their academic results are improving because of technologies. Shin, W. (2015). Parental socialization of Internet use: A qualitative approach. New Media & Society, 17(5), 649-665. Concerns regarding internet-use have increased as they spend more time on internet. Internet addiction, cyberbullying, child-inappropriate content are the concerns regarding internet. The goal of this article was to explore how parents are dealing with the new challenges of internet which are faced by children. affect children and they are viewed as learners in socialization research. Parents teach children that what is acceptable in the society and how to deal with society demands to socialize them. In regards to media influence on children, the role and responsibilities of parents have been highlighted as primary socialization agents according to parental mediation research. Not all information on the internet are appropriate for children. Parents have the responsibility to monitor their children how they use internet. study has shown that parents viewed internet as having the positive sides more than the negative sides. As internet is full of resources, parents believed that internet makes their children more smart and knowledgeable. Parents did not assume the negative influences of internet and were not overly concerned about their internet use at present. I think it is a very useful source for my research paper as there are so many information. I want to talk about opinion about their internet use and this source will help me. I think it is a credible source and the information are reliable as it is a peer-reviewed journal. The author shin has a fine background. She is a senior lecturer at the University of Melbourne. The goal of this source was to find out opinion. Parents think that their children are actually becoming smarter. In my research paper, I will take one side that is children are becoming smarter so this source will help me a lot. (Taci), Monika Cenameri. Child and Adolescence Social Mediterranean Journal of Social Sciences (2013): n. pag. Web. The majority of youth group spends their significant time on internet. Numerous biological, social and cognitive changes are characterizations of adolescence which is a period of life. Teenagers have the opportunity to build a sense of personal identity and explore new ideas. According to Cenameri and Taci, teenagers develop strong reorganization of social as well as their moral identity during adolescence. During childhood, specific contexts as well as the use of internet are linked to the development outcomes. According to surveys, 93-97% children use internet and approximately half of them use daily. Several authors believed that e-mails and chats would reduce social connectedness when these online communication technologies became popular in the 1990s. Compared to adults, young people are at greater of the addictive behavior due to the internet or internet addiction. Internet has become an important social context for youth Spending long hours on internet is increasing day by day among teenagers. Parents must observe their children so that they can use internet effectively. The article focused on the internet and the adolescence development. The goal of this article was to evaluate that how the internet is affecting the adolescence development. Internet can increase community participation among children. On the other hand, children can become addicted to the internet. All resources of the internet are not useful for children. I can use this article in my research paper as in my paper I have to talk about the both sides and this article will help me shape my argument. So, parents should always monitor their children. I think this article is biased because this article talked about the both negative and positive sides of using the internet. I think the article is credible and the are reliable as it is a peer-reviewed journal. Valaitis, Ruta K. and the Internet: Tools for Youth Journal of Medical Internet Research 7.5 (2005): n. pag. Web. By supporting communication and accessing information, the use of computers and internet can aid communities. Local decision making can be enhanced by computer-mediated communication. Computers may offer solutions to support and increase community participation as computers are an important aspect of youth culture. According to Valatis, by using technologies youth developed web pages and conducted online surveys to get to know about opinion. Between young and adult, computer-mediated communication was seen as neutral ground. To initiate with others, online communication provided a safe way. Youths asked for help to adults through internet to get information and advice. felt that technology helped them to increase their community participation. They felt that they could share their thoughts through website. They also added that computers and the internet helped them to talk with the influential people. Moreover, internet and the computers also increased efficiency in accessing resources. Some youth also indicated that computer-mediated communication is useful to document and store information. I think it is a very useful source for my research paper because in this article the author talked about how computers and the internet empowers youth. This is a credible source as it is a leading peer-reviewed journal. The author Valatis is an associate professor so he has a strong background. In my research paper, I want to take one side that is children are becoming smarter because of internet. This article has so many information regarding the positive effects of internet which I can use in my research paper. I think the information are reliable as it is a scholarly journal. The goal of this source was to evaluate how internet and the computers are empowering children.