Running head: ENHANCING THE SECURITY OF CLOUD COMPUTING 1 Enhancing The Security Of Cloud Computing: Data Issues and Solutions Jorge Villarreal University of South Florida Instructor Carr ENHANCING THE SECURITY OF CLOUD COMPUTING 2 Abstract Cloud computing changed the world around us. Now people are moving their data to the cloud environment since data is getting bigger and traditional computing is becoming fragile and harder to manage. However, most of the cloud services are provided in public environments, which makes the cloud a target of possible security violations. Therefore, many organizations are starting to question about the reliability of cloud computing because of the different data issues and concerns. In this paper, I present those issues that are preventing the people from adopting the cloud and give relevant solutions to these problems that have been proposed by different scholars to enhance cloud computing security. Encryption techniques, 3-tier security architecture and facial recognition algorithm are some of the solutions mentioned in this paper. Moreover, a contrast between sources is presented in order to show how the scholarly conversation of cloud computing security has changed over the years. Keywords: cloud computing, data confidentiality, cloud security, face recognition, cloud environment ENHANCING THE SECURITY OF CLOUD COMPUTING 3 Enhancing The Security Of Cloud Computing: Data Issues and Solutions At the end of the last century, traditional computing infrastructure consumed large amounts of electricity, had expensive electronic parts and did not have many functionalities. Over the years, technology has grown exponentially and it has made possible the vast production of smaller computers and multiple devices, which eventually replaced old room-size computers. Nowadays, multiple electronic devices are released to the market reaching a large number of customers and each day huge amounts of data are produced by these devices. The storing of applications, pictures and games have increased the demand of data from users causing traditional computing infrastructure become more fragile and harder to manage. In addition, it does not allow users to access data anywhere at any time. In the article, Survey on cloud computing security: issues, threats and Saurabh Singh, Young-Sik Jeong and Jong Hyuk (2016) state that, computing arises as a solution that offers on demand computing power, storage and application as a (p.200). Cloud computing supports fast access to applications and reduce the cost of infrastructure. Therefore, the importance of cloud computing is increasing, becoming a huge market and receiving much attention from the academic and industrial communities. However, most of these services are provided in public clouds and as a consequence, it is a target of possible security violations. Security in cloud computing is a crucial concern in these days because valuable information of people and companies is at risk, and the rapid development of technologies has made possible the existence of new security issues and threats. This situation has led to changes in the conversation of cloud computing security regarding new issues and the importance of creative arising solutions. For this paper, I am interested in solutions proposed by different scholars that address data security issues in the ENHANCING THE SECURITY OF CLOUD COMPUTING 4 cloud environment. I will share the scholarly conversation of security issues and use solutions proposed in different time frames to connect the scholarly conversation and determine how cloud computing security is enhanced. One of the major security concerns of cloud computing since its emergence is data security. In traditional computing this was not an issue because data was stored locally and there were not online repositories. In the article, security, privacy, availability and integrity in cloud computing: issues, and current Sultan Aldossary and William Allen (2016) stated that in cloud computing there are many security challenges regarding data which includes data loss, data breaches, malicious insiders and insecure interfaces (p.487). Data loss includes possibilities of losing data due to malicious attack, server crashes or unintentional deletion by the provider without having backups, and data breaches, which are related with the exposure of the information of users. Multi-tenancy customers using different applications could share the database and if any corruption event happens, then it is going to affect others sharing the same database (Aldossary & Allen, 2016, p.487). On the other hand, malicious insiders and insecure interfaces consist of corruption of data caused by people who are authorized to manage the data and the incapacity of the security mechanism to provide a stable connection between the cloud service provider and the client (Aldossary & Allen, 2016, p.488). This threats described along with the rapid proliferation of data from companies and users, makes data storage one of the most important components of cloud computing. Singh (2016) et. al claim that, integrity is the most critical element in information system to protect data from unauthorized modification, deletion or altering (p. 207). The security issues arise when the parameters are not well defined or the virtual machines, in which the servers are hosted, are incorrectly configured. Comparing the two sources, it is possible to notice they both agree with the relevance of the ENHANCING THE SECURITY OF CLOUD COMPUTING 5 information that is stored in cloud servers. In the first source, Aldossary & Allen (2016) focus specifically in the data field and uses more technical terms to explain the reader how threats are implemented by third party users most commonly known as hackers, and the other source Singh (2016) et. al describe data concerns in a more general way along with other issues included in the cloud environment. Over the years, new technologies have arisen and many issues have appeared, but the commitment to preserve the integrity of the information has always been taken into consideration. Many studies have been concluded to discover the issues of cloud computing security in order to find a solution for them. Many technologies and techniques have been proposed in order to address multiple data security threats. The topic of security is a very active research area and innovative mechanisms have been suggested. The main idea of security solutions is to keep the data safe from corruption and keep its integrity. In the article, of cloud computing security based on private face Chenguang Wang and Huaizhi Yan (2010) propose, credible, efficient, low-complex method based on face recognition to guarantee cloud (p.1). The method has three parts: user part provides face images; cloud initialization part has a face subspace with templates database and cloud private matching identification part contains the core algorithm of the method, which compares two encrypted numbers under specific conditions (Wang & Yang, 2010, p.1). This solution proves the advantage of the rapid technology development because ten years ago is was almost impossible to even consider using face recognition to secure online services, which did not even exist yet. Also, solutions are applied in different fields. In the article, and privacy architectures for biomedical cloud Vasiliki Danilatou and Sotiris Ioannidis (2010) propose architecture based on cryptographic credentials which enables biomedical data owners to easily hand out access to ENHANCING THE SECURITY OF CLOUD COMPUTING 6 physicians, researchers and (p.1). Biomedical research relies on having access to vast amounts of sensitive information. Therefore, strong security policies and mechanism are required to preserve biomedical information stored in cloud servers. Singh (2016) et. al suggest 3-tier security: application level, cloud-service middle level, and infrastructure level (p.217). Each security is interdependent on each other and each level has different layers in which it is divided in order to distribute functionalities and enhance the security. Similarly, different encryption techniques are proposed to protect data seen by the cloud service provider while it is shared among many users (Aldossary & Allen, 2016, p.490). Since the data and computation are outsourced to a remote server, the data integrity should be maintained and checked constantly in order to prove that data and computation are intact. Comparing the presented solutions provided by scholars, it is possible to notice that each one address the issues regarding data security from different perspectives. All these solutions represent a distinct approach to the same problem and some of them include other fields depending on the final user of the cloud. For instance, in the case of biomedical data, which requires sensitive information, cloud providers have to work along doctors and researchers in order to secure the data and explain the users the correct manner of using the cloud environment. Many security issues are caused by users because they are not properly instructed and malicious insiders benefit from this in order to execute security violations and threats. On the other hand, these solutions are not mutual exclusive. Facial recognition is based on encryption methods because the information obtained in the images must be extract and then compared with the information in the database. The only form to determine the access of a user with facial recognition technique is comparing the patterns and data extracted from the user with the information stored in the databases of the cloud provider. ENHANCING THE SECURITY OF CLOUD COMPUTING 7 It is clear that the discussion of solutions for security issues in the cloud environment has evolved from 10 years ago to present. New techniques and mechanisms have been proposed and many of them are based on previous solutions. This proves the importance of cloud computing security conversation because authors are able to check what has been said and what has been done in order to create new solutions with the recent technologies. For instance, the face recognition algorithm suggested by Wang & Yang (2010) was not feasible 7 years ago when it was proposed because technology at that moment was not adequate. But now, technology has grown rapidly and authors could use face recognition along other techniques to address different security issues. I consider these solutions will lead to more secure cloud storage, which will also lead to more acceptance from the people and the trust of the cloud will increase. Therefore, the scholarly conversation is heading towards an enhancement of the security because by having relevant information about the different security issues and respective solutions, it is possible for users to take action and contribute to enhance the cloud environment. Many of the modern threats occur due to misuse of services by users. For this reason, users must be aware of the security concerns. ENHANCING THE SECURITY OF CLOUD COMPUTING 8 References Aldossary, S., & Allen, W. (2016). Data security, privacy, availability and integrity in Cloud computing: Issues and current solutions. International Journal of Advanced Computer Science and Applications, 7(4), 485-498. Danilatou, V., & Ioannidis, S. (2010). Security and privacy architectures for biomedical cloud computing. Proceedings of the 10th IEEE International Conference on Information Technology and Applications in Biomedicine, 1-4. Singh, S., Jeong, Y., & Park, J. (2016). A survey on cloud computing security: Issues, threats, and solutions. Journal of Network & Computer Applications, 75, 200-222. Wang, C., & Yan, H. (2010). Study of cloud computing security based on private face recognition. 2010 International Conference on Computational Intelligence and Software Engineering, 1-5.