1 Global warming and the myths related to it . 2 Abstract: The following essay is an argumentative essay that brings up detailed information and evidence of the statement that global warming is a consequence of human activities and the nature has a very small role in its formation. Several scholarly articles are used to give an idea of how the global warming impacted the environment and what may await in the future. Counter arguments regarding it are also considered to show what the other half of the people believe about this environmental issue and how it effects the general public opinion towards it. If people are not convinced that global warming causes heating, then they will not make a step to stop it. My paper gives an idea why people should make a change for the better and to save the earth for our future generation. 3 Sadhman Farhan Nancy Carr ENC 1101.016 04/09/2017 Origins of Global Warming and Myths Related to it. For a very long time, global warming has not only created a concern for the people but is also the concern of the government and political figures. However, myth still exist about the origin of global warming and people often tend to have different views towards the issue whic h creates an overall enigma of where the global warming has originated from and whether it is natural or just another product of humankind. Although scientists already claimed that global warming is a byproduct of human, there is still controversy of wheth er it really is a byproduct or a natural cycle. The history of global warming dated long back during the beginning of the industrial revolution when energy was being produced from coals and natural sources. Scientists have found that the average temperature on the earth s surface started rising at an abnormal rate and started investigating the ca uses since then. The major myths that are being incorporated among the general public are being conveyed through media and politically a stound figures who claim that global warming is an issue that has to do with business and not the environment. I strongly disagr ee against this statement as many scientists performed ground breaking research in this field and collected enormous data to prove the existence o f global warming due to human activities . In this essay, I will put forward and argue the major statements that are made about global warming and how the people are influenced by these. I will also consider the counterarguments that are made 4 by the skeptics about the rise of global warming and how they affect the general thoughts of people towards it. In one article the authors Shao, Garan, Keim and Hamilton discussed whether global warming is a man - made pollution or a part of the natural cycle. Shao et. al. said that find that l ong - term trends in summer temperature influence perception of global wa rming. Individuals who reside in communities with long - term warming of summer temperatures that are coupled with long - term cooling of spring temperatures are significantly more likely to perceive that global warming exists and is due to human (Shao et. al. 2008, pg - 1). This introduces the statement that they believe people who stay in climate where there is an excess amount of heating and cooling perceives that global warmi ng is caused by man - made pollution. The matter of the lack of synchronization between the society and scientists have been questioned. It is thought that the media is not giving enough valid information about global warming which as a result is causing the doubt. The previous research states a few opinion shared by the mass public about global warming. Some of these include geographical and environmental context; attitude towards scientists and science; attitudinal variable; information environment; religio us beliefs and social and demographic characteristics as stated by the authors. This is a very big context of research and provides plenty of information about the attitude towards global warming. It has been counter argued that scientists are providing in formation that are valid and acceptable but due to the presence of environmental skeptics, scientists are often questioned of their response to this issue. In another article, the author LI and A. F. refers to the agreement between China and Paris to work to reduce the effects of global warming. To do so, they had to be aware of the causes if global warming which is also the thesis of this essay. T he author describes the role of China to bring about the agreement. LI stated that global warming was a man - made pollution since he talked 5 about carbon dioxide reduction. China is said to have become the highest emitter of carbon dioxide which even surpass es that of The United States. U.S.A counter argued that power to tackle the situation is not as strong as their economy which has caused the agreement to become a superfluous. (Li et al. page - 50 , 2016 ) However China proposed to have a plan to eliminate t he global warming problem before the end of the Kyoto protocol in the year 2020. The reason why China are in the back foot is because they may not agree to sacrifice business over the environment. The China - Paris agreement contained a total of 195 countrie s that discussed on how to limit the temperature rise by 2 degree Celsius. One other article is written about the relation that is thought to exist between global warming and religion by Lal and V . The authors Lal and V described that religion has a huge impact concerning global warming and it can be the solution to overcome the disaster it awaits. Lal urges that the humankind is not sep arate from the nature and they are interconnected spiritually, psychologically and physically. It points that this calls upon the notion of people to use alternative energy source, sustainable food production as well as evolving technologies. Although it c an be argued that climate and religion have nothing in common, it can still be considered that religion can make the thoughts of people more pure and guide them to do better for the sake of the environment and not harm it. The idea of the existence of global warming is further mentioned as Ayhan Demirbas; a professor of a university discusses about the precautions that should be taken to control global warming. Various g ases along with tables are shown representing the composition of the greenhouse gases that play the role of global warming. Although it may be considered that all the gases do not have the same influence in global warming, they are still said to contribute to the effect. Demirbas 6 mentioned that Kyoto protocol is not a successful implementation but it has yet to contribute to changes to the environment. ( Page - 79, A. Demirbas , 2006 ) . The authors of another article Wallack, J.S. and Ramanthan describes the new source of carbon emissions such as black carbon and soot that are known to have a negative impact to the environment with greenhouse gases. ( Wallack and Ramanthan , page - 105 , 2009 ). Wallack et. al showed s everal evidence that they are becoming a new threat to the environment along with the greenhouse gases and need to be improvised. However, several claimed that black carbon are not a major concern to the issue that already exist and people cannot change th e global pattern with such a small effort. One other article written by Sanchez, Artola, Gea, Barrena, Gabriel and Mondini stated the treatment of carbon can be made by the composting of organic waste as they produce carbon dioxide which is a major greenhouse gas. Different composting techniqu es are mentioned and discussed that can better serve the betterment of the environment through breakdown of organic substances by composting . Th ey mentioned that even though composting can bring a positive change for the surrounding, yet these p rocess can cause a negative impact as it releases some greenhouse gas es which however could be treated easily as compared to the larger problem considering industries. ( Sanchez et. al . P age - 225 , 20 15 ) However, such small discovery may be questioned as the globe is busy trying to tackle the present situation that exists. However, the authors included enough important evidence to prove that composting has more advantages then the drawbacks which can be handled easily. Despite all this evidence of the origin of global warming made my research scientists, argument still rises concerning its validity since many people still believe that gl obal warming is a natural 7 cycle and the increase in carbon dioxide is being exaggerated by the rise of it in volcanic areas where there are massive amount of combustion. For instance, the president of the United States Donald Trump had mentioned fox news t hat, global warming is not real since the temperature in different states in the U.S reached a record freezing temperature. Other than that, he also mentioned that global warming is an issue made up by China to make business. Several comments like this has made a doubt in mind about global warming but the scientists have got the answer of the reliability of the way global warming should be considered. All the sources provide many possible evidence of the way global warming is judged among the socie ty and researchers that deal with it. It is very difficult to accept one side and go against the other since both the sides hold information that are true. It is therefore necessary to choose the bigger side that has a better answer to the future of enviro nment and therefore it is tackling the global warming that prevail. I believe the scientists are more accurate than a normal public figure that may judge the validity of what a scientist believes and it is the duty of the media to bring up the actual state ments properly and feed it to the society. 8 References Shao, W., Garand, J. C., Keim, B. D., & Hamilton, L. C. (2016). Science, scientists, and local weather: Understanding mass perceptions of global warming. Social Science Quarterly , 97 (5), 1023 - 1057. doi:10.1111/ssqu.12317 LI, A. F. (2016). Hopes of Limiting Global Warming? China and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change. China Perspectives , (1), 49 - 54. Lal, V. (2015). Climate Change: Insights from Hinduism. Journal Of The American Academy Of Religion , 83 (2), 388 - 406. doi:1 0.1093/jaarel/lfv020 Demirbas, A. (2006). Hazardous emissions, global climate change and environmental precautions. Energy sources. Part B, Economics, planning and policy, 1(1), 75 - 84. Wallack, J. S., & Ramanathan, V. (2009). The other climate change rs: why black carbon and ozone also matter. Foreign Affairs , 88 (5), 105 - 113. A., Artola, A., Font, X., Gea, T., Barrena, R., Gabriel, D., & ... Mondini, C. (2015). Greenhouse gas emissions from organic waste composting. Environmental Chemistry Letters , 13 (3), 223. doi:10.1007/s10311 - 015 - 0507 - 5