John Vargas Carr ENC 1101 3/26/2017 The Escalation of Modern Warfare Some of the greatest stories known to man are just that, stories. But some of them come from real world feats such as Hannibal Barca crossing the Alps with his army of elephants in order to attack the empire of Rome, or the three hundred Spartans defending against tens of thousands of Persians, or in more recent times from a historical point of view, Napoleons conquest of Europe. What do all these tales have in common? They all root from the romantic mystique that warfare help over mankind for millennia. But why are these heroes not from modern conflicts, specifically the 20 th and 21 st century. Well I believe because war is no longer a story of knights in shining armor or these boisterous heroes defying all odds. War is has removed the human element in modern times. In this paper we will be discussing the changes that have occurred in the past two centuries to how wars are fought and how they are perceived. One of the biggest changes that combat received in the 1900s was the development of more destructive weaponry, capable of much more devastation than the human race has ever experienced. In Ramillers New Technologies in the Great he describes the invention of automatic rifles and the influence they had. He provides juxtaposition with previous weapons and modern weapons which provide a great insight into how these heroes could no longer exist and how insignificant the soldier becomes in the grand scheme of warfare. We see this escalation continue throughout the century climaxing with the development of nuclear weapons which not only reduced the significance of individual soldiers, it made entire countries seem insignificant. I believe it is important to mention that while I feel the significance of the individual soldier has dwindled in recent history, their bravery and valor remains intact. In wars before the modern age battles lasted no more than an afternoon or two with several breaks in the fighting, and at the end of these battles there would normally be a clear victor for the battle and possible the war. In modern wars these battle are much less conclusive and may last anywhere from days to months. In these battles, while soldiers exhibit extraordinary bravery and sacrifice, their actions hold much less sway in the grand scheme of the war when compared to older conflicts. The creation and use of nuclear weapons provide a stark reminder that the stakes of war has changed. Wesseling provides an argument in his article & the roots of the Great on how the mindset that accompanied imperialism changed the reason wars were fought. In the 20 th century wars were no longer just fought over resources and land, they were fought now being fought over ideas. In the 1950s the conflict in Korea should have been an internal conflict that in history is viewed as relatively insignificant on a global scale. But what you see instead is a conflict that involved two separate great powers in the United States and China, pouring resources into these opposing sides in the name of two differing economic philosophies, capitalism and communism. One of the first wake up calls the world received on the destruction posed by modern warfare was the battle of Verdun in the First World War. In Foleys article the killing he does a great job in conveying the complete hopelessness that soldiers in a modern war felt. People were dying in the thousands for a 12 mile stretch of worthless land on a daily basis in unspeakable conditions. Constant rain and bombardment led to men even just dying from sinking into mud and being forced to eat rats and leather shoes for nutrition. This is when war lost its romantic charm. This is where you see the writers of the time such as Ernest Hemingway gain their bleak outlook and writing style. In Keens article the American Historiography on World War he provides an insight into American culture in the 20 th century and how it responded to how these wars were viewed. Why does this matter? Why does war matter from an academic standpoint? It is important to study wars because they are often the driving forces in innovation and forward progress of our species. In 1903 the Wright brothers had the first successful airplane flight. About a decade later these planes where used in the First World War as scouting tools, and the in the they became weapons. Without their use in conflict we may not have commercial flights readily available, due to some of the greatest minds of the time working together in a race against the clock in order to perfect the design of these machines. In the Second World War the greatest physics in the world gathered and worked on the Manhattan project in order to stop the German armies. The result of this project was one of the biggest breakthroughs in the history of physics, the splitting of the atom. In that same war the Manhattan project Alan Turing created the Turing Machine in order to break the German Enigma machine, the Turing Machine acted as a blueprint for the first computers. Competition has been and will continue to be the driving force in innovation, and that is why we must observe and discuss war. If you can understand wars and the trends they follow, you will be able to better predict the future of our race and understand how we got to where we are. The issue is that you run experiments on war. War is a terrible thing that cannot be recreated in a laboratory, you cannot study war without studying its awful nature and the impact it has on people and society. The reason important to look back and evaluate the changes in war, is because those changes correlate with changes in society. The better we understand the past, the better the future will be.