1 Running Head: THE ENERGY DEBATE The Energy Debate In The Power Generation Sector: Fossil Fuels Vs Renewable Energy Sources (From The 90s To 2016) Gedeon A. Zema University Of South Florida Instructor Carr 2 THE ENERGY DEBATE Abstract After years of refusing to acknowledge the existence of climate change, nor the correlation between the global temperature rise to carbon dioxide emission, the reality has settled in. The seriousness of the conversation is on its peak level. The scope of paper traces the academic conversation on the energy debate between fossil fuels and renewable energy sources limited only to power generations. It is limited to a time frame between the nineties to 2016. It includes articles from major contributors such as Thomas Covert, Michael Greenstone, Christopher R. Knittel, Peter Droege, Jan E. Hall and Jenny Holmes and their opinions on the discourse. The authors various arguments are impartially reflected throughout the paper. It begins with a mere introduction of industrialization to the point where fossil fuels awareness becomes relevant across the world. The paper discusses in length environmental and economic reasons in opting for different energy sources. Furthermore, it explores the question of sustainability and how different aspects of it got introduced in the energy discourse. It ends with a view in the future where a prospect of an energy mix is offered. Keywords: Fossil fuels, Renewable energy sources, Sustainability, Energy mix, Industrialization. 3 THE ENERGY DEBATE The Energy Debate In The Power Generation Sector: Fossil Fuels Vs Renewable Energy Sources (From The 90s To 2016) The human being is a complex specimen. Regrettably, humanity tends to react more to abrupt changes than to a gradually changing situation regardless of how quickly the change happens. The energy debate train has been going on since a direct connection from fossil fuels to climate change was made in the nineties. moreover, it has gathered steam and stakeholders that along the years have fueled the conversation. in a 2016 stop, I can count scholars such as Thomas Covert, Michael Greenstone, Christopher R. Knittel, Peter Droege, Jan E. Hall as major contributors to the ongoing debate. the purpose of this paper is to trace the discourse of fossil fuels and renewable energy sources. furthermore, the scope of this paper is limited to the academic conversation happening in the power generation sector. I will share views of common citizens such as Jenny Holmes which consider position on the debate must be absolute for or against. I believe clinging on to a depleting resource and refusing to acknowledge its environmental detriments will doom us all. subsequently, precipitate the earth down a slope that can result in the demise. in my opinion, for the reader to draw their conclusions as I did, I need to present one with both side of the coin. for this paper, I will impartially discuss the different pro-fossil views from the 90s to a more pro-renewable in 2016. in addition, I will focus on the economic and environmental arguments presented in the articles and the importance of technology in the discourse. Before the crisis we find ourselves meddled in today, There was an era where energy demands as high. Everything happened manually and naturally. Woods, wind, animal labor were our main sources of energy for direct applications as warming up, transportation, etc. Population growth meant an automatic way of doing things and reduce manual human labor. 4 THE ENERGY DEBATE Arguments during pre-industrialization made then-existing sources of energy a liability for the future the world envisaged for itself. Industrial revolution running at full force, needed a symbol for the course of events to follow in the human evolution where a full scale of steaming machines would guarantee faster and better service for all. Fossil fuels spearheaded by coal personified that era. They made a big impact in the weapon, textile, transportation industries, etc. Furthermore, they offered something the other sources of energy low cost. in his article Life in an Age of Fossil Fuel Depletion and Climate Droege (2002) emphasizes on how coal was inexpensive, abundant and efficient (p. 87). he further states its electrical efficiency of 98% (Droege, 2002, 87). in fact, fossil fuels were seen as perfect energy sources to sustain the growing world power demands of that generation. it would require a world consensus to force world nations to entertain the idea of cutting down on fossil usage. In the late nineties, various theories about the environmental impact of fossil fuels emerged. Fossil fuels were now seen as: degrading to the environment and the health of the planet. The dark clouds of smoke in the air were now associated to carbon dioxide and they destroyed our ozone layer. In 1997, the UN held the Kyoto Framework, which was basis for a reduction of 5% in carbon dioxide emission from the world CO2 primary emitters (Droege, 2002, 88). The framework stated an increase in renewable energy as a source in the world power generation mix to meet the requirements. The framework failed to be effective. According to Droege (2002), most urban cities were built to operate on fossil fuels. For this reason, most of the major cities were at a disadvantage to meet the requirements of the Kyoto Framework (p. 88). Consequently, I think, transforming those cities into renewables powered 5 THE ENERGY DEBATE cities would involve extra costs that nations willing to pay. Even so, fossil fuels usage could not continue unbothered. The beginning of the twenty-first century brought with it a sense of recognition on the seriousness of the issue. The world and its inhabitants were more aware of climate change and the role fossil fuels played on it. In the article energy: the road less Holmes (2004) was shocked that, than 80% of human-made CO2 emissions are due to the burning of fossil (p. 40). The world population were growing exponentially and for the first time in centuries, sustainability was a major discourse in world governments. However, the arguments focused solely on the ecological and environmental aspect of sustainability. A growth in population meant a decrease in food supply and an increase in pollution. A growth in population suggests an increase in energy demands, then resulting in an increase in CO2 pollution. The future of humanity and world species was endangered. People - including nations argued that, a deficit in fossil fuels environmental aspects cannot subdue its great economical value which I find to be very untrue. Ironically, without trimming fossil fuels usage, the world economically welcomed renewable energy sources. At this point, it was only available on a small scale. This concept of publicly supporting one source and secretly drawing legislations that opposes the same source is foretelling of world governments. Holmes (2004) best represented this by saying, current Industry-drafted energy bill is not surprisingly laden with fossil fuel and nuclear subsidies that turn the path of unsustainability into an even deeper (p. 40). then later in the article she added that, the government offers incentives and rewards for using renewable energy sources and provides the opportunity to choose to switch to a greener energy (p. 42, 45). sustainability of the environment was threatened but more serious concerns were revealed when signs of fossil fuels depletion were shed a light upon. 6 THE ENERGY DEBATE The late 2000s, the great recession period, saw a dive in the world economy and with it the release of CO2 in the air. People could just not afford to spend on carbon-emitting products. Afterwards, oil prices skyrocketed and this was due primarily to a depletion in resources. During the early 2010s until today, the world has often been reminded of how limited are the amount of fossil fuels in regions of the world. The world population grows as a power function while oil resources increase linearly. The issue of sustainability has been raised once more and this time it encloses both the depletion of fossil fuels and their environmental impacts. According to Covert et. al. (2016) in We Ever Stop Using Fossil the current energy debate can be seen as an economic discourse that is mainly influenced by market forces a Supply Demand Theory (p. 119). Current arguments that a depletion in resources will force a switch to renewables referred to as Supply Theory - is incorrect (Covert, 2016, p. 119). Technological advances have made it possible to explore fossil reserves we before (Covert et. al., 2016, p. 121). Covert et. al. (2016) also refuted the Demand Theory that the same technological progress has made renewable sources more cost competitive and because of their environmental edge there will be a higher demand of them (p. 126-128). Today, the discourse on energy sources do not only exist in class forums. Countries around the world have taken an active role on the energy debate. They consult each other on global matters such as world energy. Recently, in Paris the world nations signed an agreement on climate change. According to Hall (2016), it is a non-enforcing agreement on countries to reduce their carbon emission. It cleverly does not impose the source of energy to be used but implies a RES approach to meet the suggested numbers (p. 179). The energy discourse has played an important role in our part. it has influenced elections and our way of living. we all hold different opinions on the subject and our arguments have not 7 THE ENERGY DEBATE only been based on facts but our morals and values as well. in the nineties with significant energy demands scholars like Droege viewed the world as only convenient for fossil fuels practice because of the infrastructures. in the early 2000s, energy awareness on population level started to build to the point common religious citizen like Holmes argued in favor of cleaner energy. presently, authors like Covert, Greenstone and Knittel have started raising questions about sustainability if we continue to use non-renewable energy sources. Like Hall, I personally think the way forward is to adopt an energy mix that will satisfy energy demands and at the same time allow renewable sources to develop to a competitive level. The conversation continues to be a popular one. However, we have reached a crucial point where a pragmatic choice of energy source must be made. Furthermore, the decision we take will impact us in the decades to come. So, the question changes to: which future do we want? 8 THE ENERGY DEBATE References Covert, T., Greenstone, M., & Knittel, C. R. (2016). Will We Ever Stop Using Fossil Journal Of Economic Perspectives, 30(1), 117-138. doi:10.1257/jep.30.1.117 Droege, P. (2002). Renewable Energy and the City: Urban Life in an Age of Fossil Fuel Depletion and Climate Change. Bulletin Of Science, Technology & Society, 22(2), 87-99. Hall, J. E. (2016). Paris agreement on climate change: A diplomatic triumph--how can it succeed?. New Global Studies, (2), 175. doi:10.1515/ngs-2016-0012 Holmes, J. (2004). Renewable energy: the road less traveled. Church & Society, 94(4), 39-47.